About this report
Where we can find out more
You can learn about Barclays’ strategy,
our businesses and performance, approach
to governance and risk online, where latest
and archived Annual and Strategic reports
are available to view or download.
For further information and a fuller
understanding of the results and the
state of affairs of the Group, please refer to the
full Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 at
home.barclays/annualreport
Barclays Bank Strategic
PLC Annual Report
Report
An overview of
Our Governance, the business
our Risks and our
Financials
Environmental Country Pillar 3
Social Snapshot Report
Governance
Our tax Our Risk profile
Report contributions and how we
manage it
Our shared growth
ambition
Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report was approved by the Report of the Auditor Notes, Non-IFRS performance measures and forward-
Board of Directors on 21 February 2018 and signed on its The Auditor’s report on the full accounts for the year ended looking statements
behalf by the Chairman. 31 December 2017 was unqualified, and their statement Barclays management believes that the non-IFRS
under section 496 (whether the Strategic Report and the performance measures included in this document provide
Directors’ report are consistent with the accounts) of the valuable information to the readers of the financial
Companies Act 2006 was unqualified. statements. This document also contains certain
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section
Approach to non-financial performance reporting 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
We note the requirements under the provisions of The amended, and Section 27A of the US Securities Act of
Companies Act 2006, relating to the preparation of the 1933, as amended, with respect to the Group. For further
Strategic Report which have been amended by the details on Notes, Non-IFRS performance measures, and
Companies, Partnerships and Groups (Accounts and forward-looking statements used within this document,
Non-Financial Reporting) Regulations 2016, which please see the back cover.
implements EU Directive 2014/95/EU (on non-financial
and diversity information). As a result of these changes,
we have integrated the information required for a
Non-Financial Information Statement into the Strategic
Report, thereby promoting cohesive reporting of
non-financial matters.
Bba rcBlaayrcsl aPyLsC B Satnrakt ePgLCic ARnepnouratl 2R0e1p7o rt 2017 hhoommee..bbaarrccllaayyss//aannnnuuaallrreeppoorrtt
The Strategic Report The Detailed Report
An overview of our 2017 performance, Within the Annual Report, these disclosures
a focus on our strategic direction, and inform of Barclays 2017 performance. The content
a review of the businesses underpinning meets, and where insightful, goes beyond minimal
our strategy. regulatory reporting standards.
Strategic framework Governance Financial review
02 Chairman’s letter 40 Governance contents 135 Financial review contents
04 Chief Executive’s review 41 Directors’ report 136 Performance measures
06 Operating environment 44 Directors and Officers 137 Consolidated summary income
08 Business structure 45 People statement
09 Our business model 138 Income statement commentary
10 Our strategy Risk review 139 Consolidated summary balance sheet
12 Risk management 49 Risk review contents 140 Balance sheet commentary
15 Key performance indicators 55 Material existing and emerging risks 141 Analysis of results by business
62 Risk management
A review of our operational performance 76 Risk performance Financial statements
23 Barclays UK 126 Supervision and regulation 153 Financial statements contents
26 Personal Banking 163 Consolidated financial statements
27 Barclaycard Consumer UK 170 Notes to the financial statements
28 Wealth, Enterprise and Business
Banking
29 Barclays International
32 Corporate and Investment Bank
33 Consumer, Cards and Payments
35 Head Office and Group Service
Company
An overview of governance and
financial performance
36 Our people and culture
38 Governance compliance
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 01
Our Corporate and Investment Bank clients are During 2017 there was further activity to
anticipating enhanced electronic capabilities as advance the financial sector’s understanding of
well as enhanced transparency through the the potential financial, operational and strategic
new Markets in Financial Instruments Directive implications of climate change. Recognition of
and Markets in Financial Instruments the commercial, reputational and regulatory
Regulation (collectively referred to as MiFID II), implications of climate change are shaping the
as part of their operating environment. For way businesses engage with the climate
example, recent advances in trading change agenda. At Barclays, we want to
automation continue to change the operating facilitate our stakeholders’ access to financing
landscape through increased experimentation that places green principles at its core. Please
with, and implementation of, solutions relying see the Case Study below for examples of how
on machine learning, natural-language we are putting our beliefs into practice.
processing and predictive analytics.
Developments in the external environment
For further information on the changes in present both opportunities and risks. Without
Supervison and Regulation of the Group, please active risk management to address these
page 197 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report external factors, our long-term goals could be
2017. adversely impacted.
We continue to invest in our digital and mobile Our approach to risk management and
capabilities to respond to these rapid changes, material existing and emerging risks to
while maintaining a continued focus on the the Group’s future performance are
risks posed by fraud and social engineering and outlined in the Risk review section on page 121
the importance of network defence, cyber risk, of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017.
IT security and the appropriate management of
our most valuable environments and high risk
users in the face of growing cyber threats. In
2017, we launched #digisafe, a UK-wide
consumer engagement campaign to highlight
the importance of digital safety, helping people
to be more aware of the risks that exist in the
digital world and how to be safer online.
Green bonds
Barclays’ green bond is one of a number of innovative green
products, launched in 2017, which reinforce Barclays’ support for,
and participation in, the transition to a sustainable and low carbon
global economy, following the publication of Barclays’ Green Bond
Framework in September 2017.
In November 2017, Barclays successfully priced and issued a €500m
green bond. This was a milestone for the UK market, being the first
green bond issued by a UK bank using UK assets.
Green bonds are fixed income securities, designed to raise finance
for assets that have positive environmental and climate benefits.
The proceeds from Barclays’ green bond have been allocated to the
financing and refinancing of Barclays’ residential mortgages on
environmentally friendly homes in England and Wales.
Barclays is a signatory to the Green Bond Principles and an active
lead manager of green bond issuances across jurisdictions, issuers
and currencies within our investment bank. Barclays remains firmly
committed to contributing to the growth of the green bond market,
and has committed to a green bond investment target of £2bn in its
Liquidity Portfolio.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 07
Our business model
…and creates value for our stakeholders, with economic
benefits to society
Barclays PLC Group operates via two clearly defined divisions
– Barclays UK and Barclays International – with a diversified
business model that we believe helps enhance our resilience
to changes in the external environment.
Our business model is aligned with our strategy of being
a leading, diversified transatlantic bank with global reach.
Read more on our strategy
on pages 10 to 11.
For further information on our divisions,
see: Barclays UK – pages 23 to 28
Barclays International – pages 29 to 34
We draw on the following We aim to provide superior We support our stakeholders We aim to deliver a broad
to support our activities services to help customers and via a commercially successful spectrum of value through
and deliver value to our clients create, grow and protect business that generates the way we do business,
stakeholders: wealth in a sustainable way: long-term sustainable returns: including:
■■ the strength and reputation of Barclays’ customers and clients ■■ our services generate revenue ■■ superior service to enable
our brand – serving customers include: individuals, small and via net interest income and customers and clients to
and clients for over 325 years medium-sized businesses, large non-interest income, achieve their ambitions
■■ a strong, well-funded and corporates and multinational including fees and ■■ challenging and fulfilling
diversified balance sheet companies, financial institutions commissions as well as careers for our people in a
■■ customer and client a fu n n d d b s a , s n o k v s e , r in ei s g ti n tu in ti s o t n it a u l t i i n o v n e s s a to n r d s , t in ra c d o i m ng e a th n r d o i u n g v h es o tm ur e nt values-driven organisation
relationships built on trust governments wholesale activities ■■ long-term sustainable returns
■■ a su s c o c li e d s s tr f a u c ll k y r in e n co o r v d a t o in f g for We offer: ■■ w in e st a it r u e t i a o n la r a g n e d fi p n r a o n v c id ia e l ■■ f w o e r o w u o r r i k n t v o e g st e o th rs er with
customers and clients ■■ a safe place to save, invest and diversification by business regulators to help reduce risk
■■ our geographic focus: firmly manage cash and payments line, geography and customer in the industry and provide
a ce n n c t h r o e r s e o d f i L n o t n h d e o t n w a o n fi d n N an e c w ia l ■■ i t n e n ch o n va o t l i o v g e i c d a ig l i c t a a p l a a n b d ili ties ■■ w of e d a iv im er s t i o fi c c a a t p io tu n r e th t r h o e u b g e h n efits a la n m d o s r c e a s p u e s o ta v i e n r a t b h l e e l b o a n n g k t in e g rm
■■ Y th o e rk s , k w ill i s th a n g d lo e b x a p l r e e r a ti c s h e of our ■■ f g u r n ow di t n h g for purchases and e g f r fi o c u ie p n s t y d n e e l r i g ve ie r s y of cross- ■■ e th m e p e l c o o ym no e m nt ie a s n i d n g w r h o i w ch th w in e
people and our shared values operate
which inform the way we ■■ m fin a a n n a c g ia e l m ri e sk n s t of business and ■■ engagement with
work and how we act governments and society in
■■ financial and business support general to address societal
issues and needs
The skills and trust Our business services Meeting the demands Innovation through our
in our staff helps us, are tailored to help of our customers products and services
through a range of support SMEs and around sustainable is helping increase
initiatives, increase entrepreneurs, creating investment drives access to finance and
financial literacy wealth sustainable value generating dividends
and returns
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 09
Our strategy
We have positioned Barclays as a leading, diversified,
transatlantic bank with global reach…
As a leading, diversified, transatlantic bank with Delivering the Barclays of the future
Our focus is now on building the Barclays of
global reach, our goal is to support our stakeholders
the future, operating principally through
via a commercially successful business that generates Barclays UK, Barclays International and
supported by the new Group Service
long-term sustainable returns.
Company. We are fully committed to our
model as a diversified bank and will remain a
We reflect our strategy in a number of financial and well-diversified financial institution providing
best-in-class products and services to our
non-financial measures.
customers and clients, underpinned by world
class operations. We believe that the Group
Read more on our financial and and its entities are well positioned to deliver
non-financial measures on pages 15-22. future growth and appropriate returns for
shareholders.
We will remain a well-
diversified financial institution
providing best-in-class
products and services to our
customers and clients.
Building on our strong foundations Completion of the restructuring announced
The strategy of Barclays PLC Group is to build in March 2016 We continue to investment in our technological
on our strength as a transatlantic consumer In 2017, we successfully delivered on two key and digital capabilities to facilitate delivery of
and wholesale bank, anchored in our two components of the strategic priorities we our strategy. This is particularly relevant in
home markets of the UK and US, with global announced in March 2016: Barclays UK where we already have a strong
reach. Our two clearly defined divisions, digital proposition, Barclays Mobile Banking.
Barclays UK and Barclays International, provide ■■ During the course of 2017 we completed We have a clear strategy to use technology to
diversification to our business model. We the partial sale of our stake in Barclays deliver deeper and more meaningful customer
believe that combining consumer and Africa Group Limited (BAGL) resulting in a relationships by transforming the way we
wholesale businesses, as well as accessing non-controlling, accounting deconsolidated interact with customers, leverage data analytics
geographic diversification, provide real position with a residual 14.9% shareholding and take advantage of the opportunities
advantages to both the Group and our in BAGL presented by Open Banking. Delivering a truly
investors and help contribute to the delivery of ■■ on 1 July we closed Barclays Non-Core, six customer-centric model is at the heart of
more consistent and sustainable returns months ahead of schedule, representing a Barclays UK’s strategy.
through the business cycle. Effective execution watershed moment for the implementation Barclays International will continue to focus
of our strategy of diversification should reduce of the Group’s strategy on markets and services where we have a
volatility of income and earnings, generate These actions have significantly contributed to competitive advantage, allocating capital
higher returns through the cycle and improve the simplification of the Group, helping to where we see the ability to generate the most
resilience of the Group as a whole. reduce drag on Group profitability and laying attractive risk-adjusted returns and investing
Consistent with the objective of delivering the foundations for Barclays to drive where we see an opportunity to expand our
long-term sustainable value for our sustainable returns in its businesses. market share. We see technology as a
stakeholders, we continue to pursue our significant enabler for our strategy across the
Shared Growth Ambition – our approach to investment banking business, particularly in
citizenship and sustainability. The objective is Markets business lines, and will continue to
to make decisions and do business that invest appropriately, alongside recruiting the
provide our clients and customers, and the best talent as we build the Barclays of the
communities which we serve, access to a future. In July 2017, we announced our
prosperous future. intention to use Barclays Bank Ireland, an
existing licensed EU-based bank subsidiary, to
You can read more about our continue passported activity the UK’s
Shared Growth Ambition within our departure from the EU.
performance metrics on page 21.
Despite the uncertainty around the final
outcome of the negotiations between the UK
and EU, our planning is driven by a strategic
intention to preserve EU market access for
Barclays and our customers and clients, with a
continuous seamless service.
10 Barclays Bank PLC Strategic Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
Risk management
…with a structure and governance that enable us to
manage risk…
Barclays is exposed to external risks as part of our Three Lines of Defence
The First Line of Defence comprises the
ongoing activities. These risks are managed as part
revenue generating and client facing areas,
of our business model. along with all associated support functions.
The First Line identifies the risks, and sets the
policies, standards and controls, within the
criteria set by the Second Line of Defence.
The Second Line of Defence comprises Risk
and Compliance employees and oversees the
First Line, setting the limits, rules and
constraints, consistent with the Risk Appetite
of the firm.
The Third Line of Defence comprises Internal
Audit employees, providing independent
assurance to the Board and Executive
Management.
The recent changes to the structure of the Risk Appetite The Legal function does not sit in any of the
bank in anticipation of ring fencing, together Risk Appetite defines the level of risk we are three lines, but supports them all and plays a
with the closure of the Non-Core, and the willing to take across the different risk types, role in overseeing Legal Risk. The legal
partial sell down of our shareholding in BAGL taking into consideration varying levels of function is also subject to oversight from the
mean that we have even more clarity on our financial stress. Risk Appetite is key for our Risk and Compliance functions with respect to
strategic direction. The risks we undertake in decision making process, including business the management of operational and conduct
delivering this strategy are now also well- planning, mergers and acquisitions, new risks.
defined. product approvals and business change
initiatives. By applying mandate and scale Together with a governance process using
Enterprise Risk Management Framework limits across legal entities and businesses, we Business and Group level Risk Committees
At Barclays, risks are identified and managed can enable and control specific activities that and Board level forums, the main Board of
in the business through the Enterprise Risk may have material concentration. Barclays receives regular information in
Management Framework (ERMF), which respect of the risk profile of the Group, and
supports the CEO and Chief Risk Officer in The management of risk is embedded into has ultimate responsibility for risk appetite
embedding effective risk management and a each level of the business, with all colleagues and capital plans.
being responsible for the understanding and
strong risk culture.
managing of risks. This is done by specifying Risk management post-ring fencing
responsibilities according to the ‘Three Lines There are no significant changes to the ERMF
By applying mandate and of Defence’. Each Line of Defence is overseen proposed following ring-fencing. However,
scale limits, we can enable by the next, resulting in a strong design, each of the Boards of Barclays Bank UK PLC
implementation, remediation, monitoring and and Barclays Bank PLC will approve and
and control specific activities.
testing framework, with independence and implement the ERMF at an entity level, with
robust governance. any requirements specific to the relevant legal
The EMRF specifies the Principal Risks of the entity documented within the ERMF.
Group and the approach to managing them. Group-wide risk management principles will
govern both Barclays Bank UK PLC and
Barclays Bank PLC and their own legal entity
governance processes around risk
management, capital and liquidity plans.
We believe that our structure and governance
will enable us to manage risk in changing
economic, political and market environments.
12 Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
Risk management
…and help us focus on climate change
Climate change and resource scarcity are
acknowledged as two of the greatest global
challenges facing society today. As a global
institution, we support our clients and
communities as they adopt measures to
mitigate and adapt to climate change such as
clean technologies and infrastructure resilience.
We acknowledge the validity of climate science
and support the efforts of public and private
stakeholders around the world aiming to limit
global temperature rise to two degrees Celsius
above pre-industrial levels.
Barclays participated in the Financial Stability
Board’s Task Force on Climate Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD), which published its final
recommendations in June 2017. Barclays
endorsed the final report, and will work to
implement the recommendations over the
coming years.
The principles laid out in the TCFD
recommendations are an important step in
providing the foundations from which
companies, investors, banks and other
market participants can move forward
together to improve transparency and build
better understanding of potential climate-
related risks and opportunities.
This is the start of a longer-term process to
enhance disclosures and improve understanding
of potential material financial impacts.
Strategy Managing Climate Risk and Opportunity
This is the start of a longer-
Significant financing requirements for energy Through a dedicated Environmental Risk
term process to enhance transition and resilient infrastructure will Management team within the Credit Risk
necessitate access to the capital markets, bank function, we are focused on managing both
disclosures and improve
debt and wider funding solutions, providing physical risks, for instance flood risk for our UK
understanding of potential revenue pools that are projected to grow over mortgage book, as well as potential transition
time. Our approach is to focus on managing risks if carbon intensive industries do not plan
material financial impacts.
potential climate change related risks at a client strategically for a smooth medium to long term
and transactional level, and assess current and transition to a low carbon economy
emerging opportunities across our product
Governance During 2017, we have significantly increased
suite and geographical footprint.
On behalf of the Board, the Board Reputation our focus on developing new climate
Committee reviews and approves Barclays’ In the shorter term, Barclays sees immediate opportunities, including the launch of a suite of
overall Environmental, Social and Governance opportunities in Green Bonds and other industry-leading Green Products driven by the
(ESG) strategy, which includes the approach financing solutions. We actively manage our Green Banking Council and the issuance of
taken on climate change and emission own direct carbon footprint and are making Barclays inaugural Green Bond. Please see the
targets. The Committee discussed the good progress towards our target of 30% Green Bonds case study on page 7.
outcome of an externally facilitated review reduction by end 2018, against a 2015 baseline,
P lease refer to the 2017 ESG Report
on Barclays alignment with the TCFD reducing our emissions by 26.1% in 2017.
for further information, found at
recommendations in 2017. See pages 69 to
home.barclays/annualreport
74 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017
for the Board Reputation Committee report.
14 Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
Key performance indicators
A holistic approach to measuring success
Our approach reflects the way in which management consistently with our on-going aim of
contributing to the generation of long-term
monitors the performance of the Group, allows for a
sustainable returns for the shareholders of
holistic assessment and sets out our progress towards Barclays PLC.
the strategic goals of the organisation.
Approach and governance:
Performance Measurement
By incorporating a broad range of financial and In the 2016 Barclays Annual Report, we
introduced our revised performance
non-financial measures, our framework is focused on
measurement framework to assess progress
achieving positive and sustainable outcomes for our against our strategy, across our diverse
diverse group of stakeholders, and influences incentive stakeholder groups. The framework reflects a
balance of key financial performance metrics
outcomes for Barclays’ employees. and broader strategic non-financial measures.
Read more on our remuneration framework in the Remuneration Report Financial performance metrics
pages 93 to 116 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017. The financial metrics are aligned to Barclays PLC
Group financial targets, updated in Q317, and
are reported quarterly as part of our financial
results. Achieving our targets is consistent with
Following the implementation of UK ring- expected to differ from those of the overall our aim of generating long-term sustainable
fencing, Barclays Bank PLC’s strategy is Barclays Group. Accordingly, during the returns for the shareholders of Barclays PLC
expected to align to the strategy for Barclays course of 2018, Barclays Bank PLC expects to Group.
International and, in turn, the strategy for develop financial performance metrics of its
Barclays International will continue to be set own, that will reflect the changes brought Strategic non-financial performance measures
as part of the overall strategy of the Barclays about by UK ring-fencing. While such financial Non-financial measures are an important
Group. However, because the businesses, performance metrics are likely to differ from element of how we evaluate our progress
assets and liabilities of Barclays UK will no those currently adopted for the overall Group, towards achieving our ambition of delivering a
longer be contained within Barclays Bank PLC, they will be determined within the parameters sustainable business for all our stakeholders. We
the financial metrics of Barclays Bank PLC are of the overall Group strategy and will be set focus on the impact we have on our customers
Barclays PLC Group Performance Measurement Framework
Financial performance metrics
Group RoTE* >9% in 2019 >10% in 2020
CET1 ratio 150-200 bps above the end point regulatory minimum level
Group costs £13.6 – £13.9bn in 2019** Targeting cost: income ratio below 60%
* excluding litigation and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c.13%
** excluding litigation and conduct
Strategic non-financial performance measures
Delivering positive outcomes for our stakeholders
Customer and Client Colleague Citizenship
■■ Building trust with our customers Promoting and maintaining: ■■ Making decisions and doing
and clients, such that they are ■■ A diverse and inclusive workforce in business that provides our clients,
happy to recommend us to others which colleagues of all backgrounds customers, shareholders,
■■ Successfully innovating are treated equally and have the colleagues and the communities
and developing products and opportunity to be successful and which we serve with access to a
services that meet their needs achieve their potential prosperous future, through our
Shared Growth Ambition
■■ Offering suitable products and ■■ Engaged and enabled colleagues
s e e n r s v u ic ri e n s g i n e x a c n e l a le c n c t e s c s u i s b t l o e m w e a r y , a nd ■■ A ba p s o ed si t e iv n e v i c ro o n n m du e c n t t and values- ■■ P en ro v a ir c o t n iv m el e y n m ta a l n a a n g d i n s g o c t i h e e ta l
client experience impacts of our business
Underpinned by how we behave towards all our stakeholders through our conduct and culture
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 15
Key performance indicators
A holistic approach to measuring success
and clients, colleagues, and the benefit we bring Approach and governance: Remuneration level and mix of its capital. This is to ensure the
to society via our citizenship activity. These Performance against our financial metrics and Group and all of its subsidiaries are
measures are underpinned by how we behave strategic non-financial performance measures appropriately capitalised relative to their
towards all our stakeholders, through our is directly linked to executive remuneration, minimum regulatory and stressed capital
conduct and our culture. To assess our and also influences incentive outcomes for requirements, and to support the Group’s risk
performance, progress towards delivering Barclays’ employees more broadly. This appetite, growth, and strategic options while
positive outcomes for our stakeholders is approach supports us in our work to deliver seeking to maintain a robust credit proposition
informed by a number of sources including positive outcomes for all our stakeholders. for the Group and its subsidiaries.
internal dashboards, regular management Please refer to the Remuneration Report on
The ratio expresses Barclays’ capital as a
reporting and external measures, to help provide pages 93 to 116 of the Barclays PLC Annual
percentage of risk weighted assets (RWAs), as
a balanced review of performance. Report 2017 for further information.
defined by the PRA, in the context of Capital
We have a range of policies and guidance that Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV – an EU
Financial performance metrics
can support our key outcomes for our directive prescribing capital adequacy and
customers and clients, colleagues and liquidity requirements), and is part of the
citizenship activity. Performance against our regulatory framework governing how banks
strategic non-financial performance measures is Key outcomes we will look to achieve include: and depository institutions are supervised.
one indicator of the effectiveness and outcome Achieving our financial targets, consistent
of aspects of certain policies and guidance. Our with our aim of generating long-term Barclays views operating expenses as a key
policies and guidance are refreshed regularly. For sustainable returns for the shareholders of strategic area for banks; those which actively
further details, please see our Customer and Barclays PLC Group. manage costs and control them effectively will
gain a strong competitive advantage.
Client, Colleague and Citizenship sections.
How we measure success: Restructuring the cost base is a key execution
The financial performance metrics are aligned priority for management and includes a
to Barclays PLC Group financial targets, review of all categories of discretionary
How we are doing
updated in Q317: spending and an analysis of how we can run
the business to ensure that costs increase at a
Group Return on Tangible Equity ■■ Group Return on Tangible Equity (RoTE) of slower rate than income.
(3.6)% greater than 9% in 2019 and greater than
2016 3.6% 10% in 2020, excluding litigation and The cost: income ratio measures operating
conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c.13% expenses as a percentage of total income and
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio is used to assess the productivity of the
13.3% ■■ CET1 ratio of 150–200 bps above the end business operations.
point regulatory minimum level
2016 12.4%
■■ Group costs, excluding litigation and Updating the Return on Tangible Equity metric
conduct, of £13.6–13.9bn in 2019, and to Significant strategic progress was made in
Cost: Income ratio
have a target cost: income ratio below 60% 2017 with the closure of Non-Core and sell
73%
down of our stake in Barclays Africa, marking
2016 76%
RoTE measures our ability to generate the completion of our restructuring.
Operating Expenses* acceptable returns for shareholders. It is With the closure of Non-Core, we no longer
£14.2bn calculated as profit after tax attributable to have a Core and Non-Core distinction within
2016 £15.0bn ordinary shareholders, including an adjustment the Group, and hence our prior target of
for the tax credit recorded in reserves in respect Group RoTE to converge with Core RoTE no
* excluding litigation and conduct of other equity instruments, as a proportion of longer exists. The RoTE target has been
average shareholders’ equity excluding updated to reflect our commitment to
non-controlling interests and other equity continuing to execute at pace against our plan
instruments adjusted for the deduction of and we are confident in asserting when
intangible assets and goodwill. Barclays will start to deliver the economic
This measure indicates the return generated performance that the Group is capable of.
by the management of the business based on
shareholders’ tangible equity. Achieving a How we are doing
target RoTE demonstrates the organisation’s Group Return on Tangible Equity
ability to execute its strategy and align 2017 reflected a number of one-off items
management’s interests with the including losses related to the sell down of
shareholders’. RoTE lies at the heart of the BAGL of £2.5bn and a net charge of £0.9bn
Group’s capital allocation and performance due to the re-measurement of US DTAs in
management process. Q417, as well as litigation and conduct of
£1.2bn. These items drove a Group RoTE of
The CET1 ratio is a measure of the capital negative 3.6% (2016: positive 3.6%).
strength and resilience of Barclays. The Group’s Excluding these material items, Group RoTE
capital management objective is to maximise was 5.6%.
shareholder value by prudently managing the
16 Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
Colleague: We remain focused on increasing
the diversity of our workforce and continuing
to build an inclusive culture. We are proud of
the progress we have made on the
multicultural, multigenerational, LGBT and
Disability pillars, and we continue to receive
external recognition for our diversity and
inclusion work. We also continue to focus on
the positive engagement of our workforce,
and are encouraged to see a 3% point
improvement in our annual employee
engagement survey score.
Citizenship: We are conscious of our wider
stakeholders and the communities in which
we operate and have performed well against
our citizenship agenda, meeting our internal
objectives on all six of our Shared Growth
Ambition metrics.
Areas of continued focus:
Customer and Client: Further transformation
of our customer and client experience remains
a key priority for Barclays, particularly as
customer and client expectations continue to
CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio Strategic non-financial evolve rapidly. Although we are encouraged by
The Group’s CRD IV fully loaded CET1 ratio performance measures the reductions in the number of complaints
increased to 13.3% (2016: 12.4%) driven by a we received in 2017, this remains an ongoing
decrease in RWAs of £53bn to £313bn, which area of focus for management and the Board.
was partially offset by a reduction in CET1
capital to £41.6bn (2016: £45.2bn). The 90bps How we are doing: summary Colleague: Our commitment to increasing
improvement was driven by organic capital We assess progress towards the delivery of female representation at all levels of Barclays
generation from continuing operations, the positive outcomes our customers and clients remains firm. Although we have achieved an
benefit of the proportional consolidation of (page 18), colleagues (page 19), and increase in the percentage of women at our
BAGL and the rundown of Non-Core, partially citizenship activity (page 21), all underpinned Managing Director and Director levelsa, we
offset by an adverse movement in reserves by conduct and culture. recognise that there is still progress to be
and the net impact of the re-measurement of made regarding senior female representation.
US DTAs. Areas of encouragement: In addition, although we have made progress,
Customer and Client: In 2017, we continued to we recognise there is still more to do to
Operating expenses and Cost: income ratio focus on delivering excellent customer and further reduce obstacles to efficiency and
Group operating expenses were £15.5bn client experience, by offering products and enable our colleagues to achieve excellent
(2016: £16.3bn). Excluding litigation and services to meet their needs in an appropriate performance. We remain committed to driving
conduct charges, Group operating expenses and accessible way. We are encouraged by the the right culture throughout all levels of the
were £14.2bn (2016: £15.0bn), in line with performance of our Relationship Net Promoter organisation and continuing to enhance the
2017 guidance. The reduction in operating Scores (NPS®), while our client ranking and effective management of Conduct Risk.
expenses was primarily driven by lower market share indicators remained broadly Citizenship: We have made good progress in
Non-Core related operating expenses. stable across many of our international delivering access to sustainable finance and
business areas, which we believe reflect the
The Group cost: income ratio was 73% (2016: developing new green products. We see
relevance of our customer and client
76%). further opportunity in this space and are
proposition. Digital solutions can enable a
working to develop broader sustainability and
For further information on the financial convenient and secure everyday banking sensitive sector guidelines. In addition, we
performance of the Group, please see experience for customers and clients, and we continue to focus on enhancing disclosures,
page 47. believe this is reflected in a 7% year on year particularly on climate change, and improving
increase in the number of Barclays UK
our Environmental, Social and Governance
customers using our digital services.
(ESG) ratings and benchmark scores on an
absolute and relative basis.
® Net Promoter, Net Promoter System, Net Promoter Score, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc., Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc.
Notes
a 2016 restated on an ex-Africa basis
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 17
We therefore remain focused on areas Colleague We are proud of our achievements in 2017,
requiring our attention including, for example, across the following pillars of our global
the recent issues we have experienced with Diversity and Inclusion strategy:
Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
our Smart Investor proposition, and we are
Promoting and maintaining: LGBT: Our Spectrum Allies programme is
working to improve our service as a result of
customer feedback. ■■ A diverse and inclusive workforce in which growing, with an estimated over 8,000
employees of all backgrounds are treated colleagues (2016: over 7,000), who have
equally and have the opportunity to be pledged to challenge homophobia, biphobia
In 2017, Barclaycard US successful and achieve their potential and transphobia and provide support to LGBT
customers logged into our ■■ Engaged and enabled colleagues colleagues.
website and mobile apps over ■■ A positive conduct and values-based culture Disability: This year, alongside PwC, we have
further scaled the ‘This is Me in the City’
230 million times.
How we measure success initiative along with the Lord Mayor of the City
Measures used in our evaluation include, but of London.
are not limited to:
Multicultural: The number of apprentices who
Conduct indicators ■■ Diversity and Inclusion statistics identify as Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
Barclays has operated at the overall set was 19% in 2017 (2016: 30%), 8% points
tolerance for Conduct Risk throughout 2017. ■■ Employee sustainable engagement survey above the national apprenticeship average.
scores
The tolerance is assessed by the business
through Key Indicators which are aggregated ■■ Conduct and culture measures Multigenerational: Since the Barclays Armed
and provide an overall rating which is reported Forces Transition, Employment and
to the Board Reputation Committee as part of Resettlement (AFTER) programme began in
the Conduct Dashboard. How we are doing 2010, the programme has assisted over 5,500
Areas of encouragement: veterans in employment transition and since
We remain focused on the continuous A diverse and inclusive workforce 2013 we have hired over 500 ex-military
improvement being made to manage Conduct We remain focused on increasing the diversity personnel (2016: nearly 400).
Risk effectively, with an emphasis on of our workforce and continuing to build an
enhancing governance and management inclusive culture. In 2017, we have placed Our Dynamic Working campaign is relevant to
information to facilitate the identification of additional focus on upskilling our leadership colleagues at every life stage and encourages
risks at earlier stages. For further information through a range of initiatives including our the integration of personal and professional
on the management and performance of Unconscious Bias Training, which has been responsibilities through smarter work
Conduct Risk, please refer to the Risk Review delivered to over 10,000 leaders to date. patterns. The campaign is having a positive
section of the Barclays Annual Report on effect on colleague engagement, with 59% of
page 117. colleagues actively working dynamically in
2017 with an average overall sustainable
________________________________________ engagement score of 83% among this group.
Policies and guidance can support delivery Gender: Our commitment to increasing
towards the key outcomes for our customer female representation at all levels remains
and clients. The Barclays Way contains How we are doing firm. Please see ‘Areas of continued focus’
statements on how we strive to deliver below for details on our progress.
excellent customer service, and respect and Barclays Relationship NPS
protect the personal information we hold. It +14 Throughout 2017, our work was recognised
defines Conduct Risk outcomes as guiding externally, including: Stonewall recognising
principles and contains statements on privacy 2016: +10 Barclays as one of only 12 Top Global
and data protection that colleagues must Employers; the Human Rights Campaign
adhere to. The Barclays Way is available to Sustainable engagement awarding Barclays 100% on their corporate
view at: home.barclays/citizenship/our- of colleagues equality index; Working Families UK
approach.html. Performance against our 78% recognising Barclays as one of the top ten
strategic non-financial performance measures Employers for Working Families in 2017; and
for our customers and clients is one indicator 2016: 75% the City of London and the Social Mobility
of the effectiveness and outcome of certain Commission acknowledging Barclays as a Top
policies and guidance. Policies which support Access to financing 50 Employer through the Social Mobility
our customer and client strategic non- Employer Index.
£31.7bn
financial measures include aspects of our
Customer Complaints Global Policy. 2016: £30.5bn
Our customers and clients are at the heart of
our purpose and strategy. For further
information on our two divisions, Barclays UK
and Barclays International, please refer to
pages 23 to 34.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 19
Key performance indicators
A holistic approach to measuring success
Engaged and enabled colleagues Areas of continued focus: We continue to see improvements in conduct
An engaged workforce is critical to the A diverse and inclusive workforcea performance and are committed to continuing
success and delivery of our strategy. Our Our commitment to increasing female to drive the right culture throughout all levels
principle measurement of employee representation at all levels remains firm and we of the organisation. Barclays will continue to
engagement is through our employee opinion are mindful of the need to remain focused on enhance the effective management of
survey ‘Your View’. This year, sustainable improving our gender diversity with goals to Conduct Risk and appropriately consider the
engagement of our employees improved by improve the percentage of female Managing relevant tools, governance and management
3% points to 78%, with the majority of key Directors and Directorsb to 26% by 2018 (2017: information in decision making processes.
survey question results recording 23%, a 1% point improvement year on yearc);
________________________________________
improvements compared to 2016, and the rest 33% female representation on our Board by
remaining stable. 2020 (2017: 21%, 2016: 31%); and 33% female Policies and guidance can support delivery
representation among the Group Executive towards the key outcomes for our colleagues.
Areas of particular strength from the
Committee and their direct reports (2017: 25%, The Barclays Way contains statements on how
annualised ‘Your View’ results include ‘I would
flat year on year). Recognising the importance we aim to create and promote a culture that is
recommend Barclays as a good place to work’
of strengthening our talent pipeline, we also diverse and inclusive and create the positive
(82% favourable, up 6% points on 2016),
have an ambition for 50% female graduate and respectful environment all employees are
‘Barclays is truly focused on achieving good
hires (2017: 40%, 2016: 39%). entitled to enjoy. It also contains requirements
customer and client outcomes (88%
for employees to: inform their line managers
favourable, up 5% points on 2016) and
Engaged and enabled colleagues of changes in circumstances, including, for
colleagues ‘believe strongly in the goals and
Although it is pleasing to note that we have example, any conflict of interest or outside
objectives of Barclays’ (90% favourable, up
made progress across areas identified for business interest; take reasonable care of their
3% points on 2016).
opportunity, including ‘eliminating obstacles own and others’ health and safety; and the
In addition, by supporting internal mobility to efficiency’ and ‘ensuring colleagues have responsibility to protect Barclays’ assets. It
across Barclays, we hope to successfully the tools and resources to achieve excellent also contains statements on: physical security;
attract, retain and develop internal talent. In performance’, there is always more to do. Group Resilience Policy and Standards; and
2017, our rate of internal hiring was 40% Enabling our employees to achieve excellence communication with the media and public
(2016: 48%). remains a key priority and throughout 2018 speaking appearances. Performance against
new initiatives will be identified that will our strategic non-financial performance
A positive conduct and values-based culture continue to improve the simplicity and measures for our colleagues is one indicator
In 2017, we focused on embedding the culture efficiency of our tools, processes and systems. of the effectiveness and outcome of certain
measurement framework we developed in policies and guidance. Policies which support
2016, and using the insights to stimulate A positive conduct and values-based culture our colleague strategic non-financial
senior management discussion. Within our culture measurement framework, measures include aspects of our Employee
which is anchored in our values, ‘Excellence’ Opinion Survey Policy.
We have made good progress in continuing to
remains the biggest opportunity for
embed the value of ‘Integrity’, highlighted by Please refer to the section on
improvement, as the ‘Enable’ component
results to the questions ‘it is safe to speak up’ Our People and Culture on page 36 and
within the colleague survey continues to be
(83% favourable, up 2% points on 2016) and the People section on pages 89
the lowest scoring measurement of
‘I can report instances of dishonest or of Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 for further
sustainable engagement (64%, up 4% points
unethical practices to the appropriate level of information on our progress.
on 2016). A set of improvement initiatives
authority without fear’ (86% favourable, flat
were identified in 2017 and will continue in
on 2016). ‘Stewardship’ also remains a
2018 to drive progress in this area.
strongly embedded value with 89% of
colleagues stating that they are proud of the Barclays has operated at the overall set
contribution Barclays makes to the tolerance for conduct risk throughout 2017.
community and society (up 1% point on The tolerance is assessed by the business
2016). ‘Service’ and ‘Respect’ remain strong through Key Indicators which are aggregated
with 90% of colleagues believing strongly in and provide an overall rating which is reported
the goals and objectives of Barclays (up 3% to the Board Reputation Committee as part of
points on 2016) and 91% of colleagues the Conduct Dashboard.
agreeing that ‘leaders at Barclays support
diversity in the workplace’ (up 2% points on
2016).
Notes
a Under the Companies Act 2006, Barclays is required to report on the gender breakdown of our employees and ‘senior managers’. Of our global workforce of 79,900 (45,100 male,
34,800 female), 555 were senior managers (401 male, 154 female), which include Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Chief Executive, heads of major business
units, certain senior Managing Directors, and directors on the boards of undertakings of the Group, but exclude individuals who sit as directors on the Board of the Company.
The definition of senior managers within this disclosure has a narrower scope than the Managing Director and Director female representation data provided above.
b Previously called female representation across ‘senior leadership’
c Based on 2016 actual (24%) restated on an ex-Africa basis (22%).
20 Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
Citizenship
Key outcomes we will look to achieve include:
■■ Making decisions and doing business that
provides our clients, customers,
shareholders, colleagues and the
communities which we serve with access to
a prosperous future, through our Shared
Growth Ambition
■■ Proactively managing the environmental
and societal impacts of our business
How we measure success
Measures used in our evaluation include, but
are not limited to: Supporting sustainable ventures
■■ Delivery against our Shared Growth
Ambition Barclays and the Unreasonable Group hosted the first Unreasonable
Impact World Forum in 2017, bringing together 27 innovative
■■ Colleague engagement in citizenship
companies from Asia, the US and Europe working to solve some of
activities
the world’s most pressing problems. Held in London, the Forum
■■ External benchmarks and surveys included elevator pitches from entrepreneurs and panel sessions on
themes such as scaling businesses and raising capital through
impact investors. Over 400 representatives from a range of
How we are doing
stakeholder groups, including investors, clients, NGOs and
Areas of encouragement:
government agencies attended in person, with the event broadcast
Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition
live on select social media channels globally.
We met our internal objectives on all six of our
Shared Growth Ambition metrics. Unreasonable Impact is an innovative multi-year partnership between
Performance was on-track against our internal Barclays and Unreasonable Group to launch the world’s first
milestones for three initiatives around ‘access international network of accelerators focused on scaling-up
to financing’, ‘access to digital and financial entrepreneurial solutions that will help employ thousands worldwide
empowerment’ and ‘access to employment’. while solving some of our most pressing societal challenges.
We also met or exceeded our 2017 annual
See https://unreasonableimpact.com/ for more information.
targets for The Barclays Way training, carbon
emissions reduction and payment of suppliers
on time. Access to financial and digital empowerment Access to employment
Inclusive financial systems are key to Barclays is committed to helping people gain
Access to financing achieving economic and societal progress, but access to skills, and supporting entrepreneurs
We continued to deliver financing solutions in there can be several barriers to access. We to drive job creation. We helped upskill over
areas including renewable energy, water and believe digital offerings can help break down 2.1 million people in 2017 (2016:1.7 million),
low carbon technologies; social infrastructure; these barriers. We helped empower around driven by a range of regional employability
development institutions; and small business 205,000 people in 2017 (2016: 249,000) partnerships and our flagship LifeSkills
financing. Barclays delivered £31.7bn in through initiatives such as Barclaycard Initial programme in the UK.
financing for specific social and environmental for those with a limited credit history; our
segments across our business lines (2016: Digital Eagles network, comprised of specially Barclays delivered £31.7bn in
£30.5bna). trained Barclays employees working to provide
free technology support to customers and financing for specific social
There has been significant momentum across
the Barclays franchise in 2017, including the non-customers; and the continued and environmental segments.
development of learning platforms.
launch of a range of new Green Loans, Asset
Finance and Deposit products; the issuance of We work closely with partners in the free debt
Barclays inaugural Green Bond (see case study advice sector and collaborate on a number of We held Accelerators for the 2nd cohort of
on page 7); an industry-first Multi-Impact projects including research and colleague ‘Unreasonable Impact’ programme in
Growth Fund for retail investors; a range of training on financial vulnerability, and how we partnership with the Unreasonable Group,
innovative transactions such as solar project can best match customers to the advice focused on scaling ventures that solve
bonds and green asset backed securities; and service that suits them. environmental and societal problems. 57
continued coverage from our Research teams ventures have participated to date in
on ESG and Sustainability themes. programmes across the UK, US and Asia.
Note
a Financing volume based on a use of proceeds framework. 2016 actuals have been restated from £21.1bn due to the inclusion of new qualifying categories such as national
development banks. Further detail available in the ESG Report.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 21
Key performance indicators
A holistic approach to measuring success
Business conduct and environmental impact Supporting sustainability-focused ventures to Barclays’ Group Statement on Human Rights
The Barclays Way outlines the Purpose and scale-up is one way in which Barclays is aims to achieve a consistent and
Values which govern our way of working. supporting the Sustainable Development comprehensive approach to respecting
99.9% of our colleagues completed annual Goals (SDGs), and we will continue to review human rights. We are committed to operating
training on The Barclays Way in 2017 (2016: and improve our core focus on raising access in accordance with the Universal Declaration
99.6%) ahead of our target of above 97%. to financing for social and environmental of Human Rights and we take account of
segments, building skills and supporting other internationally accepted human rights
We reduced carbon emissions by 26.1%
empowerment. standards. We respect and promote human
against the 2015 baseline (2016: 14.3%a),
rights through our employment policies and
making good progress towards our 30%
External benchmarks and surveys practices, through our supply chain and
target by 2018.
Barclays’ strategy and performance on a range through the responsible provision of our
We also achieved 89% (2016: 88%) on-time of ESG factors is evaluated by external products and services.
payment by value to our suppliers (Target: agencies on an annual basis.
The Barclays Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
85%) and have published an updated
In 2017, we broadly maintained our (ABC) Policy and Standards and the Barclays
Statement on Modern Slavery which includes
performance scores in key ratings and indices. Introducer Policy and Standard extend to all
additional information on the work we are
Although methodologies vary and continue to Barclays’ business dealings globally. Barclays
doing with our clients and customers, as well
evolve, we believe there is an opportunity to takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and
as our suppliers.
continue to enhance our performance on an corruption and we are committed to
Please see the statement on our website absolute and relative basis. conducting our global activities free from any
home.barclays/citizenship/our-approach/ form of bribery and corruption. We also
We maintained membership of both the Dow
human-rights.html expect the same from any third parties
Jones Sustainability Indexc series, where our
providing services for or on behalf of Barclays.
score reduced by 1% point to 83 points
Colleague engagement in citizenship activities Employees who fail to comply with the
against an industry average of 58 points
Colleague participation is essential to the requirements of our policies and standards
(2016: 61 points), and the FTSE4Good Index
success of our citizenship strategy. More than may face disciplinary action, up to and
seriesd, with our absolute score up to 4.3/5
50% of our colleagues participated in including dismissal or termination of
(2016: 3.9/5) and our position relative to the
volunteering, fundraising or regular giving employment.
banks sector improved to the 91st percentile
activity with 43,700 unique participants (2016:
(2016: 78th percentile). Barclays was rated Performance against our strategic non-
almost 44,000)b. We also have active internal
‘BBB’ by MSCI ESG Ratingse (2016:’BBB’) and financial performance measures for citizenship
Digital and LifeSkills, Environmental, Social
scored 61 points in Sustainalytics ESGf Ratings is one indicator of the effectiveness and
Innovation and Intrapreneur networks.
(2016: 62 points). outcome of certain policies and guidance.
Policies which support our citizenship
Areas of continued focus: ________________________________________
strategic non-financial measures include
Shared Growth Ambition
Policies and guidance can support delivery aspects of our policy statement on
We will continue to focus on improving
towards the key outcomes for citizenship. The environmental sustainability.
integration with our product suite and
Barclays Way contains statements on: respect
developing innovative sustainable financing The full details of our policies and position
for society - our Shared Growth Ambition;
solutions. We intend to focus on enhancing statements are available at home.barclays/
respect for human rights; respect for the
the impact of our employability programmes citizenship/our-approach/policy-positions.
environment and supporting the communities
and providing compelling opportunities for html
in which we operate.
our colleagues to participate in citizenship
We provide additional information in
activities. Our activity is supported by policies and
the Environmental, Social, Governance
position statements on a range of material
In addition, we are developing wider (ESG) Report 2017 available at home.barclays/
issues including: environmental sustainability;
sustainability and sector guidelines for annualreport
modern slavery; human rights; and anti-
business activity in 2018, and will increase our
bribery and anti-corruption. These are
contribution to policy initiatives and multi-
available at home.barclays/citizenship/
stakeholder partnerships.
our-approach/policy-positions.html.
Notes
a 2016 carbon reduction actuals have been restated due to improved billing data replacing
estimates and restatements to travel emissions. Further detail available in the ESG Report
b Unique participants measures colleague involvement in eligible volunteering, matched
fundraising, regular giving initiatives. Data sourced from internal reporting systems including
several manual sources
c Source: S&P Dow Jones; Sustainable Asset Management (SAM)
d Source: FTSE Russell
e Source: MSCI ESG Inc
f Source: Sustainalytics Inc
22 Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
Market and environment in which the
Advising on pan-European expansion
division operates
The economic markets in 2017 were
Asahi Group Holdings, the largest brewer in Japan, has targeted
characterised by a low volatility and low
Europe as its next platform for growth in its drive to become a
interest rate environment. With this benign
global beer industry leader. Having already established a presence in
backdrop, valuation gains in the equity
Italy, the UK and the Netherlands through the acquisition of brands
markets prevailed throughout the year.
such as Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime, Asahi engaged Barclays to
Prospective and confirmed legislative and
assist in creating a truly pan-European franchise.
regulatory changes continued to influence
and shape strategies of all market players. In In March 2017, with Barclays acting as Financial Adviser, Asahi
the UK, consumer confidence hit a four-year successfully closed on its €7.3bn acquisition of AB InBev’s business in
low, amid sterling depreciation and despite the Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Poland, Hungary and Romania.
historically low unemployment. In the US, the
Asahi turned to Barclays for this critical transaction due to our holistic
labour market and consumer spending
capability, including a long-standing, global coverage relationship,
strengthened, with subdued wage growth.
leading brewing industry and M&A experience, deep insight into
Central Europe and cross-border deal execution expertise.
Barclays International is
focused on investments in
talent, capital and technology.
Barclays International has achieved significant
milestones to meet Structural Reform
regulations. Working closely with regulators
and stakeholders, we are set up to serve our
clients across the globe in alignment with
regulatory policies and legislation. The
newly-created divisional board of directors
has been confirmed and has convened prior to
formal board meetings to ensure that we are
set to operate within the Barclays governance
framework upon the formalisation of
Structural Reform. Significant entities within
Barclays International, such as the US
Cyber crime had a hugely detrimental impact Barclays International continues to enhance
Intermediate Holding Company (IHC), are
on the global economy in 2017, with its customer and client experiences through
subject to stringent governance standards to
unprecedented attacks in terms of their scale, innovation. For example, in Barclaycard
ensure safety and soundness, particularly
impact and rate of spread. We have continued International, we launched a new core
around capital, liquidity and risk management.
to invest heavily to ensure that our payment processing platform that provides,
infrastructure retains industry-leading multi-currency and multi-geography
Risks to the operating model
resilience to cyber crime. settlement capabilities and enables all
Geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty
currencies in all territories to be processed on
in some markets remain a risk, while the The growth strategy within Barclays
a single platform. We also launched an
volume and reach of regulatory change International will continue to be executed in a
Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning tool
continues to require significant attention. controlled, commercial manner within the
to provide the latest advanced platforms and
ERMF framework.
We are making comprehensive plans for the techniques for fraud detection and intelligent
UK’s planned exit from the European Union customer service automation.
Business Highlights
and we believe we will provide an
Barclays International is focused on Overall, 2017 was a milestone year for Barclays
uninterrupted service to our clients,
investments in talent, capital and technology. International. Together, with our colleagues
consumers and other stakeholders during and
In 2017, we affirmed the executive across the globe, we have embarked on a
after the transition.
management leadership team within BI. For number of initiatives and areas of growth as
We continue to monitor growth in US example, in our Markets division, a new we strive to matter more to our clients, to
consumer delinquencies having proactively leadership structure creates streamlining and grow our revenues, and deliver much
reduced our exposure to middle market simplification, with global heads across credit, improved sustainable returns to our
consumers earlier this year. equities, macro and distribution. shareholders.
We are focused on dynamically managing and
allocating financial resources to businesses
within Barclays International through Tim Throsby
optimisation of capital, leverage, risk weighted President, Barclays International and
assets, funding and tax across all jurisdictions Chief Executive Officer, Corporate and
and legal entities. Investment Bank
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 31
Our people and culture
Our ongoing commitment to our people drives our success
Fostering the right culture at Barclays is critical to our success.
By promoting respect, diversity and performance in the
workplace we strive for excellence to deliver the best results for
our customers and clients, taking pride in our achievements.
We continue to be focused on the importance of embedding a
conduct and values-based culture throughout the organisation
and this is at the core of our strategy and processes. In
recognising the significance of this commitment, conduct, culture
and values remained one of ooouuurrr ssstttrrraaattteeegggiiiccc ppprrriiiooorrriiitttiiieeesss iiinnn 222000111777...
In 2016, we developed a culture measurement This year colleagues were asked to select the
framework, anchored in our values to track phrases that they would use to describe the
and measure cultural progress across the current culture at Barclays and we are
Group. In 2017, we focused on embedding this encouraged that customer satisfaction,
framework, ensuring it is a key component of continuous improvement and growth are
the non-financial metrics reviewed to assess some of the top words selected. Focus
the performance and culture of Barclays. continues in areas that we know are key to
Through this framework, and the results from advancing cultural change, for example our
our employee opinion survey ‘Your View’, Dynamic Working and employee wellbeing
quarterly insights, key cultural metrics and campaigns, as well as prioritising positive
performance indicators are produced, mental health awareness through our ‘This is
stimulating management discussions which Me’ campaign. Our ongoing commitment
result in actions and decisions to further towards increasing female representation at
promote and embed a conduct and values- all levels across Barclays remains a core focus
based culture. of our talent management and leadership
succession processes and we recognise that
We continue our ambition to our commitment to greater gender equality is
integral to drive societal change in equality,
become the most accessible, diversity and inclusion. Further details on our
inclusive and sought after gender diversity commitments and additional
highlights from across our Diversity and
employer, where colleagues
Inclusion strategy can be found in the People
feel engaged and empowered section on pages 89 to 92 of the Barclays PLC
Annual Report 2017.
to achieve their best in order
We continue to run Group CEO sponsored
to deliver the best for our
Enterprise Leaders’ Summits, which seek to
customers and clients. develop the next generation of enterprise
leaders and strengthen a culture of
collaboration among our leaders in order to
We continue our ambition to become the
deliver improved solutions and products for
most accessible, inclusive and sought after
our customers and clients. The control
employer, where colleagues feel engaged and
functions rotational programme launched in
empowered to achieve their best in order to
2016, which was expanded this year,
deliver the best for our customers and clients.
recognises that future leaders in our
We are pleased that in 2017 the sustainable
businesses must have a strong awareness and
engagement of our employees improved to
understanding of the control environment.
78% across the Group.
The programme provides colleagues the
opportunity to work within a control function
gaining valuable perspective.
36 Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
We are committed to helping people succeed, During 2017 external recognition has
whether entering the workplace for the first confirmed the sustained and global impact of
time or as an experienced professional. In our work. We are proud of the increased
support of the Barclays Shared Growth colleague engagement we are seeing across
Ambition, and youth unemployment and the organisation and both the external and
social mobility, our apprenticeship programme internal differences that our values and culture
has continued to provide opportunities for are having and the change we can make to
candidates from a broad range of people’s lives as a result, enabling success and
backgrounds. Since the programme began we giving them access to a future where they can
have hired over 3,400 apprentices, the thrive. Our drive to continue to embed a
majority with no prior qualifications or conduct and values-based culture shows the
experience. We have continued to expand the importance that we place on the positive and
programme, launching in 2017 the first ever creative contributions of each and every one
Agriculture Higher Apprenticeship programme of our colleagues in order to serve customer
and Degree Apprenticeship in banking. and clients and to continue to build trust and
Through the Barclays Armed Forces respect in the profession of banking.
Transition, Employment and Resettlement
(AFTER) programme we have assisted over
5,500 veterans in employment transition, hired Tristram Roberts
over 500 ex-military colleagues and donated Group Human Resources Director
over £4.25m to military charities to assist
wounded and injured personal in employment For further information about the
transition. gender pay gap at Barclays, please see
page 90 of the Barclays PLC Annual
Report 2017.
Dynamic Working
Dynamic working is empowering our colleagues to work in a way
that suits their lives and supports our business, to better serve our
customers’ and clients’ needs. Every stage of life brings new
priorities, responsibilities and opportunities. Having the flexibility
when, where and how colleagues work can help them integrate their
professional and personal live and fulfill all their roles more easily.
Dynamic working is not flexi-time rebranded, it is not a policy,
instead it is agile, attitudinal approach to meeting colleagues
wide-ranging needs while having a positive impact on productivity,
engagement and retention in the following ways;
■■ Colleagues who work dynamically score higher on engagement
and job satisfaction with 87% saying they would recommend
Barclays as a good place to work.
■■ Dynamic working provides agility to address the needs of clients
and colleagues across the globe living in different time zones.
■■ Dynamic working is addressing the needs of a work force that
spans five generations.
You can find out more on our Diversity and Inclusion
activities reporting at:
home.barclays/about-barclays/diversity-and-inclusion.html
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 37
Governance compliance
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
A snapshot of how Barclays’ activities align with the main All Directors are expected to commit sufficient
time to fulfil their duties to Barclays. In 2017,
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) is
Directors’ attendance at scheduled Board
set out below. meetings was 97% and across the scheduled
Board Committee meetings was an average of
94%.
As Barclays Bank PLC is not a premium listed equity issuer, it is
The Board assesses its effectiveness and that
not required to comply with the Code, but it nevertheless seeks
of its Committees and the individual Directors
to ensure that its activities align with the Code’s main principles. annually in a process that is externally
facilitated by an independent third party.
Directors are subject to election or re-election
each year by shareholders at the AGM.
Barclays’ Charter of Expectations sets out
responsibilities for providing the Board with
accurate, timely and high-quality information
necessary for it to fulfil its duties.
Leadership Effectiveness
There is clear division of responsibilities The skills, knowledge and experience needed
The Board, assisted by its Risk
between the Chairman, who runs the Board, for an effective Board are recorded on a skills
and the Group Chief Executive, who runs the matrix, which is used by the Board and Reputation Committees,
Group’s business. Individual roles on the Board Nominations Committee to inform Director
conducts robust assessments
and their responsibilities are set out in recruitment, induction and ongoing
Barclays’ Charter of Expectations. development. of the principal risks facing
The Senior Independent Director, Sir Gerry The composition of principal Board Barclays.
Grimstone, provides a sounding board for the Committees meets the independence criteria
Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the of the Code and there is appropriate cross-
other Directors when necessary and is membership to further promote effectiveness. Accountability
available to shareholders if they have concerns The Board is responsible for setting Barclays’
11 of 14 Directors are independent non-
that have not been addressed through the risk appetite, that is, the level of risk it is
executive Directors (79%), while the
normal channels. prepared to take in the context of achieving
Chairman was independent on appointment.
Barclays’ strategic objectives.
The Board has set out Barclays’ culture, values
As at the date of this report, there are three
and behaviours in Barclays’ Purpose and Barclays’ Enterprise Risk Management
female Directors (21%), compared to our
Values and The Barclays Way, which are Framework is designed to identify and set
target of 33% by 2020 which the Board
embedded throughout the Group. minimum requirements in respect of the main
remains committed to achieving.
risks to achieving the Barclays’ strategic
Directors are expected to provide rigorous and
The Board Nominations Committee regularly objectives and to provide reasonable
constructive challenge on matters that, owing
considers Board and senior management assurance that internal controls are effective.
to their strategic, financial or reputational
succession plans.
implications or consequences, are considered The Board, assisted by its Risk and Reputation
significant to the Group. Appointments to the Board are made via a Committees, conducts robust assessments of
formal, rigorous and transparent process, the principal risks facing Barclays, including
based on merit, taking into account the skills, those that would threaten its business model,
experience and diversity needed on the Board future performance, solvency or liquidity.
in the context of Barclays’ strategic direction.
38 Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
Governance
Credit risk management
Our corporate governance processes and the role they play in supporting the delivery of our strategy.
Governance Page
 Directors’ report 41
 Directors and Officers 44
 People 45
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC governance remained aligned during 2017. The Group Service Company results in variances in staff numbers
between Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 40
Governance: Directors’ report
Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited as Trustee of the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund. The Directors of the Trustee are indemnified against
liability incurred in connection with the company’s activities as Trustee of the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
Similarly, qualifying pension scheme indemnities were in force during 2017 for the benefit of Directors of Barclays Executive Schemes Trustees
Limited as Trustee of Barclays Bank International Limited Zambia Staff Pension Fund (1965), Barclays Capital International Pension Scheme (No.1),
and Barclays PLC Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme. The Directors of the Trustee are indemnified against liability incurred in
connection with the Company’s activities as Trustee of the schemes above.
Environment
Barclays focuses on addressing environmental issues where we believe we have the greatest potential to make a difference. We focus on managing
our own carbon footprint and reducing our absolute carbon emissions, developing products and services to help enable the transition to a low-
carbon economy, and managing the risks of climate change to our operations, clients, customers and society at large.
We invest in improving the energy efficiency of our operations and offset the emissions remaining through the purchase of carbon credits, sourced
from verified projects. We also have a long-standing commitment to managing the environmental and social risks associated with our lending
practices, which is embedded into our Credit Risk processes. A governance structure is in place to facilitate clear dialogue across the business and
with suppliers around issues of potential environmental and social risk.
We have disclosed global greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) that we are responsible for as set out by ‘The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report
and Director’s Report) Regulations 2013’. We provide fuller disclosure on (i) financing solutions for the lower carbon economy (ii) environmental
risk management and (iii) management of our carbon and environmental footprint in the Barclays Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)
Supplement available on our website at home. barclays.com/citizenship.
Current Reporting Yeara Previous Reporting Year Previous Reporting Year
2017 2016 2015
Global GHG Emissionsb
Total CO2e (tonnes) 347,165 402,531 479,934
Scope 1 CO2e emissions (tonnes)c 25,627 26,721 29,144
Scope 2 CO2e emissions (tonnes)d 250,897 308,473 342,012
Scope 3 CO2e emissions (tonnes)e 70,641 67,336 93,989
Intensity Ratio
Total Full Time Equivalent (Full Time Equivalent) 79,900 76,500 85,800
Total CO2e emissions (tonnes) per FTEf 4.34 5.26 5.59
Scope 2 market based emissions (tonnes) 298,469 337,483
a The carbon reporting year for our GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September. The carbon reporting year is not fully aligned to the financial reporting year covered by the
Directors’ report.
b The methodology used to calculate our GHG is the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG): A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition, defined by the World
Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD). We have adopted the operational control approach on reporting boundaries to define our
reporting boundary. Where properties are covered by Barclays’ consolidated financial statements but are leased to tenants, these emissions are not included in the Group GHG
calculations. Where Barclays is responsible for the utility costs, these emissions are included.
On 1 June 2017 we completed the sale of a 33.7% stake in Barclays Africa Group Limited (BAGL) resulting in a non-controlling position. In 2017 we have restated our GHG
emissions through to the 2015 baseline to account for this and BAGL emissions are not reported from 2015 onwards in order to ensure accurate tracking against our 30% carbon
reduction commitment. In addition, we have restated our Scope 3 emissions to remove erroneous air data which was identified as part of the 2017 reporting process.
c Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and company owned vehicles (from UK only, which is the most material contributors). Fugitive emissions reported in Scope 1 cover
emissions from UK, Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe.
d Scope 2 location and market emissions cover electricity and steam purchased for own use. Market based emissions have been reported for 2017 and 2016 only.
e Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from business travel (global flights and ground transport from the UK, USA and India. USA and India ground transport covers onwards car hire
only which is provided directly by the supplier. Ground transportation data (excluding Scope 1 company cars) covers only countries where robust data is available directly from the
supplier.
f Intensity ratio calculations have been calculated using location based emission factors only.
Research and Development
In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and services in each of its business divisions.
Financial Instruments
Barclays’ financial risk management objectives and policies, including the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which
hedge accounting is used, and the exposure to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are set out in pages 52 to 54 and 76 to 125.
Change of control
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that are affected by a change of control of the Company following a takeover
bid. There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment
that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Auditors
The Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, including monitoring the
Group’s use of the external auditors for non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid to them. More details on this can be
found in Note 42 to the accounts.
With effect from the beginning of the 2017 financial year, KPMG was appointed as Barclays’ statutory auditor, replacing PwC following an external
audit tender conducted in 2015.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 42
Governance: Directors’ report
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, financial position, capital, factors likely to affect its future development and performance and its objectives and
policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed are discussed in the Strategic Report and Risk Management sections.
The Directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to:
 assess the Group and parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern; and
 use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have
no realistic alternative but to do so.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor
Each Director confirms that, so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and that
each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself /herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information. This confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the
Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to those provisions.
Directors’ responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors’ report set out on page 154 to 162, is made with a view to
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare Group and Company accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group
accounts, in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The Directors have prepared Group and Company accounts in accordance with IFRS
as adopted by the EU. Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 153 to 268, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies,
supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, the Directors are
satisfied that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
Directors are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy
the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, and Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and Financial Statements as they appear on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and Company
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors, whose names and functions are set out on page 44, confirm to the best of their knowledge that:
(a) The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
(b) The management report on pages 1 to 37, which is incorporated in the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Stephen Shapiro
Company Secretary
21 February 2018
Barclays Bank PLC
Registered in England. Company No. 1026167
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 43
Governance: People
People
As highlighted in Our People and Culture we Industrial relations and Managing change Employee Communications
have continued to make progress towards Barclays has a long-standing partnership Barclays regularly updates employees on the
increasing the diversity of our workforce approach to industrial relations and we value financial and economic factors affecting the
underpinned by an inclusive culture and the relationships we have with over 14 trade Company’s performance and the delivery of
engaged employees. Below provides an unions, works councils and staff associations the strategy through Group CEO and senior
overview of some of the programmes, globally. Within the UK we have a formal leader communications, line manager briefing
initiatives and ways in which we are partnership with Unite which has been in packs, interviews and talking points
supporting our colleagues, which in turn place for over 17 years. Following joint review, distributed to employees every quarter in
enables us to support our customers, clients the partnership agreement was extended in accordance with our financial reporting
and the community. 2017 for a further 5 years. As part of the calendar. We hold a variety of events for
review, Unite recognition was extended to employees to hear directly from the Group
Early careers and apprenticeships cover an additional 1,500 employees. Executive Committee and employees are kept
Our Early Careers offering includes graduate, Throughout 2017, we have continued to have regularly informed about what is happening in
internship and apprenticeship programmes. In regular and constructive dialogue with their area and across Barclays through
2017 we hired over 780 interns and 675 employee representatives and employees on a engagement initiatives and communications.
graduates, and since 2012 we have created wide range of topics. Earlier this year, as part Campaigns and colleague stories throughout
over 3,400 apprenticeships. We provide of our implementation of structural reform, the year highlight our Citizenship work and
pathways for progression from apprentice to we consulted with Unite and employee forums how we are supporting our customers, clients
graduate supported by recognised on the successful transfer of c. 53,000 and colleagues.
qualifications and, in doing so, help to create employees to new legal employing entities. We
an internal talent pipeline. During 2017, we seek to avoid compulsory redundancies where Diversity and Inclusion
launched a new graduate programme across a possible and try to find ways in which we can We aim to ensure that employees of all
number of our business areas to attract the achieve this during the consultation period. backgrounds are treated equally and have the
workforce of the future, and within We continue to place significant emphasis on opportunity to be successful. Our global
Technology and Barclays UK we increased the voluntary redundancy programmes as well as Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) strategy sets
number of opportunities for both interns and internal redeployment through our ‘Internals objectives, initiatives and plans across five
graduates. First’ programme. We also aim to keep in core pillars: Gender, LGBT, Disability,
touch with former colleagues through the Multicultural and Multigenerational, in
Internal Mobility Barclays Global Alumni Programme. support of that ambition. Our approach to
By supporting internal mobility across Barclays building an inclusive work environment is
and making it simple and easy for colleagues Performance Management focused on upskilling our leadership and we
to move internally, we hope to successfully Barclays approach to performance provide a range of development opportunities
retain and develop our internal talent. We have management is key to the delivery of our including our Unconscious Bias Training
developed multiple tools and resources for strategy and to drive a values-based culture. which has been delivered to over 10,000
colleagues to find internal career opportunities Colleagues align their objectives (‘what’ they leaders across Barclays, and Dynamic Working
and for managers to find and assess suitable will deliver) to business and team goals to line manager clinics which have been
internal candidates. In 2017 our rate of support our strategy and good customer attended by over 4,000 leaders.
internal hiring was 40%, a reduction on 2016, outcomes. Behavioural expectations (‘how’
which can be attributed to factors including a they will achieve their objectives) are set in the LGBT
strategic move to hire externally for specific context of our values. Our global recognition An inclusive culture that enables colleagues to
skill sets, particularly within Technology, and a programme provides colleagues the bring their whole selves to work is built on
focus on converting temporary staff into opportunity to recognise the achievements of having leadership participation and visible role
permanent roles. those who have demonstrated our values. We models. Now in its third year, our Spectrum
continue to see a year on year increase in the Allies campaign has identified over 8,000
Leadership and Learning number of colleagues receiving a values leaders globally who have pledged to
In 2017, a consistent Barclays Leadership ‘Thank You’ message, with over 210,000 challenge homophobia, biphobia and
Capability framework launched across the messages sent in 2017. transphobia in the workplace and provide
organisation. Our leadership and learning support to LGBT colleagues. Through the
Colleagues are also encouraged to be involved
solutions are underpinned by this framework ‘Your View’ survey we provide colleagues with
with the Company’s performance by
and our values. The Barclays Academies and the opportunity to identify as being LGBT, with
participating in our all-employee share plans,
our Global Curriculum provide colleagues with 7% of colleagues identifying as LGBT in 2017.
which have been running successfully for over
face-to-face, virtual and self-managed This year was the fourth consecutive year that
10 years.
development resources. All new joiners Barclays supported Pride in London as the
undertake the ‘Being Barclays’ induction, headline sponsor. The #lovehappenshere
providing an in-depth understanding of the theme reached over 3 million people across
values and expected behaviours through the multiple communications channels and across
Global Code of Conduct (The Barclays Way). the UK over 1,000 Barclays colleagues
participated in regional Pride events across the
UK.
Independent recognition reflects the progress
we are making and the impact of our strategy.
For the fifth consecutive year, Stonewall has
recognised Barclays as one of only 12 Top
Global Employers. The Human Rights
Campaign has awarded Barclays with 100%
on their corporate equity index.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 45
Governance: People
People
Disability Multicultural The multicultural profile of the organisation
Under the UK Government’s Department of During 2017, the Embracing Us campaign was was acknowledged externally by the City of
Work and Pensions Disability Confident launched in celebration of World Cultural Day, London and the Social Mobility Commission
scheme, Barclays has been recognised as a aiming to challenge global stereotypes and through the Social Mobility Employer Index as
Disability Confident Leader for our efforts to mind-sets in relation to nationality, faith, a Top 50 Employer in 2017.
support those who have a disability. This year, ethnicity, race and language. During the
alongside PwC, we have further scaled the campaign our multicultural network, Embrace, Multicultural
‘This is Me in the City’ initiative along with the engaged over 15,000 colleagues through
% UK
Lord Mayor of the City of London. The ‘This Is multiple communications channels, leadership
32
Me’ mental health and wellbeing campaign forums and Being Colour Brave development
29
now includes over 280 organisations across workshops. Barclays Apprenticeship
% US
London who have pledged to focus on Programme reflects our commitment to
49
eliminating the stigma associated with mental recruit a diverse workforce. Since the
47
health in their workplace (over 1 million programme launched, we have focused on
% Global
employees collectively). In 2018, through recruiting those who are NEET (Not in
50
these partnerships, we plan to expand ‘This is Education, Employment or Training). 19% of
51
Me’ further in the UK. Continuing our our apprentices identify as Black, Asian and
commitment to increase employment of those Minority Ethnic, 8% points higher than the Above shows the percentage of underrepresented populations
with a disability or mental health condition, national apprenticeship average. In addition, that make up our global and regional populations.
this year we expanded our Able to Enable 46% of our apprentices are female and 8% Underrepresented populations are defined regionally to ensure
inclusion of all groups in the workplace. For the purposes of
internship in the UK. This 13 week paid identify as a person with a disability. Through comparability 2016 figures exclude Barclays Africa Group Limited
programme is aimed at recruiting talented this scheme we are making a positive impact headcount. UK includes Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and
individuals of all ages with a background of on youth unemployment and social mobility. Non-Disclosed and US includes Hispanic/Latino, Asian, Mixed,
Black, Other and Non-Disclosed.
mental health conditions, providing them with
opportunities to gain work experience, learn
new skills and grow their experience and Permanent Employees by region
confidence. As at 31 December 2017 2016 2015
United Kingdom 31,000 40,700 49,000
Multigenerational Continental Europe and Middle East 1,600 3,200 7,400
Our Dynamic Working campaign is relevant to Americas 10,400 9,700 10,600
colleagues at every life stage. It addresses the Asia Pacific 1,600 1,800 18,800
diverse needs of a workforce comprised of five Africa 0 42,700 43,600
generations, by encouraging the integration of Total 44,600 98,100 129,400
personal and professional responsibilities
through smarter work patterns. The campaign
is having a positive impact on colleague Gender Breakdown our colleagues fairly and equitably relative to
engagement with the 59% of colleagues Under the Companies Act 2006, Barclays are their role, skill, experience and performance is
actively working dynamically in 2017 reporting also required to report on the gender central to our global reward structures and
5% points higher than the Group sustainable breakdown of our employees and ‘senior benefits policies, which are reviewed regularly
engagement result. Dynamic Working is also managers’. Of the workforce of 44,600 (22,200 to ensure that there is no unfair bias in how
enabling Barclays to have a positive impact on male, 22,400 female), 297 were senior employees are paid. At Barclays we are
the retention of diverse talent, examples managers (220 male, 77 female), which include confident that men and women across our
include a 13% improvement in maternity Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of organisation are paid equally for doing the
returners retained after 12 months, and 95% the Chief Executive, heads of major business same job.
of those taking Shared Parental Leave are units, certain senior Managing Directors, and
fathers. directors on the boards of undertakings of the The difference between the gender pay gap
and Equal Pay can be illustrated by the fact
Addressing the changing needs of a Group, but exclude individuals who sit as that men and women who are paid equally
multigenerational workforce will be an directors on the Board of the Company. for the same or similar roles, can still generate
ongoing focus in 2018 but we are pleased that a gender pay gap driven by the relative
Working Families UK has recognised Barclays Gender Pay Gap Disclosure proportions of men and women across the
as one of the top 10 Employers for Working The gender pay gap measures the difference organisation. This is illustrated in graphic B.
Families in 2017. between the average male pay and the average
female pay as a proportion of the average male Our gender pay gap results shown in graphic
Multigenerational pay. For example, average male pay of £100 C reflect the distribution of men and women
per hour and average female pay of £85 per between corporate grades within Barclays.
% 69+ (Veterans/Traditionalists) hour would indicate a gender pay gap of 15%. As illustrated in graphic A, the percentage of
2017 (H2) 0.03 The calculation does not take into women in our more senior corporate grades
2016 (H2) 0.03 consideration the role that an employee is lower than the percentage of women at
% 51 to 69 (Baby Boomers) performs or the seniority of the employee. As a Barclays overall. This correlates with the
14 result, gender pay gaps are often driven by ordinary pay quartile data in graphic C, in
14 higher proportions of women than men in which the entire population is arranged in
% 39 to 51 (Generation X) more junior, lower paid roles and fewer women order of ordinary pay (fixed pay), from lowest
22 than men in senior, more highly paid roles. to highest, and then divided into four equal
23 sub-populations. The numbers of male and
Equal Pay legislation in the UK specifically
% 20 to 39 (Generation Y) female employees in each sub-population is
62 relates to an employee’s role, making it then expressed as a proportion. The ordinary
62 unlawful for an employer to pay individuals pay quartiles reflect the high proportions of
differently for performing the same or similar
% 20 and Below (Millennial) women in more junior, lower paid roles
0.06 work. This right for women and men to (particularly evident in Barclays UK within the
0.07 receive the same pay for the same, or similar retail branch network) and the high
work, or work of equal value, has been a
For the purpose of comparability 2016 figures exclude Barclays proportions of men in senior, highly paid roles
Africa Group Limited headcount. requirement under UK law since 1970. Paying (particularly evident in Barclays International).
46 Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
Governance: People
People
Gender Diversity Commitments
Internally we are committed to:
As a founding signatory of the HM Treasury
Women in Finance Charter and supporter of Leadership accountability 2020 Gender Diversity Commitments
the Hampton-Alexander Review, to support our including gender diversity ■■ Board of Directors 33%
commitment to gender equality, we proactively targets and the introduction ■■ Leadership 33% (Group ExCo and their direct reports)
set gender targets and we have made good of a gender taskforce Cultural Change
progress towards these targets. Our goal to Focusing on a more inclusive ■■ Dynamic Working
improve the percentage of female Managing work environment to ensure ■■ Progressive parental policies
Directors and Directors to 26% by the end of all colleagues have the ■■ Barclays’ Win Gender Network
2018 (23% at the end of 2017) has
flexibility to achieve personal Talent Management
subsequently expanded with commitments of
33% female representation across our Board of and professional goals ■■ Leadership Succession Planning
Directors by 2020 (21% at the end of 2017) and Ensuring we are developing ■■ Ex-Officio Leadership roles
33% female representation among the Group leaders who are equipped to ■■ Internal Mobility
Executive Committee and their direct reports meet the demands of a more Leadership Development
(25% at the end of 2017). Alongside these diverse workforce ■■ Unconscious Bias Training
targets, Barclays has been focused on and will ■■ Global Women in Leadership Conference
continue to develop, a range of extensive ■■ Enterprise Leaders Summits
initiatives, programmes and policies to improve
gender diversity. Below are some highlights of Externally we are committed to:
the ways in which we are increasing female
Engaging men globally in UN HeForShe
representation at Barclays and enabling women
to fulfil their career aspirations. gender equality in partnership ■■ Global Impact Champion
with the United Nations
Barclays Role Models
Creating New Career Opportunities Providing enhanced ■■ External engagement of Barclays’ senior women
We have expanded our graduate and employment opportunities and across Financial Services, IT and STEM
apprenticeship programmes, reflecting our attracting diverse candidates Creating New Career Opportunities
commitment to improve employment Community impact ■■ Encore! Returnship Programme
opportunities, tackle societal issues and ■■ Expanded Apprenticeship Programme
attract diverse talent. We have transformed ■■ 50% Female Graduate Hires
the way we recruit for our graduate
Strategic Partnerships
programmes to drive diversity and inclusion
as students are able to demonstrate ability ■■ Women’s Business Council
and potential throughout the process, so that ■■ 30% Club
recruitment outcomes are based on
performance and not on the basis of subjects
Cultural Change further accelerate our progress against our
studied, universities attended and previous
Providing a workplace that encourages gender diversity commitments. We
work experience. In doing so we hope to
colleagues to achieve their personal and acknowledge that there is still a lot of work to
increase the number of female graduate hires
professional goals is key to supporting and do, but our determination and commitment to
to 50% (40% at the end of 2017, up from 31%
retaining our employees. We aim to do this building a diverse and inclusive workforce
in 2014). For those looking to re-enter the
through our progressive maternity, paternity, through attracting, retaining and developing
workforce after taking time out of their
adoption and shared parental leave policies world class professionals is paramount, and
careers, our Encore! Returnship Programme
which go beyond the statutory requirements, we are working hard to foster an environment
provides opportunities for experienced
as well as through our flexible working in which all employees have the opportunity
professionals to join a paid programme with a
campaign Dynamic Working. Dynamic Working to succeed, regardless of race, religion or
view to securing a permanent role at Barclays
supports colleagues in all stages of their lives in belief, age, gender, disability, sexual
at the end of the programme. More broadly,
achieving an optimal work and life balance, orientation, gender identity or nationality.
we have policies and practices in place to
helping them with parenthood, studies, caring
ensure that all recruitment decisions are fair Further details on the gender pay gap
and hobbies. Across Barclays, our Women’s
and candidate shortlists are diverse. and Barclays commitments to gender
Initiative Network (Win) provides colleagues
diversity and equality can be found at
with career development and networking
Talent Management and Leadership home.barclays/diversity
opportunities including mentoring, career fairs
Development
and senior leader speaker events.
The creation of ex-officio positions on the
Group Executive Committee and across the
Strategic Partnerships
business unit and functional Executive
Barclays recognises that gender equality
Committees in 2016 by the Group CEO, has
extends to the communities in which we work,
provided development opportunities for a
support and live and greater gender equality is
number of our high potential female leaders
integral to our long-term investments to drive
and has broadened the scope of the
societal change. We demonstrate this through
perspectives and decision making across our
strategic partnerships, external engagement
leadership teams. Our Unconscious Bias
and leadership commitment, including but not
training, now attended by over 10,000 leaders,
limited to, our multi-year commitment to the
supports the continued elimination of bias
United Nations HeForShe campaign and our
from our people processes, and successful
partnership with the Women’s Business Council.
events that we run each year such as the
Global Women in Leadership conference and
So what next?
the Enterprise Leaders Summit focus on
Our existing pipeline of female talent is being
building capability and upskilling leaders.
further strengthened through the launch of a
global gender taskforce, comprising of leaders
from across the organisation who believe
passionately in gender diversity and who will
focus on new and improved initiatives to
48 Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 2017 home.barclays/annualreport
Risk review
Risk management
Barclays’ risk management strategy
Third Line of Defence
Employees of Internal Audit comprise the Third Line of Defence. They provide independent assurance to the Board and Executive Management
over the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control over current, systemic and evolving risks.
The Legal function does not sit in any of the three lines, but supports them all. The Legal function is, however, subject to oversight from Risk and
Compliance, with respect to operational and conduct risks.
Risk Committees
Business Risk Committees consider Risk matters relevant to their business, and escalate as required to the Group Risk Committee (GRC), whose
Chairman in turn escalates to Board Committees and the Board.
There are three Board-level forums which oversee the application of the ERMF and review and monitor risk across the Group. These are: the Board
Risk Committee, the Board Audit Committee, and the Board Reputation Committee. Additionally, the Board Remuneration Committee oversees pay
practices focusing on aligning pay to sustainable performance. Finally, the main Board of Barclays receives regular information on the risk profile of
the Group, and has ultimate responsibility for risk appetite and capital plans.
The Chairman of each Committee prepares a statement each year on the Committee’s activities, which are included in this report on pages 45 to 79
of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017.
The Board
One of the Board’s (Board of Directors of Barclays Bank PLC) responsibilities is the approval of Risk Appetite (see page 126 of the Barclays PLC Pillar
3 Report 2017). The Group CRO regularly presents a report to the Board summarising developments in the risk environment and performance
trends in the key portfolios. The Board is also responsible for the ERMF.
The Board Risk Committee (BRC)
The BRC monitors the Group’s risk profile against the agreed financial appetite. Where actual performance differs from expectations, the actions
taken by management are reviewed to verify that the BRC is comfortable with them. After each meeting, the Chairman of the BRC prepares a report
for the next meeting of the Board. All members are independent non-executive directors. The Group Finance Director (GFD) and the Group CRO
attend each meeting as a matter of course.
The BRC also considers the Group’s Risk Appetite statement for operational risk and evaluates the Group’s operational risk profile and operational
risk monitoring.
The BRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on risk methodologies, the effectiveness of the risk management framework, and the Group’s
risk profile, including the key issues affecting each business portfolio and forward risk trends. The Committee also commissions in-depth analyses
of significant risk topics, which are presented by the Group CRO or senior risk managers in the businesses.
The Board Audit Committee (BAC)
The BAC receives regular reports on the effectiveness of internal control systems, quarterly reports on material control issues of significance, and
quarterly papers on accounting judgements (including impairment). It also receives a half-yearly review of the adequacy of impairment allowances,
which it reviews relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, the business environment, the Group’s policies and methodologies. The Chairman of
the BAC also sits on the BRC.
The Board Reputation Committee (RepCo)
The RepCo reviews management’s recommendations on conduct and reputation risk and the effectiveness of the processes by which the Group
identifies and manages these risks. It also reviews and monitors the effectiveness of Barclays’ citizenship strategy, including the management of
Barclays’ economic, social and environmental contribution.
The Board Remuneration Committee (RemCo)
The RemCo receives a detailed report on risk management performance and risk profile and proposals on ex-ante and ex-post risk adjustments to
variable remuneration. These inputs are considered in the setting of performance incentives.
Summaries of the relevant skills, experience and background of the Directors of the Board are presented in the Board of Directors section on pages
47 to 48 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017. The terms of reference and additional details on membership and activities for each of the
principal Board Committees are available from the Corporate Governance section of Barclays’ website home.barclays/about-barclays/barclays-
corporate-governance.html.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 53
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
Header level 3: Expert Sans Regular, Size 10, Light Blue
d) Regulatory focus on culture and accountability
Regulators around the world continue to emphasise the importance of culture and personal accountability and the adoption and enforcement of
adequate internal reporting and whistleblowing procedures in helping to promote appropriate conduct and drive positive outcomes for customers,
clients and markets. Failure to meet the requirements and expectations of the UK Senior Managers Regime, Certification Regime and Conduct Rules
may lead to regulatory sanctions, both for the individuals and the firm.
vii) Reputation risk
Barclays’ association with sensitive sectors and its impact on reputation
A risk arising in one business area can have an adverse effect upon Barclays’ overall reputation; any one transaction, investment or event that, in
the perception of key stakeholders reduces their trust in the Group’s integrity and competence, has the potential to give rise to reputation risk for
Barclays and may result in loss of business, regulatory censure and missed business opportunity.
Barclays’ association with sensitive sectors is an area of concern for stakeholders and the following topics are of regular interest:
 Disclosure of climate risks and opportunities, including the activities of certain sections of the client base. This is becoming the subject of
increased scrutiny from regulators, NGOs and other stakeholders.
 The risks of association with human rights violations through the perceived indirect involvement in human rights abuses committed by clients
and customers.
 The manufacture and export of military and riot control goods and services by clients and customers.
viii) Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters
Legal disputes, regulatory investigations, fines and other sanctions relating to conduct of business and breaches of legislation and/or regulations
may negatively affect the Group’s results, reputation and ability to conduct its business. Legal outcomes can arise as a consequence of legal risk or
because of past and future actions, behaviours and business decisions as a result of other Principal Risks.
The Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated global market and therefore is exposed to the risk of fines and other sanctions relating
to the conduct of its business. In recent years, authorities have increasingly investigated past practices, pursued alleged breaches and imposed
heavy penalties on financial services firms. This trend is expected to continue. A breach of applicable legislation and/or regulations could result in
the Group or its staff being subject to criminal prosecution, regulatory censure, fines and other sanctions in the jurisdictions in which it operates,
particularly in the UK and the US. Where clients, customers or other third parties are harmed by the Group’s conduct, this may also give rise to legal
proceedings, including class actions. Other legal disputes may also arise between the Group and third parties relating to matters such as breaches,
enforcement of legal rights or obligations arising under contracts, statutes or common law. Adverse findings in any such matters may result in the
Group being liable to third parties seeking damages, or may result in the Group’s rights not being enforced as intended.
Details of legal, competition and regulatory matters to which the Group is currently exposed are set out in Note 28 legal, competition and
regulatory matters. In addition to matters specifically described in Note 28, the Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings in the UK and
US and a number of other overseas jurisdictions which arise in the ordinary course of business. The Group is also subject to requests for
information, investigations and other reviews by regulators, governmental and other public bodies in connection with business activities in which
the Group is or has been engaged. The Group is cooperating with the relevant authorities and keeping all relevant agencies briefed as appropriate in
relation to these matters and others described in Note 28 on an ongoing basis.
The outcome of legal, competition and regulatory matters, both those to which the Group is currently exposed and any others which may arise in
the future, is difficult to predict. However, in connection with such matters the Group may incur significant expense, regardless of the ultimate
outcome, and any such matters could expose the Group to any of the following outcomes: substantial monetary damages, settlements and/or
fines; remediation of affected customers and clients; other penalties and injunctive relief; additional litigation; criminal prosecution in certain
circumstances; the loss of any existing agreed protection from prosecution; regulatory restrictions on the Group’s business operations including the
withdrawal of authorisations; increased regulatory compliance requirements; suspension of operations; public reprimands; loss of significant assets
or business; a negative effect on the Group’s reputation; loss of confidence by investors, counterparties, clients and/or customers; risk of credit
rating agency downgrades; potential negative impact of the availability and/or cost of funding and liquidity; and/or dismissal or resignation of key
individuals. In light of the uncertainties involved in legal, competition and regulatory matters, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a
particular matter or matters will not be material to the Group’s results of operations or cash flow for a particular period, depending on, among other
things, the amount of the loss resulting from the matter(s) and the amount of income otherwise reported for the period.
In January 2017, Barclays PLC was sentenced to serve three years of probation from the date of the sentencing order in accordance with the terms
of its May 2015 plea agreement with the DOJ. During the term of probation Barclays PLC must, among other things, (i) commit no crime
whatsoever in violation of the federal laws of the US, (ii) implement and continue to implement a compliance program designed to prevent and
detect the conduct that gave rise to the plea agreement and (iii) strengthen its compliance and internal controls as required by relevant regulatory
or enforcement agencies. Potential consequences of breaching the plea agreement include the imposition of additional terms and conditions on the
Group, an extension of the agreement, or the criminal prosecution of Group entities, which could, in turn, entail further financial penalties and
collateral consequences and have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, operating results or financial position.
There is also a risk that the outcome of any legal, competition or regulatory matters in which the Group is involved may give rise to changes in law
or regulation as part of a wider response by relevant law makers and regulators. A decision in any matter, either against the Group or another
financial institution facing similar claims, could lead to further claims against the Group.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 61
Risk review
Principal Risk management
Market risk management
Market risk (audited)
The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the firm’s assets and liabilities from fluctuation in
market variables including, but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices, credit
spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
Overview
Market risk arises primarily as a result of client facilitation in wholesale markets, involving market-making activities, risk management solutions and
execution of syndications. Upon execution of a trade with a client, the Group will look to hedge against the risk of the trade moving in an adverse
direction. Mismatches between client transactions and hedges result in market risk due to changes in asset prices.
Organisation and structure
Market risk in the businesses resides primarily in Barclays International and Group Treasury. These businesses have the mandate to incur market
risk. Market risk oversight and challenge is provided by business Committees and Group Committees, including the Market Risk Committee.
Roles and responsibilities
The objectives of market risk management are to:
 understand and control market risk by robust measurement, limit setting, reporting and oversight
 facilitate business growth within a controlled and transparent risk management framework
 control market risk in the businesses according to the allocated appetite
To meet the above objectives, a well established governance structure is in place to manage these risks consistent with the ERMF. See page 52 on
risk management strategy, governance and risk culture.
The BRC recommends market risk appetite to the Board for their approval. The Market Risk Principal Risk Lead (PR Lead) is responsible for the
Market Risk Control Framework and, under delegated authority from the Group CRO, agrees with the Business CROs a limit framework within the
context of the approved market risk appetite.
The Market Risk Committee approves and makes recommendations concerning the Group-wide market risk profile. This includes overseeing the
operation of the Market Risk Framework and associated standards and policies; reviewing arising market or regulatory issues, limits and utilisation;
and risk appetite levels to the Board. The Committee is chaired by the PR Lead and attendees include the business heads of market risk, business
aligned market risk managers and Internal Audit.
The head of each business is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities, while the head of the market risk team covering each
business is responsible for implementing the risk control framework for market risk.
More information on market risk management can be found in Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.
Management Value at Risk
 estimates the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements, over one day for a given confidence level
 differs from the Regulatory value at risk (VaR) used for capital purposes in scope, confidence level and horizon
 backtesting is performed to test the model is fit for purpose.
VaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one
business day. For internal market risk management purposes, a historical simulation methodology with a two-year equally weighted historical
period, at the 95% confidence level is used for all trading books and some banking books.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 64
Risk review
Risk management
Treasury and capital risk management
Liquidity risk management (audited)
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Group in retaining the confidence of the financial markets and maintaining that the
business is sustainable. There is a control framework in place for managing liquidity risk and this is designed to meet the following objectives:
 To maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount and quality and a funding profile that is appropriate to meet the liquidity risk appetite
as expressed by the Board
 To maintain market confidence in the Group’s name.
This is achieved via a combination of policy formation, review and governance, analysis, stress testing, limit setting and monitoring. Together, these
meet internal and regulatory requirements.
Roles and responsibilities
The Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for the management and governance of the liquidity risk mandate defined by the Board and
the production of ILAAPs. Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing liquidity risk within the set risk appetite. The CRO for treasury and
capital risk reports to the Group CRO.
Barclays’ comprehensive control framework for managing the Group’s liquidity risk is designed to deliver the appropriate term and structure of
funding consistent with the Liquidity Risk Appetite (LRA) set by the Board.
The Board sets the LRA based on the internal liquidity risk model and external regulatory requirements namely the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR).
The LRA is represented as the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives and in meeting its regulatory
obligations. The approved LRA is implemented in line with the control framework and policy for liquidity risk.
The control framework incorporates a range of ongoing business management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Group’s balance sheet and
contingent liabilities and the Recovery Plan. Limit setting and transfer pricing are tools that are designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken
and drive the appropriate mix of funds. Together, these tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet the
Group’s obligations as they fall due. The control framework is subject to internal conformance testing and internal audit review.
The liquidity stress tests assess the potential contractual and contingent stress outflows under a range of scenarios, which are then used to
determine the size of the liquidity pool that is immediately available to meet anticipated outflows if a stress occurs.
The Group maintains a range of management actions for use in a liquidity stress, these are documented in the Group Recovery Plan. Since the
precise nature of any stress event cannot be known in advance, the actions are designed to be flexible to the nature and severity of the stress event
and provide a menu of options that can be drawn upon as required. The Barclays Group Recovery Plan also contains more severe recovery options
to generate additional liquidity in order to facilitate recovery in a severe stress. Any stress event would be regularly monitored and reviewed using
key management information by key Treasury, Risk and business representatives.
Capital risk management (audited)
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management of the capital position, regular stress testing and a robust capital
governance framework.
Roles and responsibilities
The management of capital risk is integral to the Group’s approach to financial stability and sustainability management, and is embedded in the
way businesses and legal entities operate.
Capital risk management is underpinned by a control framework and policy. The capital management strategy, outlined in the Group and legal
entity capital plans, is developed in alignment with the control framework and policy for capital risk, and is implemented consistently in order to
deliver on the Group’s objectives.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 67
Risk review
Principal Risk management
Operational risk management
Operational risk comprises a number of specific risks defined as follow:
 Data Management and Information Risk: The risk that Barclays information is not captured, retained, used or protected in accordance with its
value and legal and regulatory requirements.
 Financial Reporting Risk: The risk of a material misstatement or omission within the Group’s external financial, regulatory reporting or internal
management reporting.
 Fraud Risk: The risk of financial loss when an internal or external party acts dishonestly with the intent to obtain an undue benefit, cause a loss
to, or to expose either the Group or its customers and clients to a risk of loss.
 Payments Process Risk: The risk of payments being processed inaccurately, with delays, without appropriate authentication and authorisation.
 People Risk: The risk that Barclays is exposed to by virtue of being an employer (excluding Health and Safety related risk).
 Premises and Security Risk: The risk of interruption to Barclays’ business due to the unavailability of premises and infrastructure as a result of
intentional or accidental damage to premises and moveable assets, physical security breaches and safety and security incidents.
 Supplier Risk: The risk that is introduced to the firm or entity as a consequence of obtaining services or goods from another legal entity as a
result of inadequate selection, inadequate exit and supplier management, resulting in operational, financial, or reputational risk to the bank,
failure of services and/or negative customer impact.
 Tax Risk: The risk of unexpected tax cost in relation to any tax for which Barclays is liable, or of reputational damage on tax matters with key
stakeholders such as tax authorities, regulators, shareholders or the public. Tax cost includes tax, interest or penalties levied by a taxing authority.
 Technology Risk: The risk that comes about due to dependency on technological solutions and is defined as failure to develop, deploy and
maintain technology solutions that are stable, reliable and deliver what the business needs.
 Transaction Operations Risk: The risk of Customer/Client or Bank detriment due to unintentional error and/or failure in the end-to-end process
of initiation, processing and fulfilment of an interaction between a Customer/Client and the Bank with an underlying financial instrument (e.g.
mortgage, derivative product, trade product etc.).
These risks may result in financial and/or non-financial impacts including legal/regulatory breaches or reputational damages.
Roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and compliance with control requirements rests with the business and functional
units where the risk arises. The operational risk profile and control environment is reviewed by business management through specific meetings
which cover governance, risk and control. Businesses are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an event-driven basis. The
reports include a profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of key controls,
operational risk events and a review of scenarios.
The Group Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Operational Risk
Management Framework and for overseeing the portfolio of operational risk across the Group.
Operational Risk Management (ORM) acts in a second line of defence capacity, and is responsible for defining and overseeing the implementation
of the framework and monitoring Barclays operational risk profile. ORM alerts management when risk levels exceed acceptable ranges or risk
appetite in order to drive timely decision making and actions by the first line of defence. Through attendance at Business Risk Committee meetings,
ORM provide specific risk input into the issues highlighted and the overall risk profile of the business. Operational risk issues escalated from these
meetings are considered through the second line of defence review meetings. Depending on their nature, the outputs of these meetings are
presented to the BRC or the BAC.
For further information on operational risk management, Risk and Control Self-assessments and risk scenarios, please refer to the operational risk
management section on pages 170 to 173 in Barclays PLC Pillar 3 Report 2017.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 70
Risk review
Principal Risk management
Model risk management
Model risk
The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused
model outputs and reports.
Overview
Barclays uses models to support a broad range of activities, including informing business decisions and strategies, measuring and limiting risk,
valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, managing client assets, and meeting reporting requirements.
Since models are imperfect and incomplete representations of reality, they may be subject to errors affecting the accuracy of their output. Model
errors can result in inappropriate business decisions being made, financial loss, regulatory risk, reputational risk and/or inadequate capital
reporting. Models may also be misused, for instance applied to products that they were not intended for, or not adjusted, where fundamental
changes to their environment would justify re-evaluating their core assumptions. Errors and misuse are the primary sources of model risk.
Robust model risk management is crucial to assessing and managing model risk within a defined risk appetite. Strong model risk culture,
appropriate technology environment, and adequate focus on understanding and resolving model limitations are crucial components.
Organisation and structure
Barclays allocates substantial resources to identify and record models and their usage, document and monitor the performance of models, validate
models and adequately address model limitations. Barclays manages model risk as an enterprise level risk similar to other Principal Risks.
Barclays has a dedicated Model Risk Management (MRM) function that consists of two main units: the Independent Validation Unit (IVU),
responsible for model validation and approval, and Model Governance and Controls (MGC), covering model risk governance, controls and
reporting, including ownership of model risk policy and the model inventory.
The model risk management framework consists of the model risk policy and standards. The policy prescribes group-wide, end-to-end
requirements for the identification, measurement and management of model risk, covering model documentation, development, implementation,
monitoring, annual review, independent validation and approval, change and reporting processes. The policy is supported by global standards
covering model inventory, documentation, validation, complexity and materiality, testing and monitoring, overlays, risk appetite, as well as vendor
models and stress testing challenger models.
Barclays is continuously enhancing model risk management. The function reports to the Group CRO and operates a global framework.
Implementation of best practice standards is a central objective of the Group. Model risk reporting flows to senior management as depicted below:
Roles and responsibilities
The key model risk management activities include:
 Correctly identifying models across all relevant areas of the firm, and recording models in the Group Models Database (GMD), the Group-wide
model inventory. The heads of the relevant model ownership areas (typically, the Business Chief Risk Officers, Business Chief Executive Officers,
the Treasurer, the Chief Financial Officer, etc.) annually attest to the completeness and accuracy of the model inventory. MGC undertakes regular
conformance reviews on the model inventory.
 Enforcing that every model has a model owner who is accountable for the model. The model owner must sign off models prior to submission to
IVU for validation. The model owner works with the relevant technical teams (model developers, implementation, monitoring, data services,
regulatory) to maintain that the model presented to IVU is and remains fit for purpose.
 Overseeing that every model is subject to validation and approval by IVU, prior to being implemented and on a continual basis. While all models
are reviewed and re-approved for continued use each year, the validation frequency and the level of review and challenge applied by IVU is tailored
to the materiality and complexity of each model. Validation includes a review of the model assumptions, conceptual soundness, data, design,
performance testing, compliance with external requirements if applicable, as well as any limitations, proposed remediation and overlays with
supporting rationale. Material model changes are subject to prioritised validation and approval.
 Defining model risk appetite in terms of risk tolerance, and qualitative metrics which are used to track and report model risk.
 Maintaining specific standards that cover model risk management activities relating to stress testing challenger models, model overlays, vendor
models, and model complexity and materiality.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 71
Risk review
Principal Risk management
Conduct risk management
Conduct risk
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of
financial services, including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.
Overview
The Group defines, manages and mitigates conduct risk with the goal of providing positive customer and client outcomes, protecting market integrity
and promoting effective competition. This includes taking reasonable steps to assure the Group’s culture and strategy are appropriately aligned to
these goals, products and services are reasonably designed and delivered to meet the needs of customers and clients, as well as promoting the fair and
orderly operation of the markets in which the Group does business and that the Group does not commit or facilitate money laundering, terrorist
financing, bribery and corruption or breaches of economic sanctions.
Product Lifecycle, Culture and Strategy and Financial Crime are the risk categories under conduct risk.
Organisation and structure
The governance of conduct risk within Barclays is fulfilled through management Committees and forums operated by the First and Second Lines of
Defence with clear escalation and reporting lines to the Board.
The GRC is the most senior executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays’ management of conduct risk.
Roles and responsibilities
The Conduct Risk Management Framework (CRMF) comprises a number of elements that allow the Group to manage and measure its conduct risk
profile.
Senior Managers have ownership within their areas for managing conduct risk. These individuals have a Statement of Responsibilities identifying the
activities and areas for which they are accountable. The primary responsibility for managing conduct risk and compliance with control requirements
sits with the business where the risk arises. The First Line Business Control Committees provide oversight of controls relating to conduct risk.
The Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide CRMF for overseeing Group-wide
conduct risk management. This includes defining and owning the relevant conduct risk policies and oversight of the implementation of controls
to manage the risk.
Businesses are required to report their conduct risks on both a quarterly and an event-driven basis. The quarterly reports detail conduct risks inherent
within the business strategy and include forward looking horizon scanning analysis as well as backward looking evidence-based indicators from both
internal and external sources.
The Business Unit Risk Committees and the Financial Crime Business Oversight Committees are the primary Second Line governance forums for
oversight of conduct risk profile and implementation of the CRMF. The responsibilities of the Business Unit Risk Committees include approval of the
conduct risk tolerance and the business defined key indicators. Additional responsibilities include the identification and discussion of any emerging
conduct risks exposures which have been identified.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 72
Risk review
Risk performance
Reputation risk
Reputation risk
The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the firm’s integrity and competence by
clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees or the public.
All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
Reputation risk was re-designated as a Principal Risk under Barclays’ Enterprise Risk Management Framework with effect from January 2017.
Reputation risk may arise from any business decision or activity. It may also arise as a result of issues and incidents relevant to other Principal Risks, in
particular other non-financial risks e.g. conduct or operational risk. Reputation risks and issues are identified via regular information gathering from
within the business and from external stakeholders. Some risks and issues are specific to Barclays, while others are also relevant to the banking sector
more generally.
Barclays has set tolerances for reputation risk, which take into account the risks arising from specific events or decisions and longer term strategic
themes. The primary responsibility for managing reputation risk lies with each business and function, where there are processes in place to identify,
assess and manage reputation risks and issues.
There are circumstances, however, where it is necessary to escalate to Group level the evaluation of the reputation risk associated with particular
decisions beyond an individual, business or function. The GRC is the most senior executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the
effectiveness of Barclays’ management of reputation risk.
Summary of performance in the period
Barclays is committed to identifying reputation risks and issues as early as possible and managing them appropriately. Throughout 2017, reputation
risks and issues were overseen by the Board Reputation Committee (RepCo), which reviews the processes and policies by which Barclays identifies and
manages reputation risk.
RepCo reviewed risks raised by the businesses and considered whether management’s proposed actions, for example attaching conditions to proposed
client transactions or increased engagement with impacted stakeholders, were appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively. RepCo also received regular
updates with regard to key reputation risks and issues, including: legacy conduct issues; Barclays’ association with sensitive sectors; cyber and data
security; fraud and scams impacting Barclays customers and the resilience of key Barclays systems and processes.
In 2017, the central reputation management team received 581 referrals from across the businesses (625 referrals in 2016) for consideration. These
referrals covered a variety of sectors including, but not limited to, defence, fossil fuels and mining.
As part of Barclays 2017 Medium Term Planning process, material reputation risks associated with strategic and financial plans were also assessed.
The effectiveness of the supporting governance arrangements and management information, including the impact of other Principal Risks on Barclays’
reputation, were reviewed by the Board and senior management during 2017. Following this, RepCo requested certain refinements to reputation risk
reporting and processes, which are in progress.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 124
Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank PLC
Credit risk management
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
User Access Control Performance Our procedures included:
Management User Access Management key controls are an important
(‘UAM’) component of the General IT Control environment assuring  Assessment of remediation: We inspected selected
only authorised access to the infrastructure, financial activities of the remediation programme to determine
systems and data throughout the Group and Parent. the appropriateness of the remediation and a new
mitigating and compensating detective control
In 2016, controls to detect instances of direct developer implemented in the year.
access to the production environment, were not consistently
implemented and operated throughout the Group and  Control testing: We tested the design and operating
Parent. Also, where inappropriate direct developer access effectiveness of the key controls over User Access
had been identified by compensating controls, there were no Management. This included the new mitigating and
follow up activities performed to determine if and how these compensating control implemented in the year that
access rights were used, potentially resulting in unauthorised identifies inappropriate developer access to production,
changes to the infrastructure and financial systems. the procedures to assess potential use, and the removal
of these access rights.
During 2017 a remediation programme and further
compensating controls were implemented to address  Control reperformance: for a selection of key
inappropriate direct developer access to infrastructure and automated and technology dependent controls, that
financial systems, including an assessment of potential were tested before the remediation programme
access by developers that were not covered by the further concluded, we independently reperformed procedures
compensating controls. to determine that these controls remained unchanged
or were changed following the standard change
If the above controls for User Access Management are management process throughout the year.
deficient and are not remediated or adequately mitigated the
pervasive nature of these key controls may undermine our  Extended scope: To determine that a further detective
ability to place some reliance on fully automated and IT compensating control and retrospective scan of
dependent controls in our audit. developer activities on key IT applications was complete
and accurate, we reperformed on a sample basis
management’s assessment of potential access by
developers that were not covered by the further
compensating control.
Our results:
Our testing did not identify developers who had access
and used the access without authorisation that would
have required us to expand the extent of our planned
detailed testing.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Materiality
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £225 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before
tax from continuing operations, normalised to exclude charges related to litigation and conduct as disclosed in note 2, of £4,372 million, of which it
represents 5.1%.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at £225 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of net
assets, of which it represents 0.4%.
We agreed to report to the Board Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £11 million, in addition to
other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report 159
Notes
Barclays Bank PLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Barclays PLC. The term ‘Barclays PLC
Group’ or the ‘Group’ means Barclays PLC together with its subsidiaries and the term
‘Barclays Bank PLC Group’ or ‘The Group’ means Barclays Bank PLC together with its
subsidiaries. ‘Barclays’ and ‘Group’ are terms which are used to refer to either of the
proceeding Groups when the subject matter is identical. The term ‘Parent Company’ or
‘Parent’ refers to Barclays PLC and the term ‘Bank’ or ‘Company’ refers to Barclays Bank
PLC. Unless otherwise stated, the income statement analysis compares the year ended
31 December 2017 to the corresponding twelve months of 2016 and balance sheet
analysis as at 31 December 2017 with comparatives relating to 31 December 2016. The
abbreviations ‘£m’ and ‘£bn’ represent millions and thousands of millions of Pounds
Sterling respectively; the abbreviations ‘$m’ and ‘$bn’ represent millions and thousands
of millions of US Dollars respectively; and the abbreviations ‘€m’ and ‘€bn’ represent
millions and thousands of millions of Euros respectively.
There are a number of key judgement areas, for example impairment calculations,
which are based on models and which are subject to ongoing adjustment and
modifications. Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at the given
point in time.
Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under applicable
regulatory guidance or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are explained
in the results glossary that can be accessed at home.barclays/results.
The information in this announcement, which was approved by the Board of Directors
on 21 February 2018, does not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of
Section 434 of the Companies Act 2006. Statutory accounts for the year ended
Positioned for growth, 31 December 2017, which includes certain information required for the Joint Annual
Report on Form 20-F of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC to the US Securities and
sharing and success Exchange Commission (SEC) and which contain an unqualified audit report under
Section 495 of the Companies Act 2006 (which does not make any statements under
Barclays Bank PLC Section 498 of the Companies Act 2006) will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies
Annual Report 2017 in accordance with Section 441 of the Companies Act 2006.
These results will be furnished as a Form 20-F to the SEC as soon as practicable
following their publication. Once furnished with the SEC, copies of the Form 20-F will
also be available from the Barclays Investor Relations website at home.barclays/results
Front cover image
and from the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
Out of Africa, into new territory Barclays is a frequent issuer in the debt capital markets and regularly meets with
After more than 150 years on the continent, the decision to investors via formal road-shows and other ad hoc meetings. Consistent with its usual
sell down Barclays’ investment in Africa was not an easy one. practice, Barclays expects that from time to time over the coming quarter it will meet
But with people like Win Chung and Sophia Aluko working with investors globally to discuss these results and other matters relating to the Group.
hard to ensure a thoughtful separation, we broke new ground
for Barclays in 2017. Non-IFRS performance measures
Barclays’ management believes that the non-IFRS performance measures included in
this document provide valuable information to the readers of the financial statements
as they enable the reader to identify a more consistent basis for comparing the
business’ performance between financial periods, and provide more detail concerning
the elements of performance which the managers of these businesses are most directly
able to influence or are relevant for an assessment of the Group. They also reflect an
important aspect of the way in which operating targets are defined and performance is
monitored by Barclays’ management. However, any non-IFRS performance measures in
this document are not a substitute for IFRS measures and readers should consider the
IFRS measures as well. Refer to the pages 223 to 225 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report
2017 for further information and calculations of non-IFRS performance measures
included throughout this document, and the most directly comparable IFRS measures.
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of
the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Group. Barclays cautions
readers that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that
actual results or other financial condition or performance measures could differ materially
from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking
statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or
current facts. Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as ‘may’, ‘will’,
‘seek’, ‘continue’, ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘projected’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’,
‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘achieve’ or other words of similar meaning. Examples of forward-looking
statements include, among others, statements or guidance regarding or relating to the
Group’s future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, provisions,
business strategy, structural reform, capital, leverage and other regulatory ratios, payment
of dividends (including dividend payout ratios and expected payment strategies),
projected levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs or
savings, any commitments and targets and the impact of any regulatory deconsolidation
resulting from the sell down of the Group’s interest in Barclays Africa Group Limited,
estimates of capital expenditures and plans and objectives for future operations,
projected employee numbers, IFRS 9 impacts and other statements that are not historical
fact. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because
they relate to future events and circumstances. These may be affected by changes in
legislation, the development of standards and interpretations under International
Financial Reporting Standards including the implementation of IFRS 9, evolving practices
with regard to the interpretation and application of accounting and regulatory standards,
the outcome of current and future legal proceedings and regulatory investigations, future
levels of conduct provisions, the policies and actions of governmental and regulatory
authorities, geopolitical risks and the impact of competition. In addition, factors including
(but not limited to) the following may have an effect: capital, leverage and other
regulatory rules (including with regard to the future structure of the Group) applicable to
past, current and future periods; UK, US, Africa, Eurozone and global macroeconomic and
business conditions; the effects of continued volatility in credit markets; market related
risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates; effects of changes in
valuation of credit market exposures; changes in valuation of issued securities; volatility in
capital markets; changes in credit ratings of any entities within the Group or any
securities issued by such entities; the potential for one or more countries exiting the
Eurozone; the implications of the exercise by the United Kingdom of Article 50 of the
Treaty of Lisbon and the disruption that may result in the UK and globally from the
This Report is printed on Cocoon Preprint made from 100%
withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the success of future
FSC® Recycled certified fibre sourced from de-inked
acquisitions, disposals and other strategic transactions. A number of these influences
post-consumer waste. The printer and the manufacturing mill
and factors are beyond the Group’s control. As a result, the Group’s actual future results,
are both credited with ISO14001 Environmental Management
dividend payments, and capital and leverage ratios may differ materially from the plans,
Systems Standard and both are FSC® certified. By printing this
goals, expectations and guidance set forth in the Group’s forward-looking statements.
publication on Cocoon Preprint, the environmental impact was
Additional risks and factors which may impact the Group’s future financial condition and
reduced by: 4,952 kg of landfill, 732 kg CO and greenhouse
2 performance are identified in our filings with the SEC (including, without limitation, our
gases, 102,989 litres of water, 9,490 kWh of energy and
annual report on form 20-F for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2017), which will be
8,046 kg of wood.
available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
Source: Carbon footprint data evaluated by Labelia Conseil in
Subject to our obligations under the applicable laws and regulations of the United
accordance with the Bilan Carbone methodology. Calculations
Kingdom and the United States in relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we
are based on a comparison between the recycled paper used
undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements,
versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest European
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
BREF data (virgin fibre paper) available.
Registered office: 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP
© Barclays Bank PLC 2018 000000
Registered in England. Registered No: 48839
Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn www.fhflondon.co.uk