Contents
Page
Strategic Report
Performance review 2
Performance measures 5
Managing risk 7
Our people and culture 9
Customers and clients 13
Society 15
Engaging with our stakeholders 17
Climate and sustainability report 19
Governance
Chair’s Introduction 24
Governance Report 26
(including our Corporate Governance Statement)
Directors’ Report 37
Risk review
Risk review contents 41
Risk management strategy 44
Material existing and emerging risks 46
Climate change risk management 59
Principal risk management 63
Risk performance 73
Supervision and regulation 135
Financial statements
Financial statements contents 140
Consolidated financial statements 151
Notes to the financial statements 159
home.barclays/annualreport 1 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Performance review
• Driving technology and digital innovation: We continue to invest in our digital capabilities, upgrading our systems, moving to cloud
technology and implementing automation of manual processes. This is intended to allow us to deliver a more personalised digital
experience, reduce cost and create additional capacity to support more of our customers. It aims to give us the capability to drive
service and improve financial inclusion.
• Continuing to grow our business: We are pursuing partnership and acquisition opportunities to build and deliver better propositions
and services, while continuing to innovate across our Barclays platforms to unlock new and sustainable income streams. In the
unsecured lending space, in particular, we are working with partners such as Avios, to adapt to evolving customer demands as they
look for flexibility, convenience and safety from their lending solutions - driving a shift from overdrafts, towards reward credit cards
and instalment lending.
• Evolving our societal purpose: We are working across the communities in which we serve to support financial inclusion and recognise
our role in supporting the transition towards a low-carbon economy. We are reinventing how we support customers in the community
and also seeking to preserve access to banking for consumers and businesses over the long term.
Year in review
Customer
This year, the UK has seen its fastest increase in inflationary pressure on household budgets in 40 years, and we have focused on making
sure our customers have the support they need to navigate these challenging times. This includes our Money Management Hub, which
provides tools and information directly to our customers, giving them a better grasp of their spending behaviours and the steps they can
take to improve their financial wellbeing. We have been focused on helping customers boost their financial resilience in the long term, by
encouraging healthy saving habits through the launch of our Rainy Day Saver account, as well as providing one-to-one support for
customers experiencing financial hardship through our expert financial assistance teams.
We continue to focus on improving the overall customer experience by identifying and supporting the removal of the root causes of
customer complaints. Complaints in 2022 have further reduced, with volumes decreasing 17% year on year excluding PPI complaints, or
decreasing 18% when looking at total complaints. This has been achieved through the continued stability of our platforms, alongside
regular and direct communications with customers during times of change, particularly in relation to our service model. We have seen
acute pressures in areas impacted by economic events, such as an increase in complaints related to mortgages as customers rushed to find
the right rates for them in light of Bank of England base rate changes.
The Net Promoter Score (NPS) for Barclays UK, the Barclays PLC segment, was relatively stable throughout 2022 at +11. This reflects the
returning capability to service our customers after previous declines during the pandemic. However, we recognise that we need to continue
to push forward our initiatives to drive further improvements in customer experience, including improving and expanding our digital
journeys. Barclaycard UK NPS continued to trend upwards throughout 2022 to +12, in line with the market, as usage and availability of
credit became more important to customers.
Supporting vulnerable customers across all of our Barclays channels remains a key focus. We have trained over 16,000 frontline colleagues
to better recognise the subtle signs of vulnerability when speaking to customers who might need additional support, and are encouraging
them to allow us to put an indicator on their banking records to ensure that Barclays, holistically, understands their needs and can better
serve them across all their touchpoints as a result. Whilst we have made great progress, we have more to do to embed this with colleagues,
including further training and support materials.
We have delivered a regular programme of customer education on fraud, scams and mules alongside our new 'Scan for a Scam' campaign,
leveraging social media and influencers to ensure as broad a reach as possible. We have also invested in upskilling and educating
colleagues across economic crime, and as a result, complaints relating to fraud, scams and mules have reduced by 17% versus 2021.
Access to banking services
We continue to evolve our physical service model, expanding Barclays Local - an alternative branch presence for those who need in-person
support - which includes mobile banking vans and pop-up banking sites in community centres, libraries and business hubs. This
transformation reflects the reality of the rapid digitisation of transactional banking, as customers demand more convenient, simpler ways
to bank that fit their lives. These new formats seek to ensure we leave no-one behind and remain available, in person, to support the small
proportion of customers unable to self-serve digitally, who value physical presence when things go wrong or to support them through
vulnerability.
As part of the changes to our physical branches, we are working to ensure that customers who rely on cash can still access it and get the
support they need. Barclays is one of the driving forces behind the Cash Action Working Group (CAG), working with industry banks and
consumer groups, the Post Office and LINK, in an agreement on shared services such as banking hubs, helping to ensure long-term cash
availability across the UK. We also rolled out a new Cashback Without Purchase service, in partnership with Barclaycard Payments, creating
thousands of new locations for consumers to withdraw cash from shops, cafes, restaurants and other small businesses for free. We
anticipate that it will also help local community cash recycling and boost business footfall.
Digital innovation
We continue to invest in smarter technologies to improve the customer and colleague experience, particularly for our digital journeys. For
example, our mortgage customers can now manage their mortgage through the Barclays app, including switching onto a new rate up to
180 days before their current rate expires, and have the ability to apply for additional borrowing. This provides customers with greater
choice of channel, and avoids the need for an appointment to be made when advice is not required. In 2022, our active mobile customers
grew to 10.5 million and we hit a record of 15.4 million logins in a single day, demonstrating the impact of going digital-first.
home.barclays/annualreport 3 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Performance review
Sustainability
We are working to reduce our own emissions at Barclays and have recently introduced our first fully electric mobile banking van. Vans are
just one of the ways Barclays provides an accessible in-person service, supporting customers in remote and rural locations, as well as
growing our business in strategic locations. Since launching our first van in August 2020, we’ve supported c.9,500 customers across 238
locations such as hospitals, schools, markets and retail parks. We are at the start of this journey, introducing another six electric mobile
banking vans in early 2023, as part of our ambition to transform our entire existing fleet of vehicles in the UK to electric by 2025.
This year we expanded our green mortgages proposition to support the transition to a low-carbon economy, launching the Barclays Green
Home Buy-to-Let Mortgage product. We also launched a Greener Home Rewards pilot, providing eligible UK mortgage customers with
cash rewards when retrofitting their homes, for example, when installing double or triple glazing, solar panels or insulation. For our
business customers, we continued to develop our partnership with Propel, helping to provide financing for businesses wanting to invest in
renewable assets. To support this, in 2022, we launched a reduced interest rate proposition incentivising the purchase of electric vehicles.
Growing our business
We continued to unlock new and sustainable sources of income which also provide innovative propositions for our customers. We have
reached an agreement to acquire Kensington Mortgage Company, a specialist mortgage lending platform focused on providing mortgages
via brokers to customers with complex incomes, together with a portfolio of UK mortgages. Regulatory approval has been obtained and the
transaction is now expected to complete in Q123. This will complement our existing residential mortgage offerings and give us the chance
to support even more customers. Within our unsecured lending proposition, we are also working with partners to provide differentiated
solutions for our customers, helping them make the most of their day-to-day spending, including launching two new co-branded credit
cards this year in partnership with Avios.
Looking ahead
Our aim remains putting customers and clients at the heart of the decisions we make, helping to ensure good customer outcomes for every
customer and client. We are continuing to adapt our service model for customers, creating a more efficient, more resilient and seamless
service at a pace that suits our customers' expectations. We’re also investing significantly in growing our financial assistance teams, to be
on hand should customers and businesses run into some form of financial difficulty and need specialist support.
More interactions are moving to digital and virtual channels, with customers demanding better digital services and fewer customers using
our branch network. Where traditional branches may have been the most appropriate point of engagement in the past, we are looking to
increase the range of more flexible options for our customers; delivering human support for those customers who are digitally less
confident.
This will continue to include physical branches, complemented with flexible banking pop-ups in community spaces, banking pods and
mobile banking vans. We continue to ensure greater accessibility of cash in local and remote areas through our work with local businesses
and the Post Office.
We are building partnerships in the open market and work across Barclays to deliver additional value for our customers and businesses
through our size and scale, and continue to invest in digital platforms, remove unnecessary processes and costs and aim for a seamless
self-service for customers.
We are acutely aware of increasing consumer expectations on climate and sustainability, and we are committed to supporting our
customers and clients through the transition to a low-carbon economy. We continue to provide products and propositions which support
greener choices.
Measuring success
• Income (2021: £6.5bn, 2022: £7.4bn)
• Operating expenses (2021: £4.7bn, 2022: £4.6bn)
• Profit before tax (2021: £2.2bn, 2022: £2.6bn)
• Return on tangible equity (2021: 17.6%, 2022: 18.7%)
home.barclays/annualreport 4 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Managing risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to internal and external risks as part of its ongoing activities. These risks are managed as part of
our business model.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Within the Barclays Bank UK Group, risks are identified and overseen in accordance with the Enterprise Risk Management Framework
(ERMF), which supports the business in its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture.
The ERMF governs the way in which the Barclays Bank UK Group identifies and manages its risks. The ERMF is approved by the Barclays
PLC Board on the recommendation of the Barclays Group Chief Risk Officer; it is then adopted by the Barclays Bank UK Group with minor
modifications where needed.
The management of risk is then embedded into each level of the business, with all colleagues being responsible for identifying and
controlling risk.
Given the increasing risks associated with climate change, and to support the Barclays Group’s ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050,
climate risk became a Principal Risk at the start of 2022.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite defines the level of risk we are prepared to accept across the different risk types, taking into consideration varying levels of
financial and operational stress. Risk appetite is key to our decision-making processes, including ongoing business planning and setting of
strategy, new product approvals and business change initiatives.
The Barclays Bank UK Group may choose to adopt a lower risk appetite than allocated to it by the Barclays Group.
Three lines of defence
The first line of defence is comprised of the revenue-generating and client-facing areas, along with all associated support functions,
including Finance, Treasury, Human Resources and Operations and Technology. The first line identifies the risks, sets the controls and
escalates risk events to the second line of defence. Employees in the first line have primary responsibility for their risks and their activities
are subject to oversight from the relevant parts of the second and third lines.
The second line of defence is made up of Risk and Compliance and oversees the first line by setting limits, rules and constraints on their
operations, consistent with the risk appetite.
The third line of defence is comprised of Internal Audit, providing independent assurance to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board and the
Barclays Bank UK PLC Executive Committee on the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control over current, systemic and
evolving risks.
The Legal function provides support to all areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group and is not formally part of any of the three lines of defence.
The Legal function is responsible for the identification of all legal and regulatory risks. Except in relation to the legal advice it provides or
procures, it is subject to second line oversight with respect to its own operational and conduct risks, as well as with respect to the legal and
regulatory risks to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed.
Monitoring the risk profile
Together with a strong governance process, using business and the Barclays Group level Risk Committees as well as Board level forums,
the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board receives regular information in respect of the risk profile of the Barclays Bank UK Group. Information
received includes measures of risk profile against risk appetite as well as the identification of new and emerging risks, which are derived by
mapping risk drivers, identified through horizon scanning, to risk themes, and similar analysis.
During 2022, the Barclays Group, including Barclays UK, ran a stress test to assess its capital adequacy and resilience under a severe but
plausible macroeconomic scenario. The internal stress test was informed by the Bank of England 2022 regulatory stress test featuring high
and persistent inflation, rising global interest rates, a severe UK recession brought by falling household real incomes, job losses leading to a
high unemployment rate, energy and cost of goods shocks, increasing corporate defaults, and severe house and real estate price shocks.
We believe that our structure and governance supports us in managing risk in the changing economic, political and market environments.
For further detailed analysis of approach to risk management and risk performance see the full Risk review on pages 41 to 139.
home.barclays/annualreport 7 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Managing risk
The Enterprise Risk Management Framework defines nine Principal Risks
Risks are classified into Principal Risks, as below How risks are managed
Credit Risk The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the Credit risk teams identify, evaluate, sanction, limit and
failure of clients, customers or counterparties (including monitor various forms of credit exposure, individually
sovereigns), to fully honour their obligations to the Barclays and in aggregate.
Bank UK Group, including the whole and timely payment of
principal, interest, collateral and other receivables.
Market Risk The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the A range of complementary approaches to identify and
value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and liabilities evaluate market risk are used to capture exposure to
from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited market risk. These are measured, limited and monitored
to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity by market risk specialists.
prices, credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset
correlations.
Treasury Liquidity Risk: Treasury and capital risk is identified and managed by
and Capital The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to meet its specialists in Capital Planning, Liquidity, Asset and
Risk contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have Liability Management and Market Risk. A range of
the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding approaches are used appropriate to the risk, such as
and liquidity to support its assets. limits; plan monitoring; and stress testing.
Capital Risk:
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an insufficient
level or composition of capital to support its normal business
activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements
under normal operating environments and stressed
conditions (both actual and as defined for internal planning or
regulatory testing purposes). This also includes the risk from
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s pension plans.
Interest Rate Risk in the banking book:
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital
or income volatility because of a mismatch between the
interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and
liabilities.
Climate Risk The impact on Financial and Operational Risks arising from The Barclays Group assesses and manages its climate
climate change through physical risks, risks associated with risk across its businesses and functions in line with its
transitioning to a lower carbon economy and connected risks net zero ambition by monitoring exposure to elevated
arising as a result of second order impacts on portfolios of risk sectors, conducting scenario analysis and risk
these two drivers. assessments for key portfolios. Climate risk controls are
Principal
embedded across the Financial and Operational
Risk
Principal Risk types through the Barclays Group’s
Frameworks, Policies and Standards (which apply to the
Barclays Bank UK Group).
Operational The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from The Barclays Bank UK Group assesses and manages its
Risk inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or operational risk and control environment across its
due to external events (for example fraud) where the root businesses and functions with a view to maintaining an
cause is not due to credit or market risks. acceptable level of residual risk.
Model Risk The potential for adverse consequences from decisions based Models are evaluated for approval prior to
on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. implementation, and on an ongoing basis.
Conduct The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, clients The Conduct Risk Management Framework (CRMF) sets
Risk and markets, arising from the delivery of the Barclays Bank UK out the control objectives and minimum control
Group’s products and services. requirements which must be implemented to manage
conduct risk.
A selection of tools is mandated in the CRMF and
Barclays Control Framework to support with the
assessment of Conduct Risks, whilst the governance of
Conduct Risk is fulfilled through management
committees and forums with clear escalation and
reporting lines to Board-level committees
Reputation The risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, Reputation risk is managed by embedding our purpose
Risk decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the and values, and maintaining a controlled culture within
Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence. the Barclays Bank UK Group, with the objective of acting
with integrity, enabling strong and trusted relationships
to be built with customers and clients, colleagues and
broader society. Each business assesses reputation risk
using standardised tools and the governance is fulfilled
through management committees and forums, clear
escalation and reporting lines to the Barclays Bank UK
Group Board.
Legal Risk The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or Legal risk is managed by the identification of legal risks
fines from the failure of the Barclays Bank UK Group to by the Legal Function, the engagement of the Legal
meet its legal obligations, including regulatory or Function in situations that have the potential for legal
contractual requirements. risk, and the escalation of legal risk as necessary.
Note
The ERMF defines nine Principal Risks. For further information on the how these Principal Risks apply specifically to Barclays Bank UK Group, please see pages
59 to 69.
home.barclays/annualreport 8 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Our people and culture
The following sub-sections include a summary of the Barclays Bank UK PLC specific items from the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2022. For
full details, refer to the Our people and culture section of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2022. Figures mentioned are for the Barclays
Group, other than where specifically mentioned.
Empowering our colleagues
Our people and our culture are our greatest assets. We are committed to making Barclays a great place to work, enabling colleagues to
deliver strong results for our customers, clients, communities and each other, by acting in line with our Mindset.
During 2022, we continued to embed the Barclays Mindset, helped colleagues to adapt to hybrid working, supported colleague wellbeing
and made further progress against our diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) ambitions. Through our colleague listening survey, Your View,
we saw improved scores across all our indices.
Our data-led approach, underpinned by our Wellbeing Index (now in its second year), brings together actionable insights for people
leaders. It also enables curation of content for colleagues that is grounded in clinical evidence to help them better manage their own health.
Ongoing leader-led campaigns are at the forefront of the way we engage with colleagues, with regular expert speaker events chaired by
senior executives. Our ‘Talk Money’ week in the UK challenged the stigma around talking about money, building confidence with financial
management and signposting to free and confidential support. This is complemented by practical resources and guidance offered through
our global Be Well portal, and our Employee Assistance Programme.
In response to increases in living costs experienced by our UK colleagues, we brought forward part of the 2023 pay increase, awarding
35,000 UK-based junior colleagues a £1,200 salary increase effective from August 2022, ahead of our annual salary review. In January
2023, Barclays worked closely with Unite the Union to agree a 2023 UK pay deal which, combined with the August 2022 increases, brought
the total average salary increase for our lowest paid colleagues up to 11%. By doing this we ensured that our minimum rate of pay in the
UK remains well ahead of Living Wage Foundation benchmarks.
Our approach to diversity, equity and inclusion
We launched our refreshed DEI vision and strategy to incorporate ‘equity’ into how we talk about, and take action to progress, our DEI
activities.
Our vision is to strengthen our diverse, equitable and inclusive culture, with a view to attracting and retaining the best talent, building high-
performing teams which generate better outcomes for our customers and clients, whilst also meeting the expectations of our regulators,
Barclays PLC shareholders, and other stakeholders.
We have five strategic priorities: workforce diversity; inclusive and equitable culture; leadership accountability; data transparency and
accountability and optimisation of external relationships. These priorities are underpinned by our guiding principles of accountability,
transparency and engagement. These principles and priorities help us to deliver against our six core agendas - disability, gender, LGBT+,
multicultural, multigenerational and socio-economic.
Workforce diversity
Developing diverse talent pipelines
We are focused on recruiting the best talent and have created, and participated in, dedicated recruitment schemes across our agendas and
regions to increase access to diverse talent, for example, the Barclays Military and Veterans Outreach programme in the UK and US.
Globally, there is training and support available for all hiring managers and interviewers to ensure inclusivity and consistency throughout
the hiring journey. We are an equal opportunities employer and give full and fair consideration to all populations based on their
competencies, strengths and potential.
Additionally, as part of the UK Government Disability Confident scheme, we encourage applications from people with a disability, or a
physical or mental health condition. We require people leaders to give full and fair consideration to those with a disability on the basis of
strengths, potential and ability, both when hiring and managing. We also ensure opportunities for training, career development and
promotion are available to all.
For further information on our work on developing diverse talent pipelines, please visit our DEI website.
Providing tools and support for colleagues to succeed and progress at every stage of their career
We offer multiple development programmes to support the growth of our colleagues, providing them with the opportunities and resources
necessary to strengthen key skills to progress and reach their full potential.
The Black Professionals Resource Group (BPRG) created Ascent, a six-month programme for Analysts in the UK and US, to support the
development of Black colleagues across Barclays and was the first such programme conceived and delivered by a Barclays Employee
Resource Group (ERG). For further information on our development programmes, please visit the Talent Now and for the Future section in
the Barclays PLC Annual Report.
home.barclays/annualreport 9 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Our people and culture
Inclusive and equitable culture
At Barclays, we are committed to building a supportive and inclusive culture. We believe that making our organisation more equitable will
help us to make the most of the different backgrounds, perspectives and experiences of our colleagues, and to better serve our customers
and clients.
As part of our Continuous Listening strategy, we ask colleagues to participate in surveys, providing regular opportunities to feed back on
their experience of working at Barclays. Colleagues are asked to share their feedback on topics ranging from inclusion to wellbeing, and
responses help us to assess progress on our DEI journey and identify areas of focus. To learn more about the 2022 Your View survey
results, please visit the Listening to Our Colleagues section in the Barclays PLC Annual Report.
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)
Colleague networks have long played an important role at Barclays, through creating communities and fostering belonging. More recently,
they have acted as a sounding board for the business, driving a better understanding of the needs of our customers, clients and
communities. With over 24,000 colleagues globally participating in one or more of the ERGs, these colleague-led communities amplify the
unique challenges of diverse groups at Barclays and provide insight into colleague sentiment and experience.
Socio-economic inclusion agenda
To support the launch of the socio-economic agenda, colleagues created the Inspire ERG, which aims to amplify the voices of those who
identify as coming from a lower socio-economic background. Members and allies of the ERG are encouraged to develop their
understanding of how socio-economic status can impact a person’s work and life experiences. Through Inspire, we are also connecting
with schools and universities to remove barriers for people of varied backgrounds to join Barclays.
Pronouns
In 2022, we added two new features to our internal phonebook where colleagues can opt to display their personal pronouns, as well as the
phonetic spelling or audio recording of their name. We also proudly partnered with Microsoft, to pilot a pronoun feature on Microsoft
Teams.
Branch colleagues in the UK are also now able to add their pronouns, as well as markers indicating health conditions and flags denoting
spoken languages, to their name badges. This helps to create a safe space for our trans, non-binary and LGBT+ colleagues, and promotes
inclusivity of diverse nationalities, abilities and backgrounds. We support the sharing of pronouns as a personal choice.
Wellbeing and policies
Prioritising the wellbeing of our colleagues is central to creating productive teams where all individuals feel valued and included. Our
holistic and inclusive perspective requires us to measure wellbeing, using our Wellbeing Index and to educate and empower our colleagues
and leaders to actively manage their health and support that of others. We continue to deploy training which recognises the importance of
mental wellbeing and building a supportive and inclusive culture. We have also partnered with our DEI ERGs and leaders on global
campaigns to normalise conversations about mental health and wellbeing topics. In the UK, Barclays pioneered ‘This is Me’, now in its ninth
year, where individual colleagues talk openly about the challenges they have faced, with the aim of tackling the stigma associated with
mental ill health.
Leadership accountability
Our leadership play an important role in progressing our DEI journey and meeting the rising expectations of colleagues, customers, clients
and communities. Accountable Executives (AEs) from the Barclays Group Executive Committee have been appointed as visible advocates
for the DEI agendas, shaping priorities and delivering against these.
Every colleague continues to have a mandatory inclusion performance objective against which they are assessed as part of their
performance review. The objective encourages inclusive and supportive behaviours that recognise every individual’s background as key
drivers of our Purpose, Values and Mindset.
Data transparency and accountability
Data plays an essential role in delivering our DEI strategy, allowing senior leaders to make informed decisions and track our progress.
In an effort to ensure colleagues’ personal data records are accurate, this year we held another ‘Count Me In’ campaign, inviting colleagues
in the UK and US to review and share their personal details in our HR systems, in line with local privacy laws. Maintaining up to date
personal data records also helps us to develop and update programmes, practices and policies to best support colleagues at every level.
Optimisation of external relationships
We develop relationships with external partners to challenge our thinking, leverage best practices and access diverse pools of talent. Across
the Barclays Group we partner with organisations across all six agendas (disability, gender, LGBT+, multicultural, multigenerational and
socio-economic).
home.barclays/annualreport 10 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Our people and culture
Recognising our colleagues
Over the past year, Barclays and several of our colleagues have been recognised for our efforts to advance diversity, equity and inclusion.
For further details, refer to the Our people and culture section in the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2022.
Talent now and for the future
Talent attraction – now and for the future
Across 2022, demand for talent has remained high, alongside a greater focus from candidates seeking flexible working options and on
wellness and wellbeing. In response, we have pursued opportunities to attract and recruit talent as quickly and efficiently as possible,
including doubling the number of recruiters to support our businesses and the launch of the Onboarding app, giving new joiners and their
people leaders access to information required prior to joining Barclays, including the ability to sign employment contracts via the app.
Barclays was ranked number one in the LinkedIn Top Companies UK 2022 list, for the second year in a row. Based on LinkedIn-owned data,
the list is a resource for jobseekers and career builders to explore open vacancies, enhance their skills and identify companies that invest in
their talent. This was further recognised by the Learning and Performance Institute, where Barclays won a Bronze Learning Leader Award.
Developing our colleagues
We remain committed to our culture of lifelong learning, through a development proposition that supports colleagues at every stage of
their career.
The Barclays Learning Lab is our learning ecosystem. Consisting of Barclays-designed knowledge and skills modules, as well as modules
from external specialists, it provides our colleagues with the development tools needed to support them in their current and future roles.
Colleagues can access a wide range of workshops, split between colleague and people leader development. This is complemented by our
digital content providers, whose content has been mapped against role-specific learning pathways, making it easy for colleagues to
navigate development resources suitable for their needs. The Learning Lab also offers a selection of self-assessment tools, empowering
colleagues to understand their strengths and development areas. These are supported by business-led solutions that encompass
professional and technical resources encouraging colleagues to drive their own development.
People leadership at Barclays is about helping others to achieve their potential. To equip our people leaders with the critical skills and
behaviours to inspire, develop and support their teams today and into the future, we have refreshed our Management Unlocked
programme. The programme provides participants with extensive digital content, as well as our Evolution programme, which supports new
people leaders as they transition into leadership roles.
We also operate three high-potential flagship leadership programmes: The Enterprise Leaders Summit, for Managing Directors; the
Strategic Leaders Programme, for Directors; and Aspire, for Vice Presidents. These programmes aim to build enterprise-wide leadership,
alongside strong people leadership capabilities, helping colleagues tackle people management situations confidently, in line with our Values
and Mindset.
Listening to our colleagues
Listening to colleagues allows us to obtain insights into what we are doing well and areas where we need to focus our attention.
Our biannual all-colleague Your View surveys measure colleague considerations across a breadth of topics including colleague
engagement, organisational culture, including the Mindset and Values, wellbeing, inclusion and working practices and tools. The 2022
survey results indicated good progress for both engagement and our cultural measures. Senior leaders continue to receive and review the
results from these surveys to inform decisions. Results from our surveys and other employee engagement were shared with colleagues and
discussed with the Barclays PLC Board, Barclays Bank UK PLC Board, the Executive Committee and people leaders.
We have also evolved our Continuous Listening strategy, leveraging pulse surveys, as well as additional surveys deployed throughout the
employee lifecycle, to capture insights which help us better understand our culture and improve colleague experience.
The Barclays PLC CEO held a number of engagement sessions with colleagues, including quarterly town halls on financial performance,
listening sessions on flagship talent programmes and Q&A sessions. Other workforce engagement activities have also been carried out by
the Barclays PLC Board, the trading entity Boards and Executive directors to deliver meaningful, regular two-way dialogue with colleagues.
This helps the Barclays PLC Board, and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board, reflect colleague feedback in their decision-making.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board has engaged, and will continue to engage, directly with colleagues and listen to feedback from the annual
Your View surveys. In May 2022, the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board offsite was held in Southampton, where the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board
visited the Barclays Eagle Lab for an immersion session, as well as spending time with colleagues at the local branch and a visit to the
Barclays Flex Van. In September 2022, Barclays Bank UK PLC Board members facilitated networking lunches with multiple colleague
groups. Additionally, two Game Changers events were held in 2022 which members of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board participated in.
Game Changers actively listen to take action and are committed to empowering others to build a better bank through our Barclays
Mindset. The May event focused on #customerobsessed, whilst the November event was focused on #colleagueobsessed. Following the
event, the Barclays Bank UK CEO and members of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board hosted the Build a Better Bank Awards that recognised
inspiring colleagues across a number of categories, including Mindset and Culture. We also keep colleagues updated on the strategy,
home.barclays/annualreport 11 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Society
The following sub-sections include a summary of the Barclays Bank UK PLC specific items from the Barclays PLC 2022 Annual report. For
full details, refer to the Society section of the Barclays PLC 2022 Annual Report.
We believe that we can, and should, make a positive difference for society – globally and locally. We do that through the choices we make
about how we run our business in light of all relevant risk and other factors and through the commitments we make to support our clients
and communities and to champion sustainability for the long-term. We recognise that we are at our best when our clients, customers,
communities, and colleagues all progress.
Our focus on society falls broadly into three categories: Climate, Communities and Suppliers.
Climate
Addressing climate change is an urgent and complex challenge. It requires a fundamental transformation of the global economy.
The financial sector has an important role to play in supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy. At Barclays, we are determined to
play our part in view of our Purpose and relevant business and risk considerations.
In 2020, Barclays announced an ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, across all of our direct and indirect emissions and we committed
to align all of our financing activities with the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement. We made it clear at the time that we would
approach the climate challenge thoughtfully and transparently, engaging with our shareholders and other stakeholders and reporting our
progress.
In doing so, we also recognise the importance of supporting a just transition considering the social risks and opportunities of the transition
and seeking to ensure effective dialogue with affected stakeholders.
See below for further details on Barclays’ climate strategy.
Communities
In the communities in which we operate, Barclays is supporting people to develop the skills and confidence they need to succeed, now and
in the future, and is working to help businesses create jobs. We collaborate with experienced partners, employability experts and
businesses to develop meaningful and innovative programmes that aim to deliver a significant positive impact over the long-term.
Suppliers
As a global institution, we have responsibility for a large supply chain. We engage directly with our suppliers seeking to promote diversity,
equity and inclusion and we work to identify and address modern slavery risks across our operations, supply chain, and customer and
client relationships.
We engage with stakeholders internally and externally to assess our areas of focus against their priorities. That happens through ongoing
conversations, as well as surveys and information requests from investors and ratings agencies. We also monitor closely the relevant ESG
frameworks and reporting guidelines.
Barclays’ climate strategy
Our climate strategy is driven by consideration of all relevant risks and all considerations, as well as our purpose to deploy finance
responsibly to support people and businesses, acting with empathy and integrity, championing innovation and sustainability, for the
common good and the long term.
As noted above, in March 2020, Barclays announced its ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, becoming one of the first banks to do so.
All of our 2030 target-setting includes the integration of 1.5°C aligned scenarios such as the IEA Net Zero 2050 scenario in our financed
emission targets and use of ranges for certain sectors. We have developed a methodology for measuring our financed emissions and
tracking them at a portfolio level against the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement – this methodologya is called BlueTrack™. Barclays’
climate strategy is comprised of three pillars:
1) Achieving net zero operations
Barclays is working to reduce its Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 operational emissions consistent with a 1.5°C aligned pathway and to
counterbalance any residual emissions.
We are committed to achieving net zero operations and have made progress, having sourced 100% renewable electricity for our global real
estate portfolio operations and created a pathway to address our supply chain emissions. We achieved our renewable electricity target
ahead of schedule by matching 100% of our electricity consumption with energy attribute certificates and green tariffs which we consider
to be a transitional solution as we seek to increase the proportion of on-site renewable electricity sources and Power Purchase Agreements.
Note
a.Further details on the methodology can be found on page 86 of the Barclays PLC 2022 Annual Report and in the 2023 BlueTrackTM Whitepaper at:
home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/reporting-and-disclosures/
home.barclays/annualreport 15 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Society
2) Reducing our financed emissions
Barclays is committed to aligning its financing with the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement, consistent with limiting the increase in
global temperatures to 1.5°C.
We are also committed to reducing our financed emissions, those deriving from the activities of the clients that we finance and those
generated in their respective value chains, by advising and supporting them in their own transition to net zero. We have now set 2030
reduction targets across five of the highest-emitting sectors in our portfolio: Energy, Power, Cement, Steel and Automotive Manufacturing
and have assessed the baseline and convergence point for our Residential Real Estate portfolio.
3) Financing the transition
Barclays is helping to provide the green and sustainable finance required to transform the economies, customers and clients we serve.
As a large global financial intermediary, Barclays also has an important role in helping channel investment into new green technologies and
low-carbon infrastructure projects.
After a strategic review of the Group’s capabilities, market demand and growth opportunities, we announced in December 2022, new
targets to:
• Facilitate $1 trillion of Sustainable and Transition Financing between 2023 and the end of 2030a.
• increase investment into global climate tech start-ups to £500m through our Sustainable Impact Capital portfolio by the end of
2027.
Our strategy is underpinned by the way we assess and manage our exposure to climate-related risk. Climate risk became a Principal risk at
Barclays in 2022.
We keep our policies, targets and progress under review in light of the rapidly changing external environment and the need to support
governments and clients in delivering an orderly energy transition and providing energy security.
The trajectory for our clients’ transition to a low-carbon economy is influenced by a number of external factors, including market
developments, technological advancement, the public policy environment, geopolitical developments and regional variations, behavioural
change in society and the scale of change needed to adapt their business models. Client transition pathways will vary, even within the same
sectors and geographies.
Many highly carbon-intensive sectors require finance to transition. Restricting the flow of capital to these sectors could be harmful to the
pace of the transition, limiting the real term impact on global warming. However, we anticipate that companies which are unwilling to
reduce or eliminate their emissions consistent with internationally accepted pathways may find it increasingly difficult to access financing,
including through Barclays.
Over the coming years, our strategy will continue to evolve and adapt to reflect external factors affecting the shape and timing of the
transition to a low-carbon economy, similar to those impacting our clients' transitions. Progress is likely to vary year to year and we need to
be able to adapt our approach to respond to external circumstances and to manage the effectiveness and impact of our support for the
transition, whilst remaining focused on our ambition of becoming a net zero bank by 2050.
For details of how Barclays Bank UK Group is implementing Barclays’ climate strategy, please see the Climate and Sustainability Report
below at page 19.
Note
a.Financing of climate and environmental solutions including green mortgages, energy efficient technology and renewable energy, as well as financing for
broader social and sustainability work, will all count towards the target. See Barclays' Sustainable Finance Framework (https://home.barclays/content/dam/
home-barclays/documents/citizenship/ESG/2022/Barclays-Sustainable-Finance-Framework.pdf) for further details of the eligible transactions.
home.barclays/annualreport 16 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Engaging with our stakeholders
Section 172(1) Statement
How the Board has regard to the views of our stakeholders
The Directors have acted in the way that they considered, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for
the benefit of its member and this section forms our Section 172 disclosure, describing how, in doing so, the Directors considered the
matters set out in Section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006.
For further details on the principal activities of the Board during 2022, please refer to our Governance Report on pages 26 to 36. Details of
how the Barclays Group engages with its stakeholders can be found on pages 16 to 22 of the Barclays PLC 2022 Annual Report and are
incorporated by reference into this Statement.
How does the Board engage with stakeholders?
Throughout the year, the Board engages directly and indirectly with stakeholders to ensure it has a comprehensive understanding of the
impact of the Group's operations on key stakeholders, as well as their interests and views. This engagement, both directly and through
regular reports from individual business areas and key functions, ensures the Board is well-versed on key issues to enable the Directors to
comply with their legal duty under Section 172(1).
Engagement in action
See below to find out about how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172 when discharging their duties, and the
effect of those considerations in reaching certain decisions taken by them in the context of how we have supported our customers, clients,
colleagues and communities during these challenging times.
Supporting our customers, clients, colleagues and communities during these challenging times
During 2022, against a challenging economic and political backdrop both in the UK and overseas, the Directors considered matters relevant
to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy at every scheduled Board meeting. Specifically, the Board has been acutely aware of how the
rising cost of living is impacting our customers’ and clients’ financial wellbeing, and recognises the important part that banks have to play
in this scenario. The outcomes of detailed discussions between management and the Board about the external environment have been
critical in evolving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy in order to respond to the changes arising from the economic, legal, political and
regulatory landscape and, therefore, to support our customers, clients, colleagues and communities during these challenging times. Further
detail on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, including our four focus areas, can be found on pages 2 and 3 of the Strategic Report.
Cost of living
High inflation and increasing interest rates, coupled with rising energy costs, have put strain on our customers in the UK and elsewhere. As
a result, we are seeing almost everyone adapt in some form or another, from changing their spending habits to paying down higher cost
debts. Customers’ and clients’ different needs have been reinforced by analysis of the key drivers underpinning customer metrics, customer
insights, direct feedback from colleagues, and the receipt of regular reports on complaints. The Board understands that a “one size fits all”
approach is not appropriate in the circumstances and has, therefore, overseen the creation of tailored responses for our customers and
clients as part of our broader strategy. This includes early intervention strategies, engaging those customers impacted to increase
awareness of products, tools and support available, and providing expertise and knowledge through our colleagues. Please refer to page 13
of the Strategic Report for more information.
Throughout 2022, the Board - through the Board Risk Committee - has maintained close oversight of the business’ ongoing review of the
Personal Banking and Business Banking portfolios. This review has been carried out in order to identify areas of stress where customers and
clients might be facing financial pressures and the actions taken to support them, balancing our duty to lend responsibly alongside the
need to support customers and clients who might be struggling in the current environment, particularly those who are characterised as
vulnerable.
In monitoring our response to the increased cost of living, we are working with a wide range of stakeholders – including the FCA, the
Government and our peers – to ensure customers and clients are supported during these challenging times. This includes consistent,
industry-wide communications, where appropriate, so that all customers and clients, irrespective of who they bank with, can know what to
expect from their financial services provider. In October, we had the opportunity to discuss the Barclays Bank UK Group’s response to the
rising cost of living with the FCA when the regulator attended one of our Board meetings. We were also able to discuss the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s approach to implementation of the new Consumer Duty, which will set clearer and higher standards of consumer protection
across the financial services sector. The Board is committed to ensuring good customer and client outcomes, and that the Consumer Duty
is demonstrably embedded throughout the organisation.
We are also committed to supporting the financial health of our colleagues and our communities.
In this context, the Board has engaged directly with colleagues, both in person and virtually, inside and outside of the boardroom, including
when joining Employee Resource Group meetings, participating in leadership panel events, reverse mentoring, and through visiting
branches, Eagle Labs and operational sites. The Board has also listened to feedback from colleagues via the bi-annual Your View surveys,
including in relation to colleagues’ financial and personal wellbeing in light of the rising cost of living. Mindful of this, part of the 2023 pay
increase was brought forward, which resulted in 35,000 UK-based junior colleagues being awarded a £1,200 salary increase effective from
August 2022, ahead of the annual salary review. The Board, through the Board Remuneration Committee, continued to have regard to the
impact of the current macroeconomic environment as it reviewed pay during the year-end cycle. In January 2023, Barclays worked closely
with Unite the Union to agree a 2023 UK pay deal which, combined with the August 2022 increases, brought the total average salary
increase for our lowest paid colleagues up to 11%. By doing this, we ensured that our minimum rate of pay in the UK remained ahead of
Living Wage Foundation benchmarks. Further information on the resources and support available to colleagues relating to financial
wellness is available in the 2022 Barclays Fair Pay Report.
home.barclays/annualreport 17 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Climate and Sustainability report
Embedding Barclays’ climate strategy within Barclays Bank UK
The following sub-sections include a summary of the Barclays Bank UK specific items with references to Barclays UK referring to the
businesses of Barclays Bank UK PLC and its subsidiaries. For full details, refer to the Climate and sustainability Report in the Barclays PLC
2022 Annual Report
Sustainability is a key focus area for Barclays Bank UK. We are actively engaging with our retail and business customers to better
understand the steps they want to take to become more sustainable, and the role that finance can play in that. We are using this insight-led
approach to design and develop sustainable finance solutions that meet the needs of our customers.
We have started embedding environmental considerations and climate risk into product and proposition standards, and we plan to further
embed this into product governance through the New and Amended Product Approval (NAPA) process. We have recruited specialists into
sustainability-focused roles across Barclays UK and we intend to roll out colleague training for the retail bank.
By working collaboratively under a unified strategy across Barclays UK, we aim to further expand our sustainable products and propositions to
meet customers’ needs and support them in seeking to reduce emissions.
Consumer Bank
Green home propositions
Barclays is committed to supporting our customers' transition to a more sustainable way of living; our Green Homes strategy is to deliver
products and propositions to support our customers to take steps to improve the energy efficiency of their homes, switch to low-carbon
heating and reduce their energy consumption. Our focus is on launching initiatives that aim to drive real benefit to society and to the
environment
In 2018, Barclays led the market as one of the first UK lenders to launch a Green Mortgage. Since inception, Barclays UK has lent over
£2.6bn to Green Home mortgage customers with £1.6bn of financing delivered in 2022. In 2022, Barclays expanded Green Home
mortgages to include buy-to-let properties, supporting more customers to purchase an energy efficient new-build home.
In 2022, we launched the Greener Home Reward pilot, offering eligible customers up to £2,000 to improve the energy efficiency of their
homes.
New sector assessed - Residential Real Estate
Estimating our financed emissions
Homes contributed to over 15% of total GHG UK emissions in 2021a, primarily from the use of oil and gas in heating and hot water.
Decarbonising UK homes is a complex challenge that will require widespread engagement and systemic change. In view of these
challenges, we are announcing a convergence point for our UK residential real estate mortgage portfolio of a 40% reduction in CO2e
emissions intensity against a 2022 baseline of 32.9 kgCO2e/m2 (Scopes 1 and 2).
Barclays has estimated the financed emissions and emissions intensity of its UK residential real estate portfolio by integrating the PCAF2
approach into BlueTrackTM. This is the first sector where we are leveraging the well-established approach and data sourcing recommended
by PCAF. Our in scope portfolio consists mostly of Barclays UK residential mortgages, including properties to let. It also includes a smaller
portfolio of mortgages originated by the Private Banking division of Barclays Bank PLCc.
We have selected the Balanced Net Zero (BNZ) scenario developed by the UK's Climate Change Committee (CCC) as a benchmark for this
sector, as it is specific to the UK, independent, developed by a credible institution and aims to achieve net zero emissions for the UK by
2050. In line with this scenario, our portfolio would need to reach an emissions intensity of 19.7kgCOe/m2 by 2030 to be on a path to net
2
zero by 2050, which would be a 40% reduction in emissions intensity from a 2022 baseline.
The transition of the residential real estate sector to net zero depends mostly on external changes and public policy interventions to: steer
the UK energy grid towards renewable electricity; reduce dependence on fossil fuels for home heating; drive retrofitting of existing homes
to promote energy efficiency; and require that new homes are built to a net zero standard.
Without these external changes, Barclays cannot materially decrease the emissions intensity of its mortgage portfolio. Barclays has
therefore chosen to identify the 2030 emissions intensity 'convergence point' and measure our progress towards it, but not to set a formal
target at the current time.
Barclays UK Residential Real Estate ambition
In addition to establishing a convergence point and measuring our progress towards it, we have set an ambition for 50% of homes in our
Barclays UK mortgages book with known EPC rating to have an EPC of C or better by 2030. This will be an important improvement, but it
will not be sufficient to reduce portfolio emissions intensity to the level required under a 1.5°C scenario.
Notes:
a Climate Change Committee 2022 Progress Report to Parliament.
b Our Data Quality scope for the Residential Real Estate sector is 3.7. The PCAF framework provides guidance for a data quality score for each sector to help
institutions rate the reliability of their information. The score ranges from one to five, with one being the highest quality date. For Residential Real Estate, our
Data Quality score is 3.7. Please refer to the BlueTrackTM Whitepaper for further details on how the data quality score is calculated.
c Corporate counterparties such as social housing associations or house builders, mortgages on properties outside of the UK or mortgages originated through
Barclays UK Business Banking have not been included in this sector.
home.barclays/annualreport 19 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Climate and Sustainability report
Our UK mortgages by EPC rating
Barclays UK regularly monitors the Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating of its mortgage portfolio, to support our management of climate risk
and our understanding of the impact of our financing on the environment. In line with our commitment to the improvement in energy efficiency of our
mortgages portfolio, Barclays UK has set an ambition for 50% of homes in its mortgage portfolio with a known EPC to be rated EPC band C or better by
2030. As at the end of Q3 2022, 42.3% were rated EPC C or better (out of homes with a valid EPC, or 27.5% including homes without an EPC).
In 2022, Barclays UK onboarded a third party to provide enhanced EPC matching in addition to a broad suite of climate data for assessing physical and
transition risks in the Barclays UK Mortgages portfolio (owner-occupied and buy to let).
Based on the enhanced EPC matching, as of the end of Q3 2022, a valid EPC rating was available for 65.1%a of our mortgage book by volume
compared to Q3 2021, where we had a valid EPC rating for 55.7% of our mortgage book. There are industry-wide challenges regarding obtaining
greater coverage of EPC ratings as this data is sourced directly from the government EPC register and is released on a quarterly basis.
Drivers of the reduction in emissions in Residential Real Estate
The two most important drivers in the transition to net zero in this sector are the decarbonisation of the UK energy grid and the phasing out
of fossil fuel in domestic heating through the switch to low-carbon heating bringing clean energy to our customers’ homes. This will be
mostly driven by the transition of the energy sector and UK Government policy to drive the decarbonisation of the UK electricity grid and
promote the take up of low-carbon heating,
Barclays can play a role through supporting renewable projects and clients in the Power sector, for example through our BlueTrackTM
targets, our banking activity and Sustainable Impact Capital investments.
Another key driver required to reach net zero in the Residential Real Estate sector is improving the energy efficiency of existing homes,
which includes our customers improving the fabric of their homes and other energy efficiency measures.
Other key contributors to the reduction in emissions intensity of this sector include new homes being built to net zero standard, with low-
carbon energy sources and high energy efficiency rating, and reduction in consumption through changes in behaviour.
As a mortgage lender, we can support our customers making the decision to retrofit their homes, switch to low-carbon heating e.g. heat
pumps and reduce their energy consumption by providing education, financial incentives and partner offers, as well as financing through
our wide range of lending products. However, we expect the overall impact of our actions to be low, given the barriers to retrofitting such
as high upfront costs and low customer demand.
Barclays approach to advocacy in residential real estate
Barclays is also committed to working collaboratively with the UK Government to encourage and inform the development of strategies and
policies to drive more energy-efficient homes and retrofitting, including through industry groups where appropriate, and through our own
engagement with policymakers.
We have recommended that policymakers, in collaboration with the industry, take the following steps:
• increase policy clarity through a national decarbonisation roadmap and retrofitting strategy to create a clear framework for
action.
• introduce measures to build trust and confidence in taking action, such as improved access to practical advice about retrofitting
and installers who are TrustMark accredited.
• long-term funding which will give supply chains confidence to grow.
• Improve accuracy and confidence in EPC Standards as key basis for measuring change.
Business Banking
Business Banking has a dedicated strategy to;
• prepare colleagues by upskilling them on sustainability and client needs
• support clients to understand the case for sustainability and know how to take action
• develop products to finance the transition
• embedding sustainability into the business
Colleague engagement
We have provided training to our Business Banking Relationship Managers and Specialist Client Solutions Team, this is a key limb of the
Business Bank's strategy.
We have expanded our Specialist offering, with an initiative to introduce net zero as a new area of expertise within our Specialist Client
Solutions Team. Colleagues can now refer clients into the team to discuss how the transition to a low-carbon economy can impact their
business. This is intended to extend across all regions in 2023.
Note
a EPC rating metrics calculated based on volume of accounts. Data as of 30 Sept 2022.
home.barclays/annualreport 20 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Climate and Sustainability report
Recognising that our business customers have experienced unprecedented challenges over the last two years, and to support them on their
journey from recovery to growth, in 2022 we launched Barclays Business Health Pledge. Sustainability has been a key theme covered under
this pledge and two masterclasses have been filmed with a sustainability expert, alongside hosting over 50 local Business Health Pledge
events, supporting over 1300 attendees. We have also held a ‘High Growth Live’ panel event on sustainable funding with over 300
attendees.
To recognise the positive impact ESG focused entrepreneurs on the wider economy, we have created a new ‘Sustainability Award’ category
for the Barclays Entrepreneur Awards this year which saw a total of 112 entries across the whole breadth of the UK.
Recognising that Agriculture is a high emitting sector, we have announced a three-year agri-climate partnership with Oxford University on
a project that will establish sector decarbonisation pathways and methodologies for measuring farm-level greenhouse gas emissions. The
partnership is aimed at supporting the sector’s transition to more sustainable practices and will inform financial decision-making.
The outcomes will be shared publicly and we aim to use these to set emissions reduction targets for the agriculture sector, in support of the
bank’s net zero ambition.
We have also created a Dairy & Livestock Forum to consider carbon emissions as part of our lending decisions to livestock farms. The aim is
to drive awareness of clients' emissions and help both colleagues and clients understand and share best practice and practical actions that
can be taken to reduce them. Topics on our ‘Let’s Talk Business’ client podcast this year have also had a strong focus on sustainability.
External engagement
Barclays worked with the Cambridge Institute of Sustainability Leadership (CISL)’s Banking Environment Initiative (BEI) and Business for
Social Responsibility (BSR) on a series of innovation sprints to better address the barriers SMEs face to reach net zero. The sprints produced
a number of potential solutions to drive change and support SME net zero action.
Electric vehicle proposition
In July 2022, we created an initial £20m fund and launched a proposition with Propel Finance, our Asset Finance provider, to offer
competitively priced fixed rate asset finance supporting business clients who are looking to purchase new electric vehicles.
Other ways of embedding climate and sustainability in our business
In 2022, we began issuing recycled cards for our retail credit and debit cards, as well as across our commercial card issuing portfolio. We
have also used new digital journeys in the app and online banking to support an additional 1.8 million customers to become paperless and
reduce their paper waste. We are also switching to a different paper type sourced from an integrated paper mill which has a lower
environmental impact as it uses less energy.
We have launched our first electric mobile banking van to provide a lower emitting way of serving our customers and communities.
Complementary to this, our electric mobile banking colleagues have been trained with a government approved Alternative Fuelled Vehicle
(AFV) driving certification. Additional electric mobile banking vans will be introduced next year, in line with our intention to fully electrify
our mobile banking vans by 2025. As part of our physical network, we are developing ‘Print’ and ‘Energy’ dashboards for our branch
colleagues to provide information about usage and insights to encourage them to reduce the carbon footprint.
Consumer Bank - Barclays UK Sustainability Hub
We launched a Sustainability Hub to engage consumers and provide them information on financial products and services we offer that may
support them in making more sustainable choices. This includes sharing Barclays’ approach to tackling climate change. Given the current
energy crisis and consumer interest in reducing home energy usage, we are engaging customers on this topic by featuring information
about making homes more energy efficient. We are also providing information on moving towards sustainable travel and we aim to focus
on this area, particularly by helping to scale the adoption of electric vehicles across the UK for consumers through partnerships and
propositions. We plan to expand the content on the Sustainability Hub and integrate the content into the Barclays app.
Business Bank Sustainability Hub
The Business Bank’s Sustainability Hub launched this year to support customers as they get started on their sustainability journey, to
understand how they might be impacted and signposting them to support and financing options. It has content and resources on EV’s and
other green assets, as well as customer case studies to help customers explore options that may be right for them.
home.barclays/annualreport 21 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Climate and Sustainability report
Important information / Disclaimers
In preparing the climate and sustainability content within the Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report, we have:
a. made a number of key judgements, estimations and assumptions, and the processes and issues involved are complex. This is for
example the case in relation to financed emissions, portfolio alignment, classification of environmental and social financing,
operational emissions and measurement of climate risk.
b. used ESG and climate data, models and methodologies that we consider to be appropriate and suitable for these purposes as at
the date on which they were deployed. However, these data, models and methodologies are subject to future risks and
uncertainties and may change over time. They are not of the same standard as those available in the context of other financial
information, nor subject to the same or equivalent disclosure standards, historical reference points, benchmarks or globally
accepted accounting principles. There is an inability to rely on historical data as a strong indicator of future trajectories, in the
case of climate change and its evolution. Outputs of models, processed data and methodologies will also be affected by
underlying data quality which can be hard to assess or challenges in accessing data on a timely basis
c. continued (and will continue) to review and develop our approach to data, models and methodologies in line with market
principles and standards as this subject area matures. The data, models and methodologies used and the judgements estimates
or assumptions made are rapidly evolving and this may directly or indirectly affect the metrics, data points and targets contained
in the climate and sustainability content within the Annual Report. Further development of accounting and/or reporting
standards could impact (potentially materially) the performance metrics, data points and targets contained in this report. In
future reports we may present some or all of the information for this reporting period using updated or more granular data or
improved models, methodologies, market practices or standards or recalibrated performance against targets on the basis of
updated data. Such represented, updated or recalibrated information may result in different outcomes than those included in this
section of the Annual Report. It is important for readers and users of this report to be aware that direct like-for-like comparisons
of each piece of information disclosed may not always be possible from one reporting period to another. Where information is
re-presented, recalibrated or updated from time to time, our principles based approach to reporting financial emissions data (see
page 87 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report) sets out when information in respect of a prior year will be identified and explained.
Information provided in climate and sustainability disclosures: What is important to our investors and stakeholders evolves over time and
we aim to anticipate and respond to these changes. Disclosure expectations in relation to climate change and sustainability matters are
particularly fast moving and differ in some ways from more traditional areas of reporting in the level of detail and forward-looking nature of
the information involved and the consideration of impacts on the environment and other persons. We have adapted our approach in
relation to disclosure of such matters. Our disclosures take into account the wider context relevant to these topics, including evolving
stakeholder views, and longer time-frames for assessing potential risks and impacts having regard to international long-term climate and
nature-based policy goals. Our climate and sustainability-related disclosures are subject to more uncertainty than disclosures relating to
other subjects given market challenges in relation to data reliability, consistency and timeliness, and in relation to the use of estimates and
assumptions and the application and development of methodologies. These factors mean disclosures may be amended, updated, and
recalculated in future as market practice and data quality and availability develops.
home.barclays/annualreport 22 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Page
▪ Chair’s Introduction 24
▪ Governance Report
(including our Corporate Governance Statement) 26
▪ Directors’ Report 37
home.barclays/annualreport 23 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Chair’s Introduction
I am pleased to present our Governance Report for 2022.
During 2022, as concerns turned from the COVID-19 pandemic to the macroeconomic environment, events both at home and overseas
reinforced the importance of the Barclays Group Purpose to deploy finance responsibly whilst acting with empathy and integrity. The Board
is acutely aware of how the increasing cost of living is impacting our customers’ and clients’ financial wellbeing, and recognises the
important part that banks have to play in this scenario. We want to offer assurance that we are here to help individuals and businesses
through this challenging time.
Strategy
As previously reported, in 2021, driven by the combination of the pandemic together with the low interest rate environment, the Board
spent a considerable amount of time challenging and contributing to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy. In light of geopolitical and
macroeconomic issues (including increasing interest rates and inflationary pressures), and the fact that the rising cost of living is
prompting changes to people’s behaviours and their spending, the Board re-tested that strategy in 2022 and is comfortable that the
Company’s four focus areas, as detailed on pages 2 and 3 of the Strategic Report, remain appropriate. Of course, the strategy has evolved
to respond to changes arising from the legal, political and regulatory landscape. This year, that included the publication by the FCA of the
final rules and guidance for its new Consumer Duty, which will set clearer and higher standards of consumer protection across the financial
services sector. We are committed to ensuring good customer and client outcomes and that the Consumer Duty is demonstrably
embedded throughout the organisation. With that in mind, we have overseen the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to, and readiness for,
implementation of the Consumer Duty, with enhanced management reporting to be brought to the Board in 2023 in order to ensure that
we are able to evidence and measure customer and client outcomes. The Board will continue to receive regular implementation updates
throughout 2023.
In fact, overseeing the evolution and execution of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy has been a key priority in 2022, with the Board
spending approximately 50% of its time on different aspects of the strategy. This has included briefing sessions and deep dives on
customer strategy, digitalisation, evolving our societal purpose, climate and sustainability, our operating and service models, technology
(including operational resilience) and people matters such as building skills for the future and strategic talent. We were also delighted – as a
result of the easing of COVID-19 restrictions – to take the Board offsite, on two occasions, to hear directly from colleagues, customers and
clients about a variety of topics, including customer and client needs, how digital innovation and technology can play a role in meeting
such needs, how the Barclays Bank UK Group is engaging with local communities, and the role that we are playing in supporting the
transition to a low-carbon economy. We look forward to continuing to engage on these very important topics in the months and years
ahead. For further detail on what the Board did in 2022, please refer to pages 28 and 29. For more information on our role in society and
our sustainable products and propositions, please refer to pages 15 and 16 of the Strategic Report and the Climate and Sustainability
Report on pages 19 to 22.
The successful delivery of the strategy remains dependent on our colleagues and, in particular, the creation of a diverse, equal and inclusive
workforce comprised of individuals with the requisite capabilities and skills who are empowered and motivated to provide exceptional
service. Colleague engagement and retention are also crucial and we believe that the Barclays Mindset and the overarching culture of the
organisation are integral to this. The Board has engaged, and will continue to engage, directly with colleagues and listen to feedback from
the bi-annual Your View surveys so that we can take into account issues of interest to colleagues when decision-making.
To ensure we deliver consistent returns for our shareholder, and in turn Barclays’ investors, we continue to refine our operating model,
identifying efficiencies and putting in place a more cost-effective infrastructure that can adapt to changing customer and client
expectations whilst enabling us to invest for the future and remain competitive. The Board has remained close to the evolution of the
operating model, including the changes to our physical footprint and the increased range of more flexible options that have been made
available in order to better support the customers and clients we serve. We continue to believe that investment in digital innovation and
technology will provide us with the capability to provide a greater range of services to more customers and clients as well as unlocking new
sources of income.
Towards the end of 2022, Barclays established a change programme, alongside the Purpose, Values and Mindset, to ensure that the
Barclays Group is performing at a consistently very high level, day in and day out. Shortly after its launch, we welcomed the Group Chief
Executive to one of our Board meetings to talk to us about the programme. We fully support the principle of holding ourselves to a
standard of consistent excellence in order to leave a strong legacy for the future and will, as a Board, spend time thinking about what this
means for the Barclays Bank UK Group in early 2023.
Risk and control
This year, the Board Risk Committee has once again continued to oversee the risk management aspects of our strategy and its execution,
helping ensure prudential soundness and that customer outcomes are delivered in the right way. In respect of new and emerging risks, the
Committee has monitored the risks associated with the geopolitical and macroeconomic environments (including the implications of the
Russian invasion of Ukraine), received regular reports on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational resilience (including in the context of
upgrading our systems, moving to cloud technology and implementing automation of manual processes), and reviewed risks relating to
acquisitions and strategic projects. This has been supported by the work of the Board Audit Committee, which – in addition to its usual
matters – has monitored the internal control environment and received updates on financial crime activity that impacted the Barclays Bank
UK Group in 2022, including overseeing the Money Laundering Reporting Officer’s report and regulatory correspondence as well as
reviewing key accounting judgements.
Governance matters
As announced by Barclays on 23 January 2023, I will be stepping down from the Board as Chair and Non-Executive Director on 31 May
2023; this will coincide with my retirement as a Barclays Non-Executive Director, having served on that Board for nine years. The Board
Nominations Committee, under the steer of Andrew Ratcliffe, led a formal and rigorous Chair succession process (further detail on which is
set out on pages 30 and 31), appointing Spencer Stuart - a global executive search firm - to lead an external search. The process
home.barclays/annualreport 24 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Training and development
In order to enable the Directors to discharge their responsibilities and undertake their work with due care, ongoing training and
development occurs throughout the year, with sessions on, for example, the Senior Managers Regime and Whistleblowing forming part of
the Board programme. The Directors also participate in briefing sessions and deep dives in order to gain a more granular understanding of
the business which, in turn, contributes to informed and sound decision-making. This year, the focus was - once again - on key areas of the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, including customer strategy, digitalisation, evolving our societal purpose, climate and sustainability, our
operating and service models, technology (including operational resilience), and people matters such as building skills for the future and
strategic talent. In many cases, these topics were brought to life through interactive sessions with colleagues, customers and clients. The
Board will continue to enhance its education and training proposition in 2023.
In order to deepen its knowledge of the Barclays Bank UK Group and stay close to the business, the Board had regular meetings with senior
management during the year and - as a result of the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions - Directors were once again able to visit branches. This
included a couple of Board members participating in the “Walk a Mile in our Colleague’s Shoes” initiative, which involved spending a day in
branch working alongside colleagues and thus gaining invaluable insight into customer needs and colleague perspectives; other Directors
visited Eagle Labs as well as operational and strategic sites. The Board participated in two offsite Board meetings, each of which was held
over a two-day period. The meeting held at Barclays Radbroke campus focused on the digital agenda, talent development and technology
whilst the meeting held at the Network Eagle Lab in Southampton focused on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s societal purpose. The Board
also maintained a strong connection to the business and colleagues by, for example, joining DEI Employee Resource Group meetings,
participating in panel events and roadshows, and reverse mentoring. Further details on what the Board did in 2022, including its
engagement with customers and clients, colleagues, and suppliers, can be found on pages 35 and 38.
All Directors who are new to the Board participate in an extensive induction programme, which is structured around the core components
of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy. Each of the four Directors who joined the Board in 2022 received a personalised induction that
was tailored to their specific experience and knowledge, and which provided access to all parts of the business in order to ensure that they
had sufficient understanding of the nature of the business and the key issues that the Barclays Bank UK Group faces. Those Non-Executive
Directors who joined Board Committees during the year also participated in sessions focused on the operation of the relevant Board
Committee.
Our corporate governance principles and how we applied them in 2022
During the year ended 31 December 2022 and to the date of this report, the Company has continued to apply and has complied with its
own corporate governance arrangements rather than the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code or the Wates Corporate Governance
Principles for Large Private Companies. This is on the basis that the Board believes that our own governance arrangements are the most
appropriate for the Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of a premium listed company which is also a complex financial institution subject
to a comprehensive regulatory regime. This approach is consistent with the approach of other significant subsidiaries in the Barclays Group
which are subject to the Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 (2018 Regs).
The primary aim of our governance arrangements remains as stated in the Company’s 2021 Annual Report, namely that they:
• are effective, in particular to ensure the safety and soundness of the ring-fenced bank
• provide checks and balances and encourage constructive challenge
• drive informed, collaborative and accountable decision-making
• create long-term sustainable value for our shareholder, Barclays, the ultimate shareholders of Barclays and our wider
stakeholders
Set out below is an explanation of how the six principles that underpin our governance arrangements have been applied during 2022.
The Barclays Bank UK Group governance framework is set by Barclays and has been designed to facilitate the effective management of the
Barclays Group. This includes the setting of Barclays Group policies in relation to matters such as the Barclays Group’s Purpose, Values and
Mindset and the Barclays Group Remuneration Policy. Where appropriate, this Corporate Governance Statement makes reference to those
Barclays Group-wide policies which are relevant to the way in which the Company is governed.
home.barclays/annualreport 27 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Principle One: Board Leadership and Company Purpose
A successful company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial Board whose role is to establish the company’s purpose, values and
strategy, aligned to its culture, and make decisions to promote its success for the long-term benefit of its shareholder, having regard to
the interests of other relevant stakeholders and factors.
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Company. The Board’s role involves articulating a clear vision for the Company
based on Barclays’ Purpose, Values and Mindset, and establishing a strategy for both the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group,
supported by a framework of effective controls that are designed to mitigate financial and other risks and to protect the reputation of the
business. This ultimately ensures that the business is able to operate effectively and independently, and is run in a way that promotes the
long term success of the Company thereby creating and delivering sustainable value. For further details on internal control and risk
management, please see pages 31 to 33.
The Board’s role also involves ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and
measure performance against them. The Board receives regular and timely information on all key aspects of the business - including
customers, conduct matters, financial performance, operational matters, strategy, risks and opportunities - supported by key
performance indicators.
What the Board did in 2022
As a matter of course, the Board ensures that the Company is managed in accordance with the ring-fencing legislation and monitors the
ring-fence perimeter of the Barclays Bank UK Group to ensure ongoing compliance with the ring-fencing requirements. In addition to this,
the principal activities of the Board during 2022 included the following:
Strategic and operational matters
▪ Against the backdrop of the macroeconomic environment, overseeing the further evolution of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy
that was first reported in 2020 and reviewing delivery against the same. Further detail on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy,
including its four focus areas, can be found on pages 2 to 3 of the Strategic Report
▪ Receiving updates on the market and operating environment (including but not limited to the cost of living, inflation and interest
rates) and overseeing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s response to the same in relation to the support of customers, clients and
colleagues
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s role in the Barclays Group’s response to the
Russian invasion of Ukraine
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, the agreement to acquire Kensington Mortgage Company
▪ Receiving updates on developments in UK banking (such as the final recommendations arising from the independent panel review of
the operation of the ring-fencing legislation) and the evolving regulatory landscape. This included the FCA’s Consumer Duty in
respect of which the Board oversaw the Barclays Bank UK Group’s response to regulatory consultations on the matter
▪ Continuing to oversee the creation of an inclusive and supportive culture through the continued embedment of the Barclays Group
Purpose, Values and Mindset, and DEI initiatives such as the DEI Employee Resource Groups and the Race at Work Action Plan as well
as reviewing progress against key commitments. Further details can be found on pages 9 to 12 of the Strategic Report
▪ Overseeing colleague engagement via the Your View surveys, which have provided invaluable early insight into the ongoing adoption
of Hybrid working, and receiving updates in respect of colleague wellbeing. Further details can be found on pages 9 to 12 of the
Strategic Report and, separately, on pages 31 to 38 of the Barclays PLC 2022 Annual Report
▪ Overseeing customer, commercial, financial, operational, regulatory and risk matters, with regular updates from the Chief Executive
and Executive Committee members
▪ Overseeing reputational risk matters, including in relation to access to cash and the Barclays Bank UK Group’s physical footprint
▪ Receiving updates on citizenship, societal purpose, climate and sustainability, with the Board continuing to challenge and drive
ambition in relation to the climate and sustainability agenda
Finance (including capital and liquidity)
▪ Discussing and approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Medium Term Plan (MTP), in which strategy is embedded, together with
related funding and capital plans for the Barclays Bank UK Group
▪ Overseeing the financial performance of the Barclays Bank UK Group and its main businesses through regular reports from the Chief
Financial Officer
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Audit Committee, approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s full year and half year financial
statements, and approving the payment of a 2021 full year dividend and the payment of a 2022 half year dividend
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the
Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP)
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, the results of a range of stress tests to assess capital adequacy and
resilience under severe but plausible macroeconomic scenarios
Governance, risk, control and regulatory matters
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the Company’s qualitative and quantitative Risk Appetite
Statements, including the new Climate Risk Appetite Statement, and overseeing risk parameters
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the Barclays Group
Recovery and Resolution Plan and Resolvability Assessment Framework and the conclusions of the annual assessment of ring-fencing
compliance
▪ Approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Consumer Duty implementation plan and, separately, approving the appointment of an
independent Non-Executive Director as the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Consumer Duty Champion
▪ Overseeing key risk matters, including themes and emerging risks, through regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer as well as an
annual report from the Barclays Group Chief Risk Officer in order to better understand the Group risk context
home.barclays/annualreport 28 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
▪ Overseeing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational and technology capacity, including - in conjunction with the Board Risk
Committee - the annual self-assessment of operational resilience (which involved the identification of Important Business Services, as
defined in the relevant regulation, and setting impact tolerances), the new Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Cyber Stress Test as
well as the utilisation of more modern technology platforms
▪ Overseeing the services received from BX through - amongst other reports - an annual update from the BX Chief Executive
▪ Overseeing, with the support of the Board Audit Committee, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s internal controls framework through
regular reports from the Chief Controls Officer
▪ Overseeing, with the support of the Board Nominations Committee, changes to Board and Board Committee composition.
▪ Receiving regular updates from the Chairs of the Board Committees on matters discussed at meetings
▪ In conjunction with the Board Nominations Committee, overseeing the 2022 internal Board, Board Committee and Non-Executive
Director evaluations
Principle Two: Division of Responsibilities
An effective Board requires a clear division of responsibilities with the Chair leading the Board and being responsible for its overall
effectiveness, and the executive leadership of the company’s business being delegated to the Chief Executive. The Board should consist of
an appropriate combination of executive and independent Non-Executive Directors each with a clear understanding of their
accountability and responsibilities. The Board’s policies and procedures should support effective decision-making and independent
challenge.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chair and the Chief Executive. The Chair is responsible for leading the Board and its
overall effectiveness, demonstrating objective judgement and promoting a culture of openness and constructive debate between all
Directors. The Chair also facilitates constructive Board relations and the effective contribution of all Non-Executive Directors, and ensures
Directors receive accurate, clear and timely information. The duties of the Board are executed in part through the Board Committees,
which provide oversight and make recommendations on the matters delegated to them by the Board. The Chair of each Board Committee
provides a report on Board Committee business at each Board meeting, including the matters being recommended for Board approval.
Details on the principal Board Committees and their core responsibilities and activities in 2022 are set out in Principles Three to Five on
pages 29 to 34.
Executive Committee
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to the Chief Executive who is supported by the Company’s
Executive Committee. Executive Committee membership includes the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operations Officer,
Heads of Business Banking, Customer and Wealth Management & Investments, and the leaders of Compliance, Human Resources and
Legal. From 1 January 2023, the Executive Committee will also include the newly appointed Head of Sustainable Finance. The Executive
Committee meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive. The Executive Committee supports the Chief Executive in ensuring that
the values, strategy and culture align, and that those elements are implemented and communicated consistently to colleagues; for
example, quarterly town halls on financial performance, listening sessions on flagship talent programmes and Q&A sessions. Further
details are set out on pages 11 and 12 of the Strategic Report.
Decision-making and conflicts of interest
The Board maintains a formal schedule of powers reserved to it in order to ensure that it has control over key decision-making. These
powers include approval of key appointments, strategy, financial statements and any major acquisitions, mergers or disposals; pursuant
to changes to the Matters Reserved to the Board during the year, the Board also has the power to approve material non-financial matters
impacting the Barclays Bank UK Group including, but not limited to, matters involving material conduct risk and/or reputation risk
considerations as well as significant customer remediation matters and strategic business changes.
There are also policies and procedures in place to support effective decision-making and independent challenge, including the Barclays
Group’s Corporate Governance Operating Manual, which clearly sets out how Barclays Group entities and their respective Boards and
Board Committees should interact and, where appropriate, escalate issues.
For details of how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172(1) of the Act when performing their duty to
promote the success of the Company under Section 172, and the effect of those considerations in reaching certain decisions taken by
them, please refer to the Section 172(1) Statement on pages 17 and 18 of the Strategic Report.
In accordance with the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board has authority to authorise conflicts of interest, and this
ensures that the influence of third parties does not compromise or override the independent judgement of the Board. The Company
Secretary maintains a conflicts register, which is a record of actual and potential conflicts, together with any Board authorisation of the
conflict. Throughout the year, the Board has authorised a number of potential conflicts and, on occasion, put in place appropriate
procedures to manage that potential conflict. Following authorisation, all conflicts - whether actual or potential - are monitored in order
to assist the relevant individuals in discharging their duties as a Director.
Principle Three: Composition, Succession and Evaluation
A Board with the right balance of skills, experience and diversity is critical to the sustainable delivery of value to the company’s
shareholder and broader stakeholders. The size of the Board should be guided by the scale and complexity of the company and
appointments should be based on merit and objective criteria and with a view to promoting diversity and subject to a formal, rigorous and
transparent procedure which is underpinned by an effective succession plan for the Board and senior management. A successful Board is
a cohesive Board that provides informed and constructive challenge to the management team and measures its effectiveness.
home.barclays/annualreport 29 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
As announced by Barclays on 23 January 2023, and referenced in the Chair’s Introduction, Crawford Gillies will be stepping down from the
Board as Chair and Non-Executive Director on 31 May 2023; this will coincide with Crawford’s retirement as a Barclays Non-Executive
Director, having served on that Board for nine years. The Board Nominations Committee, under the steer of Andrew Ratcliffe, led a formal
and rigorous Chair succession process, appointing Spencer Stuart to lead an external search. The process culminated in the Board
Nominations Committee recommending Sir John Kingman’s appointment to the Board, with such appointment being approved by the
Directors in January 2023 subject to regulatory approval. Crawford will remain on the Board until 31 May 2023 in order to ensure an
orderly transition to Sir John, who will join the Board on 1 June 2023. Sir John has a deep background in financial services as a result of his
executive and non-executive career; his experience spans the private and public sector with his former roles including senior positions at
HM Treasury, as the first Chief Executive of UK Financial Investments Ltd and as Global Co-Head of the Financial Institutions Group at
Rothschild. Sir John is currently Chair of Legal & General Group plc, having stepped down as Chair of Tesco Bank on 22 January 2023.
In respect of the Board more generally, in order to ensure that Board composition continues to meet the ongoing needs of the Company
and in line with the Barclays Group’s plans for orderly succession, there were several changes to the Board in 2022. Following various
external Non-Executive Director search exercises led by Spencer Stuart on behalf of the Company, we were pleased to announce the
appointment of four new independent Non-Executive Directors, which increased the overall size of the Board by two (taking into account
in-year retirements). Having assessed the “new” composition and size of the Board, the Directors have confirmed that they consider both
to be appropriate for a large UK retail bank. This assessment is supported by a skills matrix (refreshed annually), which helps the Directors
to evaluate the experience and skills on the Board in order to ensure that there is the necessary expertise and knowledge to support and
challenge management in its execution of the strategy. There is currently a good balance between the Executive Directors and
independent Non-Executive Directors who, together, have a strong combination of financial, retail banking, risk and technical skills as well
as experience in colleague engagement, customer experience, culture, financial regulation, technology and transformation. In particular,
the new appointees to the Board bring significant expertise and insight across a broad range of industries as well as diversity of
experience, gender and thought, which will greatly assist in the drive to support customers and clients in different and new ways and to
grow the business. Overall, the majority of the Board is considered to be independent. Independence is reviewed annually, using the
independence criteria set out in ring-fencing requirements. The Chair meets privately with the Non-Executive Directors, where
appropriate, in order to promote the required independence.
Board succession planning will remain an area of focus in 2023 and beyond in order to ensure that there is the appropriate breadth and
depth of talent on the Board. To the extent that any appointment(s) to the Board are made, such appointment(s) will be based on merit.
Objective criteria are used to ensure that the Board has the necessary knowledge, skills and experience to be effective in the execution of
the strategy whilst recognising the importance of diversity amongst the Directors including, but not limited to, diversity of experience,
gender, ethnicity, geography and thought.
Our ambition, as set out in our Board Diversity Policy (which was revised in May 2022), is to achieve gender parity. However, it is
recognised that, for practical reasons, there will be fluctuations around 50% female representation and 50% male representation on the
Board. The Board acknowledges that although we made good progress towards our gender diversity target in 2022, with 42% female
representation on the Board and 50% female representation amongst the Non-Executive Directors prior to Kathryn Matthews’ retirement,
there remains work to be done. With female representation on the Board currently at 36%, this will be a key consideration in future
recruitment and succession planning. With reference to ethnic diversity, the Board’s current target is to ensure that at least one Board
member is a person of colour and that this is maintained once met.
Separately, the Board regularly reviews the leadership and succession needs of the business, which helps the Directors to understand the
breadth and depth of talent at Executive Committee level and one level down. There were a number of changes to the Executive
Committee during the year; however, the Board remains comfortable that the Executive Committee has the capabilities and strength of
leadership required to support the execution of the strategy against the backdrop of a challenging and competitive operating
environment. Talent and succession both at Executive Committee level and one level down will remain a key focus for 2023 and beyond
in order to ensure that there is the appropriate diversity and range of talent within the organisation.
Accountability is driven through routine evaluations of the Board and Board Committees. In the fourth quarter of 2022, an internal
evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Non-Executive Directors (including the Chair) was carried out. The evaluation assessed,
amongst other matters, the progress made against the recommendations of the external evaluation undertaken by CSA in 2021. As
reported in our 2021 Annual Report, CSA has no connection to the Barclays Group or any individual Director, save as disclosed on page
166 of the Barclays PLC 2022 Annual Report. The overall conclusion of this year’s internal evaluation was that the Board is operating
effectively, with a continued strong collegiate culture in which all of the Directors - including the newer members of the Board -
contribute to discussions and offer constructive challenge. Significant progress has been made to enhance effectiveness in the last year,
in particular by appointing four new independent Non-Executive Directors, continuing to reshape Board agendas to focus on strategic
issues and opportunities, and developing more opportunities for those at Executive Committee level and one level down to interact with
the Non-Executive Directors. However, certain areas were identified for continued focus in order to further improve effectiveness. These
include ensuring an ongoing and streamlined two-way dialogue between the Board and the Barclays Board, further simplification of Board
papers with more timely circulation of the same, and increasing the visibility of the Executive talent pipeline. Work is ongoing to progress
these matters.
Board Nominations Committee
The Board Nominations Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 26). Following a review of Board
Committee composition in May 2022, Avid Larizadeh Duggan stepped down from the Committee in August 2022 and Vanessa Bailey
joined the Committee in September 2022. This returned the membership of the Committee to the Chair and the Chairs of the other Board
Committees, in accordance with the preference expressed in the Committee’s Terms of Reference.
Meetings are attended by the Chief Executive and the Human Resources Director, at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
home.barclays/annualreport 30 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Skills and Diversity - evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity for the Board and more broadly across
the senior management of the business
▪ Director Appointments - identifying, and recommending to the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and Board
Committees
▪ Director Independence - considering and assessing the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including
recommendations for any steps to manage actual or potential conflicts of interest
▪ Board Performance - assessing the performance of the Non-Executive Directors and their annual time requirements
▪ Board Evaluation - considering any actions from the Board and Board Committee evaluation process that relate to the
composition of the Board or Board Committees and, in conjunction with the Board, review the Board’s progress against the
recommendations arising from the evaluation process
• Board Development – leading the development and effective implementation of policies and procedures for the induction,
training and professional development of all members of the Board
• Talent - overseeing the adoption of internal policies and talent progression for senior management
During 2022, the Committee’s principal activities were:
• Reviewing the Board’s composition – including the skills and experience of Board members, time commitments and the
independence of the Non-Executive Directors (excluding the Chair)
▪ Leading, on behalf of the Board, the various Non-Executive Director search exercises that resulted in the Committee
recommending four preferred candidates who were ultimately approved by the Board. This included, amongst other matters,
agreeing the role specifications and carrying out initial interviews with candidates, with considerable oversight of the succession
and transition of the Chair of the Board Risk Committee
▪ Leading, on behalf of the Board, the Chair succession process following notification from Crawford Gillies of his intention to step
down from the Board as Chair and Non-Executive Director during 2023. The succession process was driven by Andrew Ratcliffe,
in conjunction with the Barclays Group Nominations Committee, led by the Barclays Group Chairman, on the basis that the
successful candidate would also be appointed as a Barclays Non-Executive Director. As part of that process, the Committee:
agreed the appointment of Spencer Stuart to lead an external search; approved the role specification and search criteria; and
approved the process regarding the recommendation and appointment of a new Chair (considering all options available for Chair
succession), which culminated in the Committee recommending Sir John Kingman’s appointment to the Board.
▪ Reviewing the composition of all of the Board Committees in light of the appointments to, and resignations, from the Board
▪ On a bi-annual basis, reviewing the Company’s talent and succession plans at Executive Committee level and one level down and,
when required, overseeing Executive Committee appointments
▪ Reviewing and updating the Board Diversity Policy, and monitoring the Board’s progress against the same
▪ On behalf of the Board, reviewing and monitoring the Company’s progress against its diversity, equity and inclusion agenda, and
initiatives such as the Race at Work Action Plan
▪ Reviewing the results of the 2022 internal Board, Board Committee and Non-Executive Director evaluations, the overall
conclusion of which was that the Board, Board Committees and the Non-Executive Directors are all operating effectively and
meeting their required responsibilities
▪ Overseeing the management of any Non-Executive Director conflicts of interest and the conflicts of interest management
procedures
Principle Four: Audit, Risk and Internal Control
The Board should establish formal and transparent policies and procedures to: (i) identify the nature and extent of principal risks the
company is willing to take in order to achieve its long-term strategic objectives; (ii) manage such risks effectively; (iii) oversee the internal
control framework; (iv) promote the independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions; and (v) satisfy itself on the
integrity of financial reporting.
The Company is committed to operating within a strong system of internal control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken
without exposure to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage. The Principal Risks facing the Barclays Bank UK Group have
been identified and robust processes are in place to evaluate and manage such risks including regular reporting to, and oversight by, the
Board Risk Committee and the Board. A key component of the risk management framework is the ERMF, which supports the business in
its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture. The ERMF is designed to identify and set minimum
requirements, in respect of the main risks, to achieve the Barclays Bank UK Group strategic objectives and to provide reasonable
assurance that internal controls are effective. Further detail on the Principal Risks and management of them can be found on page 8 of
the Strategic Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that management maintains an effective system of risk management and internal control
and for assessing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Having
said that, the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board Risk Committee and the
Board Audit Committee. Details of the role, responsibilities and activities of both Committees are set out below.
The Board receives regular reports on risk matters, including reputational risk matters, in order to ensure sufficient focus around strategic
and emerging risks, including those arising from within the broader Barclays Group, which may impact the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Oversight of conduct risk and compliance remains within the remit of the Board Risk Committee, as detailed below.
home.barclays/annualreport 31 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Board Audit Committee
The Board Audit Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 26), including Vanessa Bailey, who joined the
Committee in June 2022, and John Liver, who joined the Committee in December 2022.
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management and others, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial
Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Controls Officer, Chief Operating Officer, General
Counsel, the Company’s statutory auditor and, at their request, Non-Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee who
wish to further their knowledge and understanding on audit matters. The Board, together with the Board Audit Committee, is responsible
for ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the internal audit function and the statutory auditor. The Committee Chair meets
regularly with both the Chief Internal Auditor and the Senior Statutory Auditor throughout the year and Committee members meet with
both without management present at least annually.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing financial reporting processes, reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, considering
whistleblowing arrangements and overseeing the work of the internal auditor and the statutory auditor. Throughout the year ended
31 December 2022 and to date, a comprehensive internal control framework has been in place within the Barclays Bank UK Group that
provides reasonable assurance of effective operations covering all controls, including financial and operational controls and compliance
with laws and regulations. The Committee receives a quarterly report on the framework’s operation (and its continued enhancements).
This includes reports from the internal audit function, the statutory auditor and the Chief Controls Officer, as well as related plans and
management actions to remediate control recommendations raised in those reports.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Financial Reporting - assessing the integrity of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements and examining any significant
reporting issues and judgements made
▪ Internal Controls - examining the operation and effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s system of internal controls
▪ Internal Audit - monitoring and examining the operation, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the Internal Audit
function
▪ Regulatory Reporting - reviewing arrangements established by management for compliance with regulatory and financial
reporting, including compliance with the ring-fencing requirements
▪ External Audit - reviewing and monitoring the statutory auditor’s independence, objectivity and effectiveness, including oversight
of the regulatory developments within the delivery of audit services
▪ Whistleblowing - reviewing the integrity, independence and effectiveness of Barclays Bank UK Group’s well-established policies
and procedures on whistleblowing
▪ Material Legal Matters - overseeing significant contentious and non-contentious matters, together with current or emerging legal
risks
During 2022, the principal activities of the Committee were:
• Examining the Barclays Bank UK Group’s full year and half year financial statements and recommending their approval to the
Board
• Examining the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Q1 and Q3 2022 results for incorporation into Barclays PLC’s Q1 and Q3 2022 results
• Assessing the appropriateness of key management judgements, including consideration of material conduct and litigation
provisions (including collections and recoveries, and other material items) and accounting policy judgements (including expected
credit losses, impairment and recoverability of goodwill)
• Receiving reports from the General Counsel on litigation matters pertinent to accounting provisions
• Receiving reports from the Chief Controls Officer on the internal controls framework and its effectiveness, and ensuring
appropriate oversight of the BX control environment where it impacts the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control environment
• Overseeing the statutory auditor’s independence and objectivity and contributing to the Barclays Group’s auditor effectiveness
exercise, including receiving findings from the PRA on written auditor reporting and the Financial Reporting Council on their Audit
Quality Review
• Overseeing the performance of the Internal Audit function, including an internal quality assurance assessment and approving the
interim revisions to the 2022 audit plan and approving the 2023 audit plan
• Receiving reports from management on certain areas of the business where reports from the internal audit function had
recommended improvements to existing controls (for example: Business Banking fraud and “Know Your Client” controls and
procedures) or on areas of new risks (for example: third party suppliers)
• Monitoring management progress on the embedding of a Risk Control Self-Assessment framework
• Reviewing and re-adopting the refreshed Barclays Group policy on the provision of non-audit services by the statutory auditor
• Monitoring the whistleblowing programme, including receiving regular whistleblowing metrics as they relate to the Barclays Bank
UK Group, and ensuring that the procedures for protection from detrimental treatment of staff who raise concerns continue to be
effective
• Receiving updates on financial crime activity that impacted the Barclays Bank UK Group in 2022, including overseeing the
Company’s Money Laundering Reporting Officer’s report, Post Office Cash Deposits Standards and Controls and Transaction
Monitoring, as well as overseeing regulatory correspondence and related work
• Receiving the Company’s Data Protection Officer’s report
• Considering future internal control needs
• Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
home.barclays/annualreport 32 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Board Risk Committee
The Board Risk Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 26). In February 2022, Andrew Ratcliffe assumed,
on an interim basis, the role of Chair of the Board Risk Committee following David Thorburn’s resignation. Vanessa Bailey was appointed
to the Board on 13 June 2022, and assumed the role of Chair of the Board Risk Committee on 12 September 2022 (subject to regulatory
approval, which was granted on 12 December 2022). This was followed by John Liver joining the Committee as a member in October
2022.
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management, including the Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer, Chief
Compliance Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Internal Auditor, the Company’s statutory auditor and, at their request,
Non-Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee who wish to further their knowledge and understanding on risk matters.
The Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk exposures
examining reports covering the Principal Risks including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or
liquidity, as well as reports on risk measurement methodologies and risk appetite.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Risk Appetite and Risk Profile – reviewing and ensuring that the risks undertaken by the business are within the risk appetite of
the Company, as set by the Board
▪ Risk Limits – reviewing and adopting risk limits and mandates for financial and non-financial risk, monitoring the risk profile and
receiving and considering reports on key risk issues (including emerging risks)
▪ Regulatory – reviewing and monitoring the Company’s capital and liquidity position including considering both the existing and
forecasted Company risk profile and the potential impact of stress
▪ Internal Control and Risk Control – monitoring the Internal Control and Risk Control framework
▪ Credit Risk – reviewing credit risk performance (including concentration of credit risk and expected credit losses)
▪ Conduct Risk – reviewing the effectiveness of the management of conduct risk, seeking to ensure fair customer outcomes
following the implementation of policies and reviewing the effectiveness of the Conduct Risk Management Framework, as it
applies to the Company and its subsidiaries
▪ Climate Risk - considering matters including the impact on financial and operational risks arising from climate change through
physical risks, risks associated with transitioning to a lower carbon economy and connected risks (with the exception of
reputation risk which is a matter reserved to the Board)
▪ Risk Culture – monitoring to ensure a robust risk culture (relating to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management)
▪ Ring-fencing – reviewing the ring-fencing requirements (including attestation and ongoing compliance requirements)
During 2022, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Recommending to the Board the adoption of qualitative and quantitative Risk Appetite Statements, including the new Climate
Risk Appetite Statement
▪ Reviewing and adopting the relevant Barclays Group policies, including the ERMF and the associated framework Company
addenda as well as the Conduct Risk Management Framework
▪ Receiving and reviewing regular financial and non-financial risk reporting on each of the Principal Risks (detailed on page 8 of the
Strategic Report), and reviewing emerging risks
▪ Adopting the 2022 Limits and Mandates and monitoring the risk profile in accordance with the same
▪ Reviewing conduct risk
▪ Monitoring compliance with key portfolio metrics, including the use of Chief Risk Officer discretion
▪ Overseeing risk resources and the independence of the Risk and Compliance functions
▪ Reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the Barclays Group Recovery
and Resolution Plan and Resolvability Assessment Framework
▪ Reviewing and challenging the risks identified by the findings of internal audits
▪ Monitoring liquidity and capital levels and considering and recommending for Board approval the Company sections of the
Barclays Group 2022 ICAAP and ILAAP
▪ Reviewing and approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s stress testing scenarios and results, including but not limited to the new
PRA’s Annual Cyclical Stress Scenario
▪ Overseeing the first and second line of defence elements of the risks and controls associated with the execution of the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s strategy
▪ Reviewing the first and second line of defence reports on the risks associated with the agreement to acquire Kensington
Mortgage Company and strategic projects during the year
▪ Monitoring the risks associated with the geopolitical and macroeconomic environment, including but not limited to receiving
updates on operational risk, credit risk and market risk exposures (to the extent applicable) in relation to - amongst other matters
- the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and overseeing management’s work to reduce these. The Committee also requested and
received an additional sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of the conflict on the levels of stress not directly targeted by our
internal stress tests if the conflict were to escalate further or become more prolonged in duration
▪ Reviewing and challenging management’s preparations and actions to support customers facing, or who may face, difficulties as
a result of increases in the cost of living
▪ Monitoring the risks associated with Consumer Duty implementation and public cloud migration
▪ Considering regular reports on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational resilience and recommending for Board approval the
annual self-assessment of operational resilience, which included overseeing the identification of Important Business Services (as
defined in the relevant regulation) and the setting of impact tolerances
▪ Reviewing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ring-fencing compliance
▪ Reviewing and challenging the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
home.barclays/annualreport 33 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Principle Five: Remuneration
The remuneration policies and practices should support strategy and promote long-term sustainable success, and be developed in
accordance with formal and transparent procedures, ensuring no Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration outcome.
Executive remuneration should be aligned to the company’s purpose and values and the successful delivery of the strategy; with
outcomes taking account of company and individual performance, and wider circumstances such as pay across the company’s workforce
and Barclays’ Fair Pay agenda.
The Barclays Group’s Remuneration Policy is set by the Barclays Group Remuneration Committee. This policy is reviewed and adopted by
the independent Board Remuneration Committee. The policy ensures that remuneration is aligned to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy and risk management approach and designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The approach to executive and senior management remuneration is set by the Barclays Group’s formal procedures on remuneration
(these procedures ensure that no individual is involved in deciding their own remuneration). Additionally, remuneration is considered in
relation to wider workforce remuneration policies, and alignment of incentives and rewards with culture and performance is reviewed
annually by the Barclays Group Remuneration Committee.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to paying people fairly, with regards to their specific role, seniority, responsibilities, skills and
experience and other factors which properly affect pay, in a way that balances the needs of all of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
stakeholders. You can find more information in the 2022 Barclays Fair Pay Report. The Company also remains focused on closing its
gender and ethnicity pay gaps, where they exist. You can find more information on our UK-wide gender and ethnicity pay gaps for the
year in the Barclays UK Pay Gaps disclosure.
Board Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 26), one of whom - Tracy Corrigan - joined the Committee in
September 2022. Kathryn Matthews stepped down from the Committee in October 2022, ahead of her retirement from the Board.
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer,
Chief Risk Officer, the Human Resources Director and the Head of Reward.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Remuneration Policy – reviewing, adopting, and recommending for Board approval the Barclays Group’s Remuneration Policy (set
by the Barclays Group Remuneration Committee)
• Remuneration Approach – reviewing and approving the remuneration approach developed for the Company, which complies
with the Barclays Group’s Remuneration Policy thereby ensuring such policy is aligned with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy and risk management protocols and that incentives do not encourage risk taking beyond the tolerated risk of the
Company, or undermine its ability to comply with ring-fencing requirements
• Overall Pay Structure – overseeing overall pay and benefits across the Barclays Bank UK Group
• Incentive Pay – considering the annual incentive pool and individual remuneration proposals for senior colleagues and the
assessment of incentives to be delivered to the wider workforce. This includes considering ex-ante (current and future) and ex-
post (crystallised) risk adjustments to remuneration
During 2022, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Overseeing reward and recognition across the entire workforce to ensure alignment with our desired culture and behaviours. This
included overseeing the decision to bring forward part of the 2023 pay increase, which resulted in 35,000 UK-based junior
colleagues being awarded a £1,200 salary increase effective from August 2022, ahead of the annual salary review
▪ Receiving updates on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s remuneration initiatives and developments, including Barclays’ Fair Pay
agenda and gender and ethnicity pay gaps
▪ Reviewing and approving the methodology and framework for 2022 incentive funding, including a simplified incentive plan for
2022/2023, linking incentives to a scorecard focused on customers, colleagues, citizenship and progress against our strategy
▪ Reviewing and approving the incentive pool outcome, including considering financial and risk performance updates (and the
appropriateness of risk adjustments to incentives)
▪ Reviewing and approving, for recommendation to the Barclays Group Remuneration Committee, where appropriate, the
remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior employees
▪ Considering legal, regulatory and stakeholder updates and ensuring that remuneration procedures and outcomes comply with
regulatory requirements and that incentives do not encourage inappropriate risk taking
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
The Committee also participated in informal briefing sessions on particularly pertinent topics, such as benchmarking in the industry.
These will continue in 2023, with sessions on topics including financial services regulation proposed.
As referenced in the Strategic Report, and the Section 172(1) Statement, in January 2023, Barclays worked closely with Unite the Union to
agree a 2023 UK pay deal which, combined with the aforementioned August increase, brought the total average salary increase for our
lowest paid colleagues up to 11% and helped our minimum UK pay remain ahead of Living Wage Foundation benchmarks. Further
information on the resources and support available to colleagues relating to financial wellness is available in the 2022 Barclays Fair Pay
Report.
home.barclays/annualreport 34 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Principle Six: Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement
Directors should foster effective stakeholder relationships aligned to the company’s purpose. The Board should recognise the importance
of listening to, and understanding the views of its stakeholders, including the workforce, and specifically the impact of the company’s
behaviour and business on customers and clients, colleagues, suppliers, communities and society more broadly, having regard to these
views and impact when taking decisions.
As set out under Principle One, the Board’s role involves articulating a clear vision for the Company based on Barclays’ Purpose, Values
and Mindset and establishing a strategy for both the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group. Through this, the Board has identified
key stakeholders on whom the success of the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group depends. The Board seeks to understand key
stakeholders’ views, and the impact of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s behaviour and business on them.
Customers and clients
Customers and clients are at the heart of the decisions we make. The Board is committed to ensuring good customer and client outcomes
and that the Consumer Duty is demonstrably embedded throughout the organisation.
In 2022, the Board engaged with customers and clients in a wide variety of ways, including analysis of the key drivers underpinning
customer metrics, customer insights, direct feedback from colleagues, and the receipt of regular reports on complaints. The Board also
heard directly from customers and clients during the Board offsite in Southampton, when the Directors spent time at both a local branch
and the Network Eagle Lab. This provided invaluable insight into customers’ and clients’ needs, and their experience of initiatives such as
Barclays’ Black Founder Accelerator Programme (which supports the growth of early-stage digital and technology businesses founded by
Black entrepreneurs in the UK) and Digital Eagles (which aims to help everyone get the most out of digital banking).
Separately, the Barclays Bank UK Group is actively engaging with our retail customers to better understand the steps they want to take to
live more sustainably, and the role that finance can play in that. This evidence-based approach is being used to design and develop
sustainable finance solutions that meet the needs of our customers - please see “Communities and society” below.
Colleagues
Details of our colleague engagement model can be found on pages 11 and 12 of the Strategic Report – the model ensures effective and
timely engagement with our colleagues, placing equal emphasis on listening (so that the Board can take colleagues’ views into account
when making decisions likely to affect their interests) and keeping colleagues informed.
In the spirit of keeping colleagues abreast of the evolution of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy in response to the changes arising
from the economic, legal, political and regulatory landscape, there has been a combination of leader-led engagement, digital and print
communication, blogs, vlogs, and podcasts. The Board has engaged directly with colleagues, both in person and virtually, inside and
outside of the boardroom, including when joining DEI Employee Resource Group meetings, participating in leadership panel events,
reverse mentoring, and through visiting branches, Eagle Labs and operational sites. The Board has also listened to feedback on a variety of
topics via the bi-annual Your View surveys, including in relation to colleagues’ financial and personal wellbeing in the context of the rising
cost of living. Further information on the resources and support available to colleagues relating to financial wellness is available in the
2022 Barclays Fair Pay Report.
This year’s Board immersion programme included a range of activities that allowed the Board to maintain a strong connection to
colleagues; for example, attending celebratory events such as the “Build a Better Bank Awards” and getting involved in the day-to-day
running of a branch through the “Walk a Mile in our Colleagues’ Shoes” initiative.
Suppliers
For information on our engagement with suppliers, please see page 38 of the Directors’ Report.
Communities and society
The Barclays Bank UK Group continues to play an important role in local communities, a role that goes beyond our physical footprint, as
emphasised during the two-day offsite Board meeting in Southampton. Whilst based at the Network Eagle Lab, which was celebrating
three years of Barclays Eagle Labs and Southampton City Council supporting local businesses in the area, the Board met colleagues and
stakeholders who had benefited from initiatives such as Barclays’ Black Founder Accelerator Programme and Digital Eagles. The Directors
also met colleagues involved with the LifeSkills programme, which has, this year, partnered with organisations like the Trussell Trust that
work with local communities to help those most in need, building awareness of the help available to people facing financial difficulties,
increasing access to the support they are entitled to and helping them maximise their incomes.
Of course, society extends much further than just our local communities and, over the last year, the Directors have continued to engage
with both the Barclays Group and management in relation to the Barclays Group’s climate strategy and how the Barclays Bank UK Group
can play its part in helping accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy. The Board has overseen the introduction by the Barclays
Bank UK Group of the ambition for 50% of homes in its mortgage portfolio with an EPC to be rated EPC band C or better by 2030, and the
Directors fully support the expansion of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s green financing proposition. However, there remains much more to
be done. For more information on our role in society and our sustainable products and propositions, please refer to pages 15 and 16 of
the Strategic Report and the Climate and Sustainability Report on pages 19 to 22.
home.barclays/annualreport 35 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their report together with the audited accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 December 2022.
Section 414A of the Act requires the Directors to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report. The information can be found on pages 2
to 18.
The Company has addressed the Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Act through the
disclosure contained on pages 60 to 62 of the Barclays PLC 2022 Annual Report. In addition, the Company has chosen, in accordance with
section 414C(11) of the Act and as noted in this Directors’ Report, to include certain matters in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be
disclosed in this Directors’ Report. Such information is incorporated by reference into this report.
The particulars of important events affecting the Company since 31 December 2022 can be found in the notes to the financial statements.
An indication of likely future developments can be found in the Strategic Report.
Other information that is relevant to the Directors’ Report, and which is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located at:
Page(s)
5 to 6
Performance measures
7 to 8
Managing risk, including Principal Risks
15 to 16
Society
19 to 22
Climate and Sustainability Report
24 to 25
Chair’s Introduction
26 to 36
Governance Report
Disclosures required pursuant to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008 (2008 Regs) as updated by the 2018 Regs can be found on the following pages:
11 to 12
Engagement with employees (Sch.7 Para 11 and 11A 2008/2018 Regs)
9
Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons (Sch.7 Para 10 2008 Regs)
178 to 194
Financial Instruments (Sch.7 Para 6 2008 Regs)
Hedge accounting policy (Sch.7 Para 6 2008 Regs) 179 to 180
Profits and dividends
The results of the Barclays Bank UK Group show statutory profit after tax of £1,807m (2021: £1,869m). The Barclays Bank UK Group had
net assets of £15,413m at 31 December 2022 (2021: £17,400m).
The Company will pay a £705m dividend to its parent, Barclays PLC. Further details on dividends on ordinary shares paid in 2022 are set
out in Note 10 to the financial statements.
Share capital
There was no increase in ordinary share capital during the year. Barclays PLC owns 100% of the issued ordinary shares. There are no
restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or agreements between holders of ordinary shares known to the Company, which may result
in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or voting rights. Further information on the Company’s share capital can be found in Note
26 to the financial statements.
Powers of Directors to issue or buy back the Company’s shares
The powers of the Directors are determined by the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association. No shares were repurchased in 2022.
Directors
The list of current Directors of the Company can be found in the Governance Report on page 26. Changes to Directors during the year and
up to the date of signing this report are set out below.
Name Role Effective date of appointment / resignation
David Thorburn Non-Executive Director Resigned 3 February 2022
Tracy Corrigan Non-Executive Director Appointed 24 May 2022
Vanessa Bailey Non-Executive Director Appointed 13 June 2022
Bernadette Wightman Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 September 2022
John Liver Non-Executive Director Appointed 17 October 2022
Kathryn Matthews Non-Executive Director Resigned 31 December 2022
home.barclays/annualreport 37 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Directors’ Report
Directors’ responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditor’s report set out on pages 141 to 150, is made with a view to
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditor in relation to the financial statements.
Going concern
In preparing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements, the Directors are required to:
▪ assess the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern;
and
▪ use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Barclays Bank UK Group or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s business activities, financial position, capital, factors likely to affect its future development and performance
and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed are discussed in the Strategic Report and Risk
Management sections.
The Directors have evaluated these risks in the preparation of the financial statements and consider it appropriate to prepare the financial
statements on a going concern basis.
Preparation of accounts
The Directors are required by the Act to prepare the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group accounts for each financial year and, with
regard to Barclays Bank UK Group accounts, in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. The Directors have
prepared these accounts in accordance with (a) UK-adopted international accounting standards; and (b) International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), including interpretations issued by the IFRS
Interpretations Committee. Pursuant to the Act, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Barclays Bank UK Group and the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 151 to 224, the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company have
used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they
consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, provide the information necessary for its
shareholder to assess the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group keep accounting records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance Statement in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and financial statements as they appear on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
The Directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The current Directors, whose names and functions are set out on page 26, confirm to the best of their knowledge that:
(a) the financial statements, prepared in accordance with (a) UK-adopted international accounting standards; and (b) IFRS as issued by the
IASB, including interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
home.barclays/annualreport 39 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Content
Risk performance
Climate risk: The impact on Financial and Operational Risks arising ▪ Climate risk overview and summary of performance 70
from climate change through, physical risks, risks associated with
transitioning to a lower carbon economy and connected risks ▪ Subsidence of the UK Mortgage book per risk band 70
arising as a result of second order impacts of these two drivers on ▪ Flood risk of the UK Mortgage book per risk band 70
portfolios.
Credit risk: The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the ▪ Credit risk overview and summary of performance 74
failure of clients, customers or counterparties (including
sovereigns), to fully honour their obligations to the Barclays Bank ▪ The Barclays Bank UK Group’s maximum exposure and 75
effects of netting, collateral and risk transfer
UK Group, including the whole and timely payment of principal,
interest, collateral and other receivables. ▪ Expected credit losses 78
▪ Movements in gross exposure and impairment allowance 81
including provisions for loan commitments and financial
guarantees
▪ Management adjustments to models for impairment 90
▪ Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis 93
▪ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 101
▪ The Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to management 105
and representation of credit quality
▪ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 114
Market risk: The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes ▪ Market risk overview and summary of performance 117
in the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and liabilities
from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited to,
interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices,
credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
Treasury and capital risk – Liquidity: ▪ Liquidity risk overview 119
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to meet its
▪ Liquidity risk stress testing 119
contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have the
appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and • Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 121
liquidity to support its assets.
Treasury and capital risk – Capital: ▪ Capital risk overview 127
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an insufficient level or
composition of capital to support its normal business activities and
to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating
environments and stressed conditions (both actual and as defined
for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes). This also
includes the risk from the Barclays Bank UK Group’s pension plans.
Treasury and capital risk – Interest rate risk in the banking book: ▪ Interest rate risk in the banking book overview and 129
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital or summary of performance
income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate
▪ Net interest income sensitivity 129
exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.
▪ Analysis of equity sensitivity 129
▪ Volatility of the fair value through other comprehensive 130
income (FVOCI) portfolio in the liquidity pool
Operational risk: The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group ▪ Operational risk overview and summary of performance 131
from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or
▪ Operational risk profile 131
due to external events (for example fraud) where the root cause is
not due to credit or market risks.
Model risk: The potential for adverse consequences from decisions ▪ Model risk overview and summary of performance 133
based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Conduct risk: The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, ▪ Conduct risk overview and summary of performance 133
customers, clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the
Barclays Bank Group's products and services.
Reputation risk: The risk that an action, transaction, investment, ▪ Reputation risk overview and summary of performance 133
event, decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence.
Legal risk: The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or ▪ Legal risk overview and summary of performance 134
fines from the failure of the Barclays Bank UK Group to meet its
legal obligations, including regulatory or contractual requirements.
home.barclays/annualreport 42 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk management
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk management strategy
This section introduces Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to managing and identifying risks, and for fostering a sound risk culture.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)
The ERMF outlines the highest level principles for risk management by setting out standards, objectives and key responsibilities of different
groups of employees of the Barclays Bank UK Group. It is approved by the Barclays PLC Board on recommendation of the Barclays Group
Board Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board then approves its
adoption on the recommendation of its Risk Committee, with modifications where needed.
The ERMF sets out:
▪ principal risks faced by the Barclays Bank UK Group, which guide the organisation of risk management processes
▪ risk appetite requirements: This helps define the level of risk we are willing to undertake in our business
▪ risk management and segregation of duties: The ERMF defines a Three Lines of Defence model
▪ roles and responsibilities for risk management and governance.
The ERMF is complemented by frameworks, policies and standards that are mainly aligned to individual principal risks:
▪ frameworks cover high level principles guiding the management of principal risks, and set out details of which policies are needed, and
high level governance arrangements
▪ policies set out the control objectives and high level requirements to address the key principles articulated in their associated
frameworks. Policies state ‘what’ those within scope are required to do
▪ standards set out the detail of the control requirements to ensure the control objectives set by the policies are met.
Segregation of duties - the "Three Lines of Defence" model
The ERMF sets out a clear lines of defence model. All colleagues are responsible for understanding and managing risks within the context
of their individual roles and responsibilities, as set out below:
▪ The First line comprises of all employees engaged in the revenue generating and client facing areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group and all
associated support functions, including Finance, Operations, Treasury, and Human Resources. The first line is responsible for identifying
and managing the risks in which they are engaged, operating within applicable limits, and escalating risk events or issues as appropriate.
Employees in the first line have primary responsibility for their risks and their activities are subject to oversight from the relevant parts of
the second and third lines.
▪ The Second line is comprised of the Risk and Compliance functions. The role of the second line is to establish the limits, rules and
constraints, and the frameworks, policies and standards under which all activities shall be performed, consistent with the risk appetite of
the Barclays Bank UK Group, and to oversee the performance of the firm against these limits, rules and constraints. Controls for first line
activities will ordinarily be established by the control officers operating within the control framework of the firm. These will remain
subject to oversight by the second line;
▪ The Third line of defence is Internal Audit, who are responsible for providing independent assurance over the effectiveness of
governance, risk management and controls over current, systemic and evolving risks;
▪ The Legal function provides support to all areas of the bank and is not formally part of any of the three lines of defence. The Legal
function is responsible for the identification of all Legal and Regulatory Risks. Except in relation to the legal advice it provides or procures,
it is subject to second line oversight with respect to its own operational and conduct risks, as well as with respect to the Legal and
Regulatory Risks to which the bank is exposed.
Principal risks
The ERMF identifies nine principal risks (see managing risk in the strategic report section) namely: credit risk, market risk, treasury and
capital risk, climate risk, operational risk, model risk, conduct risk, reputation risk and legal risk. Note that climate risk was added in January
2022; see page 59 for more information.
Each of the principal risks is overseen by an accountable executive within the Barclays Group who is responsible for overseeing and/or
assigning responsibilities for the framework, policies and standards that set out associated responsibilities and expectations, and detail the
related requirements around risk management. In addition, certain risks span more across than one principal risk.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk which the Barclays Group is prepared to accept in carrying out its activities. It provides a basis for
ongoing dialogue between management and Board with respect to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s current and evolving risk profile, allowing
strategic and financial decisions to be made on an informed basis. Risk appetite is approved by the Barclays PLC Board in aggregate and
disseminated across legal entities and businesses, including the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK Board cannot approve a
higher risk appetite than that determined by the Group Board without the approval of the Group Board but may choose to operate at a
lower level of risk appetite than that approved by the Barclays Group. The Barclays Group total risk appetite and its allocation to the
Barclays Bank UK Group are supported by limits to enable and control specific exposures and activities that have material concentration risk
implications.
Risk committees
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s various risk committees consider risk matters relevant to their business, and escalate as required to the
Barclays UK Risk Committee, whose Chair, in turn, escalates to the Barclays Group Risk Committee, Barclays Bank UK PLC Board
Committees and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
home.barclays/annualreport 44 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk management
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board receives regular information on the risk profile of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and has ultimate
responsibility for risk appetite and capital plans, within the parameters set by the Barclays PLC Board. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board is
also responsible for the adoption of the ERMF.
Further, there are two Board-level committees which oversee the application of the ERMF and review and monitor risk across the Barclays
Bank UK Group. These are: the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee.
Additionally, the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Remuneration Committee oversees pay practices focusing on aligning pay to sustainable
performance.
▪ The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee (BRC): The BRC monitors Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk profile against the agreed
appetite. Where actual performance differs from expectations, the actions taken by management are reviewed to ascertain that the
Committee is comfortable with them. The Barclays Bank UK Group CRO regularly presents a report to the BRC summarising
developments in the risk environment and performance trends in the key portfolios. The BRC also reviews certain key risk methodologies,
the effectiveness of risk management, and Barclays Bank UK Group's risk profile, including the material issues affecting each business
portfolio and forward risk trends. The Committee also commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are presented by
the Barclays Bank UK Group CRO or senior risk managers in the business.
▪ The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee (BAC): receives regular reports on the effectiveness of internal control systems, on
material control issues of significance and on accounting judgements (including impairment), and a quarterly review of the adequacy of
impairment allowances, relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, the business environment, and Barclays policies and methodologies.
▪ The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Remuneration Committee (RemCo): receives proposals on ex-ante and ex-post risk adjustments to
variable remuneration based on risk management performance including events, issues and the wider risk profile. These inputs are
considered by the Remco in the review and approval of performance incentives.
Barclays’ risk culture
Risk culture can be defined as the norms, attitudes and behaviours related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management. This is
reflected in how the Barclays Bank UK Group identifies, escalates and manages risk matters.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to maintaining a robust risk culture in which:
▪ management expect, model and reward the right behaviours from a risk and control perspective
▪ colleagues identify, manage and escalate risk and control matters, and meet their responsibilities around risk management
The CEO works with the Executive Management to embed a sound risk culture within the Bank, with particular regard to the identification,
escalation and management of risk matters, in accordance with the ERMF. Specifically, all employees regardless of their positions, functions
or locations must play their part in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk management. Employees are required to be familiar with risk
management policies which are relevant to their responsibilities, know how to escalate actual or potential risk issues, and have a role-
appropriate level of awareness of the risk management process as defined by the ERMF.
Our Code of Conduct – the Barclays Way
Globally, all colleagues must attest to the “Barclays Way”, our Code of Conduct, and comply with all frameworks, policies and standards
applicable to their roles. The Code of Conduct outlines the Purpose, Values and Mindset which govern our ‘Barclays Way’ of working across
our business globally. It constitutes a reference point covering all aspects of colleagues’ working relationships, and provides guidance on
working with other Barclays employees, customers and clients, governments and regulators, business partners, suppliers, competitors and
the broader community. See home.barclays/sustainability/esg-resource-hub/statements-and-policy-positions/ for more details.
home.barclays/annualreport 45 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
banking products and services. This disruption could allow new competitors, some previously hindered by banking regulation (such as
FinTechs), to provide customers with access to banking facilities and increase disintermediation of banking services.
New technologies and changing consumer behaviour have required and could require the Barclays Bank UK Group to incur additional cost
to modify or adapt its products or make additional capital investments in its businesses to attract and retain clients and customers or to
match products and services offered by its competitors, including technology companies.
Ongoing or increased competition and/or disintermediation of banking services may put pressure on the pricing of the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s products and services, which could reduce the Barclays Bank UK Group's revenues and profitability, or may cause the Barclays
Bank UK Group to lose market share, particularly with respect to traditional banking products such as deposits, bank accounts and
mortgage lending. This competition may be on the basis of quality and variety of products and services offered, transaction execution,
innovation, reputation and/or price. These factors may be exacerbated by further industry wide initiatives to address access to banking.
The failure of any of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses to meet the expectations of clients and customers, whether due to general
market conditions, underperformance, a decision not to offer a particular product or service, branch closures, changes in client and
customer expectations or other factors, could affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to attract or retain clients and customers. Any
such impact could, in turn, reduce the Barclays Bank UK Group’s revenues.
v) Regulatory change agenda and impact on business model
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses are subject to ongoing regulation and associated regulatory risks, including the effects of
changes in laws, regulations, policies, voluntary codes of practice and interpretations in the UK and, in some cases, other jurisdictions.
Many regulatory changes relevant to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business may have an effect beyond the country in which they are
enacted, either because the Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulators deliberately enact regulation with extra-territorial impact or because the
nature of its operations, or the location of its customers, mean that the Barclays Bank UK Group is obliged to give effect to local laws and
regulations on a wider basis.
In recent years, regulators and governments have focused on reforming both the prudential regulation of the financial services industry and
the ways in which the business of financial services is conducted. Measures taken include enhanced capital, liquidity and funding
requirements, the separation or prohibition of certain activities by banks, the introduction of tax levies and transaction taxes, changes in
compensation practices and more detailed requirements on how business is conducted. The governments and regulators in the UK or
elsewhere may intervene further in relation to areas of industry risk already identified, or in new areas, which could adversely affect the
Barclays Bank UK Group.
Current and anticipated areas of particular focus for the Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulators, where regulatory changes could have a
material effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, capital position, and
reputation include, but are not limited to:
▪ the increasing focus by regulators, international bodies, organisations and unions on how institutions conduct business, particularly
with regard to the delivery of fair outcomes for customers and promoting effective competition in the interests of consumers, including
the proposed introduction in the UK of a new consumer duty and measures resulting from ongoing thematic reviews into the workings
of the retail, small- and medium-sized enterprise and wholesale banking sectors and the provision of financial advice to consumers;
▪ the implementation of any conduct measures as a result of regulators’ focus on organisational culture, employee behaviour and
whistleblowing;
▪ the demise of certain benchmark interest rates and the transition to new risk-free reference rates (as discussed further under ‘vi)
Impact of benchmark interest rate reforms on the Barclays Bank UK Group’ below);
▪ the focus globally on technology adoption and digital delivery, underpinned by customer protection, including the use of artificial
intelligence and digital assets (data, identity and disclosures), financial technology risks, payments and related infrastructure,
operational resilience, virtual currencies (including central bank digital currencies and global stable coins) and cybersecurity. This also
includes the introduction of new and/or enhanced regulatory standards in these areas;
▪ increasing regulatory expectations of firms around governance and risk management frameworks, particularly for management of
climate change, diversity and inclusion and other ESG risks and enhanced ESG disclosure and reporting obligations;
▪ the continued evolution of the UK’s regulatory framework following the UK's withdrawal from the EU, including in light of the UK
financial services regulatory reform agenda announced in December 2022 and the proposals in the Financial Services and Markets Bill,
and similarly regarding the access of UK and other non-EU financial institutions to EU markets;
▪ the implementation of the reforms to the Basel III package, which includes changes to the RWA approaches to credit risk, market risk,
counterparty risk, operational risk, and credit valuation adjustments and the application of RWA floors and the leverage ratio;
▪ the implementation of more stringent capital, liquidity and funding requirements;
▪ the ongoing regulatory response to the COVID-19 pandemic and its implications for banks’ credit risk management and provisioning
processes, capital adequacy and liquidity, and a renewed focus on vulnerable customers including the treatment of customers and
consideration of longer-term initiatives to support borrowers in financial difficulty and measures designed to maximise access to cash
for consumers;
home.barclays/annualreport 48 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
▪ the incorporation of climate change within the global prudential framework, including the transition risks resulting from a shift to a low
carbon economy and its financial effects;
▪ increasing requirements to detail management accountability within the Barclays Bank UK Group (for example, the requirements of the
Senior Managers and Certification Regime in the UK and similar regimes elsewhere that are either in effect or under consideration/
implementation), as well as requirements relating to executive remuneration;
▪ changes in national or supra-national requirements regarding the ability to offshore or outsource the provision of services and
resources or transfer material risk to financial services companies located in other countries, which impact the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s ability to implement globally consistent and efficient operating models;
▪ financial crime, fraud and market abuse standards and increasing expectations for related control frameworks, to ensure firms are
adapting to new threats such as those arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, and are protecting customers from cyber-enabled crime;
▪ the application and enforcement of economic sanctions including those with extra-territorial effect and those arising from geopolitical
tensions;
▪ requirements flowing from arrangements for the resolution strategy of the Barclays Group and its individual operating entities
(including the Barclays Bank UK Group) that may have different effects in different countries
▪ the increasing regulatory expectations and requirements relating to various aspects of operational resilience, including an increasing
focus on the response of institutions to operational disruptions;
▪ continuing regulatory focus on data privacy, including the collection and use of personal data, and protection against loss and
unauthorised or improper access;
▪ the regulatory focus on policies and procedures for identifying and managing cybersecurity risks, cybersecurity governance and the
corresponding disclosure and reporting obligations; and
▪ continuing regulatory focus on the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management frameworks, as evidenced in regulatory
fines and other measures imposed against the Barclays Bank UK Group and other financial institutions.
For further details on the regulatory supervision of, and regulations applicable to, the Barclays Bank UK Group, refer to the Supervision and
regulation section.
vi) Impact of benchmark interest rate reforms on the Barclays Bank UK Group
Global regulators and central banks in the UK, the US and the EU have driven international efforts to reform key benchmark interest rates
and indices, such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), used to determine the amounts payable under a wide range of
transactions and make them more reliable and robust. These benchmark reforms have resulted in significant changes to the methodology
and operation of certain benchmarks and indices, the adoption of alternative risk-free reference rates (RFRs), the discontinuation of certain
reference rates (including LIBOR) and the introduction of implementing legislation and regulations. Specifically, certain LIBOR tenors either
ceased at the end of 2021 or became permanently unrepresentative. Furthermore, certain US dollar LIBOR tenors are to cease by the end of
June 2023, and restrictions have been imposed on new use of US dollar LIBOR. Notwithstanding these developments, given the
unpredictable consequences of benchmark reform, any of these developments could have an adverse impact on market participants,
including the Barclays Bank UK Group, in respect of any financial instruments linked to, or referencing, any of these benchmark interest
rates.
The Barclays Bank UK Group predominantly offers products which reference central bank rates rather than LIBOR or other indices which
are likely to be subject to reform. Consequently, the product offering and business model are unlikely to be significantly affected.
Nevertheless, there are other ways the Barclays Bank UK Group could be affected.
Uncertainty associated with such potential changes, including the availability and/or suitability of alternative RFRs, the participation of
customers and third-party market participants in the transition process, challenges with respect to required documentation changes, and
impact of legislation to deal with certain legacy contracts that cannot convert into or add fall-back RFRs before cessation of the benchmark
they reference, may adversely affect a broad range of transactions (including any securities, loans and derivatives which use LIBOR or any
other affected benchmark to determine the interest payable which are included in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial assets and
liabilities) that use these reference rates and indices, and present a number of risks for the Barclays Bank UK Group, including but not
limited to:
▪ Conduct risk: in undertaking actions to transition away from using certain reference rates (such as LIBOR) to new alternative RFRs, the
Barclays Bank UK Group faces conduct risks. These may lead to customer complaints, regulatory sanctions or reputational impact if the
Barclays Bank UK Group is considered to be (among other things): (i) undertaking market activities that are manipulative or create a
false or misleading impression; (ii) misusing sensitive information or not identifying or appropriately managing or mitigating conflicts
of interest; (iii) providing customers with inadequate advice, misleading information, unsuitable products or unacceptable service; (iv)
not taking a consistent approach to remediation for customers in similar circumstances; (v) unduly delaying the communication and
home.barclays/annualreport 49 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
migration activities in relation to client exposure, leaving them insufficient time to prepare; or (vi) colluding or inappropriately sharing
information with competitors.
▪ Litigation risk: members of the Barclays Bank UK Group may face legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and/or other actions or
proceedings regarding (among other things): (i) the conduct risks identified above, (ii) the interpretation and enforceability of
provisions in LIBOR-based contracts and securities, and (iii) the Barclays Bank UK Group’s preparation and readiness for the
replacement of LIBOR with alternative RFRs.
▪ Financial risk: the valuation of certain of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial assets and liabilities may change. Moreover,
transitioning to alternative RFRs may impact the ability of members of the Barclays Bank UK Group to calculate and model amounts
receivable by them on certain financial assets and determine the amounts payable on certain financial liabilities (such as debt securities
issued by them) because certain alternative RFRs (such as the Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) and the Secured Overnight
Financing Rate (SOFR)) are look-back rates whereas term rates (such as LIBOR) allow borrowers to calculate at the start of any interest
period exactly how much is payable at the end of such interest period. This may have an adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s cash flows.
▪ Operational risk: changes to existing reference rates and indices, discontinuation of any reference rate or index and transition to
alternative RFRs may require changes to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IT systems, trade reporting infrastructure, operational
processes, and controls. In addition, if any reference rate or index (such as LIBOR) is no longer available to calculate amounts payable,
the Barclays Bank UK Group may incur additional expenses in amending documentation for new and existing transactions and/or
effecting the transition from the original reference rate or index to a new reference rate or index.
▪ Accounting risk: an inability to apply hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 could lead to increased volatility in the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s financial results and performance.
Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial
condition, prospects and reputation.
For further details on the impacts of benchmark interest rate reforms on the Barclays Bank UK Group, refer to Note 35.
vii) Change delivery and execution risks
The Barclays Bank UK Group will need to adapt and/or transform the way it conducts business in response to changing customer
behaviour and needs, technological developments, regulatory expectations, increased competition and cost management initiatives.
Accordingly, effective management of transformation projects is required to successfully deliver the Barclays Bank UK Group's strategic
priorities, involving delivering both on externally driven programmes, as well as key business initiatives to deliver revenue growth, product
enhancement and operational efficiency outcomes. The magnitude, complexity and, at times, concurrent demands of the projects required
to meet these priorities can result in heightened execution risk.
The ability to execute the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy may be limited by operational capacity and the increasing complexity of the
regulatory environment in which the Barclays Bank UK Group operates. In addition, whilst the Barclays Bank UK Group continues to pursue
cost management initiatives, they may not be as effective as expected and cost saving targets may not be met.
The failure to successfully deliver or achieve any of the expected benefits of these strategic initiatives and/or the failure to meet customer
and stakeholder expectations could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations,
financial condition, customer outcomes, prospects and reputation.
Material existing and emerging risks impacting individual principal risks
i) Climate risk
The risks associated with climate change are subject to rapidly increasing societal, regulatory and political focus, both in the UK and
internationally. In line with regulatory expectations and requirements, the Group has embedded climate risk within the Enterprise Risk
Management Framework, to address the financial and operational risks resulting from: (i) the physical risk of climate change; and (ii) the
risk from the transition to a low-carbon economy. Climate risk is considered to be a driver of financial and operational risks.
Physical risks from climate change arise from a number of factors and relate to specific weather events (acute) and longer-term shifts in
the climate (chronic). The nature and timing of extreme weather events are uncertain, but they are increasing in frequency and in the
potential severity of economic impact. The potential impact on the economy includes, but is not limited to, lower GDP growth, higher
unemployment, shortage of raw materials and products due to supply chain disruptions and significant changes in asset prices and
profitability of industries. Damage to properties and operations of borrowers could decrease production capacity, increase operating costs,
impair asset values and the creditworthiness of customers leading to increased default rates, delinquencies, write-offs and impairment
charges in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolios. In addition, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s premises and resilience may also suffer
physical damage due to weather events leading to increased costs for the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Transition risks arising from moving towards a low-carbon economy include changes to policy, law and regulation, as well as changes in
societal expectations and consumer behaviours. When the transition is rapid and disorderly, these risks are more pronounced and can
impact the lending activities undertaken by Barclays Bank UK Group, as well as its lending portfolios and the value of the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s assets. As sentiment towards climate change shifts and societal preferences change, the Barclays Bank UK Group may face greater
scrutiny of the type of business it conducts, adverse media coverage and reputational damage, which may in turn impact customer
home.barclays/annualreport 50 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
demand for the Barclays Bank UK Group's products, returns on certain business activities and the value of certain assets resulting in
impairment charges.
For the Barclays Bank UK Group, UK mortgages & business banking Agriculture portfolios have been identified as sectors with ‘elevated’
climate risks given that they are sensitive to financial impacts as a result of the physical and/or transition risks of climate change. The UK
mortgage portfolio is affected by acute physical risks, including flooding, and chronic physical risks such as subsidence and coastal erosion.
From a transition risk perspective, the UK Mortgage portfolio is exposed to potential changes in energy efficiency performance
requirements. Both the physical and transition risks that the UK Mortgages portfolio is exposed to may impact property valuations and
affordability.
The Business Banking Agriculture portfolio is exposed to the physical risks of climate change such as flooding and drought, with the Arable
sub-sector being particularly exposed. The Dairy & Cattle sub-sector is exposed to the transition risks of climate change, including changes
in consumer behaviour, such as the increasing popularity of plant based diets, as well as the potential introduction of emissions taxation
given the sector’s significant contributor to the UK’s methane emissions.
In addition, the impacts of physical and transition climate risks can lead to second order connected risks, which have the potential to affect
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolios. For example, an increase in defaults and rising unemployment as a result of the physical and or
transition risks as a result of climate change may lead to wider deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients,
higher expected credit losses (ECLs), and defaults among retail customers.
From January 2022, climate risk became one of the principal risks within the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ERMF. Failure to adequately embed
financial and operational risks associated with climate change into its risk framework to appropriately measure, manage and disclose the
various financial and operational risks it faces as a result of climate change or failure to adapt the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy and
business model to the changing regulatory requirements and market expectations on a timely basis, may have a material and adverse
impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s level of business growth, competitiveness, profitability, capital requirements, cost of funding, and
financial condition.
In March 2020, the Barclays Group announced its ambition to become a net zero bank by 2050 and its commitment to align all of its
financing activities with the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement. In order to reach these ambitions and targets or any other climate-
related ambitions or targets the Barclays Group may commit to in future, the Barclays Bank UK Group will need to incorporate climate
considerations into its strategy, business model, the products and services it provides to customers and its financial and non-financial risk
management processes (including processes to measure and manage the various financial and non-financial risks the Barclays Bank UK
Group faces as a result of climate change). The Barclays Bank UK Group also needs to ensure that its strategy and business model adapt to
changing standards, industry and scientific practices, regulatory requirements and market expectations regarding climate change, which
remain under continuous development. There can be no assurance that these standards, practices, requirements and expectations will not
change in a manner that substantially increases the cost or effort for the Barclays Bank UK Group to achieve such ambitions and targets. In
addition, the Barclays Group’s ambitions and targets may prove more challenging to achieve due to changing circumstances and external
factors which are beyond our control, including geopolitical issues, energy security, energy poverty and other considerations such as just
transition to a low carbon economy. This may be exacerbated if the Barclays Group chooses or is required to accelerate its climate-related
ambitions or targets as a result of regulatory developments or stakeholder expectations.
Achieving the Barclays Group’s climate-related ambitions and targets will also depend on a number of factors outside the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s control, including reliable forecast of hazards from the physical climate models, availability of data and models to measure and
assess the climate impact of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s customers, advancements of low-carbon technologies and supportive public
policies in the markets where the Barclays Bank UK Group operates. If these external factors and other changes do not occur, or do not
occur on a timely basis, the Barclays Group may fail to achieve its climate-related ambitions and targets and this could have a material
adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and reputation.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to climate change, refer to the climate change risk management section.
ii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to
fully honour their obligations to members of the Barclays Bank UK Group, including the whole and timely payment of principal, interest,
collateral and other receivables. Credit risk is impacted by a number of factors outside the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control, including
wider economic conditions.
a) Impairment
Impairment is calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS9 which results in recognition of loss allowances, based on ECLs, on a
forward-looking basis using a broad scope of metrics. Measurement involves complex judgement and impairment charges are potentially
volatile and may not successfully predict actual credit losses, particularly under stressed conditions. Any failure by the Barclays Bank UK
Group to accurately estimate credit losses through ECLs could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business,
results of operations, financial condition and prospects. For further details, refer to Note 7.
b) Specific portfolios, sectors and concentrations
The Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality and recovery rates for loans and advances due from
borrowers and counterparties and is subject to a concentration of those risks where the Barclays Bank UK Group has significant exposures
home.barclays/annualreport 51 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
customers, colleagues, clients and markets. The requirements and expectations of the UK Senior Managers Regime, Certification Regime
and Conduct Rules reinforce additional accountabilities for individuals across the Barclays Bank UK Group with an increased focus on
governance and rigour. Failure to meet these requirements and expectations may lead to regulatory sanctions, both for the individuals and
the Barclays Bank UK Group.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to conduct risk, refer to the conduct risk management and conduct risk
performance sections.
vii)Reputation risk
Reputation risk is the risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision or business relationship will reduce trust in the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence.
Any material lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer service or operating efficiency may represent a potential reputation risk.
Stakeholder expectations constantly evolve, and so reputation risk is dynamic and varies between geographical regions, groups and
individuals. A risk arising in one business area can have an adverse effect upon the Barclays Bank UK Group’s overall reputation and any
one transaction, investment or event (in the perception of key stakeholders) can reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and
competence. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s association with sensitive topics and sectors has been, and in some instances continues to be,
an area of concern for stakeholders, including: (i) the financing of, and investments in, businesses which operate in sectors that are
sensitive because of their relative carbon intensity or local environmental impact; (ii) potential association with human rights violations
(including combating modern slavery) in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations or supply chain and by clients and customers; and (iii)
the financing of businesses which manufacture and export military and riot control goods and services.
Reputation risk could also arise from negative public opinion about the actual, or perceived, manner in which the Barclays Bank UK Group
(including its employees, clients and other associations) conducts its business activities, or the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial
performance, as well as actual or perceived practices in banking and the financial services industry generally. Modern technologies, in
particular online social media channels and other broadcast tools that facilitate communication with large audiences in short time frames
and with minimal costs, may significantly enhance and accelerate the distribution and effect of damaging information and allegations.
Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to retain and attract customers, in particular, corporate
and retail depositors, and to retain and motivate staff, and could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business,
results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
In addition to the above, reputation risk has the potential to arise from operational issues or conduct matters which cause detriment to
customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or the Barclays Bank UK Group (refer to ‘iv) Operational risk’ above).
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to reputation risk, refer to the reputation risk management and reputation
risk performance sections.
viii)Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Barclays Bank UK Group conducts activities in a highly regulated market which exposes it and its employees to legal risk arising from:
(i) the multitude of laws and regulations that apply to the businesses it operates, which are highly dynamic, may vary between jurisdictions
and/or conflict, and may be unclear in their application to particular circumstances especially in new and emerging areas; and (ii) the
diversified and evolving nature of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses and business practices. In each case, this exposes the Barclays
Bank UK Group and its employees to the risk of loss or the imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of members of the
Barclays Bank UK Group to meet their respective obligations, including legal, regulatory or contractual requirements. Legal risk may arise in
relation to any number of the material existing and emerging risks identified above.
A breach of applicable legislation and/or regulations by the Barclays Bank UK Group or its employees could result in criminal prosecution,
regulatory censure, potentially significant fines and other sanctions. Where clients, customers or other third parties are harmed by the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s conduct, this may also give rise to civil legal proceedings, including class actions. Other legal disputes may also
arise between the Barclays Bank UK Group and third parties relating to matters such as breaches or enforcement of legal rights or
obligations arising under contracts, statutes or common law. Adverse findings in any such matters may result in the Barclays Bank UK
Group being liable to third parties or may result in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s rights not being enforced or not being enforced in the
manner intended or desired by the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Details of legal, competition and regulatory matters to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed are set out in Note 24. In
addition to matters specifically described in Note 24, the Barclays Bank UK Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings which arise
in the ordinary course of business. The Barclays Bank UK Group is also subject to requests for information, investigations and other reviews
by regulators, governmental and other public bodies in connection with business activities in which the Barclays Bank UK Group is, or has
been, engaged. and may (from time to time) be subject to legal proceedings and other investigations relating to financial and non-financial
disclosures made by members of the Barclays Bank UK Group (including, but not limited to, in relation to ESG disclosures). Additionally, due
to the increasing number of new climate and sustainability-related laws and regulations (or laws and regulatory processes seeking to
protect the energy sector from any risks of divestment or challenges in accessing finance), growing demand from investors and customers
for environmentally sustainable products and services, and regulatory scrutiny, financial institutions, including the Barclays Bank UK Group,
may through their business activities face increasing litigation, conduct, enforcement and contract liability risks related to climate change,
environmental degradation and other social, governance and sustainability-related issues. Furthermore, there is a risk that shareholders,
campaign groups, customers and other interest groups could seek to take legal action against the Barclays Bank UK Group for financing or
contributing to climate change and environmental degradation.
home.barclays/annualreport 57 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Climate risk management
The impact on Financial and Operational Risks arising from climate change through: physical risks, risks associated with transitioning to a
lower carbon economy and connected risks arising as a result of second order impacts of these two drivers on portfolios.
Overview
Given the risks associated with climate change, and to support the Group’s ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, climate risk became a
principal risk in January 2022. To support the embedment of the principal risk, in 2022 the Group delivered a Climate Risk Plan with three
overarching objectives:
1. Governance Framework: Establish a Climate Risk Committee (CRC), a Climate Risk Controls Forum, and refresh the Board Risk
Committee reporting. The Barclays Bank UK Climate Risk Forum escalates to the Barclays UK Risk Committee and also into the Group CRC.
2. Scenario Analysis: Build out the vision and plan for undertaking scenario analysis exercises. This involved developing a climate scenario
analysis framework
3. Carbon Modelling: Expand the BlueTrack model for measuring and tracking financed emissions to cover our automobiles and residential
real estate portfolios, in addition to energy, power, cement and steel.
For the Barclays Bank UK Group, UK mortgages & business banking agriculture portfolios have been identified as sectors with ‘elevated’
climate risks given that they are sensitive to financial impacts as a result of the physical and/or transition risks of climate change. These
portfolios are therefore the focus for scenario analysis and carbon modelling within Barclays Bank PLC UK.
Organisation and Structure
On behalf of the Barclays PLC Board, the Barclays PLC BRC reviews and approves the Barclays Group’s approach to managing the financial
and operational risks associated with climate change. Reputation risk is the responsibility of the Barclays PLC Board, which directly handles
the most material issues facing the Barclays Group. Broader sustainability matters and other reputation risk issues associated with climate
change are coordinated by the Sustainability team. The Barclays Group Head of Climate Risk reports directly to Group Chief Risk Officer.
On behalf of the Barclays Bank UK Board, the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews and approves the Barclays Bank UK
approach to managing the financial and operational risks associated with climate change. Reputation risk is the responsibility of the
Barclays Bank UK Board, which directly handles the most material issues facing Barclays Bank UK. Broader sustainability matters and other
reputation risk issues associated with climate change are coordinated by the Sustainability team.
Within Barclays Bank UK, a Climate Risk lead was appointed in 2021, and a Barclays Bank UK Climate Risk Forum was established in
November 2021. The forum provides support, guidance and oversight of the implementation and operation of Climate Risk within Barclays
Bank UK. The forum undertakes duties such as recommending climate risk mandates and limits, monitoring the Barclays Bank UK climate
risk profile and considering emerging risks or expected trends pertaining to Barclays Bank UK elevated and non-elevated portfolios. The
forum also monitors physical and transition risk exposure and reviews risk measurement developments in relation to risk appetite, stress
testing, scenario analysis and stress loss quantification. The Barclays Bank UK Climate Risk Forum escalates to the Barclays UK Risk
Committee and also into the Group CRC.
To support the oversight of Barclays Group climate risk profile, a CRC has been established. The CRC is chaired by the Head of Climate Risk,
who took the role of Climate Principal Risk owner in 2021, reporting directly to the Group Chief Risk Officer. The CRC is a subcommittee of
the Group Risk Committee (GRC), the most senior executive body responsible for review and challenge of risk practices and risk profile, for
climate risk and other principal risk types. The authority of the CRC is delegated by the GRC.
The Climate Risk Control Forum (CRCF) was established in July 2022 and escalates to GRC via the Group Controls Committee. The purpose
of the CRCF is to oversee the consistent and effective implementation and operation of the Barclays Controls Framework as relating to the
Climate Risk. It reviews the control environment relating to Climate Risk, including risk events, policy and issues management. Climate Risk
assurance groups have been established and are responsible for performing Climate Risk specific reviews to ensure we are continually
improving and addressing identified issues in our risk practices.
home.barclays/annualreport 59 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
The elevation of climate risk to Principal Risk included establishing the following:
• A Climate Risk Framework that defines climate risk and summarises the approach to identification, measurement, monitoring
and reporting of climate risk
• Climate Risk Appetite and constraint at the Group level established in line with the Group’s risk appetite approach and informed
by scenario analysis
• Climate Risk Register is used to inform risk appetite. This includes a breakdown of key risk drivers for physical and transition
risks, and materiality ratings which are inferred from the results of the 2020 climate Internal Stress Test and 2021 Bank of
England’s Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario (CBES). The Climate Risk Register continues to align with the Group’s Risk
Register Taxonomy
Climate risk across Financial and Operational Risks is managed via a Climate Change Financial Risk and Operational Risk Policy (CCFOR),
which is embedded in each of the Financial and Operational Principal Risk Frameworks.
Climate risk across Model, Conduct, Reputation and Legal Principal Risks are out of the scope of the CRF and continue to be managed
under their respective Principal Risk Frameworks.
The table below sets out how climate risk is integrated across Barclays using the ERMF aligned Climate Risk Framework, CCFOR and the
Climate Change Standard.
Risk appetite
In 2022, as part of establishing a principal risk, Barclays defined a risk appetite statement and constraint for climate risk. The statement
outlines that Barclays views climate change as a driver of financial and operational risk. Barclays has appetite to manage climate risk in line
with its climate ambition and to reduce financed emissions in line with disclosed targets. Targets to 2025 are set for energy and power.
Targets to 2030 are set for energy, power, cement and steel. In 2023, a target for auto manufacturing will also be set.
An assessment of progress to reduce financed emissions against the disclosed targets was made. It noted that reaching even the lower
emissions reduction in the disclosed ranges may prove challenging and that a clearer forward plan be defined to set out the range of
management actions that could be taken to meet the disclosed target ranges, including a more detailed understanding of client transition
expectations and the external dependencies and variables beyond Barclays control that may will determine the pace of transition. For more
detail on Barclays disclosed targets see the Barclays PLC 2022 Annual Report.
home.barclays/annualreport 60 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)
Climate Risk Framework
Climate Change
Climate Change Financial Risk and Operational Risk Policy
Standard
Treasury and
Responsibilities Climate Risk Credit Risk Market Risk Operational Risk Reputation Risk
Capital Risk
Provide climate Monitor portfolio Identify and Identify exposure Integrate climate Outline
horizon scanning level exposure to assess climate- to climate risk change across minimum
information and the physical and related risk different risk requirements
emerging trends to transition risks of factors Consider key risk categories, e.g. and controls for
BRC and Principal climate change indicators and Operational Reputation Risk
Risk Leads Apply stress limits to support Recovery Planning management
Review individual scenarios, assess risk management and Premises relating to client
Recommend risk obligors’ exposure stress losses and relationships or
appetite statement, to climate risk via set risk limits Include in ICAAP Include climate transactions
constraints and the Climate Lens and ILAAP change within risk
exclusions to BRC questionnaire assessment Outline the
Oversight by Oversight by processes expected
Define areas of Assess climate risk Market Risk Treasury & including Strategic business
concern and within Sovereign Committee and Capital Risk Risk Assessment behaviours in
recommend Credit Risk reviews Board Risk Committee and relation to these
scenario analysis Committee Board Risk issues
priorities Include material Committee
exposures to Outline the
Lead the climate risk within approach to
development of the Internal Capital enhanced due
climate-specific risk Adequacy diligence.
methodologies Assessment
Process (ICAAP)
Interpret stress test
results for Oversight by Legal
relevance as drivers Entity Climate Risk
of risk Forums and
relevant Risk
Review and Management
challenge risk type Committees as
approaches and appropriate,
support including regular
consistency across climate risk
risk types reporting up to
Board Risk
Ownership AClgimgraetgea Rteis akn d CCoremdimt Rititseke level Market Risk Treasury & Operational Risk Group Head of
Accountable Accountable Accountable Capital Risk Accountable Sustainability
Officer Officer Officer Accountable Officer
Officer
home.barclays/annualreport 61 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Climate-related Risk Management Processes
Credit Risk Market Risk Treasury and Capital Risk Operational Risk
Frequency of Annually Quarterly Various (quarterly for Annually
assessment pensions, IRRBB and
liquidity risk; annually for
capital risk)
Risk identification Exposure in mortgage Identified by assessing Identified through risk Confirmed operational risks
portfolio identified through climate-related risk factors assessment activity across associated with climate
a concentration risk across asset classes, certain industries and asset change are included in the
framework. sectors and geographies, classes to analyse and Bank’s Operational Risk
and aggregating market assess exposures which Taxonomy. Climate risks
Exposure in Barclays Bank risk exposures from may be impacted by are included within the
PLC Identified as part of climate-related risks. climate-related risks. Strategic Risk Assessment
sovereign, portfolio and process.
obligor credit annual
reviews.
Risk assessment Portfolios are monitored Measured by using adverse Measured as part of stress Established reporting on
through regular reporting multi-asset stress scenarios testing and key risk internal and external
of climate metrics and are applied to individual risk indicator monitoring. climate-related risk events
assessed against mandates factors reflecting climate to the Climate Risk Control
and limits where change risks across sectors, Forum. Risk tolerances for
appropriate. countries and regions. premises and resilience
Clients in elevated risk risks are reviewed so these
sectors above a threshold adequately capture climate-
exposure will have their related risk drivers.
credit risk exposure to
Climate Risk qualitatively
assessed through the Credit
Climate Lens questionnaire.
Future exposure to Climate
Risk as a driver to Credit
Risk is quantified through
scenario analysis and stress
testing exercises.
In addition to the Credit
Climate Lens questionnaire,
Sovereign Credit Reviews
are also carried out for
Sovereigns above a
threshold exposure to
assess their susceptibility to
Climate risks.
home.barclays/annualreport 62 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Liquidity risk management (audited)
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Barclays Bank UK Group in order to retain the confidence of the financial markets
and maintain the sustainability of the business. Treasury and Capital Risk have created a framework to manage all liquidity risk exposures
under both normal and stressed conditions. The framework is designed to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount, quality
and funding tenor profile to remain within the liquidity risk appetite as expressed by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board. The liquidity risk
appetite is monitored against both internal and regulatory liquidity metrics.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing liquidity risk within the set risk appetite. Both Risk and Treasury contribute to the
production of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). The Barclays Bank UK Treasury and Capital Risk function is
responsible for the management and governance of the liquidity risk framework, consistently with Barclays PLC Group policies and
framework and with Barclays Bank UK CRO mandates.
The framework established by Treasury and Capital Risk is designed to deliver the appropriate term and structure of funding, consistent
with the liquidity risk appetite set by the Board.
The framework incorporates a range of ongoing business management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
balance sheet and contingent liabilities. Limit setting and transfer pricing are tools designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken, and
drive the appropriate mix of funds. In addition, Barclays Group maintains a recovery plan which includes application to the Barclays Bank
UK Group. Adherence to limits reduces the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s obligations as they fall due.
The Barclays Bank UK Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan, internal stress tests, regulatory stress test results, and the
Barclays Bank UK contribution to the Barclays Group recovery plan. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and
managing liquidity risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s funding management objectives, funding plan and risk framework. The
Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and reviews the liquidity risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of the
management of liquidity risk. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and reviews liquidity risk appetite at
least annually and the impact of stress scenarios on the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan/forecast in order to agree the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s projected funding abilities.
Capital risk management (audited)
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management of the capital position, regular stress testing and a robust capital
governance framework. The objectives of the framework are to maintain adequate capital for the Barclays Bank UK Group to withstand the
impact of the risks that may arise under normal and stressed conditions, and maintain adequate capital to cover current and forecast
business needs and associated risks to provide a viable and sustainable business offering.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing and monitoring capital adequacy. The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury and Capital
Risk function provides oversight of capital risk. Production of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process is
the responsibility of Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury.
Capital risk management is underpinned by a control framework and policies. Capital plans reflect the capital management strategy and
are implemented to deliver on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s objectives, which are aligned to those of Barclays Group. The Barclays Bank UK
Group-specific capital plans are developed in conformance with the Barclays Group control framework and policies for capital risk.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan, internal stress tests and results of regulatory stress
tests. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board also approves the recovery options documented in the Barclays Group recovery plan pertaining to
the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and managing capital risk in line with the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s capital management objectives, capital plan and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and
reviews the capital risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of the management of capital risk. The Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and sets risk appetite at a minimum annually and the impact of stress scenarios
on the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan/forecast in order to agree Barclays Bank UK Group’s projected capital resources.
Management assures compliance with minimum regulatory capital requirements by reporting to the Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO with
oversight by the Barclays Group Treasury Committee, as required. In 2022, Barclays complied with all regulatory minimum capital
requirements.
Pension risk
Barclays Bank UK PLC is a participating employer in the UK Retirement Fund (UKRF), whose assets and liabilities are currently held on the
Barclays Bank PLC balance sheet. This participation is expected to cease in 2025. The nature of pension risk for Barclays Bank UK PLC is
contingent, specifically on a Barclays Bank PLC default. Refer to note 28 Staff Costs for further detail.
home.barclays/annualreport 65 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Interest rate risk in the banking book management (IRRBB)
Overview
Interest rate risk in the banking book is driven by customer deposit taking and lending activities, investments in the liquid asset portfolio
and funding activities. As per the Barclays Bank UK Group’s policy to remain within the defined risk appetite, hedging strategies are
executed to mitigate the various IRRBB risks that result from these activities. However, the Barclays Bank UK Group remains susceptible to
interest rate risk and other non-traded market risks from the following key sources:
▪ Interest rate and repricing risk: the risk that net interest income could be adversely impacted by a change in interest rates, differences in
the timing of interest rate changes between assets and liabilities, and other constraints on interest rate changes as per product terms and
conditions.
▪ Customer behavioural risk: the risk that net interest income could be adversely impacted by the discretion that customers and
counterparties may have in respect of being able to vary from their contractual obligations with the Barclays Bank UK Group. This risk is
often referred to by industry regulators as ‘embedded option risk’.
▪ Investment risks in the liquid asset portfolio: the risk that the fair value of assets held in the liquid asset portfolio and associated risk
management portfolios could be adversely impacted by market volatility, creating volatility in capital directly.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group ALCO, together with the Barclays Group Treasury Committee, are responsible for monitoring and managing
IRRBB risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management objectives and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee and
Treasury and Capital Risk Committee monitor and review the IRRBB risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of
the management of IRRBB. The Barclays Bank UK Group BRC reviews the interest rate risk profile, including setting of risk appetite at a
minimum annually and the impact of stress scenarios on the interest rate risk of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s banking books.
In addition, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IRRBB policy sets out the processes and key controls required to identify all IRRBB risks arising
from banking book operations, to monitor the risk exposures via a set of metrics with a frequency in line with the risk management horizon,
and to manage these risks within agreed risk appetite and limits.
Operational risk management
The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or due to external events
(for example fraud) where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.
Overview
The management of operational risk has three key objectives:
▪ deliver an operational risk capability owned and used by business leaders to enable sound risk decisions over the long term
▪ provide the frameworks, policies and standards to enable management to meet their risk management responsibilities while the second
line of defence provides robust, independent, and effective oversight and challenge
▪ deliver a consistent and aggregated measurement of operational risk that will provide clear and relevant insights, so that the right
management actions can be taken to keep the operational risk profile consistent with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, the stated
risk appetite and stakeholder needs.
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates within a system of internal controls that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without
exposing Barclays Bank UK Group to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damages.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and
functional units where the risk arises. The operational risk profile and control environment is reviewed by business management through
business risk committees and control committees. Operational risk issues escalated from these meetings are considered through the
second line of defence review meetings. Depending on their nature, the outputs of these meetings are presented to the Operational Risk
Profile Forum, the Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Risk Committee, the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee or the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee. In addition, specific reports are prepared by
Operational Risk on a regular basis for the GRC and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee.
Businesses and functions are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an event-driven basis. The reports include a
profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of key controls, operational risk
events and a review of scenarios. Specific reports are prepared by the business and Barclays Bank UK Group Operational Risk on a regular
basis for the Barclays UK Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Risk Committee, and the BRC.
The Barclays Group Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Barclays Group-wide
Operational Risk Framework, meanwhile the Barclays Bank UK PLC Head of Operational Risk is responsible for overseeing the portfolio of
operational risk across all Barclays Bank UK Group businesses.
The Operational Risk function acts in a second line of defence capacity, and is responsible for defining and overseeing the implementation
of the framework and monitoring the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk profile. The Operational Risk function alerts management
when risk levels exceed acceptable tolerance in order to drive timely decision making and actions by the first line of defence.
home.barclays/annualreport 66 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Operational risk categories
Operational risks are grouped into risk categories to support effective risk management, measurement and reporting. These comprise: Data
Management Risk; Financial Reporting Risk; Fraud Risk; Information Security Risk; Operational Recovery Planning Risk; Payments Process
Risk; People Risk; Premises Risk; Physical Security Risk; Change Delivery Management Risk; Supplier Risk; Tax Risk; Technology Risk and
Transaction Operations Risk.
In addition to the above, operational risk encompasses the risk associated with compliance with Group Resolution Planning Prudential
regulatory requirements.
Connected risks
Barclays Bank UK Group also recognises that there are certain threats/risk drivers which are interconnected and have the potential to
impact Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategic objectives. These are referred to as Connected Risks and require an overarching and integrated
risk management and/or reporting approach. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s Connected Risks include Cyber, Data, Resilience and Third-
Party Service Providers.
For definitions of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Operational Risk Categories and Connected Risks, refer to pages 121 to 122 of the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Pillar 3 Report 2022.
Model risk management
The potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses models to support a broad range of activities, including informing business decisions and strategies,
measuring and limiting risk, valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, managing client assets, and meeting
reporting requirements.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Group has a dedicated Model Risk Management (MRM) function that consists of five teams: (i) Independent Validation Unit
(IVU), responsible for model validation and approval; (ii) Group Model Risk Governance, responsible for model risk governance, controls
and reporting, as well as providing oversight for compliance of the Model Owner community with the Model Risk Framework; (iii)
Framework team, responsible for the Model Risk Policy and associated standards; (iv) Strategy and Transformation, responsible for
inventory, strategy, communications and business management and (v) Model Risk Measurement and Quantification (MRMQ), responsible
for the design of the framework and methodology to measure and, where possible, quantify model risk. It is also responsible for the
strategic Validation Centre of Excellence (VCoE), which is an independent quality assurance function within MRM with the mandate to
review and challenge validation outcomes.
The Model Risk Framework consists of the Model Risk Policy and standards. The policy prescribes group-wide, end-to-end requirements
for the identification, measurement and management of model risk, covering model documentation, development, monitoring, annual
review, independent validation and approval, change and reporting processes. The policy is supported by global standards covering model
inventory, documentation, validation, testing and monitoring, overlays, risk appetite, and stress testing challenger models.
The function reports to the Barclays Group CRO and operates a global framework. Implementation of best practice standards is a central
objective of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The key model risk management activities include:
▪ Correctly identifying models across all relevant areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and recording models in the Barclays Bank UK
Group Models Database (GMD), the Barclays Group-wide model inventory
▪ Enforcing that every model has a model owner who is accountable for the model. The model owner must sign off models prior to
submission to IVU for validation and maintain that the model presented to IVU is and remains fit for purpose
▪ Overseeing that every model is subject to validation and approval by IVU, prior to being used and on a continual basis
▪ Defining model risk appetite in terms of risk tolerance, and qualitative metrics which are used to track and report model risk
Conduct risk management
The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
products and services.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group defines, manages and mitigates conduct risk with the objective of providing good customer and client
outcomes and protecting market integrity.
home.barclays/annualreport 67 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Conduct risk incorporates market integrity, customer protection, financial crime and product design and review risks.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Conduct Risk Management Framework (CRMF) outlines how the Barclays Bank UK Group manages and measures its Conduct Risk
Profile. The Group Chief Compliance Officer is accountable for developing, maintaining and overseeing a group-wide CRMF. The Barclays
Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for providing effective oversight, management and escalation of conduct risk in line
with the CRMF at the Entity and Subsidiary level. This includes overseeing the development and maintenance of the relevant conduct risk
policies and standards including monitoring and reporting on the consistent application and effectiveness of the implementation of
controls to manage conduct risk. It is the responsibility of the first line of defence to establish controls to manage its performance and
assess conformance to these policies and controls.
Senior managers are accountable within their areas of responsibility for owning and managing conduct risk in accordance with the CRMF,
as defined within their regulatory Statement of Responsibilities.
Compliance as an independent second line function oversees that conduct risks are effectively identified, managed, monitored and
escalated, and has a key role in helping Barclays achieve the right conduct outcomes and evolve a conduct-focused culture.
The governance of conduct risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group is fulfilled through management committees and forums operated by
the first and second lines of defence with clear escalation and reporting lines into Board level committees. The Barclays Bank UK Group Risk
Committee is the primary second line governance committees for the oversight of the conduct risk profile. The Barclays Bank UK risk
committee’s responsibilities include the identification and discussion of any emerging conduct risks exposures in the Barclays Bank UK
Group.
Reputation risk management
The risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
integrity and/or competence.
Overview
A reduction of trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and competence may reduce the attractiveness of the Barclays Bank UK
Group to stakeholders and could lead to negative publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing and potential
client business, reduced workforce morale and difficulties in recruiting talent. Ultimately it may destroy shareholder value.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays PLC Board is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management of
reputation risk.
The Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for overseeing the management of Reputation Risk for Barclays Bank
UK Group and the Head of Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility is responsible for developing a reputation risk policy and associated
standards, including tolerances against which data is monitored, reported on and escalated, as required. The Reputation Risk Management
Framework sets out what is required to manage reputation risk across the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The primary responsibility for identifying and managing reputation risk and adherence to the control requirements sits with the business
and support functions where the risk arises.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is required to operate within established reputation risk appetite, and its component businesses prepare
reports for its respective Risk and Board Risk Committees highlighting their most significant current and potential reputation risks and
issues and how they are being managed. These reports are a key internal source of information for the quarterly reputation risk reports
which are prepared for the Barclays UK Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
home.barclays/annualreport 68 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
Overview
Climate Risk refers to the financial and operational risks arising from climate change, through physical risks, risks arising from the transition
to a low carbon economy and connectedness risks arising from the second order impacts of these two drivers.
For Barclays Bank UK PLC, UK Mortgages and Business Banking Agriculture have been identified as portfolios with ‘elevated’ exposure to
the physical and transition risks of climate change.
The UK Mortgage portfolio is affected by physical risks, including flooding, subsidence and coastal erosion. From a transition risk
perspective, the UK Mortgage portfolio is exposed to potential changes in energy efficiency performance requirements. Both the physical
and transition risks that the UK Mortgages portfolio is exposed to may impact property valuations and affordability. To manage these risks,
BUK Mortgages introduced a very high flood risk mandate in 2021, followed by a very high subsidence risk mandate in 2022. Climate Risks
are considered across all portfolios during Barclays Bank UK PLC’s annual mandate and scale review.
The Business Banking Agriculture portfolio is exposed to the physical risks of climate change such as flooding and drought. The Dairy &
Cattle sub-sector is exposed to the transition risks of climate change, including changes in consumer behaviour, as well as the potential
introduction of emissions taxation given the sector’s significant contribution to the UK’s methane emissions.
Subsidence: Total Volume of stock (as % of total UK Mortgage book) per risk band
Subsidence is driven by the interplay of precipitation, temperature and soil type factors, which result in volumetric changes to the soil.
Increased volatility in weather conditions, as a result of climate change, contributes to the acceleration of subsidence impacts. Some areas,
particularly those with high concentrations of clay soil (i.e. London), are more susceptible to subsidence. This shrink-swell impact can
cause localised property level impacts, resulting in impacts to the valuation of a property, or impacts to affordability through remediation
costs and high insurance premiums.
In 2022 Barclays on-boarded a third party to support climate risk data enhancements within the UK Mortgages portfolio, which included
the ability to map the UK Mortgage portfolio to subsidence risk bands based on the near surface subsidence hazard level. The scoring is
based on soil properties, in particular the extent to which the soil will shrink under hot and dry weather conditions, as well as the predicted
temperature and probability of extreme rainfall. These variables are combined with subsidence claims per postcode to generate a pseudo-
quantitative score, where a property in class 10 is around ten times as likely as a property in class 1 to make a subsidence claim.
Climate risks have been incorporated into annual mandate and scale reviews across Barclays Bank UK’s portfolios. In 2022, Barclays Bank
UK introduced a very high subsidence risk mandate in order to monitor and manage the percentage of properties (stock) within the UK
Mortgage book at the highest risk of subsidence.
As at 30 September 2022a
Risk Band Volume %
1 9.5%
2 35.3%
3 23.0%
4 4.6%
5 4.6%
6 3.3%
7 2.4%
8 0.0%
9 0.2%
10 9.9%
Missing 7.0%
Flood: Total Volume of stock (as % of total UK Mortgage book) per risk band
Flooding in the UK is forecast to increase over time, with the potential for this increase to accelerate if greenhouse gas emissions are not
reduced. The increased risk of flooding has the potential to impact the valuation of properties directly, as well as indirectly where areas may
become high risk and property demand falls. Remediation costs, high insurance premiums or potential lack of insurance coverage have the
potential to impact affordability.
In 2022 Barclays on-boarded a third party to support climate risk data enhancements within the UK Mortgages portfolio, this resulted in
improvements in granularity, moving from postcode level to property level flood data. Flood Risk bands are based on average annual loss,
generated using flood hazard frequency and flood depth from tidal, surface, pluvial and fluvial flooding and accounting for the mitigating
impact of flood defences where these are present. Properties in the Moderate and High Risk bands are expected to face above average
insurance costs given their elevated exposure to flood risk. Those within the Very High band are considered likely to cede to Flood Re.b
In 2021 Barclays Bank UK introduced a very high flood risk mandate within the UK Mortgage portfolio to monitor and manage the
percentage of properties (stock) at very high flood risk.
Notes
a Data collected from 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2022 closest available dataset.
b Flood Re is a flood re-insurance scheme, which aims to make the flood cover proportion of household insurance policies more affordable for properties at the
highest risk of flooding.
home.barclays/annualreport 70 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
As at 30 September 2022a
Risk Band Volume %
Negligible 78.8%
Very Low 8.0%
Low 2.0%
Moderate 1.8%
High 2.8%
Very High 1.3%
Missing 5.4%
Note
a Data collected from 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2022 closest available dataset.
Carbon-related assets
We also disclose concentrations of credit exposure to carbon-related assets. The TCFD recommends that carbon-related assets are those
assets tied to the energy, transportation, materials and buildings and agriculture, food and forest products sectors. All of the sectors that
the TCFD now considers to be carbon-related assets include the sectors that Barclays considers at elevated risk from the impacts of climate
change. These can be found in the table below.
Elevated risk sectors
Credit exposures
Barclays is working to understand the risks associated with sectors sensitive to the impacts from climate change. Disclosing risk
management metrics and quantitative credit exposures supports this approach and our ongoing alignment with the TCFD
recommendations. The sectors highlighted blue in the table represent those that the Group considers at an elevated risk from the impacts of
climate change. However, in each sector there will exist a range of vulnerabilities and as such these figures do not represent elevated
carbon emission exposures and should not be interpreted as an indicator of relative carbon intensity. These sectors have been identified
through an analysis of Barclays Industrial Classifications by portfolio and benchmarked against Moody’s and other external sources, with
additional input from subject matter experts.
UK Mortgages
For 2022, UK Mortgage assets have been included in the table below. Mortgages do not meet the TCFD definition of a carbon-related asset.
However, Mortgages are considered carbon-related, and have been covered as part of our work to assess the financed emissions across
our portfolio and measure the baseline emissions that we finance across sectors. Barclays Bank UK PLC treats UK Retail Mortgages as an
'elevated' climate risk portfolio from a risk management perspective.
Elevated risk sector Drivers of risk
Agriculture Evolving taxation on emissions may impact production methods, supply chain and farm viability. Reduced
demand for meat and dairy as a consequence of shifts in consumer behaviour. Volatile weather conditions and
extreme weather events may impact farm credit quality.
Aviation More stringent air emission and carbon regulations, requiring high levels of capital investment and Research &
Development (R&D) expenditure.
Automotive Policy pressure to cut emissions to meet regional emission requirements, requiring high levels of capital
investment and R&D expenditure. Phase out of fossil fuel vehicles and introduction of low emission zones in
city centres.
Cement Being one of the hard to abate sectors, policy pressure to cut emissions requires high levels of capital
investment and R&D expenditure.
Chemicals Increasing environmental regulation, including carbon regulations. The increasing efforts to eliminate single-
use plastics and improve recycling to prevent marine pollution could also impact demand for products used in
plastic manufacture.
Coal Mining and Coal Reduction in demand of thermal coal, as utilities transition away from fossil fuel. More stringent air emissions,
Terminals resulting in higher levels of capital investment.
Mining (including Rising costs as a result of tighter environmental regulations and increasing water stress.
diversified miners)
Mortgages Evolving minimum energy efficiency requirements and increasing physical risks from flood, subsidence and
coastal erosion have the potential to impact house prices and homeowner affordability.
Oil and Gas Policy pressure to cut emissions, exposure to carbon taxes and overall increasing environmental regulation of
operations and restrictions on access to new resources. Over time, falling demand for fossil fuels
Power Utilities Policy pressure to cut emissions, leading to increased capital expenditure costs, plus potential exposure to
carbon taxes.
Road Haulage Policy pressure to cut emissions, requiring high levels of capital investment.
Shipping Policy pressure to cut emissions, requiring high levels of capital investment.
Steel Being an energy-intensive sector, the sector is exposed to the policy pressure to cut emissions and evolving air
pollution regulation
home.barclays/annualreport 71 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
Carbon-related assets (Incl. sub-sector breakdown)
2022 2021
Loans & Loan Loans & Loan
advances commitments Total advances commitments Total Change
£m £m £m £m £m £m %
Agriculture, Food and Forest Products 3,917 790 4,707 4,257 897 5,154 (9%)
Agriculture 3,662 744 4,406 3,960 846 4,806
Food, Bev and Tobacco 215 35 250 249 40 289
Paper and Forest Products 40 11 51 48 11 59
Energy 27 4 31 33 6 39 (21%)
Coal Mining and Coal Terminals 0 0 0 0 0 0
Oil & Gas 22 4 26 27 5 32
Power Utilities 5 0 5 6 1 7
Materials and Building 10,001 823 10,824 12,535 1,040 13,575 (20%)
Cement 8 1 9 9 1 10
Chemicals 36 9 45 46 10 56
Construction and Materials 462 82 544 640 86 726
Homebuilding & Property Development 1,159 183 1,342 1,624 181 1,805
Manufacturing 549 97 646 713 102 815
Metals 29 8 37 43 9 52
Mining (Incl. diversified miners) 5 1 6 7 1 8
Packaging Manufacturers: Metal, Glass
5 1 6 5 1 6
and Plastics
Real Estate Management and
7,746 440 8,186 9,444 648 10,092
Development
Steel 2 1 3 4 1 5
Transport 500 66 566 711 73 784 (28%)
Automotive 16 4 20 24 5 29
Aviation 5 1 6 5 1 6
Other Transport Services 215 19 234 286 20 306
Ports 0 0 0 1 0 1
Road Haulage 240 37 277 365 42 407
Shipping 24 5 29 30 5 35
Carbon-related assets in UK Retail
162,263 12,103 174,366 158,113 11,315 169,428 3%
Mortgages
Subtotal (Elevated risk sectors) 4,025 807 4,832 4,483 918 5,401 (11%)
Carbon-related Assets Grand Total 176,708 13,786 190,494 175,649 13,331 188,980 1%
Total Loans & Advances & Loan
223,207 58,072 281,279 220,271 59,237 279,508 1%
Commitments
Carbon-related assets / Total Loans &
79% 24% 68% 80% 23% 68%
Advances & Loan Commitments
home.barclays/annualreport 72 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
All disclosures in this section, pages 74 to 116, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
Credit risk represents a significant risk to the Barclays Bank UK Group and mainly arises from exposure to retail and wholesale loans and
advances.
Credit risk disclosures include many of the recommendations of the Taskforce on Disclosures about Expected Credit Losses (DECL) and it is
expected that relevant disclosures will continue to be developed in future periods.
Summary of performance in the period
Loans: Gross loans and advances at amortised cost to customers and banks have increased by £2.5bn compared to £222.5bn in 2021. This
includes £6bn increase in debt securities driven by Treasury investments and a £4bn growth in Mortgages. This is partially offset by
wholesale lending materially within Business banking due to repayment of Bounce Back Loans (BBLS).
Maximum exposure: During 2022, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s net exposure to credit risk decreased 3% to £171bn (2021: £177bn).
Overall, the extent to which the Barclays Bank UK Group held mitigation against its total exposure remained broadly stable at 53% (2021:
53%).
Credit quality: Delinquencies remain well below pre-pandemic levels. A range of activities are in progress to protect our existing defensive
positioning against the current macroeconomic headwinds. Gross exposures for government supported loan schemes stands at £7.3bn as
at 2022 (2021: £10.4bn). Further analysis on the credit quality of assets is presented in the approach to management and representation of
credit quality section.
Stage decomposition: A net increase of £3.1bn is observed in Stage 2 gross exposures driven by a weaker macroeconomic forecast. Stage
3 balances decreased by £0.4bn to £3.5bn compared to 2021 primarily due to write-offs in retail unsecured lending. Refer to pages 89 to
90 for further details.
Scenario: During the year, the economic risk from the COVID-19 pandemic has receded; however, economic uncertainty linked to high
inflation in major economies and heightened geopolitical tensions persists. For Q422, macroeconomic scenarios have been refreshed and
are designed around a broad range of economic outcomes. The Downside 2 scenario has been updated with reference to the most recent
BoE Annual Cyclical Scenario (ACS) stress test. This has resulted in a movement in weights from the upside scenarios to the downside
scenarios.
ECL: Impairment allowances on loans and advances at amortised cost including off-balance sheet has decreased to £1,758m (2021:
£2,215m) primarily driven by write-offs. On-balance sheet coverage has reduced to 0.8% (2021: 1.0%) due to movement in portfolio mix
towards lower ECL balances, revised recovery expectations and evolving macroeconomic scenarios. Coverage levels remain strong.
Charge: Credit impairment charges were £268m (2021: £(371)m release). The charges reflect an updated macroeconomic scenario
together with a partial return to more normalised levels of customer behaviour.
Management adjustments: Macroeconomic uncertainty PMAs at 31 December 2022 amount to £218m (2021: £634m). The reduction is
informed by the release of COVID-19 related adjustments as credit performance stabilises at or below pre-pandemic levels which is
reflected in the models. PMAs are in place for the anticipated stress arising from the cost-of-living crisis. Refer to the Management
adjustment to models for impairment section on page 90 for further details.
Climate: Whilst there have been no separately identifiable charges relating to climate risk in the 2022 reported ECL, it is acknowledged that
impairment could increase over time as risks become more tangible and impact consumers and clients through physical risk or via impacts
from the transition to a low carbon economy.
Further detail can be found in the Financial statements section in Note 8 Credit impairment charges/(releases). Description of terminology
can be found in the glossary, available at home.barclays/annualreport. Refer to the credit risk management section for details of
governance, policies and procedures.
home.barclays/annualreport 74 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Model risk, Conduct risk, Reputation risk, Legal risk
All disclosures in this section, pages 133 and 134, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Model risk
Barclays is committed to continuously improving model risk management and made a number of enhancements in 2022, including:
• improved transparency and oversight of model risk through implementation of upgrades to model risk governance structure
• upgraded model risk standards to improve readability, consistency and framework cohesiveness
• refreshed the model risk controls suite, providing additional clarity on several controls and ensuring evidentiary requirements are
aligned to MRM’s BAU processes
• enhanced the Group Model Risk Appetite Statement, incorporating model quality and uncertainty around a model’s output
• strengthened validation practices through expansion of model-level validation procedures, implementation of an on-going
validation training program and embedment of a validation quality assurance process
• executed on hiring strategy by expanding the model risk team to support a wider range of model validation demand and newly
emerging model risks
• progressed model inception validation by bringing more than 95% of model risk (by model output) into compliance with the model
risk management framework
Conduct risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to continuing to drive the right culture throughout all levels of the organisation. The Barclays
Bank UK Group will continue to enhance effective management of Conduct Risk and appropriately consider the relevant tools, governance
and management information in decision-making processes. Focus on the management of conduct risk is ongoing and, alongside other
relevant business and control management information, the Barclays Bank UK Group conduct risk dashboards is a key component of this.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continues to review the role and impact of conduct risk events and issues in the remuneration process at both
the individual and business level.
Throughout 2022, the Barclays Bank UK Group maintained focus on new and heightened inherent conduct risks, including those relating to
the cost of living crisis, and continues to monitor these on an ongoing basis.
Businesses have continued to assess the potential customer, client and market impacts of strategic change. As part of the 2022 Medium-
Term Planning Process and associated Strategic Risk Assessment, material conduct risks associated with strategic and financial plans were
assessed.
Throughout 2022, conduct risks were raised by each business area for consideration by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee.
The Committee reviewed the risks raised and whether management’s proposed actions were appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continued to incur costs in relation to litigation and conduct matters, please refer to Note 24 Legal,
competition and regulatory matters and Note 22 Provisions, for further details. Costs include customer redress and remediation, as well as
fines and settlements. Resolution of these matters remains a necessary and important part of delivering the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy and an ongoing commitment to improve oversight of culture and conduct.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee and senior management received conduct dashboards setting out key indicators in
relation to conduct risk. These continue to be evolved and enhanced to allow effective oversight and decision-making. Work is ongoing to
enhance the Conduct Risk Control Environment in a timely and effective manner to ensure the Group operates within Risk Appetite. The
tolerance adherence is assessed by the business through key indicators and reported to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee as
part of the conduct risk dashboard governance process.
The Barclays Bank UK Group remains focused on the continuous improvements being made to manage risk effectively with an emphasis on
enhancing governance and management information to identify risk at earlier stages.
For further details on the non-financial performance measures, please refer to page 6 of the Strategic Report.
Reputation risk
Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to identifying reputation risks and issues as early as possible and managing them appropriately. At a
Barclays Bank UK Group level throughout 2021, reputation risks and issues were overseen by the Barclays Bank UK Board. The top live and
emerging reputation risks and issues within the Barclays Bank UK Group are included within an over-arching quarterly report at the
respective Board level. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board reviews reputation risks raised by businesses and considered whether
management’s proposed actions, for example attaching conditions to proposed client transactions or increased engagement with
impacted stakeholders, were appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively. The Board also received regular updates with regard to key
home.barclays/annualreport 133 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Supervision and regulation
invest in. These new requirements may have an impact on Barclays Bank UK PLC both as an intermediary of financial products and as a
product manufacturer.
The EU and UK Benchmarks Regulation apply to the administration, contribution and use of benchmarks within the EU and the UK,
respectively. Financial institutions within the EU or the UK, as applicable, are prohibited from using benchmarks unless their administrators
are authorised, registered or otherwise recognised in the EU or the UK, respectively. The FCA has also been working to phase out use of
LIBOR, with GBP LIBOR ceasing to be published in its original form from the end of 2021 and synthetic versions of GBP LIBOR being made
available only for a limited period of time. Similarly, USD LIBOR will cease to be published in its current form in June 2023 and other LIBOR
and IBOR rates are also being wound down. Global regulators in conjunction with the industry have developed and are continuing to
develop alternative benchmarks and risk-free rate fallback arrangements, including updates to existing, as well as new, applicable
legislation.
Other regulation
Consumer protection, culture and diversity and inclusion
In May 2021, the FCA published a consultation paper proposing the imposition of a new consumer duty on firms. The duty looks to set
higher expectations for the standard of care that firms provide to customers and will impact all aspects of Barclays’ retail businesses,
including every customer journey, product and service as well as our relationships with partners, suppliers and third parties. This will result
in significant implementation costs and there will also be higher ongoing costs for the industry as a result of extensive monitoring and
evidential requirements. Final rules were published in July 2022 and will come into force on 31 July 2023 for new and existing products or
services that are open to sale or renewal, and on 31 July 2024 for closed products or services.
Our regulators have enhanced their focus on the promotion of cultural values as a key area for banks, although they generally view the
responsibility for reforming culture as primarily sitting with the industry. The UK regulators have also begun focusing on diversity and
inclusion in financial services firms, with the Bank of England, PRA and FCA having published a joint discussion paper and the FCA having
published a policy statement on this topic in April 2022.
In June 2022, the FCA published guidance for firms to make sure they consider the impact of a planned closure of a branch or conversion of
free-to-use ATMs (cash machines or cashpoints) on their customers’ everyday banking needs and the availability and provision of
alternatives.
Data protection
Most countries where Barclays Group operates have comprehensive laws requiring openness and transparency about the collection and
use of personal information, and protection against loss and unauthorised or improper access. Regulations regarding data protection are
increasing in number, as well as levels of enforcement, as manifested in increased amounts of fines and the severity of other penalties. We
expect that personal privacy and data protection will continue to receive attention and focus from regulators, as well as public scrutiny and
attention. The EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) created a broadly harmonised privacy regime across EU member states,
introducing mandatory breach notification, enhanced individual rights, a need to openly demonstrate compliance, and significant penalties
for breaches. The extraterritorial effect of the GDPR means entities established outside the EU may fall within the Regulation’s ambit when
offering goods or services to European based customers or clients. Following the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, the UK continues to apply
the GDPR framework (as onshored into UK law and hence now referred to as the ‘UK GDPR’ - this sits alongside an amended version of the
UK Data Protection Act 2018). Following the invalidation by the European Court of Justice (CJEU) of the EU-US Privacy Shield as a
mechanism for transferring EU personal data to the US, the European Commission published new standard contractual clauses (SCCs) in
2021 to meet the requirements of GDPR and the CJEU decision, known as Schrems II. In early 2022, the UK Information Commissioner set
out its own international data transfer agreement, and the international data transfer addendum to the European Commission’s SCCs for
international data transfers. Implementing the new EU SCCs and/or the UK addendum, which involve case-by-case transfer impact
assessments and other safeguards, is likely to result in increased compliance costs for the Group. In 2021, China adopted its first
comprehensive law in relation to personal information called the Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL). The PIPL applies to
processing activities within mainland China, but similar to the GDPR, the PIPL has extraterritorial reach. As the global data protection
regulatory landscape develops, noncompliance with any such requirements could lead to regulatory fines and other penalties.
Cybersecurity and operational resilience
Regulators globally continue to focus on cybersecurity risk management, organisational operational resilience and overall soundness
across all financial services firms, with customer and market expectations of uninterrupted access to financial services remaining at an all-
time high.
The regulatory focus has been further heightened by the increasing number of high-profile ransomware and other supply chain attacks
seen across the industry in recent years and the growing reliance of financial services on Cloud and other third party service providers. This
is evidenced by the continuing introduction of new laws and regulatory frameworks directed at enhancing resilience of both firms and their
critical third party providers. A new UK framework introduced last year requires firms to be able to remain within impact tolerances set for
their important business services by no later than 31 March 2025, with further legislation focusing on the resilience of critical third party
providers now in the pipeline. The existing and anticipated requirements for increased controls will serve to improve industry
standardisation and resilience capabilities, enhancing our ability to deliver services during periods of potential disruption. However, such
measures are likely to result in increased technology and compliance costs for the Barclays Bank UK Group.
home.barclays/annualreport 138 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Supervision and regulation
Regulatory initiatives on ESG disclosure
In the UK, the UK Government has confirmed its intention to develop a UK Green Taxonomy, and the Green Technical Advisory Group has
published advice on development of a Green Taxonomy with further advice expected to follow. Reporting against the Taxonomy will form
part of the UK’s new Sustainability Disclosure Requirements (SDR). Certain companies will be required to disclose which portion of their
activities are Taxonomy-aligned. The structure of the Taxonomy draws on the EU approach and has six environmental objectives (climate
change mitigation, climate change adaptation, sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, transition to a circular
economy, pollution prevention and control and protection and restoration of biodiversity). The UK regulators are also consulting on a new
SDR Framework for firms as well as investment product disclosures, including a new sustainable investment labelling regime.
Sanctions and financial crime
The UK Bribery Act 2010 introduced a new form of corporate criminal liability focused broadly on a company’s failure to prevent bribery on
its behalf. In practice, the legislation requires the Barclays Bank UK Group to have adequate procedures to prevent bribery which, due to the
extraterritorial nature of the statute, makes this both complex and costly.
The Criminal Finances Act 2017 introduced new corporate criminal offences of failing to prevent the facilitation of UK and overseas tax
evasion. It requires the Barclays Bank UK Group to have reasonable prevention procedures in place to prevent the criminal facilitation of tax
evasion by persons acting for, or on behalf of, any entity in the Barclays Bank UK Group.
In May 2018, the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act (the Sanctions Act) became law in the UK. The Sanctions Act allows for the
adoption of an autonomous UK sanctions regime, as well as a more flexible licensing regime post-Brexit. On 6 July 2020, the UK
Government announced the first sanctions that have been implemented independently by the UK outside the auspices of the UN and EU.
The autonomous UK sanctions regime came into force on 1 January 2021. Those sanctions apply within the UK and in relation to the
conduct of all UK persons wherever they are in the world; they also apply to overseas branches of UK companies.
Under the Financial Services and Markets Bill (which has been introduced to Parliament but not yet passed), the Payments Systems
Regulator (PSR) is required to introduce mandatory requirements for reimbursement of payments induced by fraud or dishonesty through
the Faster Payments Scheme. These requirements must take effect within six months of the relevant provision in the Financial Services and
Markets Bill (if and when it becomes law) taking effect. While the PSR issued an initial consultation on these requirements in Q4 2022, the
exact requirements are not yet clear and so the anticipated impact of this scheme is not yet known. It is anticipated that, in some respects,
liability will be more extensive than for subscribers to the existing Contingent Reimbursement Model Code, which currently covers
payments induced by fraud.
In some cases, US state and federal regulations addressing sanctions, money laundering and other financial crimes may impact entities,
persons or activities located or undertaken outside the US, including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries. US government authorities have
aggressively enforced these laws against financial institutions in recent years. As a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, there has been
an increased regulatory focus on sanctions compliance in various jurisdictions, including in the US, UK and EU. Failure of a financial
institution to ensure compliance with such laws could have serious legal, financial and reputational consequences for the institution.
home.barclays/annualreport 139 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Materiality for the Group and Parent company financial statements as a whole was set at £101 million (2021: £72 million) and £100 million
(2021: £70 million) respectively, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax from continuing operations (of which it
represents 4.5% (2021: 5%) for the Group and 4.5% (2021: 4.8%) for the Parent company), normalised downwards for 2022 by £338
million to adjust to the average ECL charge over the last four years given the observed volatility in the ECL charge from economic
uncertainty as the economy recovered from the COVID-19 pandemic. In the prior year materiality was determined by normalising the
benchmark downwards by £1 billion to adjust for the impact of ECL releases following a reduction in the COVID-19 related economic
uncertainty.
In line with our audit methodology, our procedures on individual account balances and disclosures were performed to a lower threshold,
performance materiality, so as to reduce to an acceptable level the risk that individually immaterial misstatements in individual account
balances add up to a material amount across the financial statements as a whole.
Performance materiality for the Group and Parent company was set at 75% (2021: 75%) of materiality for the financial statements as a
whole, which equates to £75 million (2021: £54 million) for the Group and £75 million (2021: £52.5 million) for the Parent company. We
applied this percentage in our determination of performance materiality because we did not identify any factors indicating an elevated level
of risk.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £5m (2021: £3.5m), in
addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Group materiality
Normalised profit before tax
from continuing operations
£ 2,214m* (2021 £1,450m)**
£101m
Whole financial statements
materiality (2021: £72m)
£75m
Whole financial statements
performance materiality (2021:
£54m)
£5m
Misstatements reported to the
Audit Committee (2021: £3.5m)
* normalised by adjusting to the average ECL charge for past four years given the observed volatility in the ECL charge from economic uncertainty as the
economy recovered from COVID-19 pandemic.
** normalised by adjusting for the impact of ECL releases during the current year following a reduction in the COVID-19 related economic uncertainty
Scope – general
We were able to rely upon the Group’s internal control over financial reporting in all areas of our audit, where our controls testing
supported this approach, which enabled us to reduce the scope of our substantive audit work.
The Group engagement team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information, using the
materiality levels set out above.
The Group has certain centralised processes in India, the outputs of which are also included in the aggregated set of financial information.
These services are subject to specified audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and controls. We evaluated
the work which the participating auditor performed in these areas. We communicated with the participating audit team throughout the
audit by holding regular meetings.
home.barclays/annualreport 146 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance/return
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
IFRS 9 impairment involves several important areas of judgement, including estimating forward looking modelled parameters (PD, LGD
and EAD), developing a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimating expected lives and assessing significant increases in
credit risk, based on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s experience of managing credit risk. The determination of expected life is most material
for Barclays’ credit card portfolios which is obtained via behavioural life analysis to materially capture the risk of these facilities.
Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large numbers of small homogenous assets with similar risk
characteristics where credit scoring techniques are generally used, the impairment allowance is calculated using forward looking
modelled parameters which are typically run at account level. There are many models in use, each tailored to a product, line of business
or customer category. Judgement and knowledge is needed in selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are developed or
revised. Management adjustments to impairment models, which contain an element of subjectivity, are applied in order to factor in
certain conditions or changes in policy that are not fully incorporated into the impairment models, or to reflect additional facts and
circumstances at the period end. Management adjustments are reviewed and incorporated into future model development where
appropriate.
For individually significant assets in Stage 3, impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis and all relevant considerations
that have a bearing on the expected future cash flows across a range of economic scenarios are taken into account. These considerations
can be particularly subjective and can include the business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral, the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s position relative to other claimants, the reliability of customer information and the likely cost and duration of the work-out
process. The level of the impairment allowance is the difference between the value of the discounted expected future cash flows
(discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate), and its carrying amount. Furthermore, judgements change with time as new
information becomes available or as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the impairment allowance as individual
decisions are taken. Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the allowances and have a direct impact on the impairment
charge.
Temporary adjustments to calculated IFRS9 impairment allowances may be applied in limited circumstances to account for situations
where known or expected risk factors or information have not been considered in the ECL assessment or modelling process. For further
information, please see page 90 in credit risk performance section.
Information about the potential impact of the physical and transition risks of climate change on borrowers is considered, taking into
account reasonable and supportable information to make accounting judgements and estimates. Climate change is inherently of a long-
term nature, with significant levels of uncertainty, and consequently requires judgement in determining the possible impact in the next
financial year, if any.
2022 2021
Impairment Impairment
Charges/ Recoveries and Charges/ Recoveries and
(Releases) reimbursementsa Total (Releases) reimbursements Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans and advances at amortised cost 293 (36) 257 (92) (19) (111)
Off-balance sheet loan
commitments and financial
guarantee contracts 10 — 10 (257) — (257)
Total 303 (36) 267 (349) (19) (368)
Financial instruments at fair value through
other comprehensive income 1 — 1 (2) — (2)
Other financial assets measured at cost — — — (1) — (1)
Credit impairment charges/(releases) 304 (36) 268 (352) (19) (371)
Note
a Recoveries and reimbursements includes cash recoveries of previously written off amounts of £32m (2021: £35m) and a net increase in amount recoverable
from financial guarantee contracts held with third parties of £4m (2021: £16m reduction).
Write-off that can still be subjected to enforcement activity
The contractual amount outstanding on financial assets that were written off during the period ended 31 December 2022 and that can still
be subjected to enforcement activity is £419m (2021: £404m). This is lower than the write-offs presented in the movement in gross
exposures and impairment allowance table due to assets sold during the year post write-offs and post write-off recoveries.
Modification of financial assets
Financial assets of £175m (2021: £186m), with a loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL, were subject to non-
substantial modifications during the period, with a resulting loss of £3m (2021: £9m). There is no material movement in financial assets
subject to non-substantial modification for which the loss allowance has changed to a 12 month ECL.
home.barclays/annualreport 174 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
In some hedging relationships, the Barclays Bank UK Group designates risk components of hedged items as follows:
▪ Benchmark interest rate risk as a component of interest rate risk, such as the LIBOR or Risk Free Rate (RFR) component.
▪ Inflation risk as a contractually specified component of a debt instrument.
▪ Forward exchange rate risk for foreign currency financial assets or financial liabilities.
▪ Components of cash flows of hedged items, for example certain interest payments for part of the life of an instrument.
Using the benchmark interest rate risk results in other risks, such as credit risk and liquidity risk, being excluded from the hedge accounting
relationship. Following market-wide interest rate benchmark reform, sensitivity to risk-free rates is considered to be the predominant
interest rate risk and therefore the hedged items (which often reference risk-free or similar 'overnight' rates) change in fair value on a
proportionate basis with reference to this risk.
In respect of many of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s hedge accounting relationships, the hedged item and hedging instrument change
frequently due to the dynamic nature of the risk management and hedge accounting strategy. The Barclays Bank UK Group applies hedge
accounting to dynamic scenarios, predominantly in relation to interest rate risk, with a combination of hedged items in order for its
financial statements to reflect as closely as possible the economic risk management undertaken. In some cases, if the hedge accounting
objective changes, the relevant hedge accounting relationship is de-designated and a de-designated relationship is replaced with a different
hedge accounting relationship.
The hedging instruments share the same risk exposures as the hedged items. Hedge effectiveness is determined with reference to
quantitative tests, predominantly regression testing, but to the extent hedging instruments are exposed to different risks than the hedged
items, this could result in hedge ineffectiveness or hedge accounting failures.
Sources of ineffectiveness include the following:
▪ Mismatches between the contractual terms of the hedged item and hedging instrument, including basis differences.
▪ Changes in credit risk of the hedging instruments.
▪ If a hedging relationship becomes over-hedged.
▪ The effects of the reforms to IBOR because these might take effect at a different time and have a different impact on hedged items and
hedging instruments.
Barclays Bank UK Group's risk exposure continues, in part, to be affected by interest rate benchmark reform. In most cases, hedged items
and hedging instruments are expected to transition to relevant risk-free rates at the end of their current cash flow period. USD LIBOR,
Canadian Dollar Offered Rate (CDOR) and Singapore Swap Offered Rate (SOR) linked hedge accounting relationships are still exposed to
uncertainty regarding the precise timing and effects of benchmark reform. USD LIBOR and SOR benchmarks will cease to be published
after 30 June 2023, CDOR - after 28 June 2024, but certain hedged items and hedging instruments continue to contractually reference
these benchmarks beyond the cessation date.
The following table summarises the significant hedge accounting exposures impacted by the IBOR reform as at 31 December 2022:
Nominal
Nominal amount
amount of hedging
of hedged items instruments
directly directly
impacted impacted
by IBOR reform by IBOR reform
Current benchmark rate Expected convergence to RFR £m £m
USD LIBOR Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) 2,947 5,107
Canadian Dollar Offered Rate (CDOR) Canadian Overnight Repo Rate Average (CORRA) 355 355
The USD LIBOR hedged items and hedging instruments are expected to be transitioned to SOFR by 30 June 2023. The CDOR hedged items
and hedging instruments are expected to be transitioned to CORRA by 28 June 2024.
home.barclays/annualreport 183 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
34 Auditor’s remuneration
2022 2021
£m £m
Audit of the Barclays Bank UK Group's annual accounts 9 7
Other services:
Audit of the Company's subsidiariesa 1 1
Other audit related feesb 2 2
Total Auditor's remuneration 12 10
Notes;
a Comprises the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and fees for the work performed by associates of KPMG in respect of the consolidated financial
statements of the Company.
b Comprises services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings. These include audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the
Listing Rules of the UK listing authority.
35 Interest rate benchmark reform
Following the financial crisis, the reform and replacement of benchmark interest rates such as LIBOR has been a priority for global
regulators. As a result, the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and other global regulators instructed market participants to prepare for
the cessation of most LIBOR rates after the end of 2021 and to adopt “Risk-Free Rates” (RFRs).
Pursuant to FCA announcements during 2021, panel bank submissions for all GBP, JPY, EUR and CHF LIBOR tenors ceased, after 31
December 2021. For USD, certain actively used tenors will continue to be provided until end June 2023 in their current form; however, in
line with the US banking regulators’ joint statement, the Barclays Bank UK Group ceased issuing or entering into new contracts that use
USD LIBOR as a reference rate from 31 December 2021, other than in relation to those allowable use cases set out under the FCA's
prohibition notice (ref 21A). These include, amongst others, market making in support of client activity; or transactions that reduce or
hedge Barclays’ or any client of Barclays’ USD LIBOR exposure on contracts entered into before 1 January 2022.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s exposure to rates subject to benchmark interest rate reform has been predominantly to GBP, CHF and USD
LIBOR. With the exception of a limited number of small exposures with retail customers, exposure is related to ESHLA (Education, Social
Housing and Local Authority) clients and the derivative hedging thereof. Retail lending and mortgage exposure to LIBOR in Barclays Bank
UK Group has been minimal. Following transition activity in late 2021 and early 2022, almost all GBP and CHF LIBOR positions (“2021
scope”) have transitioned onto RFRs, with only a small amount of synthetic GBP LIBOR exposure remaining.
There are key differences between IBORs and RFRs. IBORs are ‘term rates’, which means that they are published for a borrowing period (for
example three months) and they are ‘forward-looking’, because they are published at the beginning of a borrowing period, based upon an
estimated inter-bank borrowing cost for the period. RFRs are based upon overnight rates from actual transactions and are therefore
published after the end of the overnight borrowing period. Furthermore, IBORs include term and credit risk premiums. Therefore, to
transition existing contracts and agreements to RFRs, adjustments for term and credit differences may need to be applied to RFR-linked
rates. The methodologies for these adjustments have been determined through in-depth consultations by industry working groups, on
behalf of the respective global regulators and related market participants.
How the Barclays Group is managing the transition to alternative benchmark rates
Barclays has established a Group-wide LIBOR Transition Programme, The Transition Programme spans all business lines and has cross-
functional governance which includes Legal, Compliance, Conduct Risk, Risk and Finance. The Transition Programme aims to drive
strategic execution and identify, manage and resolve key risks and issues as they arise. Barclays continues to provide quarterly updates on
progress and exposures to the PRA/FCA and other regulators as required.
The Transition Programme follows a risk-based approach, using recognised ‘change delivery’ control standards. Accountable Executives
are in place within key working groups and workstreams, with overall Board oversight delegated to the Board Risk Committee.
GBP LIBOR ceased to be published in its original form from the end of 2021 and a synthetic version of GBP LIBOR have been made available
for a limited period of time. This was to help mitigate the risk of widespread disruption to legacy LIBOR contracts which had not
transitioned by end 2021, when the GBP panel bank submissions ended. The FCA has reiterated that any synthetic LIBOR tenors are only a
bridge to give time to transition to appropriate alternative RFRs and not a permanent solution. Barclays continues to monitor, assess and
limit the reliance on synthetic LIBOR.
On 29th September 2022 the FCA announced that the 1- and 6- month synthetic GBP LIBOR tenors would cease immediately after 31st
March 2023.
On 23rd November 2022 the FCA announced that the 3-month synthetic GBP LIBOR tenor will cease at end March 2024 and that the
overnight and 12-month USD LIBOR tenors will cease at end June 2023. The FCA also proposed that the 1-, 3- and 6-month USD LIBOR
tenors should be published under a synthetic methodology for a temporary period until end September 2024. A final decision from the FCA
is expected by early in the second quarter of 2023.
home.barclays/annualreport 220 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
All remaining USD LIBOR exposure as at 31 December 2022 is to derivative contracts facing central clearing counterparties (CCP) which
will follow a market-wide, standardised approach to reform through a series of CCP-led conversions, similar to those used for GBP and CHF
LIBOR.
Progress made during 2022
During 2022, Barclays delivered technology and business process changes required to ensure operational readiness in preparation for
transitions to RFRs for those benchmark rates ceasing June 2023, this included new RFR product capabilities and alternatives to LIBOR
across loans, bonds, repurchase and securities lending transactions and derivatives. Barclays continued to monitor and address its
unremediated exposure to ceased LIBOR settings; noting that this exposure for the Barclays Bank UK Group has reduced to £12m gross
notional of synthetic GBP LIBOR loan facilities as at 31 December. Barclays is now focused on transition of legacy positions related to USD
LIBOR (and other in-scope IBORs) and remains on track to meet the associated industry deadlines.
Risks to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed as a result of the transition
Global regulators and central banks in the UK, US and EU have been driving international efforts to reform key benchmark interest rates and
indices, such as LIBOR, which are used to determine the amounts payable under a wide range of transactions and make them more reliable
and robust. These benchmark reforms have resulted in significant changes to the methodology and operation of certain benchmarks and
indices, the adoption of RFRs, the discontinuation of certain reference rates (including LIBOR), and the introduction of implementing
legislation and regulations. Notwithstanding these developments, given the unpredictable consequences of benchmark reform, any of
these developments could have an adverse impact on market participants, including the Barclays Bank UK Group, in respect of any financial
instruments linked to, or referencing, any of these benchmark interest rates.
The Barclays Bank UK Group predominantly offers products which reference central bank rates rather than LIBOR or other indices which
are likely to be subject to reform. Consequently, the product offering and business model are unlikely to be significantly affected.
Nevertheless, there are other ways the Barclays Bank UK Group could be affected.
Uncertainty associated with such potential changes, including the availability and/or suitability of alternative RFRs, the participation of
customers and third-party market participants in the transition process; challenges with respect to required consents or other pre-
conditions to documentation changes; and impact of legislation to deal with ‘certain legacy’ contracts that cannot convert into RFRs or add
RFR fallbacks before cessation of the benchmark they reference, may adversely affect a broad range of transactions (including any
securities, loans, repurchase and securities lending transactions and derivative transactions which use LIBOR or any other affected
benchmark to determine the amount of interest payable that are included in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial assets and liabilities)
that use these reference rates and indices, and present a number of risks for the Barclays Bank UK Group, including, but not limited to:
• Conduct risk: in undertaking actions to transition away from using certain reference rates (such as LIBOR) to new alternative RFRs,
the Barclays Bank UK Group faces conduct risks. These may lead to customer complaints, regulatory sanctions or reputational
impact if the Barclays Bank UK Group is considered to be (among other things) (i) undertaking market activities that are
manipulative or create a false or misleading impression, (ii) misusing sensitive information or not identifying or appropriately
managing or mitigating conflicts of interest, (iii) providing customers with inadequate advice, misleading information, unsuitable
products or unacceptable service, (iv) not taking a consistent approach to remediation for customers in similar circumstances, (v)
unduly delaying the communication and migration activities in relation to client exposure, leaving them insufficient time to prepare,
or (vi) colluding or inappropriately sharing information with competitors.
• Litigation risk: members of the Barclays Bank UK Group may face legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and/or other actions
or proceedings regarding (among other things) (i) the conduct risks identified above, (ii) the interpretation and enforceability of
provisions in LIBOR-based contracts, and (iii) the Barclays Bank UK Group’s preparation and readiness for the replacement of
LIBOR with alternative RFRs.
• Pricing risk: changes to existing reference rates and indices, discontinuation of any reference rate or indices and transition to
alternative RFRs may impact the pricing mechanism used by Barclays Bank UK Group on certain transactions
• Financial risk: the valuation of certain of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial assets and liabilities may change. Moreover,
transitioning to alternative RFRs may impact the ability of members of the Barclays Bank UK Group to calculate and model amounts
receivable by them on certain financial assets and determine the amounts payable on certain financial liabilities (such as debt
securities issued by them) because certain alternative RFRs (such as SONIA and SOFR) are look-back rates whereas term rates
(such as LIBOR) allow borrowers to calculate at the start of any interest period exactly how much is payable at the end of such
interest period. This may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s cash flows.
• Operational risk: changes to existing reference rates and indices, discontinuation of any reference rate or index and transition to
alternative RFRs may require changes to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IT systems, trade reporting infrastructure, operational
processes, and controls. In addition, if any reference rate or index (such as LIBOR) is no longer available to calculate amounts
payable, the Barclays Bank UK Group may incur additional expenses in amending documentation for new and existing transactions
and/or effecting the transition from the original reference rate or index to a new reference rate or index.
• Accounting risk: an inability to apply hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 could lead to increased volatility in the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s financial results and performance.
home.barclays/annualreport 221 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes
The term Barclays Bank UK Group refers to Barclays Bank UK PLC together with its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, the income
statement analysis compares the year ended 31 December 2022 to the corresponding twelve months of 2021 and balance sheet analysis
as at 31 December 2022 with comparatives relating to 31 December 2021. The abbreviations ‘£m’ and ‘£bn’ represent millions and
thousands of millions of Pounds Sterling respectively.
There are a number of key judgement areas, for example impairment calculations, which are based on models and which are subject to
ongoing adjustment and modifications. Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at the given point in time.
Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under applicable regulatory guidance or International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) are explained in the results glossary that can be accessed at home.barclays/investor-relations/reports-and-events/latest-
financial-results.
The information in this document, which was approved by the Board of Directors’ on 14 February 2023, does not comprise statutory
accounts within the meaning of Section 434 of the Companies Act 2006. Statutory accounts for the year ended 31 December 2022, which
contain an unmodified audit report under Section 495 of the Companies Act 2006 (which does not make any statements under Section
498 of the Companies Act 2006), will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies in accordance with Section 441 of the Companies Act
2006.
Barclays Bank UK Group is an issuer in the debt capital markets and meets with investors via formal road-shows and other ad hoc
meetings. Consistent with its usual practice, Barclays Bank UK Group expects that from time to time over the coming half year it will meet
with investors to discuss these results and other matters relating to the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the Barclays Bank UK Group. Barclays Bank UK Group cautions
readers that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results or other financial condition or
performance measures could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be
identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as
‘may’, ‘will’, ‘seek’, ‘continue’, ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘projected’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘achieve’ or other
words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements can be made in writing but also may be made verbally by directors, officers and
employees of the Barclays Bank UK Group (including during management presentations) in connection with this document. Examples of
forward-looking statements include, among others, statements or guidance regarding or relating to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s future
financial position, income levels, costs, assets and liabilities, impairment charges, provisions, capital, leverage and other regulatory ratios,
capital distributions (including dividend policy and share buybacks), return on tangible equity, projected levels of growth in banking and
financial markets, industry trends, any commitments and targets (including environmental, social and governance (ESG) commitments and
targets), business strategy, plans and objectives for future operations and other statements that are not historical or current facts. By their
nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances. Forward-looking
statements speak only as at the date on which they are made. Forward-looking statements may be affected by a number of factors,
including, without limitation: changes in legislation, regulation and the interpretation thereof, changes in IFRS and other accounting
standards, including practices with regard to the interpretation and application thereof and emerging and developing ESG reporting
standards; the outcome of current and future legal proceedings and regulatory investigations; the policies and actions of governmental and
regulatory authorities; the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability along with governments and other stakeholders to measure, manage and
mitigate the impacts of climate change effectively; environmental, social and geopolitical risks and incidents and similar events beyond the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s control; the impact of competition; capital, leverage and other regulatory rules applicable to past, current and
future periods; macroeconomic and business conditions in the UK and in any systemically important economy which impacts the UK,
including inflation; volatility in credit and capital markets; market related risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates;
higher or lower asset valuations; changes in credit ratings of any entity within the Barclays Bank UK Group or any securities issued by it;
changes in counterparty risk; changes in consumer behaviour; the direct and indirect consequences of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on
European and global macroeconomic conditions, political stability and financial markets; direct and indirect impacts of the coronavirus
(COVID-19) pandemic; instability as a result of the UK’s exit from the European Union (EU), the effects of the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation
Agreement and any disruption that may subsequently result in the UK; the risk of cyber-attacks, information or security breaches or
technology failures on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s reputation, business or operations; the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to access
funding; and the success of acquisitions, disposals and other strategic transactions. A number of these factors are beyond the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s control. As a result, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s actual financial position, results, financial and non-financial metrics or
performance measures or its ability to meet commitments and targets may differ materially from the statements or guidance set forth in
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s forward-looking statements. Additional risks and factors which may impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
future financial condition and performance are identified in the description of material existing and emerging risks on pages 46 to 58 of this
Annual Report.
Subject to Barclays Bank UK PLC’s obligations under the applicable laws and regulations of any relevant jurisdiction (including, without
limitation, the UK) in relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
home.barclays/annualreport 225 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report