Contents
Page
Strategic Report
Performance review 2
Performance measures 5
Managing risk 7
Customers and clients 10
Our colleagues 12
Society 13
Engaging with our stakeholders 15
Climate and Sustainability report 17
Governance
Governance Report 23
(including Corporate Governance Statement)
Directors’ Report 33
Other Governance - Managing data privacy, security and resilience 37
Risk review
Risk review contents 40
Risk management 43
Material existing and emerging risks 46
Principal risk management 59
Risk performance 76
Supervision and regulation 146
Financial statements
Financial statements contents 151
Consolidated financial statements 162
Notes to the financial statements 170
home.barclays/annualreport 1 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Performance review
Year in review
In 2023 Barclays Bank UK PLC focused on strengthening our customer and client propositions and improving our execution. Our strong
franchise and valuable brand are reflected in our financial performance, with the Barclays Bank UK Group delivering profit after tax of
£1.9bn. Notwithstanding these results, and our progress over the course of 2023 to refine and enhance our customer service, we know we
have more to do.
During 2023, cost of living pressures and the rising interest rate environment continued to impact our customers in the UK. In response we
enhanced the tools and information available to customers via our Money Management Hub – helping them better understand their
spending and the steps they can take to improve their financial wellbeing. We also launched our Money 1:1 service, offering customers a
personalised financial coaching session with a specially trained Barclays Money Mentor.
To boost customers’ long-term financial resilience, we provided options to switch to interest-only mortgages for six months and extensions
of their mortgage term where appropriate. We helped over 103,000 new customers get on or move up the housing ladder during 2023,
including 33,000 first time buyers. We also proactively contacted 1.2 million customers to let them know they could earn more interest by
moving to a different savings product. For our business clients, we ran more than 900 Business Health Pledge masterclasses during 2023.
As part of our customer-centricity we remained focused on improving our customer experience, combining the best of digital with the
human touch. The transformation of our physical service model means we are able to provide in-person support in our communities, while
serving our customers more sustainably. In 2023 we expanded Barclays Local by more than 159 new sites and now have 351 sites in total -
in addition to 306 branches and 16 mobile service points (vans). We are also participating in innovative new Shared Banking Hubs.
Improving existing propositions and adding innovative new ones, are important ways we continue to drive growth in Barclays Bank UK PLC.
To this end, in 2023 we completed the acquisition of Kensington Mortgage Company – an award-winning mortgage lendera known for its
strong support of specialist customer groups and the intermediary market.
Our Savings strategy is to help customers develop smart savings habits while supporting those already saving to make their money work
harder. We offer personal customers interest rates of up to 5%, with our flexible products designed to help customers achieve their goals.
For example, customers can segregate money from current accounts to develop savings habits, while Barclays Blue customers are
rewarded with a higher rate in the months they have no withdrawals.
In parallel, we continue to make good progress to ensure digital banking with Barclays Bank UK PLC is smooth, easy and rewarding –
including by improving the navigation and functionality of our app. As a consequence, active app customers increased 5% year on year in
2023. Across all our channels, over 80% of our customer transactions are now digitally enabled - up from 76% in 2022. While we will
continue to help customers recognise and embrace the ease and convenience of our digital capabilities, our focus moving forward will shift
to improving the depth and quality of engagement from customers already actively using them.
To further strengthen our customer propositions, we also launched Visa Cashback Rewards, giving Barclays Blue customers cash back on
their everyday spending.
Our progress to improve the customer experience in 2023 is reflected in Barclays UK’s improved Net Promoter Score, which increased by
six points versus 2022. We recognise there is still more to do to improve our customer propositions and execution, and we will remain
focused on doing so.
Our focus on making better communities making communities better tomorrow than they are today is reflected in our growing network of
Barclays Eagle Labs. Our 37 business incubators across the UK – which include nine new locations added in 2023 – are part of our ambition
to be a bank where entrepreneurs start, scale and achieve their growth ambitions. In 2023 Eagle Labs supported over 4,500 businesses,
while Barclays UK more broadly supported over 47,000 new start-up or scale-up customers – including Climate Tech start-ups working on
innovative technology to deliver a more sustainable future. We were also entrusted by the UK Government with a £12m Digital Growth
Grant to further support the growth of UK tech start-ups and scale-ups over the next two years. The Grant will help deliver 20 national
programmes and more than 8,000 business interventions, including our Sustainability Bridge programme, to enable ambitious
entrepreneurs.
Another key way we support customers is through our focus on sustainability. This year we expanded and improved sustainability-related
propositions for customers, including a new Green Barclayloan for Business that offers no arrangement fees for lending above £25,000 on
a range of green assets – supporting our business customers in their transition to net zero. We also expanded our existing Asset Finance
proposition via our partner Propelb, offering business customers fixed rates on a wider range of green assets, including new fully electric
vehicles and solar photovoltaic panels. Additionally, we extended our Greener Home Reward scheme, which offers a cash reward of up to
£2,000 for eligible residential mortgage customers who install eligible energy-efficiency-related measures in their homes.c
Notes
a In 2023 Kensington Mortgage Company won ‘Best Specialist Mortgage Lender’ at both the What Mortgage Awards and Your Mortgage Awards. It was also
’Best Intermediary Lender’ at the Personal Finance Awards and ‘Best Online Mortgage Provider’ at the Moneyfacts Awards
b Further detail can be found at barclays.co.uk/business-banking/borrow/asset-finance/
c Further detail can be found at barclays.co.uk/mortgages/greener-home-reward/
home.barclays/annualreport 3 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Managing risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to internal and external risks as part of its ongoing activities. These risks are managed as part of
our business model.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Within the Barclays Bank UK Group, risks are identified and overseen in accordance with the Enterprise Risk Management Framework
(ERMF), which supports the business in its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture.
The ERMF governs the way in which the Barclays Bank UK Group identifies and manages its risks. The ERMF is approved by the Barclays
PLC Board on the recommendation of the Barclays Group Chief Risk Officer; it is then adopted by the Barclays Bank UK Group with minor
modifications where needed.
The management of risk is then embedded into each level of the business, with all colleagues being responsible for identifying and
controlling risk.
In 2023, the Conduct Risk Principal Risk was renamed "Compliance Risk" and now incorporates Conduct Risk as well as risks from a failure
to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to the firm.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite defines the level of risk we are prepared to accept across the different risk types, taking into consideration varying levels of
financial and operational stress. Risk appetite is key to our decision-making processes, including ongoing business planning and setting of
strategy, new product approvals and business change initiatives.
The Barclays Bank UK Group may choose to adopt a lower risk appetite than allocated to it by the Barclays Group.
Three lines of defence
The first line of defence is comprised of the revenue-generating and client-facing areas, along with all associated support functions,
including Finance, Treasury, Human Resources and Operations and Technology. The first line identifies the risks, sets the controls and
escalates risk events to the second line of defence. Employees in the first line have primary responsibility for their risks and their activities
are subject to oversight from the relevant parts of the second and third lines.
The second line of defence is made up of Risk and Compliance and oversees the first line by setting limits, rules and constraints on their
operations, consistent with the risk appetite.
The third line of defence is comprised of Internal Audit, providing independent assurance to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board and the
Barclays Bank UK PLC Executive Committee on the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control over current, systemic and
evolving risks.
The Legal function provides support to all areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group and is not formally part of any of the three lines of defence.
The Legal function is responsible for proactively identifying, communicating and providing legal advice on applicable laws, rules and
regulations. Except in relation to the legal advice it provides or procures, it is subject to second line oversight with respect to its own
operational and compliance risks, as well as with respect to the legal risk to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed.
Monitoring the risk profile
Together with a strong governance process, using business and the Barclays Group level Risk Committees as well as Board level forums,
the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board receives regular information in respect of the risk profile of the Barclays Bank UK Group. Information
received includes measures of risk profile against risk appetite as well as the identification of new and emerging risks, which are derived by
mapping risk drivers, identified through horizon scanning, to risk themes, and similar analysis.
During 2023, the Barclays Bank UK Group ran a stress test to assess its capital adequacy and resilience under a severe but plausible
macroeconomic scenario. This stress test targeted risks such as inflation, financial stress and a shock on demand; with terminal low rates
set to test the Barclays Bank UK Group’s vulnerabilities through NII (Net Interest Income) margin compression. The stress test outcome for
macroeconomic tests assesses full financial performance over the horizon of the scenario in terms of profitability, capital, liquidity and
leverage to ensure the Barclays Bank UK Group remains viable.
We believe that our structure and governance supports us in managing risk in the changing economic, political and market environments.
For further detailed analysis of approach to risk management and risk performance see the full Risk review on pages 40 to 150.
home.barclays/annualreport 7 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Managing risk
The Enterprise Risk Management Framework defines nine Principal Risks
Risks are classified into Principal Risks, as below How risks are managed
Credit Risk The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the Credit risk teams identify, evaluate, sanction, limit and monitor
failure of clients, customers or counterparties (including various forms of credit exposure, individually and in aggregate.
sovereigns), to fully honour their obligations to the The First Line delivers business plans and products within risk
Barclays Bank UK Group, including the whole and timely appetite and all limits set by the Second Line, by maintaining
payment of principal, interest, collateral and other detailed financial forecasts, applying controls and managing
receivables. risks to which they are exposed.
Market Risk The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in Market risk teams use a range of complementary
the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and approaches to identify and evaluate market risk exposures.
liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, These risks are measured, limited and monitored by market
but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity risk specialists. The First Line conduct their activities within
prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied the risk appetite and all mandate & scale limits set by the
volatilities and asset correlations.
Second Line.
Treasury Liquidity Risk: Treasury and Capital risk is identified and managed by specialists
and Capital The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to in capital, liquidity and asset and liability management risks. A
Risk meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it range of risk management approaches are used such as limits
does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and plan monitoring and stress testing. The First Line conduct their
composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets. activities within the risk appetite and all mandate & scale limits
Capital Risk: set by the Second Line.
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an
insufficient level or composition of capital to support its
normal business activities and to meet its regulatory
capital requirements under normal operating
environments and stressed conditions (both actual and
as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing
purposes). This also includes the risk from the Barclays
Group’s pension plans.
Interest Rate Risk in the banking book:
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to
capital or income volatility because of a mismatch
between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded)
assets and liabilities.
Climate The impact on Financial and Operational Risks arising The Group and Barclays Bank UK Group assesses and manages
Principal Risk from climate change through physical risks, risks its climate risk across its businesses and functions in line with its
Risk associated with transitioning to a lower carbon economy net zero ambition by monitoring exposure to elevated risk
and connected risks arising as a result of second order sectors, conducting scenario analysis and risk assessments for
impacts on portfolios of these two drivers. key portfolios. The First Line delivers business plans and
manages exposures within the climate risk appetite and limits
set by the Second Line. Climate risk controls are embedded
across the financial and operational principal risk types through
the Barclays Group's frameworks, policies and standards.
Operational The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from Operational risks are managed in accordance with the
Risk inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors Operational Risk Framework, owned and overseen by the
or due to external events (for example fraud) where the Second Line, and the standards within the Barclays Control
root cause is not due to credit or market risks. Framework. The primary responsibility for the management of
operational risk rests within the business and functional units
where the risk arises. Management complete Risk and Control
Self-Assessments to assess operational risks and the
effectiveness of the controls within processes. Identified risks,
events and issues are escalated to senior management and the
Board to ensure timely notification and to agree the appropriate
response.
Model Risk The potential for adverse consequences from decisions The range of controls owned by First Line include: timely model
based on incorrect or misused model outputs and identification, robust model development, testing,
reports. documentation, annual assessment, and ongoing performance
monitoring. The range of controls owned by Second Line
include: independent model validation, oversight over on-going
model performance, and execution of overall model risk
governance covering oversight and reporting and escalation to
appropriate forums and committees.
Compliance The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, The First Line are accountable for the overall assessment and
Risk clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the management of compliance risks in their business or function
Barclays Bank UK Group’s products and services (also and are responsible for implementing the requirements outlined
known as 'Conduct Risk') and the risk to Barclays, its in the Compliance Risk Management Framework (CRMF).
clients, customers or markets from a failure to comply Compliance must oversee adherence to the CRMF and the
with the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the management of compliance risk, and provide independent
Barclays Bank UK Group (also known as Laws, Rules and Second Line of Defence oversight to all Barclays businesses,
Regulations Risk 'LRR Risk'). providing advice and challenge where appropriate.
home.barclays/annualreport 8 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Our colleagues
The following sub-sections include a summary of the Barclays Bank UK PLC specific items from the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report. For
full details, refer to the Colleagues section of the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report. Figures mentioned are for the Barclays Group, other
than where specifically mentioned.
Engaging with colleagues
Barclays Bank UK PLC Group has a diverse talent pool of around 14,900 colleagues largely across the UK. We engage in regular dialogue
with our colleagues to understand what is working well and where there are opportunities to improve. This includes townhalls, skip-level
meetings, site visits, leader-led engagement and surveys. We maintain an engagement approach in line with the UK’s Financial Reporting
Council (FRC) governance recommendations. Our regular all-colleague Your View surveys give individuals the opportunity to share their
views on how they find working at Barclays. To learn more about the 2023 Your View survey results, please visit the engaging with
colleagues section of the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report.
Maintaining a strong and effective partnership with Unitea and national works councils helps us gather feedback. We continue to consult
with colleague representatives on major change programmes impacting our people, to minimise compulsory job losses and focus on
reskilling and redeployment.
Achieving a consistently excellent standard
Barclays continues to focus on delivering to a higher operating standard via our Group-wide cultural change programme, Consistently
Excellent. This programme challenges colleagues to address five key areas – Precision, Service, Focus, Efficiency and Diversity of thought –
to establish a new operating standard.
This higher standard is becoming part of our culture and we are working hard to equip everyone with the right skills to achieve this, while
rewarding progress. We have incorporated it into our existing Values and Mindset behaviours and as part of an enhanced set of leadership
behaviours. We also began updating our key processes for attracting, retaining and developing talent, planning for succession, and
recognising and rewarding performance.
To help create a common understanding across the Barclays Group, we led Consistently Excellent workshops throughout 2023 for our
senior leaders. In 2024, all colleagues will be invited to attend these workshops.
Investing in our talent
Our talent ambition underpins Barclays’ approach to talent attraction, retention and development. We relaunched our ambition in 2023 to
focus on the skills and capabilities we require for the future, and set the benchmark for what it means to lead at Barclays through our
refreshed leadership framework. Together, these set clear behavioural expectations for our leaders, and enable our leaders to create the
right culture for colleagues to deliver to a consistently excellent standard.
Using this framework we aim to empower Barclays’ leaders to create an environment of psychological safety and inclusion, and to foster a
culture of learning and curiosity where colleagues can thrive – supporting all colleagues across Barclays to grow and progress their careers.
To empower our colleagues to attain sustainable high performance, we continued to deliver our flagship leadership development
programmes: the Enterprise Leaders’ Summit, our Strategic Leaders Programme, and our award-winning Aspire programme.
With our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) agenda in mind, we continue to attract candidates who possess the capabilities, critical skills
and experience required to provide exceptional service to our customers and clients. In 2023, our graduate intake was over 36% female,
while our undergraduate Discovery Diversity Programme focused on showcasing successful career paths for underrepresented minorities.
These hiring programmes have helped drive applications from a diverse pool of candidates. To further promote social mobility, we will
continue our extensive apprentice hiring programme through engagement with educational institutions.
Maintaining our focus on wellbeing
We remain committed to supporting colleague wellbeing using data-driven insights and engagement through leader-led initiatives such as
the “Healthy to Talk” campaign on World Mental Health Day. This is supplemented by dedicated people leader workshops exploring
practical ways to continue to embed wellbeing into ways of working.
Introducing structured hybrid working
Following our continuous test and learn approach, Barclays has adapted its ways of working to introduce structured hybrid working –
supporting colleagues to connect in-person and plan their work to make the most of both their time in the office and remotely.
Our people policies
Our people policiesb help us recruit the best people, provide equal opportunities and create an inclusive culture in line with our Purpose,
Values and Mindset, and in support of our long-term success. They are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure alignment with our
broader people strategy.
Note
a.The collective bargaining coverage of Unite in the UK represents 80% (2022: 82%) of our UK workforce and 40% (2022: 43%) of our global workforce.
b.Our policies reflect relevant employment law, including the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour
Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
home.barclays/annualreport 12 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Society
The following sub-sections include a summary of the Barclays Bank UK PLC specific items from the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report. For
full details, refer to the Society section of the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report.
Our success is judged not only by our commercial performance, but also by our contribution to society and the way we work together for a
better financial future for all our stakeholders. Our focus on society falls broadly into three categories: Climate, Communities and Suppliers.
Climate
Barclays is committed to achieving its ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050. We are focused on reducing our financed emissions through
our policies, targets and financing. This includes working with our clients as they decarbonise and supporting their efforts to transition the
real economy in a manner that is just, orderly and provides energy security.
We have now set 2030 reduction targets for eight of the highest-emitting sectors in our portfolio: Energy, Power, Cement, Steel,
Automotive manufacturing, Aviation, Agriculture and Commercial Real Estate; and assessed the baseline and convergence point for our UK
Housing portfolio. This meets our commitment under the Net Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) to set targets for material high-emitting
sectors in our portfolio.
Our policies are a lever for reducing our financed emissions. In 2024, we updated our Climate Change Statement, to includea.
• No project finance, or other direct finance to energy companies, for upstream oil and gas expansion projects or related
infrastructure.
• Restrictions for new energy company clients engaged in expansion from January 2025.
• Restrictions on non-diversified energy companies engaged in long lead expansion.
• Additional restrictions on unconventional oil and gas, including Amazon and extra heavy oil.
• Requirements for energy companies to have 2030 methane reduction targets, a commitment to end all routine / non-essential
venting and flaring by 2030 and near-term net zero aligned Scope 1 and 2 targets from January 2026.
• Expectations for energy companies to produce relevant information in relation to their transition plans or decarbonisation
strategies by January 2025
We understand that capital is critical for a successful energy transition and are focusing our financing to those clients actively engaged in
the energy transition.
The scale of our business gives us the opportunity to help finance the energy transition – to use our global reach, products, expertise and
position in the global economy to work with our clients, including those in the energy sector, as they transition to a low-carbon business
model.
In 2023, Barclays financed $67.8bn of Sustainable and Transition Finance, demonstrating good momentum towards our target of $1trn by
the end of 2030.
Note
a.For details on the scope and application of the updated positions please refer to the Climate Change Statement found at: home.barclays/sustainability/esg-
resource-hub/statements-and-policy-positions
Please see the Climate Report in the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report and the Climate and Sustainability Report from page 17 to 21 for
information.
Communities
Barclays is committed to building a stronger, more inclusive economy that is better for everyone. We are supporting local communities
where we operate by enabling people to develop the skills and confidence they need to succeed, and helping businesses to grow and create
jobs.
We engage regularly with our community partners to help shape our strategy and deepen our understanding of evolving societal issues.
We request formal quantitative and qualitative information from our charity partners on a quarterly basis and regularly seek feedback from
the CEOs we support through our Unreasonable Impact programme, a partnership between Barclays and Unreasonable Group. Feedback
and data from our community partners, charity partners and the businesses we support helps inform and evolve our programmes to
ensure they best meet their needs.
Skills and employability
We believe everyone deserves the financial independence, security and opportunity that comes with a job – and a vibrant, skilled workforce
ensures local communities and businesses can thrive. In 2023 our programmes reached more than 3.27 million people around the world,
unlocking the skills and employment opportunities people need to progress.
Barclays’ LifeSkills programme has been delivering a positive impact in UK communities for a decade, helping millions of people develop the
vital employability and financial skills they need to succeed at work, thrive in the digital age and better manage their money. Through the
next chapter of our LifeSkills programme, Barclays has committed to upskilling 8.7 million people and placing 250,000 people into work by
the end of 2027.
home.barclays/annualreport 13 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Society
In addition, Barclays’ Military and Veterans Outreach programme provides support to service personnel, veterans and their families to
develop the skills they need to transition to civilian life, build careers beyond the military and grow their own businesses, while our Digital
Eagles programme, which upskilled more than 622,000 people in 2023, is enabling people to become more confident with technology and
stay safe online.
We also recognise the power of sport to engage and strengthen communities. The Barclays Community Football Fund has helped more
than 2,900 community sports groups make football more accessible to underrepresented groups, reaching more than 400,000 young
people.
In 2023, as Official Banking Partner of The Championships, Wimbledon, Barclays made the largest ever partner donation to the Wimbledon
Foundation and connected Barclays LifeSkills to the UK Set for Success programme and the Barclays Net Work programme in the US. Using
sport, and through mentoring sessions with inspirational athletes, both initiatives provide young people from underserved communities the
opportunity to develop valuable life skills. The UK Set for Success programme aims to support 3,900 people in 30 regions across the UK
over the next four years.
LifeSkills in the UK
Barclays is proud of the positive impact LifeSkills has made over the past 10 years.
With social inequalities continuing to rise, there is more to do to support underserved communities – which is why we are putting socio-
economic inclusion at the heart of the LifeSkills programme to give more help to people who would otherwise be left behind.
The focus of new investment is for people in the UK’s most underserved communities and underrepresented groups. We are working in
partnership with respected charities, the education sector, the business community and Barclays colleagues to support families, young
people and young adults to thrive – now and in the future.
Female Founder Accelerator
In 2023, through Barclays’ Eagle Labs, we launched our first Female Founder Accelerator, in partnership with AccelerateHER - supporting
40 female-led technology businesses to address the gender imbalance in the entrepreneur community.
In 2024, the Female Founder Accelerator is funded by UK Government and will support a further 100 businesses. During the nine-week
programme, founders work with experts from across the entrepreneurial landscape in a series of masterclasses, with the focus on
developing their business propositions further.
For further information please see here: labs.uk.barclays/what-we-offer/our-programmes/female-founder-accelerator/
Wimbledon
In 2023 Barclays launched a multi-year partnership with the All England Lawn Tennis Club as the Official Banking Partner of Wimbledon. In
our first year, to accompany our partnership, we delivered an international campaign bringing in our customers, clients, colleagues and
communities.
• We showcased two of our Unreasonable Impact businesses. 80 Acres Farms, a company also supported by Barclays Sustainable
Impact Capital, built a one-of-a-kind vertical strawberry farm on site, while CLUBZERØ supported us with returnable packaging.
Over 6,000 Wimbledon attendees interacted with these two businesses over the course of The Championships, providing unique
exposure.
• Additionally, we delivered for our communities with the Wimbledon Foundation by leveraging Barclays LifeSkills to expand the
UK Set for Success programme.
Suppliers
As a global institution, we have responsibility for a large supply chain. We engage directly with our suppliers - our Third Party Service
Providers (TPSPs) to promote Diversity, Equity and Inclusion and we are committed to trying to identify and seeking to address the modern
slavery risks in our supply chain.
We work closely with our TPSPs and set out our expectations in our Third Party Service Provider Code of Conduct (TPSP CoC). The TPSP
CoC encourages our TPSPs to adopt our approach to doing business and details our expectations for matters including environmental
management, human rights, diversity and inclusion, and also for living the Barclays Values.
Barclays is also proud to be a signatory of the Prompt Payment Code in the UK.
home.barclays/annualreport 14 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Engaging with our stakeholders
Section 172(1) Statement
How the Board has regard to the views of our stakeholders
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (the Act), this statement sets out how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in
Section 172(1) of the Act when performing their duty to promote the success of the Company under Section 172(1).
You can read about the key activities of the Board and decisions taken during the year in the Governance Report, in particular how we have
complied with our corporate governance principles, on pages 24 to 32. You can also read about our key stakeholder groups and how we
listen and respond to them in the Customer and clients, Our colleagues and Society sections of the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 14.
Further relevant information regarding the Barclays Group's key stakeholder groups and how we listen and respond to them can be found
in the Our stakeholders section of the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report.
How the Board engages with stakeholders
Throughout the year, the Board and individual Directors engage directly and indirectly with stakeholders to ensure they have a deep
understanding of the impact of the Barclays Bank UK Group's operations on key stakeholders, as well as their interests and views. This
includes meeting with customers and clients, colleagues, our regulators, and other stakeholders. This engagement, both directly and
through regular reports from individual business areas and key functions, seeks to ensure the Board understands the key issues to enable
the Directors to comply with their legal duty under Section 172(1).
You can find out more about how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172(1) when discharging their duty, and –
specifically – the effect of those considerations in reaching certain decisions taken by them in the context of the FCA’s Consumer Duty,
below.
Implementing and Embedding the new FCA Consumer Duty
In July 2023, the Consumer Duty came into force. The Consumer Duty is a new outcomes-based regulation, designed to ensure relevant
financial services firms deliver good outcomes for retail customers consistent with the three cross-cutting rules to (i) act in good faith, (ii)
avoid causing foreseeable harm, and (iii) enable and support retail customers; and the four retail customer outcomes relating to: (i)
products and services, (ii) price and value, (iii) consumer understanding, and (iv) consumer support.
Building on the work done by the Board in 2022, during the first half of 2023, the Directors continued to consider planning and readiness
for the first Consumer Duty implementation deadline of 31 July 2023 for in-scope products and services; this was done at nearly every
scheduled meeting. In addition to receiving regular updates on the status of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s implementation plans, the Board
oversaw – through the Board Audit Committee – Barclays Internal Audit’s coverage of the Consumer Duty as well as enhancements to the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s control environment resulting from Consumer Duty workstreams; similarly, the Board oversaw the risks
associated with readiness for implementation through the Board Risk Committee. The Board received an update on the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s overall compliance readiness shortly before the 31 July deadline. This included information on work conducted to ensure all
relevant Group frameworks align with the Consumer Duty rules and guidance and ongoing work to embed the Consumer Duty, including a
requirement for colleagues to have a Consumer Duty-aligned performance objective and the roll-out of mandatory Consumer Duty training
for colleagues.
Given the Group-wide significance of the Consumer Duty, there has been extensive engagement by the Boards of Barclays, Barclays Bank
PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC on this subject. H123 saw two of the Directors (including Chris Pilling, the Barclays Bank UK PLC Consumer
Duty Champion) visit our contact centre in Wavertree, Liverpool with the Barclays Group Chairman and the Barclays Bank PLC Consumer
Duty Champion to experience the Consumer Duty in action, meeting with customer-facing colleagues and learning about how Barclays is
delivering the intended outcomes, with a focus on meeting the needs of people with vulnerable characteristics. It should be noted that this
is just one of the ways in which the Barclays Bank UK PLC Consumer Duty Champion has engaged with the business, colleagues, the FCA
and industry during the year before reporting back to the Board and thereby providing critical insight. This has been in addition to
challenging management on how it is embedding the Duty and focusing on consumer outcomes, and supporting the Chair and the Chief
Executive in raising the Consumer Duty regularly in all relevant discussions.
In terms of management’s operationalisation of the Consumer Duty, a number of important actions were implemented – with the full
support of the Board – in the first phase of the Consumer Duty programme. Some examples of Consumer Duty-driven changes that
impacted stakeholders are set out below.
• Customer communications were simplified in order to make the language easier to follow, and so the purpose of the
communication easier to identify. This involved making improvements to letters issued to customers in specific circumstances,
including when a customer’s credit card is blocked and reissued due to suspected fraud.
• Data and insights gathered for the purposes of the Consumer Duty resulted in over 1.2 million customers being proactively
contacted and told that they could earn more interest by moving to a different savings product.
• Written communications were sent to over 100 suppliers, summarising the Consumer Duty requirements and the Group’s
expectations in terms of delivering and monitoring consumer outcomes.
Not long after the 31 July deadline, the Board and management participated in an internal workshop, the purpose of which was to facilitate
a discussion in relation to and reflect on the learnings from the first Consumer Duty implementation period. The output from that
workshop proved to be key in planning for the second Consumer Duty implementation deadline of 31 July 2024 for closed products, which
has been one of the Board’s areas of focus during the second half of 2023.
The other ongoing area of focus has been overseeing the embedment of the Consumer Duty and, in that context, monitoring outcomes for
retail customers, particularly in relation to customer complaints and meeting the needs of people with vulnerable characteristics. The
home.barclays/annualreport 15 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Climate and Sustainability report
Embedding Barclays’ climate strategy within Barclays Bank UK
The following sub-sections include a summary of the Barclays Bank UK specific items from the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report with
references to Barclays UK referring to the businesses of Barclays Bank UK PLC and its subsidiaries. The content has been included to the
extent this is relates to Barclays Bank UK as a subsidiary of the Barclays Group. For full details on targets and ambitions, refer to the Climate
and sustainability Report in the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report.
The aim with the disclosures within this Annual Report is to outline the progress we have made over the past year in relation to climate
and sustainability.
Climate related risks
The Barclays climate strategy is underpinned by the way it assesses and manages exposure to climate-related risk. Climate risk is a
Principal Risk within the Barclays Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
Barclays faces exposure to climate-related risks, either directly through its operations and infrastructure or indirectly through its financing
and investment activities. The two main categories of climate-related risks are physical risks and transition risks.
Physical risks result from a changing climate and can be event-driven (acute risks), including increased frequency and/or severity of
extreme weather events such as cyclone, hurricanes and flooding. Physical risks can also be driven by longer-term shifts in climate patterns
(chronic risks) from sustained higher temperatures, leading to rising sea levels, rising mean temperatures and more severe weather events.
Transition risks result from the transition to a lower-carbon economy. This is likely to involve significant, rapid policy, regulatory and legal
changes, as well as the evolution of technology and markets to adapt to a changing climate and associated impacts.
Climate change as a driver of risk
The feedback effects of climate risk drivers through macro and micro transmission channels are observed in Barclays' portfolio through
traditional risk categories such as credit risk, market risk, treasury and capital risk, operational risk and reputational risk. The approach to
identifying, measuring and managing climate-related risks is consistent with other key risks, however, there remains significant uncertainty
around when these risks will materialise.
Climate risk is integrated into the broader Barclays Enterprise Risk Management Framework, aligning with other Principal Risks and
ensuring a holistic approach to risk identification, assessment and management. Barclays' Climate Risk Framework facilitates a structured
integration of climate risk considerations into the Bank's operations. It undergoes regular reviews and updates - including changes to risk
taxonomy, definitions and methodology - to align with changing regulatory expectations and external developments. Following the annual
review of the Barclays Climate Risk Framework in 2023, Barclays no longer considers that a separate category is needed to capture second-
order impacts of physical and transition risk, as these impacts are already being captured and managed within the existing assessments
and frameworks. Therefore, connected risks no longer features as a separate category.
The potential impacts of physical and transition risk drivers will vary across Barclays' portfolios depending on composition, industry,
geographic location, business operations and other contextual factors.
Climate-related opportunities
Barclays UK recognises the environmental and societal benefits - and the commercial opportunities - that can be delivered through
financing the UK economy’s transition to net zero. Embracing the challenge of capturing opportunities from the transition to a low-carbon
economy aligns with Barclays’ purpose and positions us to capitalise on the growing market for sustainable finance.
The Barclays’ 2022 market review indicated that, within the UK, sustainable opportunities in retail and business banking represent a
$225-286bn market opportunity by 2025, increasing to an estimated $640bn-1trn by 2030.
According to the Barclays’ 2022 market review, Green Home Mortgages represent the largest individual market for Barclays UK by 2030.
We are actively exploring ways to unlock the decarbonisation of homes at scale by developing secured and unsecured lending for energy-
efficiency-related technologies. We are also exploring strategic partnerships to provide customers and businesses with financing and
guidance to make more sustainable choices. However, there are significant dependencies for this opportunity to be realised - namely
customer demand, supply chain maturity and policy intervention.
Progress against targets, convergence points and ambitions
UK Housing
Widened scope for UK Housing
Buildings contributed 17% of total UK green house gas (GHG) emissions in 2022, of which residential buildings represented 75%, primarily
from the use of oil and gas in heating and hot water. Decarbonising UK homes is a complex challenge that will require widespread
engagement and systemic change.
home.barclays/annualreport 17 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Climate and Sustainability report
In an effort to confront and quantify these challenges, Barclays are expanding the scope of its previously announced UK Residential Real
Estate convergence point. The expanded scope, renamed to UK Housing sector, now includes Social Housing and Business Banking Real
Estate portfolios, alongside the previous scope of Barclays UK residential and Private Banking mortgage portfolios in the wider Barclays
Group.
The real estate portfolios within the UK Housing sector share similar underlying assets (99% are UK residential properties), thereby
referencing the same UK Climate Change Committee balanced net zero (CCC BNZ) pathway, and sharing similar decarbonisation levers.
Barclays continues to support the UK Housing sector through the provision of mortgages, financing of social housing providers and
expanded product offerings designed to support the decarbonisation of UK Housing stock.
Estimating financed emissions
The decarbonisation of the UK Housing sector in line with the UK CCC BNZ scenario depends mostly on external changes and public policy
interventions. Without these external changes, Barclays cannot materially decrease the emissions intensity of its UK Housing portfolio.
Barclays has therefore chosen to identify the 2030 emissions intensity 'convergence point' and measure its progress towards it, but not to
set a formal target at this time. In 2022 we estimated the financed emissions and emissions intensity of our UK Residential Real Estate
sector by integrating the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) approach into BlueTrackTM.
In 2023 the emissions intensity for that sector increased by c.1% due to increased emissions from the UK electricity grid - despite an
improvement in known EPC ratings for our Barclays UK mortgage portfolio. Going forwards, the additional portfolios making up the
expanded scope of the UK Housing sector will be tracked. Barclays continue to use the CCC BNZ scenario as the benchmark for this sector
as it is specific to the UK, independent, developed by a credible institution and aims to achieve net zero emissions for the UK by 2050.
Please refer to the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report for details on the new convergence point as part of the wider Barclays Group social
housing portfolio.
Drivers of reduction in emissions in UK Housing
Key drivers in the transition to net zero in the UK Housing sector are the decarbonisation of the UK electricity grid and the phasing out of
fossil fuels in domestic heating through the switch to low-carbon heating - bringing cleaner energy into our customers' homes.
Another key driver required to reach net zero in the UK Housing sector is improving the energy efficiency of existing homes - which
includes improving the fabric of homes and adopting other energy efficiency measures. Other key contributors include new homes being
built to net zero standard, with low-carbon energy sources and high energy efficiency rating, and reduction in energy consumption through
changes in behaviour.
As a mortgage lender to retail and business banking clients, we can support customers who choose to retrofit their properties, switch to
low-carbon heating, and explore ways to reduce their energy consumption by providing financial products, services, and partner offers.
However, we expect the overall impact of our actions to be low, given the barriers to retrofitting such as high upfront costs and current low
customer demand due to low incentives to change. Additionally, the potential management actions available to Barclays are limited due to
this being a portfolio of customers or end users who are retail in nature and predominantly consisting of residential properties.
Barclays EPC ambition
Barclays is expanding its EPC ambition scope to include Social Housing, Business Banking Real Estate and Kensington Mortgage Company
Limited, alongside the previous scope of the Barclays UK mortgages portfolio. Please refer to the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report for
details of the updated EPC ambition as part of the wider Barclays Group social housing portfolio.
Agriculture
We finance customers and clients across the agriculture-food value chain, from farmers and producers of food products to retailers and
restaurants. As one of the largest lenders to farmers in the UK, Barclays is well placed to provide support through the changing nature of
the Agricultural sector - in particular, the ongoing shifts in consumer diets. Other factors important to consider are the impact of
decarbonisation on broader food security and affordability, where upside and downside risks exist depending on the form the transition
takes as well as the opportunity for carbon sequestration and improving biodiversity - given the sector controls 71% of land in the UK.
To support UK farmers through this transitional period, Barclays finances activities that aim to reduce emissions in Agriculture and result in
nature-positive outcomes. This includes investment in lower-carbon farming measures and financing to improve machinery energy
efficiency. We also have a dedicated Agriculture Technology Fund to support farming clients undertaking more sustainable practices or
implementing energy efficiency improvements.
We engage with farmers to explore the challenges and opportunities that may emerge from the decarbonisation of the Agricultural sector.
In 2023 we launched a survey of our UK Livestock and Dairy farming clients to better understand the challenges they may face in
progressing towards net zero. We also work individually with clients using our Client Transition Tool (CTT) to identify nature and
decarbonisation risks, as well as consider social risks. We support peer to peer learning through our Farm to Farm initiative that facilitates
events for farmers in similar geographic areas to cultivate innovative sustainable farming practices. Over 100 farming clients attended Farm
to Farm events in 2023, with further events planned for 2024.
home.barclays/annualreport 18 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Climate and Sustainability report
Estimating our financed emissions
There are significant challenges to calculating emissions for the Agricultural sector, notably a critical lack of data on the activities and
practices of our agricultural customers and clients, and modelling challenges around agricultural emissions intensity. This is exacerbated by
the highly disaggregated nature of the farming industry - characterised by a large number of small farm holdings - which makes collating
and processing data challenging and requires the use of estimated data.
As a result of these challenges, we have focused our initial assessment on the UK Dairy and Livestock sector - which is responsible for
c.70% of UK total agricultural GHG emissions. We are setting a target to reduce the absolute emissions (MtCO2e) of our UK Dairy and
Livestock portfolio by 21% by end of 2030 against a 2023 baseline - in line with the Balanced Net Zero (BNZ)1.5oC aligned scenario
developed by the CCC.
To help advance approaches to Agriculture financed emissions measurement, and target setting in the banking sector more broadly,
Barclays is a member of the Banking for Impact on Climate in Agriculture (B4ICA) working group - which produced an introductory guide
on target setting for the sector in 2022 and worked on a further update over 2023. Barclays is also engaged in a three-year collaboration
with Oxford University to develop food type production datasets for the UK. The aim is to quantify Barclays’ financed emissions in more
detail and consider additional transition risks.
Future progress against this target
To date, emissions reductions in the real economy have not been sufficient to align economies to a 1.5°C pathway.
Barclays expects progress against targets will continue to be non-linear, due to the many external dependencies and variables beyond
Barclays' control that may determine the pace of transition.
Going forward metrics will continue to have the potential to reflect different levels of volatility and could be impacted by a variety of
external factors, including but not limited to:
• The pace and timing of our clients’ progress, on their individual transition pathways
• Future technological advancements
• The public policy and regulatory environment
• Geopolitical or regional developments
• Updates to data inputs used by BlueTrackTM (e.g. company valuations)
Progress against targets may also be impacted by management decisions based on key drivers unrelated to climate or the transition, for
example prudent risk management practices.
Additionally, the transition of the UK Dairy and Livestock sector is significantly dependent on broader consumer behavioural change and
public policy interventions – which are outside our control and may affect our ability to achieve this target.
Leadership
In 2023, we made a number of important hires to build our sustainability leadership team. These colleagues will help drive our client
propositions and position us well to drive the strategy in 2024. We continue to upskill and engage colleagues on sustainability issues to
build our capability, encouraging colleagues to integrate sustainability considerations into their work supporting customers. This includes
tailored training for our Consumer Bank and Business Bank colleagues, introducing our Sustainability Champions community to bring
together our most engaged colleagues, and launching our online Colleague Sustainability Hub to share educational sustainability-related
content.
Head of Social Purpose and Sustainable Finance - Barclays UK
The role of Head of Social Purpose and Sustainable Finance for Barclays UK was created in 2022 with responsibility for the strategic
direction and execution of the Barclays UK sustainability strategy. The role oversees the development and delivery of Barclays UK products
and propositions to enable our retail and small business customers to adopt more sustainable practices – covering finance, tools, education
and partnerships. The role also partners closely with the Barclays UK Government Relations team to develop advocacy positions, as well as
Legal, Risk and Compliance functions to embed sustainability into processes and frameworks.
Product and services
We are engaging with our retail and business customers to better understand the steps they want to take to become more sustainable -
and the role that finance can play. We are using this insight-led approach to design and develop sustainability related products, offers and
initiatives that meet the needs of our customers.
Throughout 2023, we have used new digital journeys in app and online banking to support an additional 1.9 million customers to become
paperless and reduce their paper waste by 8 million envelopes. In 2024, we will continue our work to encourage further adoption of
paperless banking and digitisation of communications, further reducing paper volumes.
home.barclays/annualreport 19 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Climate and Sustainability report
Consumer Bank
Barclays UK Consumer Sustainability Hub
Barclays UK engages consumers through our online Consumer Sustainability Hub, which provides information on financial products,
services and partner offers that may support them in making more sustainable choices. In 2023, we began adding links to the Consumer
Sustainability Hub in the Barclays app to further support customer engagement on this topic. We plan to create a dedicated in-app
Sustainability Hub to host educational sustainability-related content, products and offers.
Greener Home Propositions
Barclays UK is supporting retail mortgage customers' transition to a more sustainable way of living, providing products and propositions
focused on retrofitting. In 2023 we rolled out training on home energy efficiency and climate risk to our mortgage advisors, and hosted a
webinar for mortgage brokers with retrofitting industry experts.
In collaboration with British Gas, we launched an offer of 50% off the purchase of a Hive Thermostat Mini for eligible residential mortgage
customers.
We continue to support customers purchasing EPC A- and B-rated new-build homes with our Green Home Mortgage, following its
expansion to include buy-to-let properties in 2022. In 2023 we lent £845m to Green Home Mortgage customers. Since inception in 2018,
Barclays UK has lent over £3.5bn to Green Home Mortgage customers.
Barclays UK Greener Home Reward
In 2023 we extended registrations for the Greener Home Reward scheme, which offers a cash reward of up to £2,000 for eligible residential
mortgage customers who install eligible energy-efficiency-related measures in their homes using a registered TrustMark installer. We have
seen continuing interest in microgeneration, with 45% of applications so far for solar panels and solar battery storage. However, demand
for the offer remains limited. This exemplifies the challenges the sector faces to increase the take up of retrofitting.
Barclays UK is also committed to working collaboratively with the UK Government to encourage and inform the development of strategies
and policies to drive more energy efficient homes and retrofitting- including through industry groups where appropriate, and through our
own engagement with policymakers.
Business Bank
We continue to support Business Bank customers to understand the case for sustainability, recognising that businesses are at varying
stages of their transition to net zero.
Embedding sustainability across the Business Bank
We continue to build our net zero expertise to give eligible businesses that bank with us the chance to explore the options available to
them, as part of transition plans towards net zero. In 2023 we provided sustainability training for Business Bank colleagues, including Real
Estate, Agriculture and Specialist Client Solutions teams.
For customers that prefer to self-serve, we created a series of educational videos to raise awareness of themes relating to the transition to a
low-carbon economy.
In 2023 we launched an EPC dashboard to enable Real Estate Relationship Managers to provide a view of EPC ratings across a clients’
portfolio with Barclays UK - and use it to discuss potential benefits around EPC improvements.
In July 2023 we expanded our existing Asset Finance proposition via our partner, Propel, to offer fixed rates on a wider range of green
assets including new fully electric vehicles, solar photovoltaic panels, battery storage units, LED lighting, heat pumps and electric vehicle
charging points. In September 2023, we launched our Green Barclayloan for Business, which offers no arrangement fees for lending above
£25,000 on a range of eligible green assets- supporting our business clients in their transition to net zero.
Barclays Eagle Labs
Barclays Eagle Labs look to help incubate, inspire and educate UK founders, start-ups and scale-ups and help them to succeed and grow .
Its growing network already supports businesses through 37 physical sites, as well as virtually across the UK.
Eagle Labs is building a community of climate tech start-ups working on disruptive technology to deliver a more sustainable future. In
October 2023 the Cambridge Eagle Lab was relaunched as a centre for Climate Tech start-ups and scale-ups. The lab has been retrofitted
to improve energy efficiency in line with Barclays' net zero ambition - including hybrid solar technology generating both electricity and heat
provided by Naked Energy, a company supported through our Unreasonable Impact programme and Barclays’ Sustainable Impact Capital.
home.barclays/annualreport 20 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Climate and Sustainability report
Information provided in climate and sustainability disclosures/Disclaimers
What is important to our investors and stakeholders evolves over time, and we aim to anticipate and respond to these changes. Disclosure
expectations in relation to climate change and sustainability matters are particularly fast moving, and differ from more traditional areas of
reporting including in relation to the level of detail and forward-looking nature of the information involved and the consideration of impacts
on the environment and other persons. We have adapted our approach in relation to the disclosure of such matters. Our climate and
sustainability disclosures take into account the wider context relevant to these topics, which may include evolving stakeholder views, the
development of our climate strategy, longer timeframes for assessing potential risks and impacts, international long-term climate- and
nature-based policy goals and evolving sustainability-related policy frameworks. Our climate and sustainability disclosures are subject to
more uncertainty than disclosures relating to other subjects given market challenges in relation to data reliability, consistency and
timeliness – the use of estimates, judgements and assumptions which are likely to change over time- the application and development of
data, models, scenarios and methodologies, the change in regulatory landscape, and variations in reporting standards.
These factors mean disclosures may be amended, updated, and recalculated in future as market practice and data quality and availability
develops, and could cause actual achievements, results, performance or other future events or conditions to differ, in some cases
materially, from those stated, implied and/or reflected in any forward-looking statements or metrics included in our climate and
sustainability disclosures. We give no assurance as to the likelihood of the achievement or reasonableness of any projections, estimates,
forecasts, targets, commitments, ambitions, prospects or returns contained in our climate and sustainability disclosures and make no
commitment to revise or update any such disclosures to reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of such
statements.
In preparing the climate and sustainability content within the Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report wherever it appears, we have:
• Made certain key judgements, estimations and assumptions. This is, for example, the case in relation to financed emissions, portfolio
alignment, classification of environmental and social financing, operational emissions and sustainability metrics, measurement of
climate risk and scenario analysis.
• Used climate and sustainability data, models, scenarios and methodologies Barclays consider to be appropriate and suitable for these
purposes as at the date on which they were deployed. This includes data, models, scenarios and methodologies made available by third
parties (over which we have no control) and which may have been prepared using a range of different methodologies, or where the
basis of preparation may not be known to Barclays. Methodologies, interpretations or assumptions may not be capable of being
independently verified and may therefore be inaccurate. Climate and sustainability data, models, scenarios and methodologies are
subject to future risks and uncertainties and may change over time. Climate and sustainability disclosures in this document, including
climate and sustainability-related data, models and methodologies, are not of the same standard as those available in the context of
other financial information and use a greater number and level of judgements, assumptions and estimates, including with respect to
the classification of climate and sustainable financing activities. Climate and sustainability disclosures are also not subject to the same
or equivalent disclosure standards, historical reference points, benchmarks or globally accepted accounting principles. Historical data
cannot be relied on as a strong indicator of future trajectories in the case of climate change and its evolution. Outputs of models,
processed data, scenario analysis and the application of methodologies will also be affected by underlying data quality, which can be
hard to assess, or challenges in accessing data on a timely basis.
• Continued (and will continue) to review and develop Barclays approach to data, models, scenarios and methodologies in line with
market principles and standards as this subject area matures. The data, models, scenarios and methodologies used (including those
made available by third parties) and the judgements, estimates and/or assumptions made in them or by us are rapidly evolving, and
this may directly or indirectly affect the metrics, data points, targets, convergence points and milestones contained in the climate and
sustainability content within the Annual Report. Further, changes in external factors which are outside of our control such as
accounting and/or reporting standards, improvements in data quality, data availability, or updates to methodologies and models and/
or updates or restatements of data by third parties, could impact – potentially materially – the performance metrics, data points,
targets, convergence points and milestones contained in the climate and sustainability content within the Annual Report. In future
reports we may present some or all of the information for this reporting period (including information made available by third parties)
using updated or more granular data or improved models, scenarios methodologies, market practices or standards. Equally, we may
need to re-baseline, restate, revise, recalculate or recalibrate performance against targets, convergence points or milestones on the
basis of such updated data. Such updated information may result in different outcomes than those included in the Annual Report. It is
important for readers and users of the Annual Report to be aware that direct, like-for-like comparisons of each piece of information
disclosed may not always be possible from one reporting period to another.
There are a variety of internal and external factors which may impact Barclays’ reported metrics and progress against targets, convergence
points and milestones.
home.barclays/annualreport 21 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Page
▪ Governance Report
(including Corporate Governance Statement) 23
▪ Directors’ Report 33
▪ Other Governance - Managing data privacy, security and resilience 37
home.barclays/annualreport 22 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
Training and development
In order to enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities and undertake its work with due care, the Directors participate in an ongoing
programme of training and development, with sessions on, for example, competition law, financial crime and the Senior Managers Regime.
The Directors also participate in briefing sessions and deep dives in order to gain a more granular understanding of the Barclays Bank UK
Group and the business which, in turn, contributes to informed and sound decision-making. This year, the focus remained on key areas of
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, including customer strategy, data strategy (including artificial intelligence), evolving our societal
purpose (including but not limited to sustainable and transition financing), our operating and service models (including the transformation
of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s physical service model), technology (including operational resilience), and people matters such as
strategic talent. In many cases, these topics were brought to life through interactive sessions with colleagues, customers and clients.
Those Directors who were new to the Board in 2023 - including the Chair and the Chief Financial Officer - received a comprehensive
induction, which was structured around the core components of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy and tailored to their specific
experience and knowledge.
Our corporate governance principles and how we applied them in 2023
During the year ended 31 December 2023, and up to and including the date of this report, the Company has continued to apply and has
complied with its own corporate governance arrangements rather than the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code or the Wates Corporate
Governance Principles for Large Private Companies. This is on the basis that the Board continues to believe that our own governance
arrangements are the most appropriate for the Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of a premium listed company which is also a complex
financial institution subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime. This approach is consistent with the approach of other significant
subsidiaries in the Barclays Group which are subject to the Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 (2018 Regs).
The primary aim of our governance arrangements remains as stated in the Company’s 2022 Annual Report, namely that they:
• are effective, in particular to ensure the safety and soundness of the ring-fenced bank
• provide checks and balances and encourage constructive challenge
• drive informed, collaborative and accountable decision-making
• create long-term sustainable value for our shareholder, Barclays, the ultimate shareholders of Barclays and our wider
stakeholders
Set out below is an explanation of how the six principles that underpin our governance arrangements have been applied during 2023.
The Barclays Bank UK Group governance framework is set by Barclays and has been designed to facilitate the effective management of the
Barclays Group. This includes the setting of Barclays Group policies in relation to matters such as the Barclays Group’s Purpose, Values and
Mindset and the Barclays Group Remuneration Policy. Where appropriate, this Corporate Governance Statement makes reference to those
Barclays Group-wide policies which are relevant to the way in which the Company is governed.
Principle One: Board Leadership and Company Purpose
A successful company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial Board whose role is to establish the company’s purpose, values and
strategy, aligned to its culture, and make decisions to promote its success for the long-term benefit of its shareholder, having regard to
the interests of other relevant stakeholders and factors.
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Company. The Board’s role involves articulating a clear vision for the Company
based on Barclays’ Purpose, Values and Mindset - and through the lens of Consistently Excellent - and establishing a strategy for both the
Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group, supported by a framework of effective controls that are designed to mitigate financial and other
risks and to protect the reputation of the business. This ultimately ensures that the business is able to operate effectively and
independently, and is run in a way that promotes the long-term success of the Company thereby creating and delivering sustainable value.
For further details on internal control and risk management, please see pages 28 to 30.
The Board’s role also involves ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and
measuring performance against those objectives.
What the Board did in 2023
As a matter of course, the Board ensures that the Company is managed in accordance with the ring-fencing legislation and monitors the
ring-fence perimeter of the Barclays Bank UK Group to ensure ongoing compliance with the ring-fencing requirements. In addition to this,
the principal activities of the Board during 2023 included the following:
Strategic and operational matters
▪ Against the backdrop of the macroeconomic environment, overseeing the ongoing execution and evolution of the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s strategy. This has included but has not been limited to overseeing actions to: offer banking services that meet the needs of
today’s and tomorrow’s customers and clients; pursue digital innovation and help colleagues focus on value-adding customer
interactions; and seek out opportunities for an inclusive and sustainable future. Further detail on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy,
including its focus areas, can be found on pages 2 to 4 of the Strategic Report
▪ Endorsing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ambitions in relation to climate, and sustainable and transition financing, and overseeing
execution of the same. For more information, please refer to the Climate and Sustainability Report on pages 17 to 21
▪ Overseeing customer, commercial, conduct, financial, operational, regulatory, risk, societal, climate and sustainability matters, with
regular updates from the Chief Executive and Executive Committee members on these key aspects of the business, supported by key
performance indicators and other metrics (where appropriate)
home.barclays/annualreport 24 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
▪ Overseeing reputational risk matters, including in relation to access to cash, the transformation of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
physical service model and significant customer remediation matters
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, strategic projects including but not limited to: the acquisition of Kensington
Mortgage Company; the transfer of the Wealth Management & Investments business to Barclays Bank PLC; the agreement with Tesco
Personal Finance plc (operating using the trading name “Tesco Bank”) to acquire its retail banking business; and the agreement to
enter into a long-term, exclusive strategic partnership with Tesco Stores Limited for an initial period of 10 years upon completion of the
aforementioned acquisition (which is expected to occur in H2 2024, subject to court sanction and regulatory approvals)
▪ Overseeing the embedment of the Consumer Duty and, in that context, monitoring outcomes for customers, with a focus on customer
complaints and meeting the needs of people with vulnerable characteristics
▪ Receiving updates on developments in UK banking (for example, the Mortgage Charter and the response of the Barclays Bank UK
Group thereto) and the evolving political and regulatory landscape (including but not limited to the emerging approach to artificial
intelligence and the Online Safety Act 2023)
▪ Receiving updates on the macroeconomic and operational environment (including but not limited to cost of living pressures, the
impact of technology on consumer products and services, and the transition of the global economy towards a low-carbon economy)
and overseeing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ongoing support of customers, clients and colleagues through those lenses
Culture, colleagues and DEI
▪ Overseeing the embedment of the Group-wide cultural change programme, Consistently Excellent, and monitoring delivery against
that higher operating standard
▪ Continuing to oversee the creation of an inclusive and supportive culture through the continued embedment of the Barclays Group
Purpose, Values and Mindset, and DEI initiatives such as the DEI Employee Resource Groups and the Race at Work Action Plan as well
as reviewing progress against key commitments
▪ Overseeing colleague engagement. Further details can be found on page 12 of the Strategic Report and, separately, in the Colleagues
section of the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report
Finance
▪ Discussing and approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Medium Term Plan (MTP), in which strategy is embedded, together with
related funding and capital plans for the Barclays Bank UK Group
▪ Overseeing the financial performance of the Barclays Bank UK Group and its main businesses through regular reports from the Chief
Financial Officer
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Audit Committee, approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s full year and half year financial
statements, and approving the payment of a 2022 full year dividend and the payment of a 2023 half year dividend
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, the results of a range of stress tests to assess capital adequacy and
resilience under severe but plausible macroeconomic scenarios
Risk, control and regulatory matters
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the adoption of the ERMF, approving the Company’s qualitative and
quantitative Risk Appetite Statements, and overseeing risk parameters
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the Barclays Group Recovery
and Resolution Plan and Resolvability Assessment Framework and the conclusions of the annual assessment of ring-fencing
compliance
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Audit Committee, financial crime activity that impacted the Barclays Bank UK Group in 2023
and the execution of related remediation activities, including but not limited to enhancements to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control
environment
▪ Overseeing, with the support of the Board Audit Committee, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s internal controls framework through regular
reports from the Chief Controls Officer
▪ Overseeing key risk matters, including themes and emerging risks, through regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer as well as an
annual report from the Barclays Group Chief Risk Officer in order to better understand the Group risk context
▪ Overseeing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational and technology capacity, including - in conjunction with the Board Risk
Committee - the annual self-assessment of operational resilience, the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) Cyber Stress Test as well
as the utilisation of more modern technology platforms
▪ Overseeing the services received from BX through - amongst other reports - an annual update from the BX Chief Executive
Governance
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the relevant Board Committees, the revision of the Board corporate governance documents to refer to
the Consumer Duty and, specifically, the Board and respective Board Committees’ responsibilities in relation to giving due
consideration to customer and client outcomes under the Consumer Duty (where appropriate) as well as related matters
▪ Overseeing, with the support of the Board Nominations Committee, changes to Board composition (in particular, the appointment of
Sir John Kingman and Claire Peel) and the renewal of the terms of office of Avid Larizadeh Duggan, Michael Jary, Chris Pilling and
Andrew Ratcliffe
▪ Overseeing Directors’ time commitments and the management of any Non-Executive Director conflicts of interest and conflicts of
interest management procedures
▪ Receiving regular updates from the Chairs of the Board Committees on matters discussed at meetings
▪ In conjunction with the Board Nominations Committee, overseeing the 2023 internal Board, Board Committee and Non-Executive
Director evaluations
home.barclays/annualreport 25 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
Principle Two: Division of Responsibilities
An effective Board requires a clear division of responsibilities with the Chair leading the Board and being responsible for its overall
effectiveness, and the executive leadership of the company’s business being delegated to the Chief Executive. The Board should
consist of an appropriate combination of executive and independent Non-Executive Directors each with a clear understanding of
their accountability and responsibilities. The Board’s policies and procedures should support effective decision-making and
independent challenge.
Chair responsibilities
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chair and the Chief Executive. The Chair is responsible for leading the Board and its
overall effectiveness, demonstrating objective judgement and promoting a culture of openness and constructive debate between all
Directors. The Chair also facilitates constructive Board relations and the effective contribution of all Non-Executive Directors, and ensures
Directors receive accurate, clear and timely information. In addition, the Deputy Chair is available, if needed, to deputise for and support the
Chair in respect of the authorities and responsibilities conferred or delegated to him by the Board from time to time. This would be the case
were there to be a conflict of interest between Barclays and Legal & General Group plc (L&G), of which Sir John Kingman is also Chair, or a
stress scenario in which Sir John Kingman needed to prioritise his role at L&G.
The duties of the Board are executed in part through the Board Committees, which provide oversight and make recommendations on the
matters delegated to them by the Board. The Chair of each Board Committee provides a report on Board Committee business at each Board
meeting, including any matters being recommended for Board approval. Details on the principal Board Committees and their core
responsibilities and activities in 2023 are set out in Principles Three to Five on pages 26 to 31.
Chief Executive responsibilities
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to the Chief Executive who is supported by the Company’s
Executive Committee. The Executive Committee meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive. The Executive Committee supports the
Chief Executive in ensuring that the values, strategy and culture align, and that those elements are implemented and communicated
consistently to colleagues; for example, through townhalls, skip-level meetings, site visits, and leader-led engagement. Further details are
set out on page 12 of the Strategic Report and, separately, in the Colleagues section of the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report.
Accountability
Accountability is driven through routine evaluations of the Board and Board Committees. For an overview of the recent internal evaluation
of the Board, Board Committees and Non-Executive Directors (including the Chair), please see page 27.
Decision-making and independent challenge
The Board maintains a formal schedule of powers reserved to it in order to ensure that it has control over key decision-making. These
powers include approval of key appointments, strategy, financial statements and any major acquisitions, mergers or disposals; the Board
also has the power to approve material non-financial matters impacting the Barclays Bank UK Group including, but not limited to, matters
involving material conduct risk and/or reputation risk considerations as well as significant customer remediation matters and strategic
business changes.
There are policies and procedures in place to support effective decision-making and independent challenge, including the Barclays Group
Corporate Governance Operating Manual, which clearly sets out how Barclays Group entities and their respective Boards and Board
Committees should interact and, where appropriate, escalate issues.
For details of how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172(1) of the Act when performing their duty to promote
the success of the Company under Section 172, and the effect of those considerations in reaching certain decisions taken by them, please
refer to the Section 172(1) Statement on pages 15 and 16 of the Strategic Report.
In accordance with the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board has authority to authorise conflicts of interest, and this
ensures that the influence of third parties does not compromise or override the independent judgement of the Board. The Company
Secretary maintains a conflicts register, which is a record of actual and potential conflicts, together with any Board authorisation of the
conflict. Throughout the year, the Board has authorised a number of potential conflicts and, on occasion, put in place appropriate
procedures to manage that potential conflict. Following authorisation, all conflicts - whether actual or potential - are monitored in order to
assist the relevant individuals in discharging their duties as a Director.
Principle Three: Composition, Succession and Evaluation
A Board with the right balance of skills, experience and diversity is critical to the sustainable delivery of value to the company’s
shareholder and broader stakeholders. The size of the Board should be guided by the scale and complexity of the company and
appointments should be based on merit and objective criteria and with a view to promoting diversity and subject to a formal, rigorous and
transparent procedure which is underpinned by an effective succession plan for the Board and senior management. A successful Board is
a cohesive Board that provides informed and constructive challenge to the management team and measures its effectiveness.
Board Composition and Succession
Following the announcement by Barclays on 23 January 2023, and as reported in the 2022 Annual Report, Crawford Gillies stepped down
from the Board as Chair and Non-Executive Director on 31 May 2023; this coincided with Crawford’s retirement as a Barclays Non-
Executive Director, having served on that Board for nine years. The Board Nominations Committee, under the steer of Andrew Ratcliffe, led
a formal and rigorous Chair succession process, appointing Spencer Stuart to lead an external search. The process culminated in the Board
Nominations Committee recommending Sir John Kingman’s appointment to the Board, with such appointment being approved by the
Directors in January 2023, subject to regulatory approval. Crawford remained on the Board until 31 May 2023 in order to ensure an orderly
transition to Sir John, who joined the Board on 1 June 2023. Sir John has a deep background in financial services as a result of his executive
home.barclays/annualreport 26 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
and non-executive career, with his experience spanning the private and public sector. Sir John is currently Chair of L&G having stepped
down as Chair of Tesco Bank on 22 January 2023.
In June 2023, James Mack stepped down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director. Rupert Fowden returned to the
Board as Interim Chief Financial Officer pending Claire Peel joining the Board as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director on 2 October
2023. The Board thanks James and Rupert for their hard work and significant contribution to the Barclays Bank UK Group.
In September 2023, the Board approved the appointment of Andrew Ratcliffe as Deputy Chair.
In November 2023, the Board approved the renewal of the terms of office of Avid Larizadeh Duggan, Michael Jary, Chris Pilling and Andrew
Ratcliffe, all of whom have now served as Directors for six years. Where appropriate, this will allow for orderly succession in the years to
come, particularly in relation to the Board Committee Chairs.
The Directors have assessed the composition and size of the Board in light of the above changes, and the appointment of the four new
independent Non-Executive Directors in 2022, and have confirmed that they consider both to be appropriate for a large UK retail bank. This
assessment is supported by a skills matrix (refreshed annually), which helps the Directors to evaluate the experience and skills on the Board
in order to ensure that there is the necessary expertise and knowledge to support and challenge management in its execution of the
strategy. There is currently a good balance between the Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors who, together, have
a strong combination of financial, retail banking, risk and technical skills as well as experience in colleague engagement, customer
experience, culture, financial regulation, government, technology and transformation. Those newer members of the Board have embedded
well, bringing significant expertise and insight across a broad range of industries as well as diversity of experience, gender and thought.
Succession planning will remain an area of focus in 2024 and beyond in order to ensure that there is the appropriate breadth and depth of
talent on the Board. In particular, the Board Nominations Committee will - on behalf of the Board - be reviewing the medium-term
succession plans for key Board positions. To the extent that any appointment(s) to the Board are made, such appointment(s) will be based
on merit. Objective criteria are used to ensure that the Board has the necessary knowledge, skills and experience to be effective in the
execution of the strategy whilst recognising the importance of diversity amongst the Directors including, but not limited to, diversity of
experience, gender, ethnicity, geography and thought.
The Board Diversity Policy (which was revised in July 2023) sets out our ambition to ensure that, by 2025, the proportion of women on the
Board is at least 40% and at least one of the following senior Board positions is held by a woman: Chair, Chief Executive, or Chief Financial
Officer. We are pleased to report that, following Claire’s appointment as Chief Financial Officer, female representation on the Board is now
45% and the second limb of our ambition has also been satisfied. With reference to ethnic diversity, the Board’s current target is to ensure
that at least one Board member is from a minority ethnic background (excluding white ethnic groups) and that, having been met, this is
maintained.
With regards to independence, the majority of the Board is considered to be independent. Independence is reviewed annually, using the
independence criteria set out in ring-fencing requirements, and the Chair meets privately with the Non-Executive Directors, where
appropriate, in order to promote the required independence.
Board Evaluation
During December 2023 and January 2024, an internal evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Non-Executive Directors (including
the Chair) was conducted. The overall conclusion of the evaluation was that the Board has a collegiate and constructive culture, operated
effectively during 2023, and that effectiveness is improving. The Board’s effectiveness ensures that the Board makes high-quality, well
informed decisions based on a clear line of sight into the business and consideration of the Directors’ duties under Section 172(1) of the
Act. However, certain areas were identified for continued focus. These include greater sustained strategic focus and clarity in the Board’s
dialogue with, and expectations of, management supported by more active agenda management and the ongoing simplification and timely
circulation of Board papers; there is also appetite for more external benchmarking in the boardroom. Work is ongoing to progress these
matters.
Board Nominations Committee
The Board Nominations Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 23).
Meetings are attended by the Chief Executive and the Human Resources Director, at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Skills and Diversity - evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity for the Board and Board Committees and
more broadly across the senior management of the business
▪ Director Appointments - identifying, and recommending to the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and Board Committees
▪ Director Independence - considering and assessing the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including recommendations for
any steps to manage actual or potential conflicts of interest
▪ Board Performance - assessing the performance of the Non-Executive Directors and their annual time requirements
▪ Board Evaluation - considering actions from the Board and Board Committee evaluation process and, in conjunction with the Board,
reviewing the Board’s progress against the recommendations arising from the evaluation process
• Board Development – leading the development and effective implementation of policies and procedures for the induction, training and
professional development of all members of the Board
• Talent - overseeing the adoption of internal policies and talent progression for senior management
home.barclays/annualreport 27 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
During 2023, the principal activities of the Committee were:
• Reviewing the Board’s composition – including the skills and experience of Board members and the independence of the Non-Executive
Directors (excluding the Chair)
• Concluding, on behalf of the Board, the Chair succession process following notification from Crawford Gillies of his intention to step
down from the Board as Chair and Non-Executive Director during 2023. The Committee led the succession process, under the steer of
Andrew Ratcliffe, in conjunction with the Barclays Board Nominations Committee, which is chaired by the Barclays Group Chairman, on
the basis that the successful candidate would also be appointed as a Barclays Non-Executive Director. As part of that process, the
Committee: agreed the appointment of Spencer Stuart to lead an external search; approved the role specification and search criteria;
and approved the process regarding the recommendation and appointment of a new Chair (considering all options available for Chair
succession), which culminated in the Committee recommending Sir John Kingman’s appointment to the Board in January 2023
▪ Leading, on behalf of the Board, the process to appoint Rupert Fowden as an Executive Director and Interim Chief Financial Officer and,
subsequently, Claire Peel as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer
▪ Leading, on behalf of the Board, the process to reappoint certain of the Non-Executive Directors who were approaching the end of their
six-year term on the Board, which culminated in the Committee recommending to the Board that the terms of office of Avid Larizadeh
Duggan, Michael Jary, Chris Pilling and Andrew Ratcliffe be renewed
▪ Reviewing the Company’s talent and succession plans at Executive Committee level and one level down on a bi-annual basis and, when
required, overseeing Executive Committee appointments
▪ Reviewing and updating the Board Diversity Policy, and monitoring the Board’s progress against the same
▪ On behalf of the Board, reviewing and monitoring the Company’s progress against its DEI agenda, and initiatives such as the Race at
Work Action Plan
▪ Reviewing the results of the 2022 internal Board, Board Committee and Non-Executive Director evaluations, the overall conclusion of
which was that the Board, Board Committees and the Non-Executive Directors are all operating effectively and meeting their required
responsibilities
The Executive Committee
The Board and Board Nominations Committee regularly review the leadership and succession needs of the business, which helps the
Directors to understand the breadth and depth of talent at Executive Committee level and one level down. Talent amongst these
populations has been an area of focus during 2023 - the Board expanded its mentoring programme, Executive Committee members started
presenting spotlights on the senior talent within their teams, and the Non-Executive Directors met with Managing Director colleagues to
hear their views on challenges and opportunities within the business.
The Board remains comfortable that the Executive Committee has the capabilities and experience required to support the execution of the
strategy against the backdrop of a challenging and competitive operating environment, with the changes made during the year serving to
strength the Executive Committee’s skill set. Talent and succession at both Executive Committee level and one level down will remain a key
focus for 2024 and beyond.
Principle Four: Audit, Risk and Internal Control
The Board should establish formal and transparent policies and procedures to: (i) identify the nature and extent of principal risks the
company is willing to take in order to achieve its long-term strategic objectives; (ii) manage such risks effectively; (iii) oversee the internal
control framework; (iv) promote the independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions; and (v) satisfy itself on the
integrity of financial reporting.
The Company is committed to operating within a strong system of internal control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken
without exposure to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage. The Principal Risks facing the Barclays Bank UK Group have
been identified and robust processes are in place to evaluate and manage such risks including regular reporting to, and oversight by, the
Board Risk Committee and the Board. A key component of the risk management framework is the ERMF, which supports the business in its
aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture. The ERMF is designed to identify and set minimum
requirements, in respect of the main risks, to achieve the Barclays Bank UK Group strategic objectives and to provide reasonable assurance
that internal controls are effective. Further detail on the Principal Risks and management of them can be found on pages 8 and 9 of the
Strategic Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that management maintains an effective system of risk management and internal control
and for assessing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Having said
that, the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board Risk Committee and the
Board Audit Committee. Details of the role, responsibilities and activities of both Committees are set out below.
The Board receives regular reports on risk matters, including reputational risk matters, in order to ensure sufficient focus around strategic
and emerging risks, including those arising from within the broader Barclays Group, which may impact the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Oversight of the renamed “Compliance Risk”, which incorporates conduct risk as well as risks from a failure to comply with laws, rules and
regulations applicable to the firm, remains within the remit of the Board Risk Committee, as detailed below.
Board Audit Committee
The Board Audit Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 23).
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management and others, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial
Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Controls Officer, Chief Operating Officer, General Counsel,
the Company’s statutory auditor and, at their request, Non-Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee who wish to
further their knowledge and understanding of audit matters. The Board, together with the Board Audit Committee, is responsible for
home.barclays/annualreport 28 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the internal audit function and the statutory auditor. The Committee Chair meets regularly
with both the Chief Internal Auditor and the Senior Statutory Auditor throughout the year and Committee members meet with both
without management present at least annually.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing financial reporting processes, reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, considering
whistleblowing arrangements and overseeing the work of the internal auditor and the statutory auditor. Throughout the year ended
31 December 2023 and to date, a comprehensive internal control framework has been in place within the Barclays Bank UK Group that
provides reasonable assurance of effective operations covering all controls, including financial and operational controls and compliance
with laws and regulations. The Committee receives a quarterly report on the framework’s operation (and its continued enhancements).
This includes reports from the internal audit function, the statutory auditor and the Chief Controls Officer, as well as related plans and
management actions to remediate control recommendations raised in those reports.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Financial Reporting - assessing the integrity of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements and examining any significant
reporting issues and judgements made
▪ Internal Controls - examining the operation and effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s system of internal controls
▪ Internal Audit - monitoring and examining the operation, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the Internal Audit function
▪ Regulatory Reporting - reviewing arrangements established by management for compliance with regulatory and financial reporting,
including compliance with the ring-fencing requirements
▪ External Audit - reviewing and monitoring the statutory auditor’s independence, objectivity and effectiveness, including oversight of the
regulatory developments within the delivery of audit services
▪ Whistleblowing - reviewing the integrity, independence and effectiveness of Barclays Bank UK Group’s well-established policies and
procedures on whistleblowing
▪ Material Legal Matters - overseeing significant contentious and non-contentious matters, together with current or emerging legal risks
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee is to have regard to the interests of Barclays Bank UK Group’s stakeholders and, following
the Consumer Duty coming into force in July 2023, shall (where appropriate) consider whether the Company and the Barclays Bank UK
Group as a whole are delivering good customer outcomes.
During 2023, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Reviewing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s full year and half year financial statements and recommending their approval to the Board
▪ Reviewing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Q1 and Q3 2023 results for incorporation into Barclays PLC’s Q1 and Q3 2023 results
▪ Assessing the appropriateness of key management judgements, including consideration of material conduct and litigation provisions
(including collections and recoveries, and other material items) and accounting policy judgements (including expected credit losses,
impairment and recoverability of goodwill)
▪ Receiving updates on financial crime activity that impacted the Barclays Bank UK Group in 2023 and the execution of related
remediation activities, including but not limited to enhancements to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control environment
▪ Overseeing the Company’s Money Laundering Reporting Officer’s report, regulatory correspondence and related work
▪ Receiving reports from the General Counsel on litigation matters pertinent to accounting provisions
▪ Receiving reports from the Chief Controls Officer on the internal controls framework and its effectiveness, and ensuring appropriate
oversight of the BX control environment where it impacts the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control environment
▪ Overseeing the statutory auditor’s independence and objectivity and contributing to the Barclays Group’s auditor effectiveness exercise
▪ Overseeing the performance of the Internal Audit function and approving the 2024 audit plan
▪ Receiving reports from management on certain areas of the business where reports from the internal audit function had recommended
improvements to existing controls (for example, escalation of sanctions alerts) or on areas of new risks (for example, a new credit card
product and digital account opening)
▪ Monitoring management progress on the embedding of a Risk Control Self-Assessment framework
▪ Reviewing and re-adopting the refreshed Barclays Group policy on the provision of non-audit services by the statutory auditor
▪ Monitoring the whistleblowing programme, including receiving regular whistleblowing metrics as they relate to the Barclays Bank UK
Group, and ensuring that the procedures for protection from detrimental treatment of staff who raise concerns continue to be effective
▪ Receiving the Company’s Data Protection Officer’s report
▪ Considering future internal control needs
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
▪ Revising the Committee’s terms of reference to refer to the Consumer Duty and, specifically, the Committee’s responsibilities in relation
to giving due consideration to customer and client outcomes under the Consumer Duty (where appropriate), as referenced above
Board Risk Committee
The Board Risk Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 23).
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management, including the Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer, Chief
Compliance Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Internal Auditor, the Company’s statutory auditor and, at their request,
Non-Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee who wish to further their knowledge and understanding of risk matters.
The Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk exposures
examining reports covering the Principal Risks including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or
liquidity, as well as reports on risk measurement methodologies and risk appetite.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
home.barclays/annualreport 29 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
▪ Risk Appetite and Risk Profile – reviewing and ensuring that the risks undertaken by the business are within the risk appetite of the
Company, as set by the Board
▪ Risk Limits – reviewing and adopting risk limits and mandates for financial and non-financial risk, monitoring the risk profile and
receiving and considering reports on key risk issues (including emerging risks)
▪ Regulatory – reviewing and monitoring the Company’s capital and liquidity position including considering both the existing and
forecasted Company risk profile and the potential impact of stress
▪ Internal Control and Risk Control – monitoring the Internal Control and Risk Control framework
▪ Credit Risk – reviewing credit risk performance (including concentration of credit risk and expected credit losses)
▪ Compliance Risk – reviewing the effectiveness of the management of compliance risk, seeking to ensure fair customer outcomes
following the implementation of policies and reviewing the effectiveness of the Compliance Risk Management Framework, as it applies
to the Company and its subsidiaries
▪ Climate Risk - considering matters including the impact on financial and operational risks arising from climate change through physical
risks, risks associated with transitioning to a lower carbon economy and connected risks (with the exception of reputation risk which is
a matter reserved to the Board)
▪ Risk Culture – monitoring to ensure a robust risk culture (relating to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management)
▪ Ring-fencing – reviewing the ring-fencing requirements (including attestation and ongoing compliance requirements)
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee is to have regard to the interests of Barclays Bank UK Group’s stakeholders and, following
the Consumer Duty coming into force in July 2023, shall (where appropriate) consider whether the Company and the Barclays Bank UK
Group as a whole are delivering good customer outcomes.
During 2023, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Recommending to the Board the adoption of the ERMF and the approval of the qualitative and quantitative Risk Appetite Statements,
including an amendment to the Legal and Compliance Risk Appetite Statements to reflect the update to “Conduct Risk”, which was
renamed “Compliance Risk” and now incorporates conduct risk as well as risks from a failure to comply with laws, rules and
regulations applicable to the firm
▪ Reviewing and adopting the relevant Barclays Group policies, including the Compliance Risk Management Framework
▪ Receiving and reviewing regular financial and non-financial risk reporting on each of the Principal Risks (detailed on pages 8 and 9 of
the Strategic Report), and reviewing emerging risks, including enhanced reporting on climate risk (which became a Principal Risk in
2022)
▪ Reviewing compliance risk (as expanded), including enhanced reporting on financial crime risk, supplemented by a spotlight session,
led by the first and second lines of defence, at which an interim Money Laundering Reporting Officer’s Report was considered
▪ Adopting the 2023 Limits and Mandates and monitoring the risk profile in accordance with the same
▪ Monitoring the risks associated with the geopolitical and macroeconomic environment, including but not limited to receiving updates
on operational risk, credit risk (specifically in Business Banking) and market risk exposures (to the extent applicable) as well as a regular
focused update on the UK housing and mortgage market and its effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s mortgage portfolio
▪ Monitoring compliance with key portfolio metrics, including the use of Chief Risk Officer discretion
▪ Overseeing risk resources and the independence of the Risk and Compliance functions
▪ Reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the 2023 Barclays Group Recovery
Plan and the 2023 Barclays Group Resolvability Self-Assessment Report
▪ Reviewing and challenging the risks identified by the findings of internal audits
▪ Monitoring liquidity and capital levels and approving the Company sections of the Barclays Group 2023 Internal Capital Adequacy
Assessment Process and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process
▪ Reviewing and approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s stress testing scenarios and results, including but not limited to reviewing the
results of the PRA’s 2022 Annual Cyclical Stress Scenario as well as a climate internal stress test
▪ Overseeing the first and second line of defence elements of the risks and controls associated with the execution of the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s strategy, for which enhancements to reporting were made
▪ Reviewing the first and second line of defence reports on the risks associated with the acquisition of Kensington Mortgage Company
and “day one” readiness as well as monitoring post-acquisition matters
▪ Reviewing the risks associated with other strategic projects during the year, including the transfer of the Wealth Management &
Investments business to Barclays Bank PLC to create a combined Private Bank and Wealth Management business
▪ Reviewing and challenging management’s preparations and actions to support customers facing, or who may face, difficulties as a
result of increases in the cost of living and the rising interest rate environment (including oversight of management’s response to the
Mortgage Charter)
▪ Monitoring the risks associated with readiness for Consumer Duty implementation and the embedding of Consumer Duty throughout
the organisation
▪ Overseeing the risks associated with technology and digital innovation, including public cloud migration, through regular reporting on
operations and technology
▪ Considering regular reports on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational resilience (including benchmarking analysis on its maturity)
and recommending for Board approval the annual self-assessment of operational resilience
▪ Approving material new and amended product approvals, where considered necessary due to risk profile, with a particular focus on
ensuring good outcomes for retail customers
▪ Reviewing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ring-fencing compliance
▪ Reviewing and challenging the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
▪ Revising the Committee’s terms of reference to refer to the Consumer Duty and, specifically, the Committee’s responsibilities in relation
to giving due consideration to customer and client outcomes under the Consumer Duty (where appropriate), as referenced above
home.barclays/annualreport 30 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
Principle Five: Remuneration
The remuneration policies and practices should support strategy and promote long-term sustainable success, and be developed in
accordance with formal and transparent procedures, ensuring no Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration outcome.
Executive remuneration should be aligned to the company’s purpose and values and the successful delivery of the strategy; with
outcomes taking account of company and individual performance, and wider circumstances such as pay across the company’s workforce
and Barclays’ Fair Pay agenda.
The Barclays Group Remuneration Policy is set by the Barclays Board Remuneration Committee, and reviewed and adopted by the
Company’s independent Board Remuneration Committee. The policy ensures that remuneration is aligned to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy and risk management approach and designed to promote the long-term success of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Executive and senior management remuneration approaches are developed in accordance with the Barclays Group’s formal procedures
(ensuring no individual is involved in deciding their own remuneration). Additionally, remuneration is considered in relation to wider
workforce remuneration policies, and alignment of incentives and rewards with culture and performance is reviewed annually by the
Barclays Group Remuneration Committee and reported to the Company’s independent Board Remuneration Committee.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to paying people fairly, with regards to their specific role, seniority, responsibilities, skills and
experience and other factors which properly affect pay, in a way that balances the needs of all of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
stakeholders. You can find more information on Barclays Fair Pay Agenda in the Barclays Fair Pay Report 2023. The Barclays Bank UK
Group also remains focused on closing its gender and ethnicity pay gaps by increasing the representation of females and under-
represented ethnic groups at more senior levels. You can find more information on our UK-wide gender and ethnicity pay gaps for 2023 in
the UK Pay Gaps 2023 disclosure.
Board Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 23).
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer,
Chief Risk Officer, the HR Director and the Reward Director. The Barclays Group HR Director and the Barclays Group Reward and
Performance Director also attend the Committee when requested to provide relevant updates.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Remuneration Policy – reviewing, adopting, and recommending for Board approval the Barclays Group Remuneration Policy (set by the
Barclays Board Remuneration Committee)
• Remuneration Approach – reviewing and approving the remuneration approach developed for the Barclays Bank UK Group, which
complies with the Barclays Group Remuneration Policy thereby ensuring such policy is aligned with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy and risk management protocols and that incentives do not encourage risk taking beyond the tolerated risk of the Barclays
Bank UK Group, or undermine the Company’s ability to comply with ring-fencing requirements
• Overall Pay Structure – overseeing overall pay and benefits across the Barclays Bank UK Group
• Incentive Pay – considering the annual incentive pool and individual remuneration proposals for senior colleagues and the assessment
of incentives to be delivered to the wider workforce. This includes considering ex-ante (current and future) and ex-post (crystallised)
risk adjustments to remuneration
During 2023, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Overseeing reward and recognition across the Barclays Bank UK Group’s workforce to ensure alignment with our desired culture and
behaviours
▪ Receiving updates on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s remuneration initiatives and developments, including Barclays’ Fair Pay agenda and
gender and ethnicity pay gaps
▪ Reviewing and approving the methodology and framework for 2023 incentive funding, including the further simplification of incentive
and salary policies for junior colleagues in Barclays Bank UK PLC, with a particular focus on the Business Analyst population
▪ Reviewing and approving the incentive pool outcome, including considering financial and risk performance updates (and the
appropriateness of risk adjustments to incentives)
▪ Reviewing and approving, for recommendation to the Barclays Board Remuneration Committee, where appropriate, the remuneration
of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Executive Directors and other senior employees of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Group
▪ Considering legal, regulatory and stakeholder updates and ensuring that remuneration procedures and outcomes comply with
regulatory requirements and that incentives do not encourage inappropriate risk taking
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
▪ Revising the Committee’s terms of reference to refer to the Consumer Duty and, specifically, the Committee’s responsibilities in relation
to giving due consideration to customer and client outcomes under the Consumer Duty (where appropriate)
The Committee also participated in an informal briefing session led by a third party adviser on trends in consumer retail banking and the
wider stakeholder environment.
home.barclays/annualreport 31 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Report, including Corporate Governance Statement
Principle Six: Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement
Directors should foster effective stakeholder relationships aligned to the company’s purpose. The Board should recognise the importance
of listening to, and understanding the views of its stakeholders, including the workforce, and specifically the impact of the company’s
behaviour and business on customers and clients, colleagues, suppliers, communities and society more broadly, having regard to these
views and impact when taking decisions.
Throughout the year, the Board engages directly and indirectly (through regular reports from individual business areas and key functions)
with its stakeholders to ensure it has a comprehensive understanding of the impact of the Barclays Bank UK Group's operations on key
stakeholders, as well as their interests and views.
Customers and clients
Customers and clients are at the heart of the decisions we make. The Board is committed to ensuring good outcomes for retail customers
and that the Consumer Duty is demonstrably embedded throughout the organisation.
In 2023, the Board engaged with customers and clients in a wide variety of ways, including analysing the key drivers underpinning
customer metrics, including complaints data, and hearing directly from customers and clients during "breakout sessions”, which provided
first-hand insight into customers’ and clients’ needs, their digital behaviour and confidence, and how Barclays UK is serving them.
Colleagues
Details of our colleague engagement model can be found on page 12 of the Strategic Report and, separately, in the Colleagues section of
the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report. The model ensures a regular, two-way dialogue with colleagues and, in this respect, there has been a
combination of townhalls, skip-level meetings, site visits, leader-led engagement, and surveys. The Board also listens to feedback on a
variety of topics via the bi-annual Your View surveys, which - together with direct engagement with colleagues, both inside and outside of
the boardroom - enables the Board to take colleagues’ views into account when making decisions likely to affect their interests.
In 2023, direct engagement with colleagues included the Board having regular meetings with senior management, participating in
colleague events and DEI Employee Resource Group meetings, providing mentoring, and visiting branches, Eagle Labs, and operational and
strategic sites.
The Board also participated in two offsite meetings in 2023. The first was a two-day Board meeting held at Barclays Glasgow campus. The
campus was built with inclusivity and sustainability in mind, prioritising colleague wellbeing. The Board heard about the campus’s impact
on the community from two external speakers, learnt how the site is helping Barclays move closer to its ambition to be a net zero bank by
2050, met with colleagues as part of a “speed networking” event and over lunch, and met Glasgow Eagle Lab members. The second offsite
involved the majority of the Board and Executive Committee visiting two key operational sites in India. Whilst in Noida and Pune, attendees
met colleagues who are supporting the business by pursuing digital innovation and helping colleagues focus on value-adding customer
interactions; attendees also participated in campus tours, floor walks and a colleague recognition event.
Suppliers
For information on our engagement with suppliers, please see page 34 of the Directors’ Report.
Communities and society
The Barclays Bank UK Group continues to play a key role in local communities and society and, with this in mind, the Board has continued
to engage with both the Barclays Group and management in relation to the Barclays Group’s climate strategy and how the Barclays Bank
UK Group can play its part in supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy. The Board is delighted that, with effect from 1 January
2024, Tracy Corrigan has joined the Barclays Board Sustainability Committee. This will provide the Board with critical and ongoing insight
into the Barclays Board’s oversight of climate and sustainability matters as well as the ability to represent the retail bank.
The Board fully supports - amongst other initiatives - the expanded EPC ambition scope, the updated EPC ambition, and the setting of a
target to reduce the absolute emissions of the UK Dairy and Livestock portfolio. However, there remains much more to be done.
For more information on our role in society, please refer to pages 13 and 14 of the Strategic Report and the Climate and Sustainability
Report on pages 17 to 21.
Shareholder
Finally, the Board continues to consider engagement with its shareholder as being crucial to its understanding of the Barclays Group’s
strategy and the Barclays Bank UK Group’s role within that. Akin with previous years, we were pleased to welcome both the Barclays Group
Chairman to our Board in 2023 - as well as certain Barclays’ Executive Committee members - in order to discuss Barclays Group matters
and for those individuals to gain a better understanding of the opportunities and risks of the retail consumer business; the Group Chief
Executive joined the February 2024 Board meeting to provide his annual update to the Directors. The Chair’s position on the Barclays Board
also ensures the views of the Barclays Bank UK Group are represented at Barclays Group level. The Directors believe that this engagement
model works well and intend to use it again in 2024, supported by any informal engagement opportunities that may arise during the course
of the year.
For more information about the Barclays Bank UK Group’s key stakeholders, how management and/or the Directors engaged with them,
the key issues raised and actions taken, please refer to the Section 172(1) Statement on pages 15 to 16 of the Strategic Report.
home.barclays/annualreport 32 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their report together with the audited accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 December 2023.
Section 414A of the Act requires the Directors to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report. The information can be found on pages 2
to 16.
The Company has addressed the Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Act through the
disclosure contained in the Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement in the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report. In addition,
the Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414C(11) of the Act and as noted in this Directors’ Report, to include certain matters
in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors’ Report:
• an indication of likely future developments can be found in the Strategic Report
• the particulars of important events affecting the Company since 31 December 2023 can be found in the Strategic Report and
Note 24 (Legal, competition and regulatory matters) to the financial statements.
Other information that is relevant to the Directors’ Report, and which is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located at:
Page(s)
5 to 6
Performance measures
7 to 9
Managing risk, including Principal Risks
13 to 14
Society
17 to 21
Climate and Sustainability Report
23 to 32
Governance Report
Disclosures required pursuant to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008 (2008 Regs) as updated by the 2018 Regs can be found on the following pages:
12
Engagement with employees (Sch.7 Para 11 and 11A 2008/2018 Regs)
189 to 205
Financial Instruments (Sch.7 Para 6 2008 Regs)
Hedge accounting policy (Sch.7 Para 6 2008 Regs) 190
Profits and dividends
The results of the Barclays Bank UK Group show statutory profit after tax of £1,922m (2022: £1,807m). The Barclays Bank UK Group had
net assets of £16,861m at 31 December 2023 (2022: £15,413m).
The Company will pay a £750m dividend to its parent, Barclays PLC. Further details on dividends on ordinary shares paid in 2023 are set
out in Note 10 to the financial statements.
Share capital
There was no increase in ordinary share capital during the year. Barclays PLC owns 100% of the issued ordinary shares. There are no
restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or agreements between holders of ordinary shares known to the Company, which may result
in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or voting rights. Further information on the Company’s share capital can be found in Note
26 to the financial statements.
Powers of Directors to issue or buy back the Company’s shares
The powers of the Directors are determined by the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association. No shares were repurchased in 2023.
Directors
The list of current Directors of the Company can be found in the Governance Report on page 23. Changes to Directors during the year and
up to the date of signing this report are set out below.
Name Role Effective date of appointment / resignation
Crawford Gillies Chair of the Board / Non-Executive Director Resigned 31 May 2023
Sir John Kingman Chair of the Board / Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 June 2023
James Mack Chief Financial Officer Resigned 27 June 2023
Rupert Fowden Interim Chief Financial Officer Appointed 28 June 2023
Resigned 1 October 2023
Claire Peel Chief Financial Officer Appointed 2 October 2023
home.barclays/annualreport 33 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Directors’ Report
Directors’ indemnities
‘Qualifying third party indemnity’ provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Act) were in force during the course of the financial year
ended 31 December 2023 for the benefit of the then Directors of the Company and the then Directors of certain of the Company's
subsidiaries and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors of the Company and the Directors of certain of the
Company's subsidiaries in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) in connection with their duties,
powers or office. The Barclays Group also maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance which gives appropriate cover for legal
action brought against the Company’s Directors.
Political donations
The Barclays Bank UK Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK, or outside the UK, nor did it make any political
donations to political parties or other political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure
during the year. Details of any political contributions made by the wider Barclays Group can be found in the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual
Report.
Support for candidates and colleagues with disabilities and long-term conditions
We are committed to attracting and retaining a diverse workforce, and our commitment to inclusion means we want to ensure that
candidates with disabilities and long-term health conditions receive support and adjustments in the application process and beyond.
Barclays welcomes applications from all candidates and is committed to ensuring reasonable adjustments (accommodations) are put in
place to ensure a fair and inclusive recruitment process. Barclays is committed to providing all colleagues with the support and tools they
need to have a productive and fulfilling career. We can consider making adjustments to remove or reduce barriers colleagues might face if
they have a disability, health concern or mental health condition. We also ensure opportunities for training, career development and
promotion are available to all.
Engagement with customers, suppliers and others in a business relationship with the Company
For information on our engagement with customers and clients, please refer to pages 10 and 11 of the Strategic Report, page 32 of the
Governance Report and the Customers and clients section of the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report.
Barclays must effectively manage, monitor and mitigate risks in its supply chain. The Directors, via management, have regard to the need
to foster business relationships with suppliers. We expect our Third Party Service Providers (TPSP) to make responsible decisions that,
where relevant, take our stakeholders’ needs into account in both the short and the long term. Barclays expects the TPSPs to comply with
applicable laws, regulations and standards within the geographies in which they operate. Barclays’ standard approach to new TPSP on-
boarding and renewal begins by assessing the services that are being provided and ascertaining the level of risk. TPSPs that are assessed as
being above a low risk of exposure from a business risk perspective (at the point of onboarding and on an ongoing basis) are subject to
Barclays’ Supplier Control obligations (SCOs). TPSPs to whom the SCOs apply become managed TPSPs and are subject to ongoing
management and controls assurance during the term of service. Prior to contractual agreement and service go live, these TPSPs are
required to complete a pre-contractual questionnaire which captures their adherence to the SCOs and Barclays’ TPSP Code of Conduct
(TPSP CoC). The TPSP CoC encourages our TPSPs to adopt our approach to doing business and details our expectations for matters
including environmental management, human rights, diversity and inclusion and also for living the Barclays Values.
Barclays is proud to be a signatory of the Prompt Payment Code in the UK and we also work closely with the Small Business Commissioner
and other organisations, including Good Business Pays, to educate the public on late payments and the impact they can have on
businesses and business owners, and to raise the social conscience of larger businesses who do not pay on time.
For more information on supporting our supply chain, please refer to the Society section of the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report.
Branches and Country-by-Country Reporting
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates through branches, offices and subsidiaries in the UK.
The Company is exempt from publishing information required by The Capital Requirements (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations
2013 as the information is published by its parent, Barclays PLC. The information is due to be published on or around 20 February 2024 and
will be available at home.barclays/annualreport.
Research and development
In the ordinary course of business, the Barclays Bank UK Group develops new products and services in each of its business divisions.
The auditor
The Barclays Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the statutory auditor, as well as their relationship with the Barclays Group,
including monitoring the Barclays Group’s use of the statutory auditor for non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees
paid to them. More details on this can be found in Note 34 to the financial statements. Detail of the oversight of the statutory auditor by the
Company’s Board Audit Committee is set out on pages 28 and 29.
An external audit tender was conducted in 2015 and the decision was made to appoint KPMG as the Barclays Group’s statutory auditor
with effect from the 2017 financial year, with PwC resigning as Barclays Group’s statutory auditor at the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
The Company is in compliance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014, which relates to the frequency and
governance of tenders for the appointment of the statutory auditor and the setting of a policy on the provision of non-audit services.
home.barclays/annualreport 34 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Directors’ Report
Provided that KPMG continues to maintain its independence and objectivity, and the Barclays Board Audit Committee remains satisfied
with its performance, the Barclays Group does not intend to tender for an alternative statutory auditor to be appointed before the end of
the current required period of 10 years. Accordingly, any tender is expected to be in respect of the 2027 financial year onwards and is likely
to take place in 2025. The Barclays Board Audit Committee has reconfirmed that it would not be appropriate to tender before this date.
Further, there has been significant rotation of the senior members of the KPMG audit team since 2017 and more recent changes in certain
members of the Barclays senior finance team, both of which have reduced any potential familiarisation threat.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
Each Director confirms that, so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware
and that each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information. This confirmation is given pursuant to
section 418 of the Act and should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to those provisions.
Directors’ responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditor’s report set out on pages 152 to 161, is made with a view to
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditor in relation to the financial statements.
Going concern
In preparing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements, the Directors are required to:
▪ assess the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern;
and
▪ use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Barclays Bank UK Group or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s business activities, financial position, capital, factors likely to affect its future development and performance
and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed are discussed in the Strategic Report and Risk
Management sections.
The Directors have evaluated these risks in the preparation of the financial statements and consider it appropriate to prepare the financial
statements on a going concern basis.
Preparation of accounts
The Directors are required by the Act to prepare the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group accounts for each financial year and, with
regard to Barclays Bank UK Group accounts, in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. The Directors have
prepared these accounts in accordance with (a) UK-adopted international accounting standards; and (b) International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), including interpretations issued by the IFRS
Interpretations Committee. Pursuant to the Act, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Barclays Bank UK Group and the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 162 to 233, the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company have
used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they
consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, provide the information necessary for its
shareholder to assess the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group keep accounting records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance Statement in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and financial statements as they appear on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
The Directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
home.barclays/annualreport 35 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Other Governance
Managing data privacy, security and resilience
We have strict policies to protect privacy and keep data secure.
Data privacy
Most of the jurisdictions in which Barclays operates have privacy and data protection laws in effect. While these may vary in detail,
generally they reflect internationally recognised privacy principles found in the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European
Convention on Human Rights and the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We strive to operate in accordance with these standards and recognise that respect for privacy rights is a key element of good corporate
governance and social responsibility. We strive to be transparent about our use of personal information when delivering our products and
services and acknowledge the responsibility we have for safeguarding privacy.
As Barclays increasingly adopts digital solutions to deliver next-generation consumer financial services, we appreciate our clients,
customers and others may wish to understand how this may impact the use of their personal information. A globally applicable Barclays
Data Privacy Standard sets out what is expected of all Barclays businesses and functions when collecting, using and sharing personal
information.
To promote clear accountability, the Standard includes the requirement for each business to appoint an accountable executive who has
ultimate responsibility for the processing of personal data within that business. An agreed assurance programme measures compliance
with the Data Privacy Standard. Barclays colleagues must complete annual privacy training which is reviewed and refreshed each year, with
additional tailored training provided as necessary. The Group Data Protection Officer (DPO) reports on data privacy issues to the highest
level of management.
Through customer and employee privacy notices, we endeavour to explain clearly and openly how and why we use personal information
and the legal grounds we rely on. When we receive complaints we seek to address them fairly. Several jurisdictions also provide individuals
with specific rights, such as the right to have access to or request deletion of their personal information.
Barclays provides a public mailbox and secure channels via its website to enable individuals to make their privacy requests and receive
responses from a dedicated team.
Barclays requires its suppliers to comply with data protection and privacy laws, regulations and standards relevant to the jurisdictions in
which they operate and relevant to any transferred personal data. Our requirements are set out and managed through the Barclays Supplier
Control Obligations, available online, which look to provide assurance that all new and existing suppliers commit to ensuring personal data
shared with them is safeguarded and respected throughout the supply chain.
Data security
Barclays deploys automated controls to protect its sensitive information and the data that has been entrusted to us by customers and
clients, in line with our standards, taking into account findings from internal and external reviews of our controls. As Barclays accelerates
the migration of digital services to the cloud, we apply the same design principles that underpin our existing control environment. We have
controls and monitoring in place designed to secure cloud-hosted data and maintain its integrity.
Barclays seeks to protect the security of data we share with third parties, including by conducting remote and on-site inspections with
certain suppliers to review their controls against contractual obligations and industry standards. A Third Party Service Provider Framework
is in place which sets out control requirements for business units to manage the operational, reputational, conduct and legal risks to
Barclays through its supply chain.
As we have transitioned to a more hybrid working model, we have educated colleagues on cybersecurity risks in order to help minimise the
risk of data exploitation or leakage.
Data resilience
Barclays' CSO operates key controls that mitigate cybersecurity-related risks. The CSO focuses on understanding internal and external
threats and delivering on our capabilities to counteract them.
As part of our efforts to continuously review and improve our response and recovery plans in preparation for evolving threats, Barclays
works with industry bodies to learn from risk events in other organisations. Our teams use intelligence to create plausible cybersecurity and
data compromise scenarios which we simulate to help us focus on continuous improvement.
Operational resilience
Customers and clients have increased expectations for us to be ‘Always On’, and the interconnectivity of the financial sector means the
stability and resilience of our systems, workforce and the continued provision of third-party services, all of which have a direct impact on
the quality of our service.
Resilience and Security is a focus for the board. Barclays continues to invest in a multi-year resilience programme which is focused on our
ability to recover from ‘severe but plausible’ scenarios which could cause detriment to our customers and clients and the broader financial
market. To enable this, we define Group-wide business services and their interdependencies across the Group, including technology, third-
party services and our workforce, and develop the recovery plans and business response plans for disruption events, such as cyber or data
integrity disruptions. We review and validate these recovery plans through regular testing which supports our aim to reduce the volume
home.barclays/annualreport 37 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Other Governance
and impact of operational incidents year on year. We also conduct regular assurance on third parties to assess their capability, as defined
by our contractual Information & Cyber Security Supplier Control Obligations.
Resilience and security is the responsibility of everyone within the Group. All permanent employees are required to complete mandatory
training on these topics at regular intervals across the year.
Please refer to the Barclays PLC 2023 Annual Report for details of Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee oversight relating to operational
resilience. Please refer to the 'Material existing and emerging risks' section in our Risk review on pages 46 to 58 for further details on cyber-
attacks, data management and information protection. Please refer to the 'Supervision and regulation' section in our Risk review on pages
146 to 150 for further details on our regulatory approach to managing such risks.
Chief Security Office
Barclays' CSO exists to keep the bank, its customers, clients, and colleagues safe and secure, and to maintain the resilience of our
operations. CSO supports Barclays' business to operate in a protected and secure environment, and actively promotes the culture that
security is everyone's responsibility.
The Chief Security Officer for the Group heads Barclays' CSO and reports up through the Chief Operating Officer, who sits on the Group
Executive Committee. The Group CISO reports directly to the Chief Security Officer and is supported by a team of CISOs for individual
business units and jurisdictions, as well as other teams of cybersecurity experts and analysts. Barclays' Group Chief Security Officer
combines 10 years of law enforcement experience with over 20 years of experience serving in senior leadership roles managing security at
global financial institutions. The Group CISO and supporting leadership team collectively have advanced degrees and senior level
experience managing security risks in a variety of sectors, including those that represent critical national infrastructure, such as
telecommunications and peer financial institutions. They are supported by analysts and subject matter experts in a variety of
specialisations, such as intelligence, penetration testing, cyberforensic investigations, security engineering, and vulnerability management.
CSO leadership manages Barclays’ cybersecurity activities and is accountable for the day-to-day monitoring of residual risk, identification of
gaps, oversight of remedial actions and implementation of strategy. As described below, the Chief Security Officer and CISO for the Group
provide updates to the BPLC Board and BPLC Board Risk Committee about cybersecurity risks facing the Group.
Within its oversight of Operational risk as a Principal Risk, the Board Risk Committee is responsible for oversight of risks arising from
cybersecurity threats. Barclays assesses its cybersecurity activities against the industry-recognised National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) security maturity framework, and we periodically engage external security consultants to conduct independent
benchmarking assessments.
Barclays' CSO partners with third-party security providers throughout the Group's cybersecurity activities, including for cyber recovery,
penetration testing, software vulnerability scanning, distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack prevention, phishing simulations, third-
party risk management, incident response, intelligence, fraud prevention, and industry benchmarking.
Under Barclays' Enterprise Risk Management Framework, there is an Information and Cyber Security Policy supported by ten Standards
which define the minimum requirements for cybersecurity matters across the entire Barclays Group. These Standards cover the following
topics: Cryptography, Network Security, Security Configuration, Data Loss Prevention, Vulnerability Management, Data Security, Incident
Response & Threat Intelligence, Threat Management, Governance, and Identity & Access Management.
An important part of Barclays’ cybersecurity environment is its Joint Operations Centres (JOCs), which operate 24x7x365 from three
globally strategic locations, linking CSO’s security professionals and incident response managers with control functions and business unit
representatives. The JOCs deliver security responsiveness by uniting core security functions and providing a central information and
coordination point for security incident management.
To manage security risk related to our third-party suppliers, many of which perform critical services for Barclays and handle sensitive
Barclays data, we have a set of contractual Information & Cyber Security Supplier Control Obligations that are based off of the requirements
of our internal standards. We conduct assurance over our third and fourth parties against those obligations through a dedicated External
Cyber Assurance & Monitoring team (ECAM) and a set of control indicators. This is achieved through our own assurance capabilities and
use of a third party assurance utility. Activity is structured on a risk-based approach that prioritizes suppliers that underpin our most
important business services.
Identified issues are managed formally, but we also engage proactively with third-party suppliers to help them strengthen their security and
resilience posture. To recognise the changing risk presented by third-party suppliers, which are increasingly targeted by threat actors, we
regularly alert third-party suppliers where we anticipate that they may be more vulnerable and should take preventative action.
Notwithstanding such third-party risk management efforts, Barclays does not have direct control over the cybersecurity of the systems of
its third parties, limiting the Group’s ability to effectively protect and defend against certain threats.
Certifications
Barclays holds three ISO27001 certifications (i.e., the international standard on how to manage information security), Cyber Essentials /
Cyber Essentials Plus Certification, and has a UK certification for Digital Banking.
home.barclays/annualreport 38 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Content
Risk performance
Climate risk: The impact on Financial (Credit, Market, Treasury & Climate risk performance 71
Capital risks) and Operational risks arising from climate change
through physical risks and risks associated with transitioning to a
lower carbon economy.
Credit risk: The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the ▪ Credit risk overview and summary of performance 77
failure of clients, customers or counterparties (including
sovereigns), to fully honour their obligations to the Barclays Bank ▪ Maximum exposure and effects of netting, collateral and 78
risk transfer
UK Group, including the whole and timely payment of principal,
interest, collateral and other receivables. ▪ Expected credit losses 81
▪ Movements in gross exposure and impairment allowance 85
including provisions for loan commitments and financial
guarantees
▪ Management adjustments to models for impairment 99
▪ Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis 101
▪ Analysis of the concentration of credit risk 110
▪ The Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to management 112
and representation of credit quality
▪ Analysis of specific portfolios and asset types 126
Market risk: The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes ▪ Market risk overview and summary of performance 128
in the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and liabilities
from fluctuation in market variables including, but not limited to,
interest rates, foreign exchange, equity prices, commodity prices,
credit spreads, implied volatilities and asset correlations.
Treasury and Capital risk – Liquidity: ▪ Liquidity risk overview 130
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to meet its
▪ Liquidity risk stress testing 130
contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have the
appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and • Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities 132
liquidity to support its assets.
Treasury and Capital risk – Capital: ▪ Capital risk overview 138
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an insufficient level or
composition of capital to support its normal business activities and
to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating
environments and stressed conditions (both actual and as defined
for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes). This also
includes the risk from the Barclays Bank UK Group’s pension plans.
Treasury and Capital risk – Interest rate risk in the banking book: ▪ Interest rate risk in the banking book overview and 139
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital or summary of performance
income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest rate
▪ Analysis of net interest income and equity sensitivity 139
exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.
▪ Volatility of the fair value through other comprehensive 140
income (FVOCI) portfolio in the liquidity pool
Operational risk: The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group ▪ Operational risk overview and summary of performance 141
from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or
▪ Operational risk profile 141
due to external events (for example fraud) where the root cause is
not due to credit or market risks.
Model risk: The potential for adverse consequences from decisions ▪ Model risk overview and summary of performance 144
based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Compliance risk: The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, ▪ Compliance risk overview and summary of performance 144
customers, clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the
Barclays Bank UK Group's products and services (i.e. conduct risk),
and the risk to Barclays, its clients, customers or markets from a
failure to comply with the Laws, Rules and Regulations applicable
to the firm..
Reputation risk: The risk that an action, transaction, investment, ▪ Reputation risk overview and summary of performance 145
event, decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence.
home.barclays/annualreport 41 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk management
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk management strategy
This section introduces Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to managing and identifying risks, and for fostering a sound risk culture.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)
The ERMF outlines the highest level principles for risk management by setting out standards, objectives and key responsibilities of different
groups of employees of the Barclays Bank UK Group. It is approved by the Barclays PLC Board on recommendation of the Barclays Group
Board Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board then approves its
adoption on the recommendation of its Risk Committee, with modifications where needed.
The ERMF sets out:
▪ risk management and segregation of duties: The ERMF defines a Three Lines of Defence model
▪ principal risks faced by the Barclays Bank UK Group, which guide the organisation of risk management processes
▪ risk appetite requirements: this helps define the level of risk we are willing to undertake in our business
▪ roles and responsibilities for risk management and governance.
The ERMF is complemented by frameworks, policies and standards that are mainly aligned to individual principal risks:
▪ frameworks cover high level principles guiding the management of principal risks, and set out details of which policies are needed, and
high level governance arrangements
▪ policies set out the control objectives and high level requirements to address the key principles articulated in their associated
frameworks. Policies state ‘what’ those within scope are required to do
▪ standards set out the detail of the control requirements to ensure the control objectives set by the policies are met.
Segregation of duties - the "Three Lines of Defence" model
The ERMF sets out a clear lines of defence model. All colleagues are responsible for understanding and managing risks within the context
of their individual roles and responsibilities, as set out below.
▪ The first line comprises of all employees engaged in the revenue generating and client facing areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group and all
associated support functions, including Finance, Operations, Treasury, and Human Resources. The first line is responsible for identifying
and managing the risks in which they are engaged, operating within applicable limits, and escalating risk events or issues as appropriate.
Employees in the first line have primary responsibility for their risks and their activities are subject to oversight from the relevant parts of
the second and third lines.
▪ The second line is comprised of the Risk and Compliance functions. The role of the second line is to establish the limits, rules and
constraints, and the frameworks, policies and standards under which all activities shall be performed, consistent with the risk appetite of
the Barclays Bank UK Group, and to oversee the performance of the Barclays Bank UK Group against these limits, rules and constraints.
Controls for first line activities will ordinarily be established by the control officers operating within the control framework of the firm.
These will remain subject to oversight by the second line.
▪ The third line of defence is Internal Audit, who are responsible for providing independent assurance over the effectiveness of governance,
risk management and controls over current, systemic and evolving risks.
▪ The Legal function provides support to all areas of the bank and is not formally part of any of the three lines of defence. The Legal
function is responsible for proactively identifying, communicating and providing legal advice on applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Except in relation to the legal advice it provides or procures, it is subject to second line oversight with respect to its own operational and
compliance risks, as well as with respect to the legal risk to which the bank is exposed.
Principal risks
The ERMF identifies nine principal risks (see managing risk in the strategic report section) namely: credit risk, market risk, treasury and
capital risk, climate risk, operational risk, model risk, compliance risk, reputation risk and legal risk. Note that "compliance risk" replaced
"conduct risk" in 2023 with an expanded definition; see page 59 for more information.
Each of the principal risks is overseen by an accountable executive at the Barclays Group level who is responsible for overseeing and/or
assigning responsibilities for the framework, policies and standards that set out associated responsibilities and expectations, and detail the
related requirements around risk management. In addition, certain risks span across more than one principal risk.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk which the Barclays Group is prepared to accept in carrying out its activities. It provides a basis for
ongoing dialogue between management and Board with respect to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s current and evolving risk profile, allowing
strategic and financial decisions to be made on an informed basis. Risk appetite is approved by the Barclays PLC Board in aggregate and
disseminated across legal entities and businesses, including the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK Board cannot approve a
higher risk appetite than that determined by the Barclays PLC Board without the approval of the Barclays PLC Board but may choose to
operate at a lower level of risk appetite than that approved by the Barclays PLC Board. The Barclays Group total risk appetite and its
allocation to the Barclays Bank UK Group are supported by limits to enable and control specific exposures and activities that have material
concentration risk implications.
home.barclays/annualreport 43 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
or because the nature or location of its operations, mean that the Barclays Bank UK Group gives effect to local laws and regulations on a
wider basis.
In recent years, regulators and governments have focused on reforming both the prudential regulation of the financial services industry and
the ways in which the business of financial services is conducted. Measures taken include enhanced capital, liquidity and funding
requirements, the structural separation or prohibition of certain activities by banks, the introduction of tax levies and transaction taxes,
changes in compensation practices and more detailed requirements on how business is conducted and customers are treated. The
governments and regulators in the UK or elsewhere may intervene further in relation to areas of industry risk already identified, or in new
areas, which could adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Current and anticipated areas of particular focus for the Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulators, where regulatory changes could have a
material effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, capital position, and
reputation include, but are not limited to:
▪ the increasing focus by regulators, international bodies, organisations and unions on how institutions conduct business, particularly
with regard to the delivery of fair outcomes for customers and promoting effective competition in the interests of consumers, including
the new Consumer Duty in the UK and measures resulting from ongoing thematic reviews into the workings of the retail, small and
medium enterprises and wholesale banking sectors and the provision of financial advice to consumers;
▪ the implementation of any conduct measures as a result of regulators’ focus on organisational culture, employee behaviour and
whistleblowing;
▪ the demise of certain benchmark interest rates and the transition to new risk-free reference rates (as discussed further under ‘vi)
Impact of benchmark interest rate reforms on the Barclays Bank UK Group’ below);
▪ the focus globally on technology adoption and digital delivery, including the use of artificial intelligence (AI), digital assets and digital
money (including central bank digital currencies), financial technology risks, payments and related infrastructure, operational
resilience, and cybersecurity. This also includes the introduction of new and/or enhanced regulatory standards in these areas,
underpinned by customer protection principles;
▪ increasing regulatory expectations of firms around governance and risk management frameworks, particularly for the management of
climate change, enhanced ESG disclosure and reporting obligations, and proposals for a new regulatory framework on diversity and
inclusion in the UK;
▪ the continued evolution of the UK’s regulatory framework following the UK's withdrawal from the EU, particularly following the
introduction of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 (FSMA 2023) which provides for the revocation of retained EU law relating
to financial services and the UK financial services regulatory reform agenda announced in December 2022, and similarly regarding the
access of UK and other non-EU financial institutions to EU markets;
▪ the implementation of the reforms to the Basel III package, which includes changes to the RWA approaches to credit risk, market risk,
counterparty risk, operational risk, and credit valuation adjustments and the application of RWA floors and the leverage ratio;
▪ the implementation of more stringent capital, liquidity and funding requirements;
▪ the incorporation of climate change within the global prudential framework, including the transition risks resulting from a shift to a low
carbon economy and its financial effects;
▪ the increased regulatory focus in the UK on the introduction of potential measures designed to maximise access to cash for consumers
(including retention of specific branches) and, separately, regulatory scrutiny of the reasons for refusing to open or decisions to close
customer bank accounts;
▪ proposed reforms to the UK ring-fencing regime, which requires the separation of core banking operations for retail and small and
medium enterprise depositors from other wholesale and investment banking operations;
▪ the reform of corporate criminal liability in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023, which includes a failure to
prevent fraud offence;
▪ requirements to detail management accountability within the Barclays Bank UK Group (for example, the requirements of the Senior
Managers and Certification Regime in the UK and similar regimes elsewhere that are either in effect or under consideration/
implementation), as well as requirements relating to executive remuneration;
▪ changes in national or supra-national requirements regarding the ability to offshore or outsource the provision of services and
resources or transfer material risk or data to companies located in other countries, which could impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
ability to implement globally consistent and efficient operating models;
▪ financial crime, fraud and market abuse standards and increasing expectations for related control frameworks, to ensure firms are
adapting to new threats and are protecting customers from cyber-enabled crime and in the UK, reforms relating to authorised push
payment fraud reimbursements;
home.barclays/annualreport 48 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
▪ the application and enforcement of economic sanctions including those with extra-territorial effect and those arising from geopolitical
tensions;
▪ requirements flowing from arrangements for the resolution strategy of the Barclays Group and its individual operating entities
(including the Barclays Bank UK Group) that may have different effects in different countries
▪ the increasing regulatory expectations and requirements relating to various aspects of operational resilience, including an increasing
focus on the response of institutions to operational disruptions and reviews of the role of critical third party providers;
▪ continuing regulatory focus on data privacy, including the collection and use of personal data, and protection against loss and
unauthorised or improper access;
▪ the regulatory focus on policies and procedures for identifying and managing cybersecurity risks, cybersecurity governance and the
corresponding disclosure and reporting obligations; and
▪ continuing regulatory focus on the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management frameworks, as evidenced in regulatory
fines and other measures imposed on the Barclays Bank UK Group and other financial institutions.
For further details on the regulatory supervision of, and regulations applicable to, the Barclays Bank UK Group, refer to the Supervision and
regulation section.
v) Impact of benchmark interest rate reforms on the Barclays Bank UK Group
Global regulators have driven international efforts to reform benchmarks and indices, which are used to determine the amounts payable
under a wide range of transactions to increase reliability and robustness. These reforms have resulted in significant changes to the
methodology and operation of certain benchmarks and indices, the adoption of alternative risk-free reference rates (RFRs), the
discontinuation of certain benchmarks and the introduction of implementing legislation and regulations.
Specifically, certain LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) tenors have either ceased or became permanently unrepresentative, with
synthetic 3-month GBP LIBOR ceasing to be published at the end March 2024 and synthetic 1-, 3- and 6-month USD LIBOR settings
intended to cease being published at the end September 2024. Notwithstanding these developments, given the unpredictable
consequences of benchmark reform, any of these developments could have an adverse impact on market participants, including the
Barclays Bank UK Group, in respect of any financial instruments linked to, or referencing, any of these benchmarks.
The Barclays Bank UK Group predominantly offers products which reference central bank rates rather than benchmarks or other indices
which are likely to be subject to reform. Consequently, the product offering and business model are unlikely to be significantly affected.
Nevertheless, there are other ways the Barclays Bank UK Group could be affected.
Uncertainty associated with such potential changes, including the availability and/or suitability of alternative RFRs, the participation of
customers and third-party market participants in the transition process, challenges with respect to required documentation changes, and
impact of legislation to deal with certain legacy contracts that cannot convert into or add fall-back RFRs before cessation of the benchmark
they reference, may adversely affect a broad range of transactions (including any securities, loans and derivatives which use affected
benchmark to determine an amount payable which are included in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial assets and liabilities) that use
these benchmarks and indices, and present a number of risks for the Barclays Bank UK Group, including but not limited to:
▪ Compliance risk: in undertaking actions to transition away from using certain benchmarks to new alternative RFRs, the Barclays Bank
UK Group faces conduct risks. These may lead to customer complaints, regulatory sanctions or reputational impact if the Barclays Bank
UK Group is considered to be (among other things): (i) undertaking market activities that are manipulative or create a false or
misleading impression; (ii) misusing sensitive information or not identifying or appropriately managing and mitigating conflicts of
interest; (iii) providing customers with inadequate advice, misleading information, unsuitable products or unacceptable service; (iv) not
taking a consistent approach to remediation for customers in similar circumstances; (v) unduly delaying the communication and
migration activities in relation to client exposures, leaving them insufficient time to prepare; or (vi) colluding or inappropriately sharing
information with competitors.
▪ Litigation risk: members of the Barclays Bank UK Group may face legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and/or other actions or
proceedings regarding (among other things): (i) the conduct risks identified above, (ii) the interpretation and enforceability of
provisions in contracts and securities linked to a relevant benchmark, and (iii) the Barclays Bank UK Group’s preparation and readiness
for the replacement of benchmarks which have been ceased or will shortly cease to be published with alternative RFRs.
▪ Financial risk: the valuation of certain of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial assets and liabilities may change. Moreover,
transitioning to alternative RFRs may impact the ability of members of the Barclays Bank UK Group to calculate and model amounts
receivable by them on certain financial assets and determine the amounts payable on certain financial liabilities (such as debt securities
issued by them) because certain alternative RFRs (such as the Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) and the Secured Overnight
Financing Rate (SOFR)) are look-back rates which means that the amount payable is only known after the period has finished because
it is calculated by reference to observed historical rates, in contrast, forward-looking term rates (such as LIBOR) allow borrowers to
calculate at the start of any interest period exactly how much is payable at the end of such interest period. This may have an adverse
effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s cash flows.
home.barclays/annualreport 49 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
▪ Operational risk: changes to existing benchmarks and indices, the discontinuation of any benchmark or index and transition to
alternative RFRs may require changes to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IT systems, trade reporting infrastructure, operational
processes, and controls. In addition, if any benchmark or index is no longer available to calculate amounts payable, the Barclays Bank
UK Group may incur expenses in amending documentation for new and existing transactions and/or effecting the transition from the
original benchmark or index to a new one.
▪ Accounting risk: an inability to apply hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 could lead to increased volatility in the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s financial results and performance.
Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial
condition, prospects and reputation.
vii) Change delivery and execution risks
The Barclays Bank UK Group constantly adapts and transforms the way it conducts business in response to changing customer behaviour
and needs, technological developments, regulatory expectations, increased competition and cost management initiatives. Accordingly,
effective management of transformation projects is required to successfully deliver the Barclays Bank UK Group's strategic priorities,
involving delivering both on externally driven programmes, as well as key business initiatives to deliver revenue growth, product
enhancement and operational efficiency outcomes. The magnitude, complexity and, at times, concurrent demands of the projects required
to meet these priorities can result in heightened execution risk.
The ability to execute the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy may be limited by operational capacity and the increasing complexity of the
regulatory environment in which the Barclays Bank UK Group operates. In addition, whilst the Barclays Bank UK Group continues to pursue
cost management initiatives, they may not be as effective as expected and cost saving targets may not be met.
The failure to successfully deliver or achieve any of the expected benefits of these strategic initiatives and/or the failure to meet customer
and stakeholder expectations could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations,
financial condition, customer outcomes, prospects and reputation.
Material existing and emerging risks impacting individual principal risks
i) Climate risk
Climate risk is the impact on Financial (Credit, Market, Treasury & Capital) and Operational Risks arising from climate change through
physical risks and risks associated with transitioning to a lower carbon economy.
The effects of climate change may be highly significant in their breadth and magnitude and could affect a large number of firms operating
in different sectors and geographies, leading to potential downstream effects to the financial system. There is potential direct impact on
banks and other financial institutions through their operations, as well as indirectly through customers and clients. Given this context and
to support the Group’s ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, Climate Risk is a Principal Risk under Barclays’ ERMF.
Physical Risks: Scientific research indicates that physical risks arising due to climate change such as acute events (e.g. cyclone, hurricanes
and floods) and chronic events (longer term shifts in climate patterns) may occur in increasing frequency and severity, Potential tipping
points can cause unprecedented damage to particular geographies. Some regions are expected to be more severely affected than others if
they are more exposed and/or more vulnerable to certain events.
The potential impact of physical risk events on the economy may include lower GDP growth, higher unemployment, shortage of raw
materials and products due to supply chain disruptions and significant changes in asset prices. These factors could subsequently impact
business model and profitability of Barclays Bank UK Group and its clients. Damage to the properties and operations of Barclays Bank UK
Group’s clients could decrease their production capacity, increase operating costs, affect insurability and decrease value of those
properties. This in turn would lead to a decline in the creditworthiness of clients, which may result in higher defaults, delinquencies, write-
offs and impairment charges in Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolios. Physical hazards may also impact the creditworthiness of the
sovereigns of countries in which they occur. The deterioration in the credit ratings of sovereign bonds could affect their access to capital
and their eligibility for inclusion in banks' liquidity buffers. These hazards may also impact the value of investments which Barclays Bank UK
Group holds.
Transition Risks: A transition to a lower carbon economy requires policy and regulatory changes, new national or regional commitments,
new technological innovations and changes to supply and demand systems within industries. The transition to a lower carbon economy
will require, and is likely to produce, changes in customer behaviour and market sentiment. These changes may result in increased costs
and reduced demand for the products and services of a company including early retirement and impairment of assets, or decreased
revenue and profitability. Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients that are more susceptible and exposed to these changes may face financial
difficulties which in turn may impact their creditworthiness. In addition, impacts to the creditworthiness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
clients, customers and counterparties (particularly in high carbon sectors), can also arise a result of climate-related legal actions or
investigations, where outcomes of such actions have material financial impacts. This in turn can increase credit risk within Barclays Bank
UK Group portfolios (for further details on credit risk, refer to ii) Credit Risk on page 51). Both transition and physical risk drivers may lead
to increased price volatility and repricing of market instruments, which in turn may impact the value of market instruments held by Barclays
Bank UK Group.
home.barclays/annualreport 50 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
Barclays Group’s own premises may also suffer physical damage due to weather events leading to increased costs for the Group. As the
economy transitions to a lower carbon economy, financial institutions also face significant and rapid developments in stakeholder
expectations, policy, law and regulation, which could impact lending activities and the risks associated with lending portfolios as well as
asset values. Failure to adequately embed climate risk management into the risk framework may have a material and adverse impact on the
Barclays' brand, competitiveness, profitability, capital requirements, cost of funding, financial condition and ability to expand its business.
Key Risks to Delivering Barclays Bank UK Group’s Net Zero Strategy
In March 2020, the Group announced its ambition to become a net zero bank by 2050 and its commitment to align all of its financing
activities with the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement. In order to reach these ambitions and targets, and any other climate-related
ambitions or targets the Group may commit to in future, Barclays Bank UK Group will continue to incorporate climate considerations into
its strategy, business model, the products and services it provides to customers and its financial and non-financial risk management
processes. These include processes to measure and manage the various financial and non-financial risks Barclays Bank UK Group faces as a
result of climate change.
Barclays Bank UK Group also needs to ensure that its strategy and business model adapt to changing national and international standards,
industry and scientific practices, regulatory requirements and market expectations regarding climate change, which remain under
continuous development. There remains a possibility that these standards, practices, requirements and expectations could change in a
manner that substantially increases the cost or effort for Barclays Bank UK Group to achieve such ambitions and targets. In addition, the
Group’s ambitions and targets may prove more challenging to achieve due to changing circumstances and external factors which are
beyond Barclays Bank UK Group’s control, including geopolitical issues, energy security, energy poverty and other considerations such as a
just transition to a lower carbon economy. This may be exacerbated if Barclays Bank UK Group chooses or is required to accelerate its
climate-related ambitions or targets as a result of (among other things) international regulatory developments or stakeholder expectations
in the UK, the US, the EU or other markets.
Achieving Barclays’ climate-related ambitions and targets will also depend on a number of factors outside Barclays Bank UK Group’s
control, including reliable forecast of hazards from the physical climate models and availability of data/models to measure/assess climate
impact on clients. The pathway to net zero bank is uncertain, complex and dependent on progress in various areas such as advances in
lower carbon technologies, collective action by clients to meet their own net zero goals, and supportive public policies in markets where
Barclays operates. If there is a lack of progress or delayed actions in the aforementioned areas, Barclays may fail to achieve its climate-
related ambitions and targets, and this could have a material adverse effect on Barclays’ business, operations, financial condition, prospects
and reputation.
For further detail on how Barclays Bank UK Group manages the risks associated with climate change, refer to the Climate Change Risk
Management section.
ii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to
fully honour their obligations to members of the Barclays Bank UK Group, including the whole and timely payment of principal, interest,
collateral, and other receivables. Credit risk is impacted by a number of factors outside the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control, including
wider economic conditions.
Impairment is calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS9. Loss allowances, based on ECLs, are measured on a forward-looking basis
using a broad range of financial metrics and application of complex judgements. Accordingly, impairment charges are potentially volatile
and may not successfully predict actual credit losses, particularly under stressed conditions. Failure by the Barclays Bank UK Group to
accurately estimate credit losses through ECLs could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of
operations, financial condition, and prospects. For further details, refer to Note 8.
a) Specific portfolios, sectors, and concentrations
The Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality and recovery rates for loans and advances due from
borrowers and counterparties. Additionally, the Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to a concentration of those risks where it has significant
exposures to borrowers and counterparties in specific sectors, or to particular types of borrowers and counterparties. Any deterioration in
the credit quality of such borrowers and counterparties could lead to lower recoverability from loans and advances, and higher impairment
charges. Accordingly, any of the following areas of uncertainty could have a material adverse impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects:
▪ Consumer affordability: this remains a key area of focus, particularly in unsecured lending, as cost of living pressures persist.
Macroeconomic factors, such as unemployment, high interest rates or broader inflationary pressures, which impact a customer’s
ability to service debt payments, could lead to increased arrears in both unsecured and secured products.
• UK Retail, Hospitality and Leisure: despite holding up reasonably well during most of 2023, continuing cost of living pressures, falling
consumer confidence, or other macroeconomic factors adversely affecting consumers could trigger a contraction in demand which,
together with rising business costs and, for UK retail, a structural shift to online shopping, would add pressure to sectors heavily reliant
on consumer discretionary spending during 2024. This represents a potential risk in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s corporate portfolio
as a higher probability of default exists for retailers, hospitality providers and their landlords while these pressures remain.
▪ Real Estate: UK property represents a significant portion of the Barclays Bank UK Group's overall retail credit exposure, and the Barclays
Bank UK Group remains at risk of increased impairment from a material fall in property prices. During 2023 rising mortgage interest
home.barclays/annualreport 51 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
Group’s regulators, including severe penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business,
financial condition, prospects and reputation.
e) Conflicts of interest
Identifying and managing conflicts of interest is fundamental to the conduct of Barclays Bank UK Group business, relationships with
customers, and the markets in which the Barclays Bank UK Group operates. Understanding the conflicts of interest that impact or
potentially impact the Barclays Bank UK Group enables them to be identified, managed and mitigated appropriately. Even if there is no
evidence of improper actions, a conflict of interest can create an appearance of impropriety that undermines confidence in the Barclays
Bank UK Group and its employees. If the Barclays Bank UK Group does not identify and manage conflicts of interest (business or personal)
appropriately, it could have an adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, customers and the markets within which it
operates.
f) Regulatory focus on culture and accountability
Regulators around the world continue to emphasise the importance of culture and personal accountability and enforce the adoption of
adequate internal reporting and whistleblowing procedures to help to promote appropriate conduct and drive positive outcomes for
customers, colleagues, clients and markets. The requirements and expectations of the UK Senior Managers Regime, Certification Regime
and Conduct Rules reinforce additional accountabilities for individuals across the Barclays Bank UK Group with an increased focus on
governance and rigour. Failure to meet these requirements and expectations may lead to regulatory sanctions, both for the individuals and
the Barclays Bank UK Group.
g) Laws, Rules and Regulations
Barclays is subject to range of laws, rules and regulations across the world. A failure to comply with these may have an adverse effect on
the Barclays Bank Group’s business, customers and the markets within which it operates and could result in reputational damage,
penalties, damages or fines.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to compliance risk, refer to the compliance risk management and compliance
risk performance sections.
vii)Reputation risk
Reputation risk is the risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision or business relationship will reduce trust in the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence.
Any material lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer service or operating efficiency may represent a potential reputation risk.
Stakeholder expectations constantly evolve, and so reputation risk is dynamic and varies between geographical regions, groups and
individuals. A risk arising in one business area can have an adverse effect upon the Barclays Bank UK Group’s overall reputation and any
one transaction, investment or event (in the perception of key stakeholders) can reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and
competence. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s association with sensitive topics and sectors has been, and in some instances continues to be,
an area of concern for stakeholders, including: (i) the financing of, and investments in, businesses which operate in sectors that are
sensitive because of their relative carbon intensity or local environmental impact; (ii) potential association with human rights violations
(including combating modern slavery) in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations or supply chain and by clients and customers; and (iii)
the financing of businesses which manufacture and export military and riot control goods and services.
Reputation risk could also arise from negative public opinion about the actual, or perceived, manner in which the Barclays Bank UK Group
(including its employees, clients and other associations) conducts its business activities, or the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial
performance, as well as actual or perceived practices in banking and the financial services industry generally. Modern technologies, in
particular online social media channels and other broadcast tools that facilitate communication with large audiences in short time frames
and with minimal costs, may significantly enhance and accelerate the distribution and effect of damaging information and allegations.
Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to retain and attract customers, in particular, corporate
and retail depositors, and to retain and motivate staff, and could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business,
results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Claims of potential greenwashing arising from sustainability-related statements
made by Barclays may also give rise to reputation risk.
In addition to the above, reputation risk has the potential to arise from operational issues or conduct matters which cause detriment to
customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or the Barclays Bank UK Group (refer to ‘iv) Operational risk’ above).
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to reputation risk, refer to the reputation risk management and reputation
risk performance sections.
viii)Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Barclays Bank UK Group conducts activities in a highly regulated market which exposes it and its employees to legal risk arising from:
(i) the multitude of laws, rules and regulations that apply to the businesses it operates, which are highly dynamic, may vary between
jurisdictions and/or conflict, and may be unclear in their application to particular circumstances especially in new and emerging areas; and
(ii) the diversified and evolving nature of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses and business practices. In each case, this exposes the
Barclays Bank UK Group and its employees to the risk of loss or the imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of members
home.barclays/annualreport 57 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
of the Barclays Bank UK Group to meet applicable laws, rules, regulations or contractual requirements or to assert or defend their
intellectual property rights. Legal risk may arise in relation to any number of the material existing and emerging risks identified above.
A breach of applicable laws, rules and/or regulations by the Barclays Bank UK Group or its employees could result in criminal prosecution,
regulatory censure, potentially significant fines and other sanctions. Where clients, customers or other third parties are harmed by the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s conduct, this may also give rise to civil legal proceedings, including class actions. Other legal disputes may also
arise between the Barclays Bank UK Group and third parties relating to matters such as breaches or enforcement of legal rights or
obligations arising under contracts, statutes or common law. Adverse findings in any such matters may result in the Barclays Bank UK
Group being liable to third parties or may result in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s rights not being enforced or not being enforced in the
manner intended or desired by the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Details of legal, competition and regulatory matters to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed are set out in Note 24. In
addition to matters specifically described in Note 24, the Barclays Bank UK Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings which arise
in the ordinary course of business. The Barclays Bank UK Group is also subject to requests for information, investigations and other reviews
(including skilled person reviews) by regulators, governmental and other public bodies. These may be in connection with business activities
in which the Barclays Bank UK Group is, or has been, engaged, or areas of particular regulatory focus, such as financial crime, money
laundering or terrorist financing. The Barclays Bank UK Group may also (from time to time) be subject to claims and/or legal proceedings
and other investigations relating to financial and non-financial disclosures made by members of the Barclays Bank UK Group (including, but
not limited to, regulatory capital and liquidity reporting and ESG disclosures). Additionally, due to the increasing number of new climate
and sustainability-related laws and regulations, growing demand from investors and customers for sustainable products and services, and
regulatory and NGO scrutiny, financial institutions, including the Barclays Bank UK Group, may through their business activities face
increasing litigation, conduct, enforcement and contract liability risks related to climate change, environmental degradation and other
social, governance and sustainability-related issues, including greenwashing risk. This may include laws and regulatory processes and
policies seeking to restrict or prohibit doing certain business with entities identified as "boycotting" or "discriminating" against particular
industries or considering ESG factors in their investment processes, including to protect the energy and other high carbon sectors from any
risks of divestment or challenges in accessing finance. Furthermore, there is a risk that shareholders, campaign groups, customers and
other interest groups could seek to take legal action including under “soft law” Mechanisms against the Barclays Bank UK Group for
financing or contributing to climate change and environmental degradation or because the Barclays Bank UK Group’s response to climate
change or other ESG factors is perceived to be ineffective, insufficient or inappropriate.
The outcome of legal, competition and regulatory matters, both those to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed and any
others which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict (and any provision made in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements
relating to those matters may not be sufficient to cover actual losses). In connection with such matters, the Barclays Bank UK Group may
incur significant expense, regardless of the ultimate outcome, and any such matters could expose the Barclays Bank UK Group to any of the
following outcomes: substantial monetary damages, settlements and/or fines; remediation of affected customers and clients; other
penalties and injunctive relief; additional litigation; criminal prosecution; the loss of any existing agreed protection from prosecution;
regulatory restrictions on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business operations including the withdrawal of authorisations; increased
regulatory compliance requirements or changes to laws or regulations; suspension of operations; public reprimands or censure; loss of
significant assets or business; a negative effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s reputation; loss of confidence by investors, counterparties,
clients and/or customers; risk of credit rating agency downgrades; potential negative impact on the availability and/or cost of funding and
liquidity; and/or dismissal or resignation of key individuals. In light of the uncertainties involved in legal, competition and regulatory
matters, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters (including formerly active matters or those arising
after the date of this Annual Report) will not have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations,
financial condition and prospects.
home.barclays/annualreport 58 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Climate risk management
Climate risk is the impact on Financial (Credit, Market, Treasury & Capital Risks) and Operational Risks arising from climate change
through physical risks and risks associated with transitioning to a lower carbon economy.
Physical risks: Result from a changing climate and can be event-driven (acute risks), including increased frequency and/or severity of
extreme weather events such as cyclones, hurricanes and flooding. Physical risks can also be driven by longer term shifts in climate
patterns (chronic risks) arising from sustained higher temperatures that may cause rises in sea levels, rising mean temperatures and more
frequent/severe weather events
Transition risks: The transition to a lower carbon economy is likely to involve significant and rapid policy, regulatory and legal changes, as
evolving technology and markets adapt to a changing climate and associated impacts
Overview
The physical and transition risks of climate change have the potential to drive other Principal Risks. For Barclays Bank UK Group, the
impacts of climate risks are most pronounced in our ‘elevated’ portfolios, UK Mortgages and Business Banking Agriculture, through credit
risk. These portfolios are therefore the primary focus for scenario analysis and carbon modelling within Barclays Bank UK Group. In the UK
Mortgages portfolio this could materialise as impacts to affordability (i.e. through damage caused by flooding, or high insurance
premiums) and devaluation of house prices (i.e. due to poor energy efficiency). Within Business Banking Agriculture, physical risks have the
potential to drive declines in yield, whilst transition risks such as emissions taxation have the potential to increase costs, both impacting
profitability.
Given the significance of climate change, and to support the Barclays Group’s ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, Climate Risk is a
Principal Risk under Barclays’ ERMF.
The Group has developed a Climate Risk Framework (CRF) for financial and operational risks stemming from climate change. This enables
Barclays to foster a systematic and consistent approach for managing climate risk across the firm. The key principle underpinning this
framework is that climate risk is recognised as a driver of other existing financial (Credit, Market, Treasury and Capital) and non-financial
(including Operational and Reputational) risks, and not treated as a standalone risk type. The CRF is supported by policies, standards and
other relevant documents which contain control objectives that must be met.
The CRF:
– Defines climate risk
– Establishes principles for the identification, measurement, monitoring and reporting of climate risk
– Outlines the process for establishing climate risk appetite
– Summarises the impact of climate risk on other principal financial and operational risk types
– Outlines roles and responsibilities applicable to the CRF
The Climate Risk Policy sets objectives for the management of climate risks and establishes key principles for quantifying and reporting,
including escalations required to senior stakeholders up to and including the Board Risk Committee (BRC). The Framework and Policy are
applicable for Barclays' business activities, with a focus on lending, advisory, sales and trading, capital markets and investments. Climate
risk may also drive non-financial risks such as reputational risk, which continue to be managed under the respective risk frameworks.
To support the embedment of the Principal Risk, in 2023 the Group delivered the following with three overarching objectives:
1. Enhance and improve risk appetite and associated controls for climate risk
2. Develop a plan for refining modelling and scenario analysis capabilities
3. Expand BlueTrackTM, which now covers nine segments comprising of Energy, Power, Cement, Steel, Automotive Manufacturing,
UK Housing, Commercial Real Estate, Agriculture and Aviation.
Organisation, Roles & Responsibilities
The Barclays Group Head of Climate Risk is the Principal Risk owner accountable for the management and oversight of the climate risk
profile. The Barclays Group Head of Climate Risk reports directly to Group CRO.
On behalf of the Barclays PLC Board, the Barclays PLC BRC reviews and approves the Barclays Group’s approach to managing climate risk.
Reputation risk is the responsibility of the Barclays PLC Board, which directly handles the most material issues facing the Barclays Group.
Broader sustainability matters and reputation risk associated with climate change are coordinated by the Sustainability and ESG Team, led
by the Head of Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility.
home.barclays/annualreport 59 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)
Reputation Risk Management Framework
Climate Risk Framework (CRF)
(RRMF)
Barclays UK
Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee Barclays Bank UK PLC Board
Governance
Barclays UK Risk Committee
Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum
Credit, market, treasury & capital Sustainability matters and reputation risk
Risk
and operational risks associated with climate change
Group Risk Committee (GRC)
Global Head of Public Policy and Corporate
Group Ownership
Responsibility
Climate Risk Committee (CRC)
The Head of Barclays Bank UK Climate Risk chairs the Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum. The Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum oversees the
management of climate risk within Barclays Bank UK Group and undertakes duties such as recommending climate risk mandates and
limits, monitoring the Barclays Bank UK climate risk profile, adherence with risk appetite, and considering emerging risks or expected trends
pertaining to Barclays Bank UK elevated and non-elevated sectors. The Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum also monitors physical and
transition risk exposure and reviews risk measurement developments in relation to risk appetite, stress testing, scenario analysis and stress
loss quantification. The Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum escalates to the Barclays UK Risk Committee and also to the Barclays Group
Climate Risk Committee (CRC).
Risk Appetite
Barclays’ climate risk constraint is aligned to its ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, specifically reducing financed emissions in line with
disclosed sector targets and in line with the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement. Whilst Barclays Bank UK has not been in scope of
the constraint to date, the announcement of a new BlueTrack™ target for the UK Dairy and Livestock portfolio moves Barclays Bank UK into
scope. As such, Barclays Bank UK will now be required to manage its financing of emissions in line with disclosed targets to remain within
climate risk appetite.
In 2023, Barclays has enhanced its approach for the quantification of climate risk appetite by implementing additional limits and controls,
including around the expected financed emissions target (BlueTrack™) pathways. The progress against these targets is monitored on a
regular basis whilst acknowledging the challenges and external dependencies to reduce financed emissions. Barclays Bank UK continues to
regularly review its risk appetite and enhance risk metrics including the expansion of risk limits for priority sectors.
home.barclays/annualreport 60 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Risk Identification
Physical and transition risk drivers can lead to adverse financial impacts through various transmission channels. Transmission channels are
causal chains that explain how climate risk drivers impact firms such as Barclays, either directly through their own operations and
infrastructure or indirectly through their financing and investment activities - the diagram below illustrates these dynamics.
The potential impact of physical risk events at the macro level may include lower GDP growth, higher unemployment and significant
changes in the availability and prices of products or commodities. At the micro level, damage to properties and operations of Barclays Bank
UK’s clients could lead to increasing costs and possible decline in revenues, which in turn might impact their ability to repay the loans. The
impact of climate risk drivers may be significant and widespread affecting companies, households and the general economy leading to
potential financial system contagion.
Climate risks Economic transmission channels Financial risks
Credit risk
Transition risks Micro
• Defaults by
• Policy and legal (e.g. carbon Affecting individual businesses and households businesses and
tax, litigation actions) households
• Reputation (e.g. stakeholder Businesses Households • Collateral
concern, change in • Property damage and • Loss of income (from depreciation
consumer preferences)
business disruption from weather disruption and
• Technology (e.g. substitute severe weather health impacts, labour Market risk
technologies, emissions • Stranded assets and new market frictions) • Repricing of equities,
capture) capital expenditure due to • Property damage (from fixed income,
• Market (e.g. change in transition severe weather) or commodities etc.
market sentiment, • Changing demand and costs restrictions (from low-
uncertainty in market carbon policies) increasing
signals) • L m e i g ti a g l a l t ia e b o il r i t a y d ( a fr p o t m ) failure to c va o l s u t a s t a io n n d s affecting Compliance risk Financial
• Increased costs to system
comply with contagion
Physical risks Macro regulatory
requirements
Aggregate impacts on the macroeconomy
• Chronic
(e.g. temperature, • Capital depreciation and increased investment Operational risk
precipitation, agricultural
productivity, sea levels) • Shifts in prices (from structural changes, supply shocks) • Supply chain
disruption
• Acute • Productivity changes (from severe heat, diversion of investment
(e.g. heatwaves, floods, to mitigation and adaptation, higher risk aversion) • Forced facility
closure
cyclones and wildfires) • Labour market frictions (from physical and transition risks)
• Socioeconomic changes (from changing consumption patterns,
Liquidity risk
migration, conflict)
• Increased demand
• Other impacts on international trade, government revenues, for liquidity
fiscal space, output, interest rates and exchange rates.
• Refinancing risk
Climate and economy feedback effects Economy and financial system feedback effects
Adapted from Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS), September 2022 and in consideration of transmission channels relevant to Barclays.
Barclays' work on assessing climate-related risks have been focused on the short (0-1 year) and medium term (1-5 years) horizons, in line
with our financial planning cycle. The feedback effects of climate risk drivers through macro and micro transmissions channels are
observed in Barclays' portfolio through traditional risk categories such as credit risk, market risk, treasury and capital risk, operational risk
(including legal risk) and reputational risk. Examples of these feedback effects are set out in the table below.
home.barclays/annualreport 61 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Principal risk Example effects of climate risk drivers
Credit risk Increase in credit risk due to reduction in borrowers' ability to repay and service debt if the borrower is
affected by physical risk events that severely damages its infrastructure and operations. Borrowers that are
subjected to higher carbon taxes, penalties or fines for not adequately addressing their impact on climate
(i.e. exposed to higher litigation and reputational damages) or do not successfully transition to a lower
carbon economy might see deterioration in their credit ratings. In some instances, this could lead to
borrowers going into default and impact banks' ability to recover loan value.
Market risk Uncertainty about timing, severity and frequency of extreme physical climate events may lead to higher
volatility in financial markets. Equity prices of corporates operating in carbon intensive sectors may decrease
due to reduced demand for products or services. Reduction in financial asset values can potentially lead to
abrupt price adjustments, resulting in market risk losses where climate risk is not priced into the asset value.
Treasury & capital risk Severe physical events could trigger a sharp increase in demand for liquidity for financial firms, corporates
and households. Reduction in banks' access to stable sources of funding or withdrawal of deposits due to
climate risk drivers may negatively impact banks' liquidity positions. Deterioration of clients' risk profile due
to climate risk drivers may also lead to higher capital requirements.
Operational risk Acute physical risk events may cause damage to banks' essential infrastructure and disrupt operations
leading to higher operational risks. Banks rely on a complex network of supplier and service providers.
Climate change can disrupt supply chains by affecting the availability of goods and services leading to
delays or interruptions in critical operations. Increasingly stringent climate and sustainability-related laws
and regulations and the pace at which the regulations are implemented means that banks, through their
business activities, may face increasing litigation and other claims if they are perceived to have contributed
to or failed to prevent climate change or environmental damage, including by financing client activities.
Reputation risk Banks may face reputational risks related to climate change in various ways, as the public and stakeholders
increasingly expect banks to demonstrate their commitment to environmental sustainability. Banks that are
perceived as not adequately addressing climate risks may face reputational damage. Additionally, banks can
be accused of greenwashing if the information disclosed is misleading or if they are not able to meet their
climate goals.
Barclays has developed an internal climate risk identification process to identify and assess the potential impact of climate risk as a driver of
the other principal risks. Drivers of climate risk are identified and collated through quarterly horizon scanning exercises, following which
information is disseminated to relevant principal risk teams to inform climate risk identification. The Climate Risk Register is maintained as
per the ERMF and is integrated into the Group Risk Register.
The Barclays Bank UK Group Risk Register contains all material risks that may impact forward-looking business plans across Barclays Bank
UK Group. Quantitative assessment is performed to quantify the impact of material risks on capital or liquidity positions of legal entities/
business units. Where quantitative assessments are not yet possible, qualitative assessment is informed by subject matter expert
judgement. Each material risk is mapped to key drivers along with the risk ratings (which are derived based on magnitude of impact and
materiality thresholds).
The Barclays Bank UK Group Risk Register is refreshed on an annual basis and is subsequently used to support strategic planning, scenario
design, sensitivity analysis and capital adequacy assessments. The Climate Risk Register, elevated risk sector assessments and underlying
exposures for industry sectors and geographies form the basis of our approach and priorities for further assessment and management of
climate risk. Details on exposures to elevated risk sectors are on pages 71 to 75 of the Risk Performance section.
Risk Assessment
Scenario analysis continues to form a key part of Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to assessing and quantifying the impact of climate
change. Simultaneously, Barclays Bank UK has enhanced our approach to engaging with clients on climate risk, most notably in 2023
through the ‘Agriculture Net Zero Forum’. The approach to quantify our climate risk assessment has been improved through the
enhancement of the Climate Lens questionnaire.
Climate Scenario Analysis
In 2023, Barclays Bank UK Group was included in two internal climate stress tests to assess the resilience of the business to simultaneous
financial and climate stress, including most recently the Climate Internal Stress Test (C-IST). Both stress tests were conducted over a 5-year
scenario, aligned to usual business planning horizons, to assess the incremental impact that climate factors can have on the financial stress
used to calibrate the Bank’s risk appetite. In the C-IST, Barclays Bank UK increased the number of portfolios in scope of the scenario
analysis exercise. For further detail on scenario analysis, please see the Scenario Analysis section of the Climate and Sustainability Report,
within the Barclays PLC Annual Report.
Client Level Assessment
The Climate Lens questionnaire was developed in 2019 to evaluate physical, transition and environmental risks associated with clients
operating in elevated risk sectors with material exposures. The questionnaire is completed by either the Banking or Credit Risk teams across
Barclays Bank UK. Each question is rated as Low, Moderate or High based on the client’s exposure and vulnerability to various climate and
environmental risk factors. The final rating is based on scoring from all questions but not mechanically linked to them. Data used for the
assessment is collected from public sources and conversations with the client.
The Agriculture Net Zero Forum was established to review all new lending or refinancing requests over a certain threshold from clients in
the Dairy and Cattle and Mixed Farming sectors. The review is focused on the clients’ plans to adapt and transition to a lower carbon
economy and a recommendation is made for further lending decisions.
home.barclays/annualreport 62 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Capital & Liquidity Risk Assessment
For Treasury and Capital Risk, Barclays conducts Group-wide climate stress tests to understand and assess the potential impact on
Barclays' capital position. Climate risk considerations have also been incorporated into the Group's ICAAP process. For liquidity risk,
Barclays identifies and assesses potential vulnerabilities of certain industries and asset classes that may deteriorate under a climate stress
scenario, and subsequently impact funding and liquidity ratios. Climate risk considerations have also been incorporated into the Group's
ILAAP process.
Operational Risk Assessment
For operational risk, climate-related risks continue to be assessed as part of existing business-as-usual operational risk processes. This
includes working with Premises and Operational Recovery Planning teams to evaluate and respond to climate-related impacts and
regulatory requirements. Climate factors have been integrated into Structured Scenario Assessments, which capture extreme but plausible
operational tail risks. As part of the assessment in 2023, climate risk has been included in the building destruction scenario (physical risks)
and greenwashing-related scenarios (transition risks).
BlueTrack™ - Quantifying Financed Emission:
The emissions resulting from the activities of customers and clients to whom financing is provided, is measured using Barclays' bespoke
tool BlueTrack™. Barclays Bank UK financed emissions can serve as an indicator for transition risk, given high emitting sectors will have the
greatest challenges in adapting to a lower carbon economy. BlueTrack™ covers nine segments comprising of Energy, Power, Cement, Steel,
Automotive Manufacturing, UK Housing, Commercial Real Estate, Agriculture and Aviation. For Barclays Bank UK, the UK Housing portfolio
was the first to come into scope of BlueTrackTM in 2022. In 2023, Business Banking Agriculture sector was incorporated, whilst the scope of
the Residential Real Estate sector was expanded, now covering Business Banking Real Estate & Social Housing in addition to UK Mortgages,
and is now referred to as UK Housing.
Risk Monitoring and Reporting
In addition to the climate risk appetite, Barclays has integrated climate risk considerations into policies, standards and lending guidelines.
Consistent with our purpose and taking into account considerations of all relevant business factors, tighter lending criteria and restrictive
policies have been implemented to progressively curtail or prohibit financing of certain activities in sensitive sectors, including thermal coal
mining and coal-fired power generation, arctic exploration and production, oil sands and hydraulic fracturing (fracking). These policies are
reviewed regularly and updated with respect to external developments.
Mandate & scale
Mandate & scale exposure controls translate risk appetite into a detailed series of limits to control day-to-day risk taking. Barclays has
implemented climate-aware limits and controls for priority sectors, including BlueTrack™ measures of emissions intensity. For Barclays
Bank UK Group, physical and transition risk mandates are in place for the UK Mortgages and Business Banking Agriculture portfolios.
Barclays UK Climate Risk Dashboard
The Barclays UK Climate Risk Dashboard contains quantitative metrics on the climate risk profile of Barclays Bank UK Group portfolios. The
Barclays UK Climate Risk Dashboard is reviewed at the Barclays UK Climate Risk Forum & Barclays UK Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
A Group-level Climate Risk Dashboard, which includes Barclays Bank UK Group metrics, is presented to Group Board Risk Committee on a
quarterly basis. This is used to inform progress against sector targets, current exposure to portfolios with high physical and transition risks,
concentrations, trends across industry sectors, portfolios and regions. For further detail on this, see Climate Risk Performance.
Credit risk management (audited)
The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully
honour their obligations to the Barclays Bank UK Group including the whole and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and other
receivables.
Overview
The credit risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group faces arises from retail and wholesale loans and advances together with the counterparty
credit risk arising from derivative contracts with market counterparties; trading activities, including: debt securities, settlement balances
with market counterparties, Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) assets and reverse repurchase loans. Wholesale
lending in the Barclays Bank UK Group includes Business Banking and Education, Social Housing and Local Authorities (ESHLA).
Credit risk management objectives are to:
▪ maintain a framework of controls to oversee credit risk
▪ identify, assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across the Barclays Bank UK Group and within each separate business,
from the level of individual facilities up to the total portfolio
▪ control and plan credit risk taking in line with external stakeholder expectations, including risk return objectives, and avoiding undesirable
concentrations
▪ monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls.
home.barclays/annualreport 63 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Overview
Market Risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group arises from the risk management of the assets held within the liquidity pool. As a result, the
market risk in the Barclays Bank UK Group is minimal. Transactions carrying market risk are executed by the Barclays Bank UK Group
Treasury function.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The objectives of market risk management are to:
▪ understand and control market risk by robust measurement, limit setting, reporting and oversight
▪ control market risk within the allocated risk appetite
To meet the above objectives, a governance structure is in place to manage these risks consistent with the ERMF.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee recommends market risk appetite to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board for their approval,
within the parameters set by the Barclays PLC Board. The Barclays Bank UK Group CRO confirms the Barclays Bank UK Group market risk
appetite with the Barclays Group CRO. The Market Risk Committee (MRC) reviews and makes recommendations concerning the Barclays
Group-wide market risk profile to the Barclays Group Risk Committee. This includes overseeing the operation of the Market Risk
Framework and associated policies and standards, monitoring market and regulatory changes, and reviewing limit utilisation levels. The
committee is chaired by the Market Risk Principal Risk Lead and attendees include the business heads of market risk and business aligned
market risk managers.
The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasurer is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities, whilst the Barclays Bank UK Group
CRO is the senior manager accountable for oversight of market risk, in line with the Barclays Group Framework.
Treasury and capital risk management (audited)
This comprises:
Liquidity risk: The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have
the appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets.
Capital risk: The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business
activities and to meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments and stressed conditions (both actual and
as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing purposes). This also includes the risk from the Barclays Group’s pension plans.
Interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB): The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital or income volatility
because of a mismatch between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.
Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury manages treasury and capital risk exposure on a day-to-day basis with the Barclays Bank UK PLC Asset
and Liability Committee (ALCO) acting as the principal management body. The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury and Capital Risk function
is responsible for oversight and provides insight into key capital, liquidity, interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) and pension risk
management activities.
Liquidity risk management (audited)
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Barclays Bank UK Group in order to retain the confidence of the financial markets
and maintain the sustainability of the business. Treasury and Capital Risk have created a framework to manage all liquidity risk exposures
under both normal and stressed conditions. The framework is designed to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount, quality
and funding tenor profile to remain within the liquidity risk appetite as expressed by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board. The liquidity risk
appetite is monitored against both internal and regulatory liquidity metrics.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing liquidity risk within the set risk appetite. Both Risk and Treasury contribute to the
production of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). The Barclays Bank UK Treasury and Capital Risk function is
responsible for the management and governance of the liquidity risk framework, consistently with Barclays PLC Group policies and
framework and with Barclays Bank UK CRO mandates.
The framework established by Treasury and Capital Risk is designed to deliver the appropriate term and structure of funding, consistent
with the liquidity risk appetite set by the Board.
The framework incorporates a range of ongoing business management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
balance sheet and contingent liabilities. Limit setting and transfer pricing are tools designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken, and
drive the appropriate mix of funds. In addition, Barclays Group maintains a recovery plan which includes application to the Barclays Bank
UK Group. Adherence to limits reduces the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s obligations as they fall due.
home.barclays/annualreport 65 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
The Barclays Bank UK Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan, internal stress tests, regulatory stress test results, and the
Barclays Bank UK contribution to the Barclays Group recovery plan. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and
managing liquidity risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s funding management objectives, funding plan and risk framework. The
Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and reviews the liquidity risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of the
management of liquidity risk. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and reviews liquidity risk appetite at
least annually and the impact of stress scenarios on the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan/forecast in order to agree the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s projected funding abilities.
Capital risk management (audited)
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management of the capital and leverage position, regular stress testing and a
robust capital governance framework. The objectives of the framework are to maintain adequate capital for the Barclays Bank UK Group to
withstand the impact of the risks that may arise under normal and stressed conditions, and maintain adequate capital to cover current and
forecast business needs and associated risks to provide a viable and sustainable business offering. The Barclays Bank UK Group aims to
prudently manage its overall leverage position (including risk of excessive leverage) by utilising plausible stress scenarios, reviewing and
deploying management actions in response to deteriorating economic and commercial positions. In order to manage contingent leverage
risk, the Barclays Bank UK Group considers the context from which the business consumption arises, the impact of client utilisation on
leverage and the available actions to manage.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing and monitoring capital adequacy. The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury and Capital
Risk function provides oversight of capital risk. Production of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process is
the responsibility of Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury.
Capital risk management is underpinned by a control framework and policies. Capital plans reflect the capital management strategy and
are implemented to deliver on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s objectives, which are aligned to those of Barclays Group. The Barclays Bank UK
Group-specific capital plans are developed in conformance with the Barclays Group control framework and policies for capital risk.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan, internal stress tests and results of regulatory stress
tests. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board also approves the recovery options documented in the Barclays Group recovery plan pertaining to
the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and managing capital risk in line with the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s capital management objectives, capital plan and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and
reviews the capital risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of the management of capital risk. The Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and sets risk appetite at a minimum annually and the impact of stress scenarios
on the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan/forecast in order to agree Barclays Bank UK Group’s projected capital resources.
Management assures compliance with minimum regulatory capital requirements by reporting to the Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO with
oversight by the Barclays Group Treasury Committee, as required. In 2023, Barclays complied with all regulatory minimum capital
requirements. Contingent leverage risk is managed by; i) setting comprehensive leverage (and RWA) targets for each business as part of
the Treasury capital management process, taking into account adherence to early warning indicators and maintain a healthy leverage ratio,
and; ii) Monitoring execution of actions taken to course-correct as necessary.
Barclays Bank UK PLC is a participating employer in the UK Retirement Fund (UKRF), whose assets and liabilities are currently held on the
Barclays Bank PLC balance sheet. This participation is expected to cease in 2025. The nature of pension risk for Barclays Bank UK PLC is
contingent, specifically on a Barclays Bank PLC default. Refer to note 28 Staff Costs for further detail.
Interest rate risk in the banking book management (IRRBB)
Overview
Interest rate risk in the banking book is driven by customer deposit taking and lending activities, investments in the liquid asset portfolio
and funding activities. As per the Barclays Bank UK Group’s policy to remain within the defined risk appetite, hedging strategies are
executed to mitigate the various IRRBB risks that result from these activities. However, the Barclays Bank UK Group remains susceptible to
interest rate risk and other non-traded market risks from the following key sources:
▪ Interest rate and repricing risk: the risk that net interest income could be adversely impacted by a change in interest rates, differences in
the timing of interest rate changes between assets and liabilities, and other constraints on interest rate changes as per product terms and
conditions.
▪ Customer behavioural risk: the risk that net interest income could be adversely impacted by the discretion that customers and
counterparties may have in respect of being able to vary from their contractual obligations with the Barclays Bank UK Group. This risk is
often referred to by industry regulators as ‘embedded option risk’.
▪ Investment risks in the liquid asset portfolio: the risk that the fair value of assets held in the liquid asset portfolio and associated risk
management portfolios could be adversely impacted by market volatility, creating volatility in capital directly.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group ALCO, together with the Barclays Group Treasury Committee, are responsible for monitoring and managing
IRRBB risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management objectives and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee and
Treasury and Capital Risk Committee monitor and review the IRRBB risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of
the management of IRRBB. The Barclays Bank UK Group Board Risk Committee reviews the interest rate risk profile, including setting of risk
appetite at a minimum annually and the impact of stress scenarios on the interest rate risk of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s banking books.
home.barclays/annualreport 66 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
In addition, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IRRBB policy sets out the processes and key controls required to identify all IRRBB risks arising
from banking book operations, to monitor the risk exposures via a set of metrics with a frequency in line with the risk management horizon,
and to manage these risks within agreed risk appetite and limits.
Operational risk management
The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or due to external events
(for example fraud) where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.
Overview
The management of operational risk has three key objectives:
▪ deliver and oversee an operational risk capability owned and used by business leaders to enable sound risk decisions over the long term
▪ provide the frameworks, policies and standards to enable management to meet their risk management responsibilities while the second
line of defence provides robust, independent, and effective oversight and challenge
▪ deliver a consistent and aggregated measurement of operational risk which will provide clear and relevant insights, so that the right
management actions can be taken to keep the operational risk profile consistent with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, the stated
risk appetite and stakeholder needs
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates within a system of internal controls that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without
exposing the Barclays Bank UK Group to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damages.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and
functional units where the risk arises. The operational risk profile and control environment is reviewed by business management through
business risk committees and control committees. Operational risk issues escalated from these meetings are considered through the
second line of defence review meetings. Depending on their nature, the outputs of these meetings are presented to the Operational Risk
Profile Forum, the Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Risk Committee, the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee or the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee. In addition, specific reports are prepared by
Operational Risk on a regular basis for the GRC and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee.
Businesses and functions are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an event-driven basis. The reports include a
profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of key controls, operational risk
events and a review of scenarios. Specific reports are prepared by the business and Barclays Bank UK Group Operational Risk on a regular
basis for the Barclays UK Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Risk Committee, and the BRC.
The Barclays Group Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Barclays Group-wide
Operational Risk Framework, meanwhile the Barclays Bank UK PLC Head of Operational Risk is responsible for overseeing the portfolio of
operational risk across all Barclays Bank UK Group businesses.
The Operational Risk function acts in a second line of defence capacity, and is responsible for defining and overseeing the implementation
of the framework and monitoring the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk profile, including risk-based review and challenge. The
Operational Risk function alerts management when risk levels exceed acceptable tolerance in order to drive timely decision making and
actions by the first line of defence.
Operational risk categories
Operational risks are grouped into risk categories to support effective risk management, measurement and reporting. These comprise: Data
Management Risk; Financial Reporting Risk; Fraud Risk; Information Security Risk; Operational Recovery Planning Risk; Payments Process
Risk; People Risk; Premises Risk; Physical Security Risk; Change Delivery Management Risk; Supplier Risk; Tax Risk; Technology Risk and
Transaction Operations Risk.
In addition to the above, operational risk encompasses the risk associated with compliance with Group Resolution Planning Prudential
regulatory requirements.
For definitions of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Operational Risk Categories and Connected Risks, refer to pages 137 to 138 of the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Pillar 3 Report 2022.
Model risk management
The potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses models to support a broad range of activities, including informing business decisions and strategies,
measuring and limiting risk, valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, managing client assets, and meeting
reporting requirements.
home.barclays/annualreport 67 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Group has a dedicated Model Risk Management (‘MRM’) function that consists of six teams:
(i) Independent Validation Unit (‘IVU’), responsible for model validation and approval;
(ii) Group Model Risk Governance, responsible for model risk governance, controls and reporting, as well as providing oversight for
compliance of the Model Owner community with the Model Risk Framework;
(iii) Framework team, responsible for the Model Risk Policy and associated standards;
(iv) Infrastructure Delivery and Oversight, responsible for the delivery of model inventory including associated data quality & reporting and
oversight of Quantitative Processes;
(v) COO, responsible for strategy, communications and business management; and
(vi) Model Risk Measurement and Quantification (‘MRMQ’), responsible for the design of the framework and methodology to measure and,
where possible, quantify model risk. It is also responsible for the strategic Validation Centre of Excellence (‘VCoE’), which is an independent
quality assurance function within MRM with the mandate to review and challenge validation outcomes. VCoE is aligned to the Group Model
Risk Governance team.
The Group Model Risk Committee is MRM’s primary risk committee and a subcommittee of the Group Risk Committee. It is convened with
senior executives in the first and second line of defence to oversee the model risk profile and risk appetite.
The Model Risk Framework is defined and implemented through Model Risk Policy and Standards that prescribe group-wide, end-to-end
requirements for the identification, measurement and management of model risk, covering model documentation, development,
monitoring, annual review, independent validation and approval, change and reporting processes. The policy is supported by global
standards covering model inventory, documentation, validation, testing and monitoring, overlays, risk appetite, and stress testing
challenger models.
The function reports to the Barclays Group CRO and operates a global framework. Implementation of best practice standards is a central
objective of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The key model risk management activities include:
▪ Correctly identifying models across all relevant areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and recording models in the Barclays Bank UK
Group Models Database (GMD), the Barclays Group-wide model inventory
▪ Enforcing that every model has a model owner who is accountable for the model. The model owner must sign off models prior to
submission to IVU for validation and maintain that the model presented to IVU is and remains fit for purpose
▪ Overseeing that every model is subject to validation and approval by IVU, prior to being used and on a continual basis
▪ Defining model risk appetite in terms of risk tolerance, and qualitative metrics which are used to track and report model risk
Compliance risk management
The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
products and services (conduct risk), and the risk its clients, customers or markets from a failure to comply with the laws, rules and
regulations (LRR) applicable to the firm.
Overview
Compliance risk incorporates market integrity, customer protection, financial crime, product design and review and the newly created
Laws, Rules and Regulations risks. Barclays acts at all times to operate its business in full accordance with all applicable laws, rules and
regulations, and to deliver good outcomes for / avoid harm to customers, clients and markets. Barclays will act in good faith; avoid causing
foreseeable harm and enable and support customers to pursue their financial objectives.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Compliance Risk Management Framework (CRMF) outlines how the Barclays Bank UK Group manages and measures its Compliance
Risk Profile. The Group Chief Compliance Officer is accountable for developing, maintaining and overseeing a group-wide CRMF. The
Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for providing effective oversight, management and escalation of
compliance risk in line with the CRMF at the Entity and Subsidiary level. This includes overseeing the development and maintenance of the
relevant compliance risk policies and standards including monitoring and reporting on the consistent application and effectiveness of the
implementation of controls to manage compliance risk. It is the responsibility of the first line of defence to establish conduct related
controls to manage its performance and assess conformance to these policies and controls. The responsibility for LRR risk management
sits across various functions and business units, including Legal, Chief Controls Office, Risk and Compliance.
home.barclays/annualreport 68 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Senior managers are accountable within their areas of responsibility for owning and managing compliance risk in accordance with the
CRMF, as defined within their regulatory Statement of Responsibilities, and a dedicated team has been established in Compliance to
oversee and support senior managers in LRR risk management.
Compliance as an independent second line function oversees that compliance risks are effectively identified, managed, monitored and
escalated, and has a key role in helping Barclays achieve the right conduct outcomes and evolve a compliance-focused culture.
The governance of compliance risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group is fulfilled through management committees and forums operated
by the first and second lines of defence with clear escalation and reporting lines into Board level committees. The Barclays Bank UK Group
Risk Committee is the primary second line governance committees for the oversight of the compliance risk profile. The Barclays Bank UK
risk committee’s responsibilities include the identification and discussion of any emerging compliance risk exposures in the Barclays Bank
UK Group. A new sub-committee of the BPLC Group Risk Committee was established in August 2023 to provide oversight on LRR risk. This
committee is chaired by the BPLC Group Chief Compliance Officer.
Reputation risk management
The risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
integrity and/or competence.
Overview
A reduction of trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and competence may reduce the attractiveness of the Barclays Bank UK
Group to stakeholders and could lead to negative publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing and potential
client business, reduced workforce morale and difficulties in recruiting talent. Ultimately it may destroy shareholder value.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays PLC Board is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management of
reputation risk.
The Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for overseeing the management of Reputation Risk for Barclays Bank
UK Group and the Head of Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility is responsible for the publication of appropriate Reputation Risk and
associated standards, including tolerances against which data is monitored, reported on and escalated, as required. The Reputation Risk
Management Framework sets out what is required to manage reputation risk across the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The primary responsibility for identifying and managing reputation risk and adherence to the control requirements sits with the business
and support functions where the risk arises.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is required to operate within established reputation risk appetite, and its component businesses prepare
reports for its respective Risk and Board Risk Committees highlighting their most significant current and potential reputation risks and
issues and how they are being managed. These reports are a key internal source of information for the quarterly reputation risk reports
which are prepared for the Barclays UK Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
Legal risk management
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the Barclays Bank UK Group to meet applicable laws, rules,
regulations or contractual requirements or to assert or defend its intellectual property rights.
Overview
The multitude of laws and regulations that the Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to are highly dynamic and their application to particular
circumstances is often unclear. This results in a high level of inherent legal risk which Barclays Bank UK Group seeks to mitigate through
the operation of a Barclays Group-wide legal risk management framework. This seeks to mitigate legal risk, including through the
implementation of Barclays Group-wide legal risk policies, requiring engagement of legal professionals in situations that have the potential
for legal risk, identification and management of legal risks by those legal professionals, and escalation of legal risk as necessary. Legal risk is
also mitigated by the complementary requirements of the compliance risk management framework, including the responsibility of legal
professionals to proactively identify, communicate and provide legal advice on applicable laws, rules and regulations. Notwithstanding
these mitigating actions, Barclays Bank UK Group operates with a level of residual legal risk, for which the Barclays Bank UK Group has
limited tolerance.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses and functions have responsibility for identifying and escalating to the Legal Function legal risk in
their areas, as well as responsibility for adherence to control requirements.
The Legal function organisation and coverage model aligns legal expertise to businesses, functions, products, activities and geographic
locations so that the Barclays Bank UK Group receives legal advice and support from appropriate legal professionals, working in partnership
proactively to identify, manage and escalate legal risks as necessary.
home.barclays/annualreport 69 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
Overview
Climate risk is the impact on Financial (Credit, Market, Treasury & Capital) and Operational Risks arising from climate change through
physical risks and risks associated with transitioning to a lower carbon economy. As part of climate risk performance, we monitor carbon-
related assets and elevated risk sectors, which are identified as portfolios with 'elevated' exposure to the physical and transition risks of
climate change.
For Barclays Bank UK PLC, UK Mortgages and Business Banking Agriculture have been identified as portfolios with ‘elevated’ exposure to
the physical and transition risks of climate change. Climate risks have been incorporated into annual mandate & scale reviews across
Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolios.
The UK Mortgages portfolio is affected by physical risks, including flooding, subsidence and coastal erosion. From a transition risk
perspective, the UK Mortgages portfolio is exposed to potential changes in energy efficiency performance requirements. Both the physical
and transition risks that the UK Mortgages portfolio is exposed to may impact property valuations and affordability.
The Business Banking Agriculture portfolio is exposed to the physical risks of climate change such as flooding and drought. The Dairy &
Cattle sub-sector is exposed to the transition risks of climate change, including changes in consumer behaviour, as well as the potential
introduction of emissions taxation given the sector’s significant contribution to the UK’s methane emissions.
Subsidence: Total Volume of stock (as % of total UK Mortgages portfolio) per risk band
Subsidence is driven by the interplay of precipitation, temperature and soil type factors, which result in volumetric changes to the soil.
Increased volatility in weather conditions, as a result of climate change, contributes to the acceleration of subsidence impacts. Some areas,
particularly those with high concentrations of clay soil (i.e. London), are more susceptible to subsidence. This shrink-swell impact can
cause localised property level impacts, resulting in impacts to the valuation of a property, or impacts to affordability through remediation
costs and high insurance premiums.
Barclays Bank UK Group works with a third-party climate data provider to support climate risk data enhancements within the UK
Mortgages portfolio. This includes the ability to map the subsidence risk at a property level granularity. The subsidence risk is based on soil
properties, in particular the extent to which the soil will shrink under hot and dry weather conditions, as well as the predicted temperature
and probability of extreme rainfall. These variables are combined with subsidence claims per postcode to generate a pseudo-quantitative
score, where a property in class 9 is around nine times as likely as a property in class 1 to make a subsidence claim. A small proportion of
the UK Mortgages portfolio is not mapped to a subsidence risk score (c.5.2%). This is due either to a lack of data coverage (i.e. the property
is not covered by underlying maps), or a lack of certainty in address matching.
As at 30 September 2023a
Qualitative
Risk Band Risk Score Volume %
0 No 0.01
Subsidence
Risk
1 9.51
2 Low 35.96
3 23.54
4 4.71
5 Moderate 4.72
6 3.36
7 2.41
8 High —
9 0.25
10 5.43
11 —
12 2.64
Very High
13 —
14 —
15 2.26
Missing 5.20
Note
a Data collected from 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2023 closest available dataset.
Flood: Total Volume of stock (as % of total UK Mortgages portfolio) per risk band
Flooding in the UK is forecast to increase over time, with the potential for this increase to accelerate if greenhouse gas emissions are not
reduced. The increased risk of flooding has the potential to impact the valuation of properties directly, as well as indirectly where areas may
become high risk and property demand falls. Remediation costs, high insurance premiums or potential lack of insurance coverage have the
potential to impact affordability.
home.barclays/annualreport 71 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
EPC: Total Volume of stock (as % of total UK Mortgages portfolio) per EPC rating
The transition risk in the UK Mortgages portfolio is assessed via the distribution of EPC ratings across the portfolio. One of the levers to
decarbonise the UK housing stock for the UK Government is to tighten energy efficiency requirements. It is anticipated that any tightening
of minimum energy efficiency standards (MEES) will focus initially on buy-to-let properties. Buy-to-Let properties which are privately
rented are currently required to have a minimum EPC rating of E. The transition risk identified has the potential to impact the valuation of
properties directly, alongside impacting affordability as properties which fall under MEES may no longer be able to be rented out or the
landlord may need to pay for retrofitting to be brought up to standard.
EPC ratings range from A (most efficient) to G (least efficient). EPC ratings are used as the basis for assessing expected energy costs but do
not give a precise picture of emission intensity. The UK Mortgages portfolio is mapped to the Government EPC Register. Properties may not
feature on the Government EPC Register as some properties may have never been required to have an EPC rating (not been sold or rented
out since 2007), their EPC rating may have expired (EPC ratings are valid for 10 years) or the property may be in Scotland or Northern
Ireland (which use separate databases). Whilst Barclays’ proportion of ‘missing EPC ratings’ has declined year on year, the issue of missing
EPC ratings is prevalent across the industry.
EPC: Residential & Buy-to-let balances and volumes per EPC rating as at September 2023
EPC Rating Residential Balance as % of Volume as % of Buy-to-Let Balances Balance as % of Volume as % of
Balances (£m) Residential Residential (£m) Buy-to-Let Buy-to-Let
Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio
£m % % £m % %
A 487 0.3 0.2 20 0.1 0.1
B 22,514 15.8 14.3 2,144 10.7 8.9
C 24,954 17.5 16.6 5,781 28.9 29.6
D 41,575 29.3 26.4 6,842 34.3 34.4
E 17,546 12.3 10.2 1,991 10.0 10.1
F 4,132 2.9 2.2 129 0.6 0.7
G 780 0.5 0.4 31 0.2 0.2
Missing 30,528 21.4 29.7 3,033 15.2 16.0
Total 142,516 100 100 19,971 100 100
Note
a Data matching provided by 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2023 closest available dataset - EPC monitoring based on Sept-23
portfolio and Sept-23 Government EPC Register. If no valid EPC is mapped, the expired EPC (where available) is included as a proxy.
EPC: Residential & Buy-to-let balances and volumes per EPC rating as at September 2022
EPC Rating Residential Balances Balance as % of Volume as % of Buy-to-Let Balances Balance as % of Volume as % of
(£m) Residential Residential (£m) Buy-to-Let Buy-to-Let
Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio Mortgages portfolio
£m % % £m % %
A 341 0.2 0.2 17 0.1 0.1
B 18,913 13.5 12.0 1,966 9.6 8.1
C 21,585 15.4 14.5 5,053 24.6 25.6
D 38,179 27.3 24.5 6,445 31.5 32.2
E 17,022 12.1 9.7 2,066 10.1 10.2
F 4,118 2.9 2.1 157 0.8 0.8
G 746 0.5 0.4 36 0.2 0.2
Missing 39,458 28.1 36.5 4,716 23.1 22.8
Total 140,362 100 100 20,456 100 100
Note
a Data matching provided by 3rd party source based on one quarter lag, 30 September 2022 closest available dataset - EPC monitoring based on Sept-22
portfolio and Sept-22 Government EPC Register. If no valid EPC is mapped, the expired EPC (where available) is included as a proxy.
Business Banking Agriculture - Dairy & Cattle Exposure
The transition risk in the Business Banking portfolio is assessed via the percentage Dairy & Cattle lending of the Business Banking
Agriculture portfolio. Given methane’s global warming potential the Dairy & Cattle sector is a significant contributor to the UK’s emissions
footprint and is therefore susceptible to the transition risks of climate change, namely consumer preference changes and potential
emissions taxation.
Barclays Bank UK Group utilises exposure data to identify what proportion of the Business Banking Agriculture portfolio consists of lending
to Dairy & Cattle clients.
home.barclays/annualreport 73 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
Carbon-related assets
According to TCFD, certain industry segments are more likely to be financially impacted than others due to their exposure to certain
transition and physical risks around greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, energy, or water dependencies associated with their operations and
products. These non-financial industries are grouped into four key areas: Energy; Transportation; Materials and Buildings; and Agriculture,
Food, and Forest Products. Barclays’ exposure to the industries within these groups are reported as carbon-related assets and can be found
in the table on page 75.
Elevated risk sectors
Based on portfolio level assessments (including for industry sectors) on climate risk, Barclays identifies and categorises sectors with
heightened risk to climate change as elevated sectors. However, in each sector there will exist a range of vulnerabilities and not all our
clients in these sectors have high emissions and should not be interpreted as an indicator of relative carbon intensity. Residential Real
Estate exposures are also included in this table. Barclays recognises Residential Real Estate portfolio as elevated risk, therefore on that basis
they have been included in the table. The sectors highlighted blue in the table represent the sectors considered as elevated at the Group
level
Elevated risk sector Example drivers of risk
More stringent air emission and carbon regulations, requiring high levels of capital investment and Research &
Aviation
Development (R&D) expenditure. Vulnerable to shift in consumer preferences.
Policy pressure to cut emissions to meet emission requirements, requiring high levels of capital investment
Automotive
and R&D expenditure. Phase out of fossil fuel vehicles and introduction of low emission zones in city centres.
Being one of the hard to abate sectors, policy pressure to cut emissions requires high levels of capital
Cement
investment and R&D expenditure.
Coal Mining and Coal Reduction in demand of thermal coal, as utilities transition away from fossil fuel. More stringent air emissions
Terminals regulation, resulting in higher levels of capital investment.
Technological advances in low-carbon and sustainable alternatives along with new and more stringent
environmental regulations, including carbon tax. The increasing efforts to eliminate single-use plastics and
Chemicals
improve recycling to prevent marine pollution could also impact demand for products used in plastic
manufacture.
Mining (including Rising costs as a result of tighter environmental regulations and increasing water stress, vulnerable to litigation
diversified miners) cases and reputational damage.
Policy pressure to cut emissions, exposure to carbon taxes and overall increasing environmental regulation of
Oil and Gas
operations and restrictions on access to new resources. Over time, falling demand for fossil fuels.
Policy pressure to cut emissions and move to renewable sources of energy, leading to increased capital
Power Utilities
expenditure costs, plus potential exposure to carbon taxes.
Evolving taxation on emissions may impact production methods, supply chain and farm viability. Reduced
Agriculture demand for meat and dairy as a consequence of shifts in consumer behaviour. Volatile weather conditions and
extreme weather events may impact farm credit quality.
Evolving minimum energy efficiency requirements and increasing physical risks from flood, subsidence and
Residential Real Estate
coastal erosion have the potential to impact house prices and homeowner affordability.
More stringent carbon tax regulations and policy pressure to cut emissions and adopt low-emission fuels,
Shipping
requiring higher levels of R&D expenditure and capital investment.
Being an energy-intensive sector, the sector is exposed to the policy pressure to cut emissions and evolving air
Steel
pollution regulation.
Road Haulage Policy pressure to cut emissions, requiring high levels of capital investment.
home.barclays/annualreport 74 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Climate risk
Carbon-related assets (Incl. sub-sector breakdown) a,b
2023 2022
Loans and Loan Loans and Loan
advances c commitments Total advances c commitments Total % Change
£m £m £m £m £m £m %
Agriculture, Food and Forest Products
(logging) 3,518 799 4,317 3,673 744 4,417 (2) %
Agriculture 3,518 799 4,317 3,673 744 4,417
Energy & Waters 11 2 13 13 3 16 (19) %
Power Utilities 5 — 5 5 — 5
Metals (waste & recycling) 6 2 8 8 3 11
Manufacturing 453 119 572 603 129 732 (22) %
Automotive 11 3 14 16 4 20
Cements 6 1 7 8 1 9
Chemicals 20 6 26 27 7 34
Food, Bev and Tobacco 55 11 66 78 11 89
Manufacturing - Others 326 86 412 425 93 518
Metals 15 5 20 21 5 26
Packaging Manufacturers: Metal, Glass and
Plastics 3 1 4 5 1 6
Paper and Forest Products (excluding logging) 15 5 20 20 6 26
Steel 2 1 3 3 1 4
Material and Building 8,283 295 8,578 9,230 675 9,905 (13) %
Construction and Materials 219 43 262 322 48 370
Homebuilding and Property Development 809 162 971 1,168 188 1,356
Real Estate Management and Development 7,255 90 7,345 7,740 439 8,179
Mining and Quarrying 6 2 8 8 1 9 (11) %
Mining 4 1 5 5 1 6
Oil and Gas (extraction) 2 1 3 3 — 3
Transport & storage 345 58 403 484 62 546 (26) %
Aviation 3 1 4 5 1 6
Other Transport Services 154 17 171 215 19 234
Road Haulage 170 35 205 240 37 277
Shipping 18 5 23 24 5 29
Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 335 63 398 435 68 503 (21) %
Oil and Gas (wholesale) 10 3 13 17 4 21
Others 325 60 385 418 64 482
Home Loans 163,510 8,184 171,694 162,365 12,103 174,468 (2) %
Residential Real Estate 163,510 8,184 171,694 162,365 12,103 174,468
Subtotal (Elevated risk sectors) 167,279 9,040 176,319 166,391 12,908 179,299 (2) %
Carbon-related Assets Grand Total 176,461 9,522 185,983 176,811 13,785 190,596 (2) %
Total Loans & Advances and Loan
Commitments 219,789 49,820 269,609 223,207 58,072 281,279 (4) %
Carbon-related assets / Total Loans &
Advances and Loan Commitments 80% 19% 69% 79% 24% 68%
Sub-total of sectors spanning in multiple
industries
Oil and Gas 12 4 16 20 4 24 (33) %
Notes
a The sectors have been represented based on the standard nomenclature of economic activities (NACE codes) this year. These sector headings are consistent
across our disclosures on credit risk concentration by industry and geography (page 110). The prior year comparatives have been represented in line with
the updated sector headings.
b As industries decarbonize, sectors will increasingly include both carbon and non-carbon related activities e.g. Power Utilities will also include, in part, their
generation capacity from renewable energy sources
c Loans & advances includes debt securities at amortized cost amounting to £17,794m (2022: £18,537m) of which carbon related assets are Nil (2022: £63m)
in Material & Buildings.
home.barclays/annualreport 75 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
All disclosures in this section, pages 77 to 127, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
Credit risk represents a significant risk to the Barclays Bank UK Group and mainly arises from exposure to loans and advances.
Task force on Disclosures about Expected Credit Losses (DECL)
Credit risk disclosures have been enhanced to include DECL III recommendations for minimum product grouping for this period and prior
period comparatives have been aligned.
Summary of performance in the period
Gross exposure: Gross loans and advances at amortised cost to customers and banks have decreased to £221bn in 2023 (2022: £225bn).
Reduction is attributable to higher redemptions and repayments across portfolios partially offset by strategic acquisitions in Home Finance.
Maximum exposure: The Barclays Bank UK Group’s net exposure to credit risk decreased to £143bn (2022: £171bn) driven by reduction in
cash and balances at central Banks (£19bn). Overall, the extent to which the mitigation is held against its total exposure has increased to
58% (2022: 53%).
Credit quality: Delinquencies remain broadly stable. UK Cards provisioning continues to be underpinned by low delinquencies and strong
credit quality. However, an increase is observed in UK mortgages driven by high interest rates. A range of activities are in place to protect
our existing defensive positioning against current macroeconomic headwinds. Further analysis on the credit quality of assets is presented
in the approach to management and representation of credit quality section.
Stage decomposition: A net decrease of £1.2bn is observed in Stage 2 gross exposure driven by an improved GDP forecast and
repayments in Business Banking partially offset by an increase in UK mortgages in line with the expectation. Stage 3 balances decreased to
£3.4bn (2022: £3.5bn) driven by repayments in Business Banking. Refer to pages 97 to 98 for further details.
Scenario: Economic uncertainty continues, linked to higher interest rates and ongoing inflation in major economies. For Q423, scenarios
have been refreshed and are designed around a broad range of economic outcomes. The Downside 2 (DS2) scenario has been aligned to
Barclays 2023 Internal Stress Test (IST23) which is less severe in terms of GDP deterioration, resulting in increased DS2 weights.
ECL: Impairment allowances on loans and advances at amortised cost including off-balance sheet has decreased to £1,686m (2022:
£1,758m). On-balance sheet coverage has remained strong and stable at 0.8%.
Charge: Credit impairment charges were £308m (2022: £268m), consistent with low delinquencies in UK cards and a high quality
mortgage lending portfolio.
Management adjustments: Economic uncertainty adjustments have decreased to £181m (2022: £218m). The reduction is informed by the
rebuild of UK Cards impairment models which better capture the macroeconomic outlook. Further, adjustments have been reassessed to
capture affordability headwinds in UK retail lending. Refer to the Management adjustment to models for impairment section on page 99 for
further details.
Climate: Barclays has performed a credit risk assessment of physical and transition risk due to climate change. This was delivered through
a combination of a scenario approach and targeted reviews on specific portfolios identified as more susceptible to climate risk. The analysis
did not result in a separately identifiable impairment charge for year end 2023 reporting.
Further detail can be found in the Financial statements section in Note 8 Credit impairment charges/(releases). Description of terminology
can be found in the glossary, available at home.barclays/annualreport. Refer to the credit risk management section for details of
governance, policies and procedures.
home.barclays/annualreport 77 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Credit risk
Climate risk ECL assessment
Barclays performed a credit risk assessment of physical and transition risk due to climate change. This was delivered through a
combination of a scenario approach and targeted reviews on specific portfolios identified as more susceptible to climate risk. The analysis
did not result in a separately identifiable impairment charge for year end 2023 reporting.
Scenario Approach: The climate stress test macroeconomic scenario was used in lieu of the production Downside 2 scenario to determine
impact on the weighted average ECL output. The output of this analysis was not significant to warrant an additional climate-related
impairment charge.
Specific Approach: The approach reviewed portfolios previously identified from both internal and external stress tests as more susceptible
to climate risks. In particular, the UK Mortgage portfolio was reviewed to determine the impact of a plausible change in regulation requiring
landlords to upgrade properties to minimum EPC rating of C in the buy-to-let portfolio. The output of this review did not provide variances
in ECL deemed sufficiently certain to warrant raising an additional climate-related charge in 2023.
Barclays acknowledges that impairment could increase over time as risks become more tangible and impact consumers and clients
through physical risks or via impacts from the transition to a low carbon economy. Therefore, Barclays continues to review credit risk
outputs to determine if any additional physical or transition climate risks are identified that are not sufficiently captured via model output.
Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis
The measurement of modelled ECL involves complexity and judgement, including estimation of probabilities of default (PD), loss given
default (LGD), a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimation of expected lives, estimation of exposures at default (EAD) and
assessing significant increases in credit risk. The Barclays Bank UK Group uses a five-scenario model to calculate ECL. An external
consensus forecast is assembled from key sources, including HM Treasury (short and medium term forecasts) and Bloomberg (based on
median of economic forecasts), which forms the Baseline scenario. In addition, two adverse scenarios (Downside 1 and Downside 2) and
two favourable scenarios (Upside 1 and Upside 2) are derived, with associated probability weightings. The adverse scenarios are calibrated
to a broadly similar severity to the internal stress tests and stress scenarios provided by regulators whilst also considering IFRS 9 specific
sensitivities and non-linearity. The favourable scenarios are designed to reflect plausible upside risks to the Baseline scenario which are
broadly consistent with the economic narrative approved by the Senior Scenario Review Committee. All scenarios are regenerated at a
minimum semi-annually. The scenarios include key economic variables, (including GDP, unemployment, House Price Index (HPI) and base
rate), and expanded variables using statistical models based on historical correlations. The upside and downside shocks are designed to
evolve over a five-year stress horizon, with all five scenarios converging to a steady state after approximately seven years.
Scenarios used to calculate the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ECL charge were refreshed in Q423 with the Baseline scenario reflecting the latest
consensus macroeconomic forecasts available at the time of the scenario refresh. In the Baseline scenario, whilst the UK economy avoids a
recession, GDP growth remains weak in the coming quarters and beyond as restrictive monetary policies, which impact economies with a
lag, continue to restrain growth. Having peaked in 2022, consumer price inflation continues to ease over 2023 and 2024. The
unemployment rates rise to 4.8% over 2024 and then stabilises. With the significant decline in inflationary pressures, the Bank of England
refrains from further interest rate increases. House prices continue to decline in 2024 before stabilising and resuming an upward trend
from 2025.
In the Downside 2 scenario, inflationary pressures are assumed to intensify again, mainly driven by strong wage growth. The Bank of
England raises rates further, with the UK bank rate reaching 8.5% in Q324. High interest rates suddenly bring stress into the financial and
non-financial system, causing joblessness to spike and triggering a housing markets crisis and The Bank of England is forced cut interest
rates aggressively. Falling demand reduces GDP and headline inflation drops to close to zero. In the Upside 2 scenario, tighter and more
productive labour markets help to accelerate economic growth whilst keeping inflationary pressures under control. With inflation quickly
returning to target, the Bank of England lowers interest rates, further stimulating aggregate demand and GDP growth.
The methodology for estimating scenario probability weights involves simulating a range of future paths for UK GDP using historical data
with five scenarios mapped against the distribution of these future paths. The median is centred around the Baseline with scenarios further
from the Baseline attracting a lower weighting before the five weights are normalised to equate to 100%. The same scenarios used in the
estimation of expected credit losses are also used to inform the Barclays Bank UK Group’s internal planning. The impacts across the
portfolios are different because of the sensitivities of each of the portfolios to specific macroeconomic variables, for example, mortgages
are highly sensitive to house prices, credit cards and unsecured consumer loans are highly sensitive to unemployment. The increases in the
Downside scenario weightings reflected a reduction in GDP stress severity in the Downside scenarios which brought the GDP of these
scenarios closer to the Baseline. The increases in the Upside scenario weightings were driven by the improvement in actual GDP and the
Baseline scenario, bringing the Baseline scenario closer to the Upside scenarios. For further details see page 103.
The economic uncertainty adjustments of £181m (2022: £218m) have been applied as overlays to the modelled ECL output. These
adjustments consist of a customer and client uncertainty provision of £149m (2022: £228m) which has been applied to customers and
clients considered most vulnerable to affordability pressures, and a model uncertainty adjustment of £32m (2022: £(10m)). For further
details see page 100.
The tables below show the key UK macroeconomic variables used in the five scenarios (5 year annual paths), the probability weights
applied to each scenario and the macroeconomic variables by scenario using ‘specific bases’ i.e. the most extreme position of each variable
in the context of the scenario, for example, the highest unemployment for downside scenarios and the lowest unemployment for upside
scenarios. 5-year average tables and movement over time graphs provide additional transparency. Annual paths show quarterly averages
for the year (unemployment and base rate) or change in the year (GDP and HPI).
home.barclays/annualreport 101 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Model risk, Compliance risk, Reputation risk, Legal risk
All disclosures in this section, pages 144 and 145, are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Model risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to continuously improving model risk management and made a number of enhancements in
2023, including:
• Continued improvements to the transparency and oversight of model risk through further upgrades to model risk governance
structure.
• Continued enhancements to model risk policy and standards to ensure comprehensiveness, consistency and cohesiveness of the
model risk framework.
• Continued focus on improving the model risk control framework.
• Enhanced the Group Model Risk Appetite Statement, incorporating model quality and uncertainty around a model’s output.
• Continued strengthening of validation practices through expansion of model-level validation procedures, use of an on-going validation
training program and further embedment of a validation quality assurance process.
• Executed on hiring strategy by expanding the model risk team to support a wider range of model validation demand, newly emerging
model risks, and enhanced focus on regulatory models.
Compliance risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to continuing to drive the right culture throughout all levels of the organisation. The Barclays
Bank UK Group will continue to enhance effective management of Compliance risk and appropriately consider the relevant tools,
governance and management information in decision-making processes. Focus on the management of compliance risk is ongoing and,
alongside other relevant business and control management information, the Barclays Bank UK Group Conduct Risk Dashboards is a key
component of this.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continues to review the role and impact of Compliance risk events and issues in the remuneration process at
both the individual and business level.
In 2023, the Group maintained focus on new and heightened inherent Compliance risks, including those relating to the cost of living crisis,
the evolving threat landscape as related to financial crime, and challenges in ensuring customer and client data is handled appropriately.
These risks continue to be monitored on an ongoing basis.
A key area of focus has been the implementation and embedment of the FCA’s new Consumer Duty, with rules for open products and
services taking effect at the end July 2023.
Businesses have continued to assess the potential customer, client and market impacts of strategic change. As part of the 2023 Medium-
Term Planning Process and associated Strategic Risk Assessment, material Compliance risks associated with strategic and financial plans
were assessed.
Throughout 2023, Compliance risks were raised by each business area for consideration by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk
Committee. The Committee reviewed the risks raised and whether management’s proposed actions were appropriate to mitigate the risks
effectively.
A key area of focus has been the implementation and embedment of the FCA’s new Consumer Duty, with rules for open products and
services taking effect at the end July 2023.
During 2023, laws, rules and regulation risk (LRR risk) was created as a new risk under the Compliance Principal risk. LRR is intended to
mitigate the risk of failing to identify applicable LRRs, and ensure appropriate steps are in place to monitor and oversee LRRs. Work is
underway to implement processes to support the management and oversight of LRR Risk.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continued to incur costs in relation to litigation and conduct matters, please refer to Note 24 Legal,
competition and regulatory matters and Note 22 Provisions, for further details. Costs include customer redress and remediation. Resolution
of these matters remains a necessary and important part of delivering the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy and an ongoing commitment
to improve oversight of culture and conduct.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee and senior management received Conduct Risk Dashboards setting out key indicators in
relation to conduct and financial crime risk. These continue to be evolved and enhanced to allow effective oversight and decision-making.
Work is ongoing to enhance the Compliance Risk Control Environment in a timely and effective manner to ensure the Group operates
within Risk Appetite. The tolerance adherence is assessed by the business through key indicators and reported to the Barclays Bank UK PLC
Board Risk Committee as part of the Conduct Risk Dashboard governance process.
The Barclays Bank UK Group remains focused on the continuous improvements being made to manage risk effectively with an emphasis on
enhancing governance and management information to identify risk at earlier stages.
home.barclays/annualreport 144 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Supervision and regulation
derivative transactions. This focus has resulted in a variety of new regulations across the G20 countries and beyond that require or
encourage on-venue trading, clearing, posting of margin and disclosure of information related to many derivatives transactions.
The UK Benchmarks Regulation applies to the administration, contribution and use of benchmarks within the UK. Financial institutions within
the UK, as applicable, are prohibited from using benchmarks unless their administrators are authorised, registered or otherwise recognised in
the UK. This prohibition does not currently apply in respect of third country benchmark administrators, as the prohibition on usage of such
benchmarks will take effect from the end of 2030. The FCA has also been working to phase out use of LIBOR, with all LIBOR panels now
having ended. Synthetic versions of GBP and USD LIBOR have been made available only for a limited period of time for holders of legacy
contracts. Global regulators in conjunction with the industry have developed and are continuing to develop alternative benchmarks and risk-
free rate fallback arrangements, including updates to existing, as well as new, applicable legislation.
Other regulation
Consumer protection, culture, and diversity and inclusion
In July 2023, the FCA’s new Consumer Duty came into force for new and existing products or services that are open to sale or renewal. It
will apply to closed products and services from 31 July 2024. The duty sets higher expectations for the standard of care that firms provide
to retail customers and impacts all aspects of Barclays’ retail businesses, including every retail customer journey, product and service as
well as our relationships with partners, suppliers and third parties. This has resulted in significant implementation costs and there will also
be higher ongoing costs for the industry as a result of extensive monitoring and evidential requirements.
Our regulators have enhanced their focus on the promotion of cultural values as a key area for banks. The UK regulators have also begun
focusing on diversity and inclusion in financial services firms, with the PRA and FCA having published a consultation on the introduction of a
new regulatory framework on diversity and inclusion in September 2023. The UK regulators expect to publish final rules on this issue in 2024.
FSMA 2023 has introduced new rules under which HM Treasury may designate current account providers that have a significant role in the
provision of UK cash access and empowers the FCA to make rules to ensure the reasonable provision of cash access services. In December
2023, the FCA issued a consultation on proposed new rules. This follows the FCA’s publication of guidance in June 2022, to ensure that
firms consider the impact of a planned closure of a branch or conversion of free-to-use ATMs (cash machines or cashpoints) on their
customers’ everyday banking needs and the availability and provision of alternatives.
Another area of increasing regulatory focus in 2023 has been the reasons for payment account access and closures, with the FCA having
published a report on this topic in September following concerns that customer accounts were being terminated on the basis of customers’
political views. HM Treasury subsequently announced that it plans to require banks to provide clear and tailored reasons for the
termination of payment accounts as well as extending the notice period of such termination to 90 days.
FSMA 2023 contains provisions mandating that the Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) require the reimbursement of authorised push
payment scams by payment service providers, including Barclays. This reimbursement requirement will be split 50:50 between the sending
and receiving firms. Changes to the rules of the Faster Payments Scheme and a new Specific Direction issued by the PSR to require
reimbursement will take effect in October 2024.
Data protection
Most jurisdictions where Barclays Group operates have adopted or are considering comprehensive laws concerning data protection and
privacy. Regulations regarding data protection are increasing in number, as well as levels of enforcement, as manifested in increased
amounts of fines and the severity of other penalties. We expect that personal privacy and data protection will continue to receive attention
and focus from regulators, as well as public scrutiny and attention. The EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the UK’s
General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) provide a framework of rights and duties designed to safeguard personal data and apply to
the activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or the UK, respectively. The extraterritorial effect of the GDPR and the UK GDPR
means entities established outside the EU or the UK may fall within the GDPR or UK GDPR’s ambit when offering goods or services to EU/
UK based customers or clients or conducting behavioural monitoring of individuals in the EU/UK. The Data Protection and Digital
Information (No.2) Bill was introduced to the UK Parliament in March 2023, which if enacted will bring some divergence between the EU
GDPR and UK GDPR. The UK government has indicated that it expects the Bill to become law in mid-2024, although there is still some
uncertainty on timing and content.
The data regime in China is likely to continue to evolve, governing the collection, processing and cross-border transfers of China-based
individuals' personal data and related restricted data (e.g., macro/derived characteristics data which, if tampered with, divulged or
destroyed, may endanger China's economic operation, social stability, national security - among other things - having regard to the volume
and granularity of the data). In India, the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023, may be implemented in phases during 2024 and
beyond. Except under certain exemptions, its scope would include the processing of personal data in India and would extend to the
profiling of, and offering goods and services to, India-based individuals outside of India. As the global data protection regulatory landscape
develops, non-compliance with any such requirements and rules could lead to regulatory fines and other penalties.
Cybersecurity and operational resilience
Regulators globally continue to focus on cybersecurity risk management, organisational operational resilience and overall soundness
across all financial services firms, with customer and market expectations of uninterrupted access to financial services remaining at an all-
time high.
home.barclays/annualreport 149 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Supervision and regulation
The regulatory focus has been further heightened by the increasing number of high-profile ransomware and other supply chain attacks
seen across the industry in recent years and the growing reliance of financial services on Cloud and other third party service providers. This
is evidenced by the continuing introduction of new laws and regulatory frameworks directed at enhancing resilience of both firms and their
critical third party providers. A new UK framework introduced in March 2021 requires firms to be able to remain within impact tolerances
set for their important business services, in severe but plausible disruption scenarios such as a cyber attack, by no later than 31 March
2025. FSMA 2023 introduced a new regime for designated critical third party providers, and in December 2023 the FCA and PRA issued a
consultation on proposed rules and guidance for supervising the resilience of critical third party providers.
The existing and anticipated requirements for increased controls will serve to improve industry standardisation and resilience capabilities,
enhancing our ability to deliver services during periods of potential disruption. However, such measures are likely to result in increased
technology and compliance costs for the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Regulatory initiatives on ESG disclosure
In the UK, the FCA published final rules on the UK Sustainability Disclosure Requirements regime in November 2023 which set out new
requirements to prepare sustainability-related product and entity level disclosures for certain firms, as well as a new sustainable investment
labelling regime and anti-greenwashing rule applicable to all authorised firms. Currently, the new anti-greenwashing rule (and associated
guidance) is due to apply from 31 May 2024, whilst the rest of the changes will take effect on a phased basis, beginning in the second half
of 2024. The UK Government has expressed its intention to consider how best to incorporate the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
Disclosures framework for nature-related risk management and disclosures into UK legislation and to consult on introducing Transition
Plan Taskforce Disclosure Framework (TPT Framework) related requirements for the UK’s largest companies. The Government is also
progressing plans to endorse UK Sustainability Disclosure Standards based on the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB)
sustainability reporting standards (IFRS S1 on general requirements for sustainability disclosures and IFRS S2 on climate disclosures) for
use in the UK by July 2024. The FCA plans to consult in 2024 on incorporating provisions relating to the ISSB standards and TPT
Framework into its Handbook. Additionally, TCFD-aligned reporting requirements apply to UK publicly quoted companies, large private
companies and LLPs (in addition to existing TCFD-related reporting requirements under the Listing Rules).
The UK Government has confirmed its intention to develop a UK Green Taxonomy, and the Green Technical Advisory Group continues to
publish advice and reports on the development of a Green Taxonomy. Reporting against the Taxonomy will form part of the UK’s new
Sustainability Disclosure Requirements (SDR). Certain companies will be required to disclose which portion of their activities are
Taxonomy-aligned. The structure of the Taxonomy is expected to draw on the EU approach and has six environmental objectives (climate
change mitigation, climate change adaptation, sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources, transition to a circular
economy, pollution prevention and control and protection and restoration of biodiversity).
Recent EU developments in ESG disclosure initiatives will also impact UK companies which fall within the scope of applicable regimes. The
EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive introduces sustainability related reporting obligations for various entities, including EU
banks and certain non-EU companies and banks (by virtue of having EU listings or significant business in the EU), with reporting to
commence on a phased basis from the financial year 2024. In December 2023, the Council and European Parliament also reached political
agreement on the Directive on Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence which will require EU and certain non-EU firms, including financial
institutions, to carry out due diligence with regard to their own operations and companies in their upstream value chain, in order to identify
and prevent, bring to an end or mitigate the adverse impact of their activities on human rights and the environment. Firms will also be
required to establish a climate change transition plan. These obligations are expected to come into force on a phased basis from the
second half of 2027, at the earliest.
Sanctions and financial crime
The UK Bribery Act 2010 introduced a new form of corporate criminal liability focused broadly on a company’s failure to prevent bribery on
its behalf. The Criminal Finances Act 2017 introduced new corporate criminal offences of failing to prevent the facilitation of UK and
overseas tax evasion. In 2023, the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 became law. This creates a new offence of failing
to prevent a person associated with the Group from committing fraud for the benefit of the Group. The UK Bribery Act 2010 requires the
Barclays Bank UK Group to have adequate procedures to prevent bribery which, due to the extraterritorial nature of the Act, makes this
both complex and costly. Additionally, the Criminal Finances Act 2017 requires the Barclays Bank UK Group to have reasonable procedures
in place to prevent the criminal facilitation of tax evasion by persons acting for, or on behalf of, any entity in the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act similarly requires the Group to have reasonable procedures in place to prevent a
person associated with the Group from committing fraud.
The Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 (the Sanctions Act) became law in the UK in 2018. Following the UK’s withdrawal
from the EU, the Sanctions Act allowed for the adoption of an autonomous UK sanctions regime which came into force in 2021, as well as a
more flexible licensing regime post-Brexit. This sanctions regime applies within the UK and in relation to the conduct of all UK persons
wherever they are in the world; it also applies to overseas branches of UK companies.
In some cases, US state and federal regulations addressing sanctions, money laundering and other financial crimes may impact entities,
persons or activities located or undertaken outside the US, including Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries. US government authorities have
aggressively enforced these laws against financial institutions in recent years. As a result of the conflict in Ukraine, there has been an
increased regulatory focus on sanctions compliance in various jurisdictions, including the US, UK and EU. Failure of a financial institution to
ensure compliance with such laws could have serious legal, financial and reputational consequences for the institution.
home.barclays/annualreport 150 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Materiality for the Group and Parent company financial statements as a whole was set at £136m (2022: £101m) and £135m (2022:
£100m) respectively, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax from continuing operations, of which it represents
4.9% (2022: 4.5%) for the Group and 4.9% (2022: 4.5%) for the Parent company, normalised upwards by £124m and £297m for the
Group and Parent company respectively to adjust for the loss incurred on the disposal of wealth management business in the year as the
transaction is considered to be outside the normal course of operations. In the prior year materiality was determined by normalising the
benchmark downwards by £338 million to adjust to the average ECL charge over the last four years given the observed volatility in the ECL
charge from economic uncertainty as the economy recovered from the COVID-19 pandemic.
In line with our audit methodology, our procedures on individual account balances and disclosures were performed to a lower threshold,
performance materiality, so as to reduce to an acceptable level the risk that individually immaterial misstatements in individual account
balances add up to a material amount across the financial statements as a whole.
Performance materiality for the Group and Parent company was set at 75% (2022: 75%) of materiality for the financial statements as a
whole, which equates to £102m (2022: £75m) for the Group and £101m (2022: £75m) for the Parent company. We applied this
percentage in our determination of performance materiality because we did not identify any factors indicating an elevated level of risk.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £6.75m (2022: £5m), in
addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Group profit before tax
£2,795m* (2022 £2,214m)**
£136m
Whole financial statements
materiality (2022: £101m)
£102m
Whole financial statements
performance materiality (2022:
£75m)
£6.75m
Misstatements reported to the
Audit Committee (2022: £5m)
* adjusted to add back the loss on disposal of the wealth management business in the period which does not represent normal, continuing operations
** normalised by adjusting to the average ECL charge for the past four years given the observed volatility in the ECL charge arising from economic uncertainty
as the economy recovered from COVID-19 pandemic.
Scope – general
We were able to rely upon the Group’s internal control over financial reporting in all areas of our audit, where our controls testing
supported this approach, which enabled us to reduce the scope of our substantive audit work.
The Group engagement team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information, using the
materiality levels set out above.
The Group has certain centralised processes in India, the outputs of which are also included in the aggregated set of financial information.
These services are subject to specified audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and controls. We evaluated
the work which the participating auditor performed in these areas. We communicated with the participating audit team throughout the
audit by holding regular meetings and visiting their office.
home.barclays/annualreport 157 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Financial performance and returns
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
IFRS 9 impairment involves several important areas of judgement, including estimating forward looking modelled parameters (PD, LGD
and EAD), developing a range of unbiased future economic scenarios, estimating expected lives and assessing significant increases in
credit risk, based on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s experience of managing credit risk. The determination of expected life is most
material for Barclays’ credit card portfolios which is obtained via behavioural life analysis to materially capture the risk of these facilities.
Within the retail and small businesses portfolios, which comprise large numbers of small homogenous assets with similar risk
characteristics where credit scoring techniques are generally used, the impairment allowance is calculated using forward looking
modelled parameters which are typically run at account level. There are many models in use, each tailored to a product, line of business
or customer category. Judgement and knowledge are needed in selecting the statistical methods to use when the models are developed
or revised. Management adjustments to impairment models, which contain an element of subjectivity, are applied in order to factor in
certain conditions or changes in policy that are not fully incorporated into the impairment models, or to reflect additional facts and
circumstances at the period end. Management adjustments are reviewed and incorporated into future model development where
appropriate.
For individually significant assets in Stage 3, impairment allowances are calculated on an individual basis and all relevant considerations
that have a bearing on the expected future cash flows across a range of economic scenarios are taken into account. These
considerations can be particularly subjective and can include the business prospects for the customer, the realisable value of collateral,
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s position relative to other claimants, the reliability of customer information and the likely cost and duration
of the work-out process. The level of the impairment allowance is the difference between the value of the discounted expected future
cash flows (discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate), and its carrying amount. Furthermore, judgements change with
time as new information becomes available or as work-out strategies evolve, resulting in frequent revisions to the impairment allowance
as individual decisions are taken. Changes in these estimates would result in a change in the allowances and have a direct impact on the
impairment charge.
Temporary adjustments to calculated IFRS 9 impairment allowances may be applied in limited circumstances to account for situations
where known or expected risk factors or information have not been considered in the ECL assessment or modelling process. For further
information, please see page 99 in credit risk performance section.
Information about the potential impact of the physical and transition risks of climate change on borrowers is considered, taking into
account reasonable and supportable information to make accounting judgements and estimates. Climate change is inherently of a long-
term nature, with significant levels of uncertainty, and consequently requires judgement in determining the possible impact in the next
financial year, if any.
2023 2022
Impairment Impairment
charges / Recoveries and charges / Recoveries and
(releases) reimbursementsa Total (releases) reimbursementsa Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans and advances at amortised costb 360 (33) 327 293 (36) 257
Off-balance sheet loan
commitments and financial
guarantee contracts (19) — (19) 10 — 10
Total 341 (33) 308 303 (36) 267
Financial instruments at fair value through
other comprehensive income — — — 1 — 1
Other financial asset measured at cost — — — — — —
Credit impairment charges /(releases) 341 (33) 308 304 (36) 268
Note
aRecoveries and reimbursements include £5m (2022: £4m) for reimbursements expected to be received under the arrangement where
the Barclays Bank UK Group has entered into financial guarantee contracts which provide credit protection over certain assets with third
parties and cash recoveries of previously written off amounts of £28m (2022: £32m).
bIncludes Debt securities at amortised cost.
Write-off that can still be subjected to enforcement activity
The contractual amount outstanding on financial assets that were written off during the period ended 31 December 2023 and that can still
be subjected to enforcement activity is £186m (2022: £419m). This is lower than the write-offs presented in the movement in gross
exposures and impairment allowance table due to assets sold during the year post write-offs and post write-off recoveries.
Modification of financial assets
Financial assets of £513m (2022: £175m), with a loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECL, were subject to non-
substantial modifications during the period, with a resulting loss of £2m (2022: £3m). There is no material movement in financial assets
subject to non-substantial modification for which the loss allowance has changed to a 12 month ECL.
home.barclays/annualreport 184 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes
The term Barclays Bank UK Group refers to Barclays Bank UK PLC together with its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, the income
statement analysis compares the year ended 31 December 2023 to the corresponding twelve months of 2022 and balance sheet analysis
as at 31 December 2023 with comparatives relating to 31 December 2022. The abbreviations ‘£m’ and ‘£bn’ represent millions and
thousands of millions of Pounds Sterling respectively.
There are a number of key judgement areas, for example impairment calculations, which are based on models and which are subject to
ongoing adjustment and modifications. Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at the given point in time.
Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under applicable regulatory guidance or International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) are explained in the results glossary that can be accessed at home.barclays/investor-relations/reports-and-events/latest-
financial-results.
Barclays Bank UK Group is an issuer in the debt capital markets and meets with investors via formal roadshows and other ad hoc meetings.
Consistent with its usual practice, Barclays Bank UK Group expects that from time to time over the coming half year it will meet with
investors to discuss these results and other matters relating to the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the Barclays Bank UK Group. Barclays cautions readers that no
forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results or other financial condition or performance
measures could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by
the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements sometimes use words such as ‘may’, ‘will’,
‘seek’, ‘continue’, ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘projected’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘achieve’ or other words of
similar meaning. Forward-looking statements can be made in writing but also may be made verbally by directors, officers and employees of
the Barclays Bank UK Group (including during management presentations) in connection with this document. Examples of forward-
looking statements include, among others, statements or guidance regarding or relating to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s future financial
position, business strategy, income levels, costs, assets and liabilities, impairment charges, provisions, capital leverage and other regulatory
ratios, capital distributions (including policy on dividends and share buybacks), return on tangible equity, projected levels of growth in
banking and financial markets, industry trends, any commitments and targets (including environmental, social and governance (ESG)
commitments and targets), plans and objectives for future operations and other statements that are not historical or current facts. By their
nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances. Forward-looking
statements speak only as at the date on which they are made. Forward-looking statements may be affected by a number of factors,
including, without limitation: changes in legislation, regulations, governmental and regulatory policies, expectations and actions, voluntary
codes of practices and the interpretation thereof, changes in International Financial Reporting Standards and other accounting standards,
including practices with regard to the interpretation and application thereof and emerging and developing ESG reporting standards; the
outcome of current and future legal proceedings and regulatory investigations; the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability along with
governments and other stakeholders to measure, manage and mitigate the impacts of climate change effectively; environmental, social and
geopolitical risks and incidents, pandemics and similar events beyond the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control; the impact of competition in
the banking and financial services industry; capital, liquidity, leverage and other regulatory rules and requirements applicable to past,
current and future periods; macroeconomic and business conditions, including inflation, in the UK and in any systemically important
economy which impacts the UK; volatility in credit and capital markets; market related risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign
exchange rates; reforms to benchmark interest rates and indices; higher or lower asset valuations; changes in credit ratings of any entity
within the Barclays Bank UK Group or any securities issued by it; changes in counterparty risk; changes in consumer behaviour; the direct
and indirect consequences of the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East on European and global macroeconomic conditions, political
stability and financial markets; political elections; developments in the UK’s relationship with the European Union (EU); the risk of
cyberattacks, information or security breaches, technology failures or other operational disruptions and any subsequent impacts on the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s reputation, business or operations; the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to access funding; and the success of
acquisitions, disposals and other strategic transactions. A number of these factors are beyond the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control. As a
result, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s actual financial position, results, financial and non-financial metrics or performance measures or its
ability to meet commitments and targets may differ materially from the statements or guidance set forth in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
forward-looking statements. Additional risks and factors which may impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s future financial condition and
performance are identified in the description of material existing and emerging risks beginning on page 46 of this Annual Report, which is
available on barclays.com.
Subject to Barclays Bank UK PLC's obligations under the applicable laws and regulations of any relevant jurisdiction (including, without
limitation, the UK) in relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
home.barclays/annualreport 234 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report