Contents
Page
Strategic Report
Performance review 2
Managing risk 5
Performance measures 7
Our people and culture 9
Having regard to our stakeholders in Board decision-making 11
Environment, Social and Governance Report 13
Governance
Chair’s introduction 17
Governance Report 19
(including our Corporate Governance Statement)
Directors’ Report 28
Risk review
Risk review contents 32
Risk management strategy 35
Material existing and emerging risks 37
Climate change risk management 49
Principal risk management 52
Risk performance 59
Supervision and regulation 120
Financial statements
Financial statements contents 124
Consolidated financial statements 134
Notes to the financial statements 142
home.barclays/annualreport 1 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Performance review
3. Continuing to grow our business: We are pursuing partnership opportunities to build and deliver better propositions and services for
our customers. We aim to use the Barclays platform to provide better service to Barclays customers and open up new income streams.
4. Evolving our societal purpose: We are working to support the communities we serve. We are focused on financial inclusion and
recognise our role in supporting people and businesses make the transition to a low-carbon economy. We also seek to preserve access
to cash for consumers and businesses over the long term.
Year in review
Customers
• We helped 48,000 first time buyers onto the property ladder, up 92% on 2020, and the highest number we have seen in recent history.
We have continued to support customers with their home buying needs and have had a record performance in mortgage completions,
particularly through the second half of the year. We have delivered 7% growth in net mortgage balances this year.
• We remain focused on bringing customer complaints down, recognising we still have a long way to go. With that said, we were
encouraged to see complaints were lower than in the previous year, decreasing 17% even as volumes of customer transactions and
interactions grew. Unfortunately, we also saw a disappointing decline in Net Promoter Scores (NPSa) for the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
UK banking and Barclaycard UK businesses throughout 2021 at +11 and +4 respectively. We recognise there is much more to do.
• We continued to build strategic partnerships, including launching a new collaboration with British Airways and Avios, allowing eligible
Barclays customers to link their Barclays accounts to their British Airways Executive Club membership to earn more Avios points
through everyday banking.
Digital
• We continued to make strides to enhance the Barclays app. This year, we reached 10m registrations on the Barclays app and exceeded
over 3 billion logins. We introduced an in-app self-serve feature for customers in financial difficulty who require assistance with making
repayments on their credit card. We launched our first in-app subscription product, allowing new and existing customers to subscribe
to the Telegraph via the Barclays app.
• As part of our aim to deliver a leading money management experience, we delivered more tools and features to educate customers on
managing their money. Through the use of our digital platforms, Barclays Digital Eagles and Money Mentors, we helped customers
build financial confidence and plans, and save more money through our budgeting tools.
• We made progress on our digital on-boarding proposal, automating the procedure to enable our customers to open new accounts with
minimal fuss. This created additional capacity for branch colleagues and made it simple and easy for the over 1m new-to-bank
customers who visit our branches each year to complete the required on-boarding steps.
Sustainability and Social Purpose
• We were one of the first major UK lenders to launch a Green Home Mortgage in 2018, and to date we have completed over £1bn in
Green Home Mortgages. In 2021 we expanded the eligibility criteria of our Green Home Mortgage to include any new build properties
meeting energy efficiency requirements. This has now also been expanded to include customers purchasing a new build, energy
efficient buy-to-let property.
• We extended the expiry date on our cards from every three years to every five years, saving virgin plastic. We have expanded our
offering of environmentally friendly materials to all Barclays debit cards and Barclaycard credit cards in the UK.
• Led by our Business Bank, we joined the Banking for Impact on Climate and Agriculture (B4ICA), an inter-bank group focused on
developing a means for the measurement and disclosure of the greenhouse gas emissions of banking portfolios in the agricultural
sector.
• In the Business Bank, we launched a proposition to support the development and growth of the Social Business sector, comprising a
combination of access to finance, skills and networks to help social entrepreneurs build their impact.
Note
a ®Net Promoter, Net Promoter System, Net Promoter Score, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc., Fred
Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc.
home.barclays/annualreport 3 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Performance review
Looking ahead
Our aim remains putting customers and clients at the heart of the decisions we make, helping to ensure good customer outcomes for every
customer and client. We are endeavouring to reinvent our service model for customers, creating a more efficient, more resilient and
seamless service at a pace that suits our customers’ expectations.
More interactions are moving to digital and virtual channels and fewer customers are using our branch network. Where traditional
branches may have been the most appropriate point of engagement in the past, we will increase the range of more flexible options for our
customers, whilst ensuring we continue to support customers who are less digitally capable. This will continue to include physical
branches, complemented with flexible banking pop-ups in community spaces, the introduction of mobile banking vans and shared
services, including shared Banking Hubs and ATMs. We will continue to play a leading role collaborating with the Access to Cash Group,
and plans are underway to help retailers supply cashback without purchases, ensuring greater accessibility of cash in local and remote
areas.
We continue to build partnerships in the open market and work across the Barclays Bank UK Group to deliver additional value for our
customers and businesses through our size and scale. We will continue to invest in digital platforms, remove unnecessary processes and
costs and make it seamless for customers to self-serve.
We are acutely aware of increasing consumer expectations on climate and sustainability. We are committed to inspiring and supporting our
customers to live and act more sustainably through our propositions.
Measuring success
• Income (2020: £6.4bn, 2021: £6.5bn)
• Operating expenses (2020: £4.6bn, 2021: £4.7bn)
• Profit before tax (2020: £0.4bn, 2021: £2.2bn)
• Return on tangible equity (2020: 3.2%, 2021: 17.6%)
Growing with society
Our success is judged not only by commercial performance, but also by our contribution to society and how we act responsibly for the
common good and the long term. These outcomes are mutually dependent. We believe that we can, and should, make a positive difference
for society – globally and locally. We do that through the choices we make about how we run our business, and through the commitments
we make to support our communities. We prize sustainability, and recognise our role to play in leaving things better than we found them.
We cannot be successful in the long term without recognising that we are at our best when our clients, customers, communities, and
colleagues all progress. For detail on our integration of social and environmental issues into our business, please refer to our Environment,
Social and Governance (ESG) Report on pages 13 to 15 and pages 51 to 104 in the Barclays PLC 2021 Annual Report.
Addressing climate change is an urgent and complex challenge. It requires a fundamental transformation of the global economy, so that
society stops adding to the total amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The financial sector has a critical role to play in
supporting the economy to reach this. It is estimated that at least $3-5 trilliona of additional investment will be needed each year, for the
next 30 years, in order to finance the transition. At Barclays, we are determined to play our part. In March 2020, we announced our
ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, becoming one of the first banks to do so.
We have a strategy, in three parts, to put that ambition into action:
• Net zero operations – Barclays is working to achieve net zero operations
• Reducing our financed emissions – Barclays is aligning its financing portfolios in every sector, with the goals and timelines of the
Paris Climate Agreement and restricting financing of non-Paris Agreement aligned activity
• Financing the transition – Barclays is providing the green and sustainable finance required to transform the economies we serve
Our strategy is underpinned by the way we assess and manage our exposure to climate-related risk. You can read more about Barclays’
approach to climate risk in the Barclays PLC Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report.
Our approach to environmental and social issues is grounded in the work we do every day, right across our business, supported in turn by
the governance and oversight of our management and Board structures.
Barclays was one of the 30 founding banks of the Principles for Responsible Banking, which help to align banks with society’s goals as
expressed in the Paris Climate Agreement and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
We engage directly with stakeholders internally and externally to assess our areas of focus against their priorities. That happens through
ongoing conversations, as well as surveys and information requests from investors and ratings agencies. We also monitor closely the
relevant ESG frameworks and reporting guidelines.
For an overview of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to managing climate change risk, please refer to pages 49 to 51 in the climate
change risk management section. You can read more about our approach to ESG issues in our ESG Report on pages 13 to 15 and in the
ESG section of the Barclays PLC 2021 Annual Report.
Note
a $3-5trn as estimated in the GFMA/BCG (Global Financial Markets Association/Boston Consulting Group) Climate Finance Markets and the Real Economy
report, December 2020
home.barclays/annualreport 4 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Managing risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to internal and external risks as part of its ongoing activities. These risks are managed as part of
our business model.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Within the Barclays Bank UK Group, risks are identified and overseen through the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF), which
supports the business in its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture.
The ERMF governs the way in which the Barclays Bank UK Group identifies and manages its risks. The ERMF is approved by the Barclays
PLC Board on the recommendation of the Barclays Group Chief Risk Officer; it is then adopted by the Barclays Bank UK Group with minor
modifications where needed.
The management of risk is embedded into each level of the business, with all colleagues being responsible for identifying and controlling
risk.
Given the increasing risks associated with climate change, and to support the Barclays Group’s ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, it
was agreed that climate risk would become a Principal Risk from 2022.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite defines the level of risk we are prepared to accept across the different risk types, taking into consideration varying levels of
financial and operational stress. Risk appetite is key to our decision-making processes, including ongoing business planning and setting of
strategy, new product approvals and business change initiatives.
The Barclays Bank UK Group may choose to adopt a lower risk appetite than allocated to it by the Barclays Group. A Barclays Group level
climate risk appetite was recently introduced in line with the Barclays Group’s risk appetite approach.
Three lines of defence
The first line of defence is comprised of the revenue-generating and client-facing areas, along with all associated support functions,
including Finance, Treasury, Human Resources and Operations and Technology. The first line identifies the risks, sets the controls and
escalates risk events to the second line of defence.
The second line of defence is made up of Risk and Compliance and oversees the first line by setting limits, rules and constraints on their
operations, consistent with the risk appetite.
The third line of defence is comprised of Internal Audit, providing independent assurance to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board and the
Executive Committee on the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control over current, systemic and evolving risks.
Although the Legal function does not sit in any of the three lines, it works to support them all and plays a key role in overseeing Legal risk
throughout the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Legal function is also subject to oversight from the Risk and Compliance functions (second
line) with respect to the management of operational and conduct risks.
Monitoring the risk profile
Together with a strong governance process, using business and the Barclays Group level Risk Committees as well as Board level forums,
the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board receives regular information in respect of the risk profile of the Barclays Bank UK Group. Information
received includes measures of risk profile against risk appetite as well as identification of new and emerging risks.
During 2021, the Barclays Group ran a range of stress tests to assess its capital adequacy and resilience under severe but plausible
macroeconomic scenarios, with Barclays Bank UK PLC participating in these activities. The internal stress test scenario was based on
current economic imbalances such as supply chain issues and labour shortage deteriorating further due to post COVID-19 heightened
demand and climate transition pressures. This resulted in high inflation and unexpected increases in base rates (both in the UK and the US)
causing an affordability stress for retail customers and corporates, along with hindering the post COVID-19 recovery in terms of gross
domestic product (GDP) and unemployment. In addition, Barclays participated in the Bank of England (BoE) Solvency Stress Test which
was a reverse stress test modelling a pessimistic view of the aftermath of the 2020 COVID-19 crisis with more severe shocks (GDP,
Unemployment, and House Price Index (HPI)) than prior stress exercises. The results of these tests met the Barclays Group and the Barclays
Bank UK Group risk appetite and capital adequacy requirements.
We believe that our structure and governance supports us in managing risk in the changing economic, political and market environments.
For further detailed analysis of approach to risk management and risk performance see our full Risk review on pages 49 to 119.
home.barclays/annualreport 5 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Managing risk
Risks are classified into Principal Risks, as below How risks are managed
Credit Risk The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the Credit risk teams identify, evaluate, sanction, limit
failure of clients, customers or counterparties (including and monitor various forms of credit exposure,
sovereigns), to fully honour their obligations to the individually and in aggregate.
Barclays Bank UK Group, including the whole and timely
payment of principal, interest, collateral and other
receivables.
Market Risk The risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in A range of complementary approaches to identify
the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets and and evaluate market risk are used to capture
Principal liabilities from fluctuation in market variables including, exposure to market risk. These are measured,
Risk but not limited to, interest rates, foreign exchange, equity limited and monitored by market risk specialists.
prices, commodity prices, credit spreads, implied
volatilities and asset correlations.
Treasury Liquidity Risk: Treasury and capital risk is identified and managed
and Capital The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to by specialists in Capital Planning, Liquidity, Asset
Risk meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it and Liability Management and Market Risk. A
does not have the appropriate amount, tenor and range of approaches are used appropriate to the
composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets. risk, such as limits; plan monitoring; and stress
testing.
Capital Risk:
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group has an
insufficient level or composition of capital to support its
normal business activities and to meet its regulatory
capital requirements under normal operating
environments and stressed conditions (both actual and as
defined for internal planning or regulatory testing
purposes). This also includes the risk from the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s pension plans.
Interest Rate Risk in the banking book:
The risk that the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to
capital or income volatility because of a mismatch
between the interest rate exposures of its (non-traded)
assets and liabilities.
Climate Risk The impact on Financial and Operational Risks arising The Barclays Bank UK Group assesses and
from climate change through physical risks, risks manages its climate risk across its businesses and
associated with transitioning to a low-carbon economy functions in line with its net zero ambition by
and connected risks arising as a result of second order monitoring exposure to elevated risk sectors,
impacts on portfolios of these two drivers. conducting scenario analysis and risk assessments
for key portfolios. Climate risk controls are
embedded across the Financial and Operational
Principal Risk types through the Barclays Group’s
Frameworks, Policies and Standards (which apply
to the Barclays Bank UK Group).
Operational The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from The Barclays Bank UK Group assesses and
Risk inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors manages its operational risk and control
or due to external events (for example fraud) where the environment across its businesses and functions
root cause is not due to credit or market risks. with a view to maintaining an acceptable level of
residual risk.
Model Risk The potential for adverse consequences from decisions Models are evaluated for approval prior to
based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports. implementation, and on an ongoing basis.
Conduct The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, The Compliance function sets the minimum
Risk clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the standards required, and provides oversight to
Barclays Bank UK Group’s products and services. monitor that these risks are effectively managed
and escalated where appropriate.
Reputation The risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, Reputation risk is managed by embedding our
Risk decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the purpose and values, and maintaining a controlled
Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence. culture within the Barclays Bank UK Group, with the
objective of acting with integrity, enabling strong
and trusted relationships to be built with customers
and clients, colleagues and broader society.
Legal Risk The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or The Legal function supports colleagues in
fines from the failure of the Barclays Bank UK Group to identifying and limiting legal risks.
meet its legal obligations, including regulatory or
contractual requirements.
Note
The ERMF defines nine Principal Risks. For further information on the how these Principal Risks apply specifically to Barclays Bank UK Group, please see pages
52 to 58.
home.barclays/annualreport 6 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Our people and culture
We want to recruit, retain and engage the talented people that Barclays needs to succeed, providing an environment that enables them to
build their careers and achievements.
A culture of togetherness
Our colleagues are critical to our success. We know that the past two years have been challenging for a lot of our people, in different ways,
impacting both our personal and professional lives. We are proud of the way colleagues responded to these challenges, and for the way
they have continued to support our customers and clients around the world. We have learnt a lot about ourselves over this period, and we
have invested in supporting people in a number of ways. In particular, our focus has been on culture, mindset, wellbeing and development.
As ever, our approach is informed by the latest thinking in behavioural and data science, and our ability to track effectiveness and progress
over time.
The following sub-sections include a summary of the Barclays Bank UK specific items. For full details, refer to the Our people and culture
section of the Barclays PLC 2021 Annual Report.
The Barclays Mindset
At the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, we observed a number of improvements in the way people were working at Barclays. We
reflected on how we could capture these positive developments for the long-term and responded this year by launching the Barclays
Mindset.
The Mindset acts as an operating manual for how to get things done at Barclays. It focuses on three key elements that are core to our
success – Empower, Challenge and Drive. Our research shows that when we demonstrate behaviours aligned to these three elements,
outcomes are better, colleagues are more engaged and they are more likely to stay longer to build their career at Barclays.
Hiring great people
We are focused on hiring people with the skills and capabilities to support our strategy. At the heart of our hiring approach is our ability to
match locations to the local talent pool in that area, including reaching out to local communities and upskilling local students. For example,
our partnerships with universities in Glasgow have been important in developing a robust pipeline of apprentices and graduates at the
global campus we officially opened there this year.
The COVID-19 pandemic has required us to adapt to changes in hiring demands and volumes. This has been particularly important in
customer-facing areas where we know it is critical that we are providing support to our customers.
People with different perspectives and life experiences make our organisation stronger, so we are committed to attracting, developing and
retaining a workforce that is as diverse and inclusive as possible. We are an equal opportunities employer and give full and fair
consideration to all populations based on their competencies, strengths and potential. You can find more information in the Barclays PLC
2021 Diversity and Inclusion Report.
Developing people for the future
At Barclays, we believe that everyone has the potential to continuously grow. We are committed to cultivating a culture of lifelong learning
and our development proposition is designed to support colleagues at every stage of their career. A wide range of development
opportunities are available to help colleagues build their careers.
Building a supportive and inclusive culture
Building a supportive and inclusive culture is not only the right thing to do, but also what is best for our business. It creates a sense of
belonging and enables colleagues to perform to their highest capability.
We focus on six areas of diversity and inclusion: disability, gender, LGBT+, multicultural, multigenerational and socioeconomic inclusion.
We have Employee Resource Groups in place across each of these areas to provide support and advice, create development opportunities
and raise awareness of issues and challenges.
We remain committed to improving the diversity of our leaders and to closing pay gaps at Barclays. We aim for diverse promotion
assessors and panels, helping us to ensure the widest available pool of talent is considered for promotion.
In the UK, we aim to increase the number of under-represented minority employees by 25% by the end of 2025. This will take us to 5%
overall.
This year, we continued to review the provision of Workplace Adjustments for colleagues with disabilities to further our strategy for a more
globally consistent and supportive experience. We encourage managers to check in regularly with their teams and to emphasise the
importance of safe working and appropriate workstation setup. As part of the UK Government Disability Confident scheme, we encourage
applications from people with a disability, or a physical or mental health condition. We require managers to give full and fair consideration
to those with a disability on the basis of strengths, potential and ability, both when hiring and managing. We also ensure opportunities for
training, career development and promotion are available to all.
You can find more information on many of these topics in the Barclays PLC 2021 Diversity and Inclusion Report.
Beyond the COVID-19 pandemic
We continue to follow government guidance relating to COVID-19, taking a prudent and considered approach to return to office that
prioritises the health, safety and wellbeing of colleagues.
home.barclays/annualreport 9 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Our people and culture
Where possible, and in line with local government guidance, we have undertaken a programme to gradually increase the number of
colleagues returning to working in the office at least some of the time. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have kept our buildings
operating safely for key workers by maintaining health and safety measures. In advance of colleagues returning, we risk-assessed all our
buildings and provided training to colleagues on the safety measures that would be in place as they returned. We continue to evaluate and
adjust these measures in accordance with government guidance and the latest epidemiology.
Listening to colleagues and keeping them informed
We think colleague engagement should be a two-way exercise, with equal weight placed on listening to our people and on keeping them
informed. We want to be able to consider our colleagues’ perspective when we make decisions, including at the most senior level.
Our Your View survey is the primary mechanism for how we track engagement and monitor our culture. In addition, this year we continued
to run regular Here to Listen surveys, first launched in 2020, to make sure we are staying abreast of colleague feedback during the
COVID-19 pandemic. Results from these regular surveys are shared directly with leadership, so action can be taken to continue to provide
the appropriate support for colleagues.
Please also see the “Colleagues” section of “Having regard to our stakeholders on Board decision-making” on page 12 for details of how we
keep colleagues abreast of changes to our business, evolution of our strategy and other matters that concern them as employees.
We engage with our people collectively through a strong and effective partnership with Unite, as well as colleague forums. We regularly
brief our union partners on the strategy and progress of the business, seeking their input on ways in which we can improve the colleague
experience of working for Barclays. The collective bargaining coverage of Unite in the UK represents 84% of our UK workforce. We consult
in detail with colleague representatives on major change programmes affecting our people. We do this to help us minimise compulsory job
losses, including through voluntary redundancy and redeployment, with a focus on reskilling.
We maintain an engagement approach that is in line with the UK’s Financial Reporting Council (FRC) governance recommendations. This
extends to those who work for us indirectly as well, such as contractors. As of 2021, the Barclays Third Party Code of Conduct (TPCoC)
states that all third parties with greater than 250 employees must demonstrate through annual reporting that effective workforce
engagement mechanisms are in place to provide channels for the workforce to share ideas and concerns with senior management and the
board.
Our policies
Our people policies are designed to recruit the best people, provide equal opportunities and create an inclusive culture, in line with our
Values and in support of our long-term success. They also reflect relevant employment law, including the provisions of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We expect our people to treat each other with dignity and respect, and do not tolerate discrimination, bullying, harassment or victimisation
on any grounds.
We are committed to paying our people fairly and appropriately relative to their role, skills, experience and performance – in a way that
balances the needs of all our stakeholders. That means our remuneration policies reward sustainable performance that is in line with our
Purpose and Values, as well as our risk expectations. You can find more information in the Barclays PLC 2021 Fair Pay Report.
We encourage our people to benefit from Barclays’ performance by enrolling in our share ownership plans, further strengthening their
commitment to the organisation. You can find out more information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report in the Barclays PLC 2021
Annual Report.
home.barclays/annualreport 10 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Having regard to our stakeholders in Board decision-making
Section 172(1) Statement
The Directors provide this Statement in order to set out how they have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172(1)(a) – (f) of the
Act when performing their duty to promote the success of the Company under Section 172. Our Section 172(1) Statement provides details
of how the Directors have engaged with and had regard to the interests of our key stakeholders.
For further details on the principal activities of the Board during 2021, please refer to our Governance Report on pages 16 to 31. Details of
how the Barclays Group engages with its stakeholders can be found on pages 14 to 19 of the Barclays PLC 2021 Annual Report and are
incorporated by reference into this Statement.
How does the Board engage with stakeholders?
The relevance of each stakeholder group may differ depending on the particular decision the Board is taking, as may the method of
engagement used by the Board. The Board engages directly with stakeholders on certain issues, but the number and distribution of the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s stakeholders and the size of the Barclays Bank UK Group overall means that stakeholder engagement often takes
place at an operational level. In addition, in order to ensure a more effective and efficient approach, certain stakeholder engagement is led
by the Barclays Group. The Board also receives regular reports from individual business areas and from key Barclays Bank UK Group
functions through reports sent in advance of each Board meeting and through in-person or video-conference presentations. This assists
the Board with understanding the impact of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations on, and the interests and views of, the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s key stakeholders.
As a result of its direct interactions and discussion of the reports and information received, the Board has an overview of engagement with
stakeholders, and other relevant factors, which enables the Directors to comply with their legal duty under Section 172(1). In doing so, the
Board has to balance different and, sometimes, competing perspectives which means that it is not always possible to deliver everyone’s
desired outcome or necessarily achieve a positive outcome for all stakeholders.
Engagement in action: evolving our strategy
It is the Board’s responsibility to establish the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy. Given its fundamental importance, the Directors
considered matters relevant to the strategy at every scheduled Board meeting in 2021. Throughout the year, a significant amount of time
has been spent with management discussing and thinking about the learnings from the COVID-19 pandemic and the themes that will
shape the future of the Barclays Bank UK Group, including: access to cash; access to banking; customer behaviours and needs; the ability of
colleagues to provide services through remote working; the impact that technology is having on the competitive environment; the
opportunities and threats of digitalisation; and the overarching importance of our environmental and other societal responsibilities. The
outcomes of those detailed discussions have been critical in evolving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy this year.
In the context of providing customers with banking services in new and innovative ways, and embracing technology as a means of making
things simpler, more transparent and more secure, set out below are details of how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in
Section 172(1)(a) – (f) when discharging their duties, and the effect of those considerations in reaching certain decisions taken by them in
relation to the strategy and, specifically, our four strategic priorities:
• Providing exceptional service and guidance to customers
• Driving technology and digital innovation
• Continuing to grow our business
• Evolving our societal purpose
Further detail on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, including the four strategic priorities, can be found on pages 2 and 3 of the
Strategic Report.
Customers and clients
As set out in our 2020 Annual Report, the COVID-19 pandemic, together with a low interest rate environment, inevitably brought
challenges for the Barclays Bank UK Group’s consumer businesses. It accelerated a number of existing trends in customer and client
behaviour, which have continued during 2021, including a declining use of cash for transactions and consumers saving more and paying
down existing debt. Our customers and clients have directly told us what their needs are – both in the boardroom, as part of interactive
sessions on customer strategy, and via the Board’s review of regular reporting on complaints, as well as analysis of the key drivers
underpinning customer metrics. We have listened, and we have responded by making the provision of exceptional service and insights to
customers one of our four strategic priorities. What that means in practice is providing simple, relevant and prompt services and
propositions as well as using our data insights to help customers better manage their finances and make informed financial decisions.
In addition, one of the other behavioural trends that was highlighted by the pandemic was the increasing number of customers moving to
digital. The Board is aware that there remains a cohort of customers who are less digitally confident and who will continue to require more
traditional forms of engagement with us; however, we strongly believe that embracing digital innovation and technology, and simplifying
products and services, will - amongst other things - improve access to banking and financial inclusion. Nevertheless, prior to deciding to
accelerate our digital agenda, the Board and the Board Committees:
• engaged with management on digital and technological developments in UK banking and the evolving regulatory landscape in
this respect
• engaged with management on the work of the Access to Cash Action Group, which the Barclays Bank UK Group is part of, in
relation to continuing to preserve access to cash for consumers and businesses over the long-term
• participated in deep dives on key customer metrics (such as complaints and NPS) to better understand the correlation between
digitalisation and customer experience
• received briefings on the opportunities and risks associated with moving to the cloud, upgrading our systems and implementing
rapid automation of manual processes
• received regular reports on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s internal controls framework in order to ensure that a robust control
environment is maintained when driving technology and digital innovation
home.barclays/annualreport 11 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Strategic Report
Having regard to our stakeholders in Board decision-making
• received regular reports on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational and technology capacity, including in relation to
operational resilience and the development of more modern technology platforms
The Board is cognisant that although leveraging technology will allow us to respond quickly and seamlessly to changing customer and
client behaviours and needs, and enable the Barclays Bank UK Group to remain competitive, it is not without risk. We therefore want to
reassure our customers and clients that the Barclays Bank UK Group continues to play an important role in helping to address economic
crime, engaging with its wider stakeholder group, including our regulators and the UK Government, in regard to online safety and scams to
increase customer education and improve their protections.
Colleagues
Colleagues have been kept abreast of changes to our business and the evolution of the strategy through a number of events in 2021,
including our Chief Executive’s weekly vlog, podcasts and roadshows. Colleague engagement is a two-way exercise, with equal weight
placed on listening to our people as it is on keeping them informed. In this regard, the Board has engaged directly with colleagues, both in
person and virtually, in the boardroom and when observing Employee Resource Group meetings, participating in leadership panel events,
reverse mentoring, and through visiting branches, Eagle Labs and operational sites (when COVID-19 rules permitted). The Board has also
listened to feedback on a variety of topics – including our strategy, our inclusive culture, colleague development, future ways of working
and wellbeing (particularly important in the context of supporting colleagues’ needs through the ongoing pandemic) – via the annual Your
View and more regular Hear to Listen surveys. The Board and management have sought to ensure that issues of interest to colleagues have
been taken into account when making decisions. For example, whilst future ways of working will continue to iterate in response to
colleague feedback, we are committed to providing a flexible and adaptable operating model affording colleagues the opportunity of hybrid
working.
We know that our colleagues are central to the successful execution of our strategy, and that we need to ensure that they are empowered
and motivated, and that we are investing in their development in order to embed capabilities and skills for the future (particularly digital
and technology). Our talent development proposition is designed to support colleagues at every stage of their career, but we recognise that
there is always room for improvement. With that in mind, the Board was particularly grateful to those colleagues who participated in an
interactive session with the Directors in order to share their constructive feedback on our talent development programmes. For more
information on our commitment to our people, and the opportunities available to them, please refer to pages 29 to 34 of the Barclays PLC
2021 Annual Report.
Society
We have made a societal commitment to provide access to banking. However, it is inherent in more interactions moving to digital and
virtual channels that fewer customers are using our branches. We are committed to increasing the range of more flexible options available
to our customers and clients to meet their changing demands and needs. This will continue to include physical branches, complemented
with alternative ways for colleagues to be present in community spaces, the introduction of mobile banking vans and shared services,
including shared Banking Hubs and ATMs. Plans are also underway to help retailers supply cashback without purchases, ensuring greater
accessibility of cash in local and remote areas.
In spite of the rapidly changing digital landscape, the Barclays Bank UK Group continues to play an important role in local communities; a
role that goes beyond our physical footprint, as the Board learned when it participated in a briefing session focused on citizenship, societal
purpose and sustainability with colleagues and external partners. Through initiatives such as Eagle Labs and Rebuilding Thriving Local
Economies, the Barclays Bank UK Group is getting even closer to those that need us most across the communities we serve. Similarly,
Barclays Digital Eagles and Money Mentors are helping customers use digital platforms to build financial confidence and plans, whilst
programmes such as LifeSkills are helping young people get the experiences and skills they need to enter the world of work.
Of course, society extends much further than just our local communities, and the Board is acutely aware of increasing customer and client
expectations in relation to climate and sustainability. Over the last year, the Directors have engaged with the Barclays Group and
management in order to gain a more granular understanding of the progress that has been made to date in relation to the Barclays Group’s
climate strategy, and future focus areas. Whilst the availability of products such as our Green Home Mortgage and the recently launched
Green Home Buy-to-Let Mortgage are a step in the right direction, the Board recognises that there remains more to be done. For more
information on our role in society and how the Barclays Bank UK Group is playing its part in helping accelerate the transition to a low-
carbon economy, please refer to page 4 of the Strategic Report and the ESG Report on pages 13 to 15.
Investors
Finally, the Board considers engagement with its shareholder as being crucial to its understanding of the Barclays Group’s strategy and the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s role within that; this has been an important factor in evolving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy this year,
particularly the focus on digitalisation and generating consistent returns for our shareholder and, in turn, its investors over the long-term.
The current engagement model includes the Barclays Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive attending certain Board meetings (by
invitation) in order to discuss Barclays Group matters with the Board and to gain a better understanding of the risks and opportunities of
the retail consumer business. This year, that engagement informed one of the Barclays Group’s three strategic priorities – the delivery of
next-generation, digitised consumer businesses – which will, ultimately, support the Barclays Bank UK Group’s investment priorities. The
Chair’s position on the Barclays PLC Board also ensures the views of the Barclays Bank UK Group are represented at Barclays Group level.
The Directors believe that this engagement model works well and intend to use it again in 2022, supported by any informal engagement
opportunities that may arise during the course of the year.
Crawford Gillies
Chair – Barclays Bank UK PLC
22 February 2022
home.barclays/annualreport 12 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Environment, Social and Governance Report
Over a period of several years, ESG considerations have become increasingly important to and continue to be embedded into the Barclays
Group’s, and therefore the Barclays Bank UK Group’s, business strategy. Reflecting this trend, Barclays is integrating the way it reports on
ESG matters too by providing this information as part of its Annual Report.
Please see the ESG section of the Barclays PLC 2021 Annual Report for further details. Set out below are some examples of Barclays Bank
UK Group-specific initiatives in this area:
Environment
As part of the overall strategy of the Barclays Group, the Barclays Bank UK Group is determined to play its part in taking a leading role in
helping accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy. In March 2020, the Barclays Group announced its ambition to be a net zero
bank by 2050. We have a strategy, in three parts, to turn that ambition into action:
Achieving net zero operations
Barclays is working to achieve net zero operations, investing in the continued decarbonisation of our operations. Please see the Barclays
PLC 2021 Annual Report for further details of how we are defining our approach to net zero operations.
Reducing our financed emissions
Barclays is committed to aligning its financing with the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement.
Financing the transition
Barclays is providing the green and sustainable finance required to transform the economies we serve.
Our strategy is underpinned by the way we assess and manage our exposure to climate-related risks. From 2022, climate risk will be a
Principal Risk under Barclays’ ERMF. Please see pages 41 to 42 of Risk Review for further details.
For more information about how the Barclays Group is helping to tackle climate change, please see the Barclays PLC 2021 TCFD Report.
Scenario analysis forms a key part of the Barclays Group’s, and therefore the Barclays Bank UK Group’s, approach to assessing and
quantifying the impact from climate change. We have developed our approach to scenario analysis through detailed quantitative and
qualitative risk assessments of particular portfolios and activities (for example, we have conducted assessments on the impact of flooding
and subsidence on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s mortgage portfolio). The Barclays Group has developed key metrics and targets to track
progress against its climate strategy. The adoption of consistent and relevant climate-related metrics is crucial for financial sector
stakeholders to properly price and manage climate-related risks. Please see the Barclays PLC 2021 TCFD Report for further details on
scenario analysis and key metrics.
Barclays has relationships with customers and clients across a wide range of sectors and geographies, who face risks to their operations,
supply chains and markets from biodiversity loss and land-use change. Recognising the importance of this agenda, we are developing our
understanding and evaluating where our business impacts and depends on nature, and where we can support our clients. Set out below
are two such initiatives.
Barclays Green Home Mortgages
Barclays Bank UK PLC was one of the first major UK lenders to launch a Green Home Mortgage in 2018, and to date we have completed
over £1bn in Green Home Mortgages.
The Barclays Green Home Mortgage offers residential homebuyers lower interest rates for new build properties with an Energy
Performance Certificate (EPC) band of A or B, compared to our standard products. In April 2021, we expanded the eligibility criteria of our
Green Home Mortgage to include any new build properties meeting energy efficiency requirements. Previously the proposition was
available for properties built by a panel of 14 house builders. In January 2022, we expanded our Green Home Mortgages further extending
the eligibility to customers purchasing a new build energy efficient buy-to-let property.
Further details on Barclays Green Home Mortgages can be found at: https://www.barclays.co.uk/mortgages/green-home-mortgage/
In addition, further details on Barclays Green Buy-To-Let mortgages can be found at: https://www.barclays.co.uk/mortgages/green-buy-
to-let-mortgage/
Banking for Impact on Climate and Agriculture
Led by our Business Bank, we joined the Banking for Impact on Climate and Agriculture (B4ICA), an inter-bank group focused on
developing a means for the measurement and disclosure of the greenhouse gas emissions of banking portfolios in the agricultural sector.
home.barclays/annualreport 13 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Environment, Social and Governance Report
Social
The Barclays Group is determined to make sure we understand our customers’ and clients’ expectations and aspirations, and develop
products and services that support them. Set out below are a number of initiatives the Barclays Bank UK Group has been involved in.
Please see the ESG section of the Barclays PLC 2021 Annual Report for further details.
Access to banking
The banking services we provide and the manner in which they are delivered continue to evolve, driven by the changing needs of our
customers. How we bank today is unrecognisable from 50 years ago. Customers are demanding more convenient, simpler ways to bank
that fit their lives. We are delivering these solutions at pace.
As a part of these changes, it is not just the number, but also the role of the physical branch that is evolving from a place where a
significant number of transactions are completed manually, to one in which customers can be supported to be more financially
empowered and self-sufficient over simple transactions. Using technology, with assistance for vulnerable customers and those that need
help, we are creating space and time for more complex financial conversations.
This ongoing change in behaviour means that as the number of bricks and mortar branches has reduced over time, we are also investing in
new, more flexible ways of serving customers better in the long run. These include temporary and flexible banking pop-ups in community
spaces, libraries and companies, the introduction of mobile banking vans and shared services, including shared Banking Hubs and ATMs.
Alongside our investment in technology enabling 11 million digital customers to access tools and products whenever they need them,
these new destinations will transform everyday banking by making it easier and more convenient, whilst keeping Barclays at the heart of
the community, on a long-term sustainable basis.
We also want customers who rely on cash – in particular, more vulnerable customers, to still be able to access cash and to get the support
they need. This is why, we have joined forces with our competitor banks and consumer groups, the Post Office and LINK, as part of the
Access to Cash Action Group, in an agreement on shared services helping to ensure long-term cash availability across the UK.
In the future, as branch closures are announced, LINK will independently assess remaining cash provision against agreed industry
standards, and where required, in conjunction with local communities, will propose new shared services. The industry will work together to
deploy these services on a shared cost basis, which will include shared Banking Hubs and ATMs. In this way we will help to ensure that no
one is left behind, with every person and small business being guaranteed reasonable access to cash in a sustainable manner.
Alongside these changes, we are continually investing in multi-skilled training for our colleagues so they are better able to serve customers
in ways that meet their needs today. As well as breaking down internal barriers to enable more queries to be resolved by the first person
you speak to at Barclays, whichever way our customers choose to contact us.
Basic current account
Since 2015, we have been offering our basic current account, which meets HM Treasury’s Memorandum of Understanding on basic bank
accounts. There were over 642,000 Barclays basic accounts open at the end of 2021.
Our basic current accounts provide individuals who may not be eligible for a standard account access to banking including; over the
counter services, access to ATMs, and digital banking and free text alerts to manage finances.
Community accounts
We also provide free banking to over 115,000 small not-for-profit organisations through our community accounts, including religious
groups, and local charities.
Digital accessibility
We aim to ensure that our digital services are easy to see, hear, understand and use for all customers, including those with disabilities.
AbilityNet (a leading UK disability charity) has independently accredited for accessibility the key journeys of our online banking website and
mobile app during 2021.
We have strengthened accessibility requirements within our procurement processes, recognising the importance of partnering with
suppliers and giving clear expectations.
We seek to deliver digital services and workplace tools that promote disability inclusion and meet accessibility requirements set out in the
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1 AA level.
Barclays mortgages and first-time buyers
In 2021, we helped over 150,000 customers take out a mortgage or further borrowing on their property. This included over 48,000 first
time buyers who we helped get onto the property ladder, up 92% from 2020, and the highest number we have seen in recent history. We
have continued to support customers with their home buying needs and have had a record performance in mortgage completions during
2021.
In April 2021, we launched new mortgage products under the government’s Mortgage Guarantee Scheme, enabling us to offer 95% loan
to value mortgages to customers buying their first property or looking to move home.
home.barclays/annualreport 14 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Governance Page
▪ Chair’s introduction 17
▪ Governance Report
(including our Corporate Governance Statement) 19
▪ Directors’ Report 28
home.barclays/annualreport 16 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Chair’s introduction
I am pleased to present our Governance Report for 2021 – my first full year in role as Chair of the Board.
Our purpose and response to the pandemic
At the start of the year, the Barclays Group announced its aim to “deploy finance for the common good and the long term”. This Purpose
has come to the fore in the role the Company has played throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. During 2021, we have continued to take
steps to help ease customers’ and clients’ financial pressures, partnered with the UK Government to support businesses, and provided
investment to local communities at a time of real need. As our attention shifts to economic recovery, whilst acknowledging that the
pandemic is by no means over, the Board remains focused on the important role the Barclays Bank UK Group can and does play in society.
Strategy
As set out in the Section 172(1) Statement on pages 11 to 12 of the Strategic Report, the combination of the pandemic together with a low
interest rate environment has brought into sharper focus the structural changes required to our business model. As a consequence, the
Board has spent a considerable amount of time challenging and contributing to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy this year. The
strategy is deeply rooted in customer and client need, accelerates our digital agenda and creates new business models built around digital
customer and client engagement. Overseeing the execution of the strategy will be the Board’s priority in the years ahead, ensuring good
customer and client outcomes remain at the forefront of our discussions.
Key to successful delivery of the strategy are our colleagues and, in particular, the creation of a diverse and inclusive workforce comprised
of individuals with the requisite capabilities and skills who are empowered and motivated to provide excellent service. Colleague
engagement and retention are also crucial and we believe that culture and, specifically, the embedding of the Barclays Mindset – the three
elements of which are Empower, Challenge and Drive – has an important part to play in this. The Board has engaged, and will continue to
engage, directly with colleagues and listen to feedback from the annual Your View and more regular Hear to Listen surveys so that we can
take into account issues of interest to colleagues when decision-making.
To ensure we deliver consistent returns for our shareholder, and in turn Barclays’ investors, we must have an efficient operating model,
including a cost-effective infrastructure, which responds and adapts to our evolving customer and client expectations whilst remaining
competitive and enabling us to invest for the future. The Board will remain close to the evolution of the operating model, including
increasing the range of more flexible options available to our customers and reshaping our physical footprint in order to better support the
customers we serve. Investment in technology and digital innovation will provide us with the capability to unlock new sources of income,
supporting our continued growth, as well as providing a greater range of services to more customers and clients.
Barclays continues to play a major role in our local communities, that goes much wider than our branches and business teams. In 2021, in
addition to the usual reporting, the Board participated in an excellent immersive session with colleagues and external partners focused on
citizenship, societal purpose and sustainability. We look forward to continuing to engage on these very important topics, in particular, on
climate change. The Barclays Bank UK Group – as part of the Barclays Group – is playing its part in helping accelerate the transition to a
low-carbon economy. Please refer to page 4 of the Strategic Report, and the ESG Report on pages 13 to 15, for further detail.
Our strategy will continue to evolve to respond to external factors, including changes arising from the political and regulatory landscape. Of
particular note this year was the independent panel review of the operation of the ring-fencing legislation in respect of which we await with
interest the final recommendations. The other significant event was the consultation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on a
proposed “Consumer Duty”, which will introduce an overarching standard of conduct requiring firms to “act to deliver good customer
outcomes”. As a Board, we are supportive of the Consumer Duty and will closely oversee the Company’s readiness for implementation,
which is currently planned for April 2023. The Consumer Duty alongside financial performance and risk management is at the centre of our
strategy and business objectives, and will receive a high level of ongoing management attention.
Risk and control
This year, the Board Risk Committee has continued to oversee the risk management aspects of our strategy and its execution, helping
ensure prudential soundness and that customer outcomes are delivered in the right way. In respect of new and emerging risks, the
Committee has adopted climate risk as a new Principal Risk from 2022 and has spent time gaining a better understanding of the risks
associated with our move to cloud technology. We remain alert to financial crime, fraud and security, particularly in light of the proliferation
of scams during the pandemic with the Committee overseeing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to financial crime controls and
operational resilience. This has been supported by the work of the Board Audit Committee, which – in addition to its usual matters – has
monitored the internal control environment and received updates on data governance, including the principles in place to ensure the
protection and ethical use of customer and client data, as well as reviewing key accounting judgements, including impairments, as the
economy begins to recover.
Governance matters
Finally, as articulated in our corporate governance principles, a successful company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial Board. In
2021, an external evaluation of the Board was undertaken by Christopher Saul Associates (CSA), which concluded that the Board is
operating effectively. CSA considered our Board to have a strong collegiate culture in which all members contribute to discussions and offer
constructive challenge. Whilst certain areas were identified for continued focus to further improve effectiveness, none were material. A
summary of the key findings can be found on page 23. Separately, in conjunction with the Board Nominations Committee, I continue to
evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board to ensure that it is appropriate to support our strategy and
to consider succession planning. In respect of Board changes, Sir John Timpson stood down from the Board in July 2021 and David
Thorburn in February 2022. We thank Sir John and David for their considerable insight and service to the Barclays Bank UK Group.
home.barclays/annualreport 17 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
and safety landscape throughout 2021 did impact physical interactions; however, this year’s Board immersion programme included a range
of activities that could be carried out in person or virtually - such as observing Employee Resource Group meetings, participating in panel
events and roadshows, and reverse mentoring - which allowed the Board to maintain a strong connection to the business and colleagues.
Further details on what the Board did in 2021, including its engagement with customers and clients, colleagues, and suppliers, can be
found on pages 20, 21 and 27.
All Directors who are new to the Board, or a Board Committee, participate in an induction programme, which is tailored to their specific
experience and knowledge and provides access to all parts of the business so that they have sufficient understanding of the nature of the
business and the key issues the Barclays Bank UK Group faces.
Our corporate governance principles and how we applied them in 2021
During the year ended 31 December 2021 and to the date of this report, the Company has continued to apply and has complied with its
own corporate governance arrangements rather than the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code or the Wates Corporate Governance
Principles for Large Private Companies. This is on the basis that the Board believes that our own governance arrangements are the most
appropriate for the Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of a premium listed company which is also a complex financial institution subject
to a comprehensive regulatory regime. This approach is consistent with the approach of other significant subsidiaries in the Barclays Group
which are subject to the Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 (2018 Regs).
The primary aim of our governance arrangements is that they:
• are effective, in particular to ensure the safety and soundness of the ring-fenced bank
• provide checks and balances and encourage constructive challenge
• drive informed, collaborative and accountable decision-making
• create long-term sustainable value for our shareholder, Barclays, the ultimate shareholders of Barclays and our wider
stakeholders
Set out below is an explanation of how the six principles that underpin our governance arrangements have been applied during 2021.
The Barclays Bank UK Group governance framework is set by Barclays and has been designed to facilitate the effective management of the
Barclays Group. This includes the setting of Barclays Group policies in relation to matters such as the Barclays Group’s Purpose and Values,
the Barclays Group Remuneration Policy and the Barclays Charter of Expectations. Where appropriate, this Corporate Governance
Statement makes reference to those Barclays Group-wide policies which are relevant to the way in which the Company is governed.
Principle One: Board Leadership and Company Purpose
A successful company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial Board whose role is to establish the company’s purpose, values and
strategy, aligned to its culture, and make decisions to promote its success for the long term benefit of its shareholder, having regard to
the interests of other relevant stakeholders and factors.
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Company. The Board’s role involves articulating a clear vision for the Company
based on Barclays’ Purpose, Values and Mindset, and establishing a strategy for both the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group,
supported by a framework of effective controls that are designed to mitigate financial and other risks and to protect the reputation of the
business. This ultimately ensures that the business is able to operate effectively and independently, and is run in a way that promotes the
long term success of the Company thereby creating and delivering sustainable value. For further details on internal control and risk
management, please see pages 23 to 25.
The Board’s role also involves ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and
measure performance against them. The Board receives regular and timely information on all key aspects of the business - including
customers, conduct matters, financial performance, operational matters, strategy, risks and opportunities - all supported by key
performance indicators.
What the Board did in 2021
As a matter of course, the Board ensures that the Company is managed in accordance with the ring-fencing legislation and monitors the
ring-fence perimeter of the Barclays Bank UK Group to ensure ongoing compliance with the ring-fencing requirements. In addition to this,
the principal activities of the Board during 2021 included the following:
Strategic and operational matters
▪ Overseeing the further evolution of the Barclays Bank UK Group strategy that was reported in 2020 (including accelerating our digital
agenda and focusing on creating new business models built around digital customer engagement) and reviewing progress against
the same. Further detail on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, including its strategic priorities, can be found on pages 2 and 3 of
the Strategic Report
▪ Receiving updates on the market and operating environment (including the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s consumer businesses, and the low interest rate environment), new developments in UK banking and the evolving
regulatory landscape
▪ Overseeing the creation of an inclusive and supportive culture through the launch and embedment of the Barclays Group Purpose,
Values and Mindset, and diversity and inclusion initiatives such as the Race at Work Action Plan
▪ Overseeing colleague engagement via the Here to Listen and Your View surveys, and receiving updates in respect of colleague
wellbeing (particularly in connection with supporting colleagues’ needs in relation to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic). Further
details can be found on pages 9 and 10 of the Strategic Report and separately on pages 29 to 34 of the Barclays PLC 2021 Annual
Report
home.barclays/annualreport 20 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
▪ Overseeing customer, commercial, financial, operational, regulatory and risk matters, with regular updates from the Chief Executive
and Executive Committee members
▪ Overseeing reputational risk matters, including in relation to access to cash and the Barclays Bank UK Group’s physical footprint
▪ Overseeing risk matters in connection with issues relating to COVID-19, including payment holidays and UK Government support
schemes for businesses, such as the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme
▪ Receiving updates on citizenship, societal purpose and sustainability (including progress against climate strategy)
Finance (including capital and liquidity)
▪ Discussing and approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Medium Term Plan (MTP), in which strategy is embedded, together with
related funding and capital plans for the Barclays Bank UK Group
▪ Overseeing the financial performance of the Barclays Bank UK Group and its main businesses through regular reports from the Chief
Financial Officer
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Audit Committee, approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s full year and half year financial
statements, approving the non-payment of a 2020 full year dividend and approving the payment of a 2021 half year dividend
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the
Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP)
▪ Overseeing, in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee, the results of a range of stress tests to assess capital adequacy and
resilience under severe but plausible macroeconomic scenarios
Governance, risk, control and regulatory matters
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the Company’s Risk Appetite Statement and oversight of risk
parameters
▪ On the recommendation of the Board Risk Committee, approving the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the Barclays Group
Recovery and Resolution Plan and Resolvability Assessment Framework
▪ Overseeing key risk matters, including themes and emerging risks through regular reports from the Chief Risk Officer
▪ Overseeing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational and technology capacity, including in relation to operational resilience and the
utilisation of more modern technology platforms
▪ Overseeing colleagues’ return to branches, call centres, offices and other sites during the course of the year and considering future
ways of working
▪ Overseeing the services received from BX
▪ Overseeing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s internal controls framework through regular reports from the Company’s Chief Controls
Officer
▪ Overseeing, with the support of the Board Nominations Committee, changes to Board composition and Board Committee roles
▪ Receiving regular updates from the Chairs of the Board Committees and the Chairs of the Company’s material subsidiaries on matters
discussed at meetings
▪ In conjunction with the Board Nominations Committee, overseeing the 2021 external Board evaluation and the internal Board
Committee and Non-Executive Director evaluation
Details of the briefings and deep dive sessions held with management on key areas of strategy and risk matters can be found on page 19
of this report.
Principle Two: Division of Responsibilities
An effective Board requires a clear division of responsibilities with the Chair leading the Board and being responsible for its overall
effectiveness, and the executive leadership of the company’s business being delegated to the Chief Executive. The Board should consist of
an appropriate combination of executive and independent Non-Executive Directors each with a clear understanding of their
accountability and responsibilities. The Board’s policies and procedures should support effective decision-making and independent
challenge.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chair and the Chief Executive. The Chair is responsible for leading the Board and its
overall effectiveness, demonstrating objective judgement and promoting a culture of openness and constructive debate between all
Directors. The Chair also facilitates constructive Board relations and the effective contribution of all Non-Executive Directors, and ensures
Directors receive accurate, clear and timely information. The duties of the Board are executed in part through the Board Committees,
which provide oversight and make recommendations on the matters delegated to them by the Board. The Chair of each Board Committee
provides a report on Board Committee business at each Board meeting, including the matters being recommended for Board approval.
Details on the principal Board Committees and their core responsibilities and activities in 2021 are set out in Principles Three to Five on
pages 22 to 26.
Executive Committee
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to the Chief Executive who is supported by the Company’s
Executive Committee. Executive Committee membership includes the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Operations Officer,
Heads of Customer, Channels and Product, Heads of Business Banking and Wealth Management and Investments, and the leaders of
Compliance, Human Resources and Legal. The Executive Committee meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive. The Executive
Committee supports the Chief Executive in ensuring that the values, strategy and culture align, and that those elements are implemented
and communicated consistently to colleagues; for example, through “Ask the Executive Committee” and BUK Stewards events, our Chief
Executive’s weekly vlog, and regular leadership team conferences and roadshows (which have operated in person and virtually
throughout the year, depending on the UK Government guidelines in place at the time) as well as communications that are available to all
colleagues in the Barclays Bank UK Group. Further details are set out on page 10 of the Strategic Report.
home.barclays/annualreport 21 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Decision-making and conflicts of interest
The Board maintains a formal schedule of powers reserved to it in order to ensure that it has control over key decision-making. These
powers include approval of key appointments, strategy, financial statements and any major acquisitions, mergers or disposals. There are
also policies and procedures in place to support effective decision-making and independent challenge, including the Barclays Group’s
Corporate Governance Operating Manual, which clearly sets out how Barclays Group entities and their respective Boards and Board
Committees should interact.
For details of how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in Section 172(1) of the Act when performing their duty to
promote the success of the Company under Section 172, and the effect of those considerations in reaching certain decisions taken by
them, please refer to the Section 172(1) Statement on pages 11 and 12 of the Strategic Report.
In accordance with the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board has authority to authorise conflicts of interest, and this
ensures that the influence of third parties does not compromise or override the independent judgement of the Board. The Company
Secretary maintains a conflicts register, which is a record of actual and potential conflicts, together with any Board authorisation of the
conflict. Throughout the year, the Board has authorised a number of conflicts – following authorisation, these conflicts are monitored in
order to assist the relevant individuals in discharging their duties as a Director.
Principle Three: Composition, Succession and Evaluation
A Board with the right balance of skills, experience and diversity is critical to the sustainable delivery of value to the company’s
shareholder and broader stakeholders. The size of the Board should be guided by the scale and complexity of the company and
appointments should be based on merit and objective criteria and with a view to promoting diversity and subject to a formal, rigorous and
transparent procedure which is underpinned by an effective succession plan for the Board and senior management. A successful Board is
a cohesive Board that provides informed and constructive challenge to the management team and measures its effectiveness.
We continue to consider the composition and size of the Board to be appropriate for a large UK retail bank, although we acknowledge that
there continues to be a relative lack of gender diversity on the Board (in respect of which, see below). This assessment is supported by a
skills matrix (refreshed annually), which helps us to evaluate the experience and skills we have on the Board in order to ensure that there
is the necessary expertise and knowledge to support and challenge management in its execution of the strategy. There is currently a good
balance between the Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors who, together, have a strong combination of financial,
risk, retail and technical skills as well as experience in colleague engagement, customer experience, culture and technology. Overall, the
majority of the Board is considered to be independent. Independence is reviewed annually, using the independence criteria set out in ring-
fencing requirements. The Chair meets privately with the Non-Executive Directors, where appropriate, in order to promote the required
independence.
Board succession planning will remain an area of focus in 2022 in order to ensure that there is the appropriate breadth and depth of talent
on the Board. To the extent that any appointment(s) to the Board are made, such appointment(s) will be based on merit. Objective criteria
are used to ensure that the Board has the necessary knowledge, skills and experience to be effective in the execution of the strategy
whilst recognising the importance of diversity amongst the Directors including, but not limited to, gender, ethnicity, geography and
business experience.
Our ambition, as set out in our Board Diversity Policy, is to ensure that the proportion of women on the Board is at least 33% and that,
once met, this is maintained going forward. With reference to ethnic diversity, the Board’s current target is to ensure that at least one
Board member is a person of colour and that this too is maintained once met. The Board acknowledges that we have not achieved our
gender diversity target this year and this will be a key consideration in future recruitment and succession planning.
Separately, the Board regularly reviews the leadership and succession needs of the business, which helps the Directors to understand the
breadth and depth of talent at Executive Committee level and one level down. There were a number of changes to the Executive
Committee during the year; however, the Board is comfortable that the Executive Committee has the capabilities and strength of
leadership required to support the execution of the strategy against the backdrop of a competitive and challenging operating
environment. Talent and succession both at Executive Committee level and one level down will remain a key focus for 2022 and beyond
in order to ensure that there is the appropriate depth and diversity of talent within the organisation.
Accountability is driven through routine evaluations of the Board and Board Committees. During the year, the Board, in conjunction with
the Board Nominations Committee, reviewed its progress against the recommendations arising from the internal Board evaluation
undertaken in 2020, and was pleased with the progress made. In 2021, an external evaluation of the Board and an internal evaluation of
the Board Committees and Non-Executive Directors (including the Chair) was carried out in relation to activity throughout the year. Key
findings are summarised on page 23.
Board Nominations Committee
The Board Nominations Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 19).
Meetings are attended by the Chief Executive and the Human Resources Director, at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
home.barclays/annualreport 22 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Skills and Diversity - to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity for the Board and more broadly across
the senior management of the business
▪ Director Appointments - to identify, and recommend to the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and Board
Committees
▪ Director Independence - to consider and assess the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including recommendations
for any steps to manage actual or potential conflicts of interest
▪ Board Performance - to assess the performance of the Non-Executive Directors and their annual time requirements
▪ Board Evaluation - to consider any actions from the Board and Board Committee evaluation process that relate to the
composition of the Board or Board Committees and, in conjunction with the Board, review the Board’s progress against the
recommendations arising from the evaluation process
• Board Development – to lead the development and effective implementation of policies and procedures for the induction, training
and professional development of all members of the Board
• Talent - to oversee the adoption of internal policies and talent progression for senior management
During 2021, the Committee’s principal activities were:
• Reviewing the Board’s composition – including skills and experience of Board members, time commitments and the
independence of the Non-Executive Directors (excluding the Chair)
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s own composition in light of the resignation of one of its members
▪ On a bi-annual basis, reviewing the Company’s talent and succession plans at Executive Committee level and one level down
▪ Reviewing and monitoring the Board’s progress against the Board Diversity Policy
▪ On behalf of the Board, reviewing and monitoring the Company’s progress against its diversity and inclusion agenda, including
instigating a Board briefing session on diversity and inclusion at which the Barclays Group Chief Diversity Officer presented, and
initiatives such as the Race at Work Action Plan
▪ Reviewing the results of the 2021 external Board evaluation and the internal Board Committee and Non-Executive Director
evaluations. For more information on these evaluations, see below
▪ Overseeing the management of any Non-Executive Director conflicts of interest and the conflicts of interest management
procedures
A full external evaluation of the Board was carried out during the fourth quarter of 2021. CSA – which is an independent, external
corporate governance advisory firm with no other connection to the Barclays Group or any individual Director (save as disclosed in the
Barclays PLC 2021 Annual Report) – was chosen to facilitate the evaluation. The Board considered CSA’s independence prior to the firm’s
appointment and were confident that, notwithstanding that CSA and CSA’s Managing Director, Christopher Saul, had previously advised
Barclays, CSA would not be constrained in its ability to express an independent view. CSA carried out interviews with the Directors to
obtain feedback on the effectiveness of the Board throughout 2021, and also attended Board and Board Committee meetings. CSA issued
its final report to the Board on the findings of the evaluation in January 2022 – the overall conclusion is that the Board is operating
effectively. CSA considered the Board to have a strong collegiate culture in which all members contribute to discussions and offer
constructive challenge. Significant progress has been made to enhance effectiveness in the last year, in particular by strengthening Board
and Board Committee focus; however, there is always more that can be done. With this in mind, recommendations in respect of certain
matters highlighted in CSA’s report (including further simplification of Board papers, ensuring a continued two-way dialogue between the
Board and the Barclays Board, and developing more opportunities for those at Executive Committee level and one level down to interact
with the Non-Executive Directors) are being progressed.
The internal reviews of the Board Committees and the Non-Executive Directors also concluded that they are operating effectively and
meeting their required responsibilities.
In February 2022, following the resignation of David Thorburn - who is to join, subject to regulatory approval, the Coventry Building
Society in April 2022 as Chairman Designate - the Committee approved Andrew Ratcliffe taking on the role of Chair of the Board Risk
Committee alongside his existing role as Chair of the Board Audit Committee on an interim basis pending a permanent candidate being
identified. Andrew is a long-standing member of the Board Risk Committee with significant financial services experience and detailed
knowledge on risk management matters.
Principle Four: Audit, Risk and Internal Control
The Board should establish formal and transparent policies and procedures to: (i) identify the nature and extent of principal risks the
company is willing to take in order to achieve its long-term strategic objectives; (ii) manage such risks effectively; (iii) oversee the internal
control framework; (iv) promote the independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions; and (v) satisfy itself on the
integrity of financial reporting.
The Company is committed to operating within a strong system of internal control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken
without exposure to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage. The Principal Risks facing the Barclays Bank UK Group have
been identified and robust processes are in place to evaluate and manage such risks including regular reporting to, and oversight by, the
Board Risk Committee and the Board. A key component of the risk management framework is the ERMF which supports the business in
its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture. The ERMF is designed to identify and set minimum
requirements, in respect of the main risks, to achieve the Barclays Bank UK Group strategic objectives and to provide reasonable
assurance that internal controls are effective. Further detail on the Principal Risks and management of them can be found on page 6 of
the Strategic Report.
home.barclays/annualreport 23 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that management maintains an effective system of risk management and internal control
and for assessing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. Having
said that, the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board Risk Committee and the
Board Audit Committee. Details of the role, responsibilities and activities of both Committees are set out below.
The Board receives regular reports on risk matters, including reputational risk matters, in order to ensure sufficient focus around strategic
and emerging risks, including those arising from within the broader Barclays Group, which may impact the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Oversight of conduct risk and compliance remains within the remit of the Board Risk Committee, as detailed below.
Board Audit Committee
The Board Audit Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 19).
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management and others, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial
Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Controls Officer, General Counsel, the Company’s
statutory auditor and, where requested, Non-Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee who wish to further their
knowledge and understanding on audit matters. The Board, together with the Board Audit Committee, is responsible for ensuring the
independence and effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions. For this reason, Committee members met regularly with both
the Chief Internal Auditor and the Senior Statutory Auditor without management present.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing financial reporting processes, reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, considering
whistleblowing arrangements and overseeing the work of the internal auditor and the statutory auditor. Throughout the year ended
31 December 2021 and to date, a comprehensive internal control framework has been in place within the Barclays Bank UK Group that
provides reasonable assurance of effective operations covering all controls, including financial and operational controls and compliance
with laws and regulations. The Committee receives a quarterly report on the framework’s operation (and its continued enhancements).
This includes reports from the internal and external audit functions and the Chief Controls Officer, as well as related plans and
management actions to remediate control recommendations raised in those reports.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Financial Reporting - assessing the integrity of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements and examining any significant
reporting issues and judgements made
▪ Internal Controls - examining the operation and effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s system of internal controls
▪ Internal Audit - monitoring and examining the operation, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the Internal Audit
function
▪ Regulatory Reporting - reviewing arrangements established by management for compliance with regulatory and financial
reporting, including compliance with the ring-fencing requirements
▪ External Audit - reviewing and monitoring the statutory auditor’s independence, objectivity and effectiveness, including oversight
of the regulatory developments within the delivery of audit services
▪ Whistleblowing - reviewing the integrity, independence and effectiveness of Barclays Bank UK Group’s well-established policies
and procedures on whistleblowing
▪ Material Legal Matters - oversight of significant contentious and non-contentious matters, together with current or emerging
legal risks
During 2021, the principal activities of the Committee were:
• Examining the Barclays Bank UK Group’s full year and half year financial statements and recommending their approval to the
Board
• Examining the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Q1 and Q3 2021 results for incorporation into Barclays PLC’s Q1 and Q3 2021 results
• Assessing the appropriateness of key management judgements, including consideration of material conduct and litigation
provisions (including collections and recoveries, and other material items) and accounting policy judgements (including expected
credit losses, impairment and recoverability of goodwill)
• Receiving reports from the General Counsel on litigation matters pertinent to accounting provisions
• Receiving reports from the Chief Controls Officer on the internal controls framework and its effectiveness
• Overseeing the statutory auditor’s independence and objectivity and contributing to the Barclays Group’s auditor effectiveness
exercise, including receiving findings from the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) on written auditor reporting and the
Financial Reporting Council on their Audit Quality Review
• Overseeing the performance of the Internal Audit function, including an internal quality assurance assessment and approving the
2022 audit plan
• Receiving reports from management on certain areas of the business where reports from the Internal Audit function had
recommended improvements to existing controls (for example: controls underpinning procedures with customers, and ongoing
remediation programmes) or on areas of new risks (for example: the impact on the control environment of plans to automate
and digitalise Chief Operations Office processes, and the data risk mitigation programme)
• Overseeing the implications of remote working, and future ways of working, on the control environment
• Monitoring management progress on the embedding of a Risk Control Self-Assessment framework
• Reviewing and re-adopting the refreshed Barclays Group specific policy on the provision of non-audit services by the statutory
auditor
• Monitoring the whistleblowing programme, including receiving regular whistleblowing metrics as they relate to the Barclays Bank
UK Group, and ensuring that the procedures for protection from detrimental treatment of staff who raise concerns continue to be
effective
home.barclays/annualreport 24 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
• Receiving updates on financial crime activity that impacted the Barclays Bank UK Group in 2021, including overseeing the
Company’s Money Laundering Reporting Officer’s report
• Receiving the Company’s Data Protection Officer’s report
• Considering future internal control needs
• Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
Board Risk Committee
The Board Risk Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 19). As referenced on page 23, Andrew Ratcliffe
assumed, on an interim basis, the role of Chair of the Board Risk Committee in February 2022 following David Thorburn’s resignation.
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management, including the Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer, Chief
Compliance Officer, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Internal Auditor, the Company’s statutory auditor and, where
requested, Non-Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee who wish to further their knowledge and understanding on
risk matters.
The Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk exposures
examining reports covering the Principal Risks including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or
liquidity, as well as reports on risk measurement methodologies and risk appetite.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Risk Appetite and Risk Profile – reviewing and ensuring that the risks undertaken by the business are within the risk appetite of
the Company, as set by the Board
▪ Risk Limits – reviewing and adopting risk limits and mandates for financial and non-financial risk, monitoring the risk profile and
receiving and considering reports on key risk issues (including emerging risks)
▪ Regulatory – reviewing and monitoring the Company’s capital and liquidity position including considering both the existing and
forecasted Company risk profile and the potential impact of stress
▪ Internal Control and Risk Control – monitoring the Internal Control and Risk Control framework
▪ Credit Risk – reviewing credit risk performance (including concentration of credit risk and expected credit losses)
▪ Conduct Risk – reviewing the effectiveness of the management of conduct risk, seeking to ensure fair customer outcomes
following the implementation of policies and reviewing the effectiveness of the Conduct Risk Management Framework, as it
applies to the Company and its subsidiaries
▪ Risk Culture – monitoring to ensure a robust risk culture (relating to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management)
▪ Ring-fencing – reviewing the ring-fencing requirements (including attestation and ongoing compliance requirements)
During 2021, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Recommending to the Board the adoption of qualitative and quantitative Risk Appetite Statements
▪ Reviewing and adopting the relevant Barclays Group policies, including the ERMF and the associated framework Company
addenda as well as the Conduct Risk Management Framework
▪ Reviewing regular financial and non-financial risk reporting on each of the Principal Risks (detailed on page 6 of the Strategic
Report), overseeing the introduction of climate risk as a new Principal Risk (including receiving an introduction to the Climate
Principal Risk Framework), and reviewing emerging risks
▪ Reviewing scenario analysis through detailed quantitative and qualitative risk assessments of particular portfolios and activity (for
example, assessments on the impact of flooding and subsidence on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Mortgage portfolio) to assess
and quantify the impact from climate change
▪ Adopting the 2021 Limits and Mandates and monitoring the risk profile in accordance with the same
▪ Ongoing review of the key risks associated with the UK Government support schemes for businesses, including the Bounce Back
Loan Scheme and the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme
▪ Reviewing conduct risk and overseeing the execution of conduct remediation programmes
▪ Monitoring compliance with key portfolio metrics, including the use of Chief Risk Officer discretion
▪ Overseeing risk resources and the independence of the Risk and Compliance functions
▪ Reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the Barclays Bank UK Group elements of the Barclays Group Recovery
and Resolution Plan and Resolvability Assessment Framework
▪ Reviewing the risks identified by the findings of internal audits
▪ Monitoring liquidity and capital levels and considering and recommending for Board approval the Company sections of the
Barclays Group 2021 ICAAP and ILAAP
▪ Reviewing and approving the Barclays Bank UK Group’s stress testing scenarios and results
▪ Reviewing the second line of defence and Legal function elements of the internal assurance plan to support the execution of the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, which includes third party complementary assurance
▪ Reviewing in detail the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to climate change as part of the work the Barclays Group is doing to
take a leading role in contributing to the transition to a low-carbon economy
▪ Reviewing the risks associated with Financial Crime controls, the external environment, Model Risk and public cloud migration
▪ Considering regular reports on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational resilience
▪ Reviewing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ring-fencing compliance
▪ Reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
home.barclays/annualreport 25 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Principle Five: Remuneration
The remuneration policies and practices should support strategy and promote long-term sustainable success, and be developed in
accordance with formal and transparent procedures, ensuring no Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration outcome.
Executive remuneration should be aligned to the company’s purpose and values and the successful delivery of the strategy; with
outcomes taking account of company and individual performance, and wider circumstances such as pay across the company’s
workforce and Barclays’ Fair Pay agenda.
The Barclays Group’s Remuneration Policy is set by the Barclays Group Remuneration Committee. This policy is reviewed and adopted by
the independent Board Remuneration Committee. The policy ensures that remuneration is aligned to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy and risk management approach and designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The approach to executive and senior management remuneration is set by the Barclays Group’s formal procedures on remuneration
(these procedures ensure that no individual is involved in deciding their own remuneration). Additionally, remuneration is considered in
relation to wider workforce remuneration policies and alignment of incentives and rewards with culture and performance is reviewed
annually by the Barclays Group Remuneration Committee.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to paying people fairly, with regards to their specific role, seniority, responsibilities, skills and
experience and other factors which properly affect pay, with regards to their specific role, seniority, responsibilities, skills and experience
and other factors which properly affect pay, in a way that balances the needs of all the Barclays Bank UK Group’s stakeholders. You can
find more information in Barclays’ 2021 Fair Pay Report.
The Company remains focused on closing its gender and ethnicity pay gaps, where they exist. You can find more information on our UK-
wide gender and ethnicity pay gaps for the year in the Barclays UK Pay Gaps disclosure.
Board Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors (see page 19), one of whom - Kathryn Matthews - joined the Committee
in July 2021 on Sir John Timpson’s resignation. As per the usual process when a Director joins a Board Committee, Kathryn participated in
an induction programme which was focused on the operation of the Committee and tailored to her prior experience and knowledge.
At the invitation of the Committee Chair, meetings are attended by management, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer,
Chief Risk Officer, the Human Resources Director and the Head of Reward.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
▪ Remuneration Policy – to review, adopt and recommend for Board approval, the Barclays Group’s Remuneration Policy (set by the
Barclays Group Remuneration Committee)
• Remuneration Approach – to review and approve the remuneration approach developed for the Company, which complies with
the Barclays Group’s Remuneration Policy thereby ensuring such policy is aligned with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy and
risk management protocols and that incentives do not encourage risk taking, beyond the tolerated risk of the Company, or
undermine its ability to comply with ring-fencing requirements
• Overall Pay Structure – to have oversight for overall pay and benefits across the Barclays Bank UK Group
• Incentive Pay – to consider the annual incentive pool and individual remuneration proposals for senior colleagues and the
assessment of incentives to be delivered to the wider workforce. This includes considering ex-ante (current and future) and ex-
post (crystallised) risk adjustments to remuneration
During 2021, the principal activities of the Committee were:
▪ Considering stakeholder, regulatory and legal updates and ensuring that remuneration procedures and outcomes comply with
regulatory requirements and that incentives do not encourage inappropriate risk taking
▪ Reviewing and approving, for recommendation to the Barclays Group Remuneration Committee, where appropriate, the
remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior employees
▪ Reviewing and approving the methodology, framework and proposals for the 2021 remuneration review, including the incentive
funding framework and incentive pool outcome
▪ Considering financial and risk performance updates (including appropriateness of risk adjustments to incentives)
▪ Receiving updates on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s remuneration initiatives and developments, including fair pay
▪ Overseeing reward and recognition across the entire workforce to ensure alignment with our desired culture and behaviours,
including the launch of the new “Recognition at Barclays” platform
▪ Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness
home.barclays/annualreport 26 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance Report
Corporate Governance Statement
Principle Six: Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement
Directors should foster effective stakeholder relationships aligned to the company’s purpose. The Board should recognise the importance
of listening to, and understanding the views of its stakeholders, including the workforce, and specifically the impact of the company’s
behaviour and business on customers and clients, colleagues, suppliers, communities and society more broadly, having regard to these
views and impact when taking decisions.
As set out under Principle One, the Board’s role involves articulating a clear vision for the Company based on Barclays’ Purpose, Values
and Mindset and establishing a strategy for both the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group. Through this, the Board has identified
key stakeholders on whom the success of the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group depends. The Board seeks to understand key
stakeholders’ views, and the impact of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s behaviour and business on them.
Customers and clients
Customers and clients are at the heart of the decisions we make. In 2021, the Barclays Bank UK Group engaged with customers and
clients in a wide variety of ways, including by analysing customer complaints and via customer feedback and key customer metrics that
have been shared with the Board by management through regular reporting. The Board also heard directly from customers and clients
during a number of this year’s deep dives, which provided invaluable insight into the continuing significant shift towards digital adoption
and the demand for digital financial services to meet day-to-day needs.
Colleagues
Details of our colleague engagement model can be found on page 10 of the Strategic Report – the model ensures effective and timely
engagement with our colleagues, placing equal emphasis on listening (so that the Board can take colleagues’ views into account when
making decisions likely to affect their interests) and keeping colleagues informed.
In the spirit of keeping colleagues abreast of changes to our businesses, there have been a number of events throughout the year –
including our Chief Executive’s weekly vlog and roadshows – to update colleagues on the evolution of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy. The Board has overseen colleague engagement in connection with the proposed simplification of our products and services via
the Here to Listen and Your View surveys, with the Directors hearing directly from colleagues when observing Employee Resource Group
meetings, reverse mentoring, and visiting branches, Eagle Labs and operational sites (when COVID-19 rules permitted). There were also
colleague voices in the boardroom, giving their perspectives on elements of the customer strategy, operating model and talent
development programmes.
This year’s Board immersion programme included a range of activities that could be carried out in person or virtually so allowing the
Board to maintain a strong connection to colleagues in spite of the changing health and safety landscape throughout 2021.
Suppliers
For information on our engagement with suppliers, please see page 29 of the Directors’ Report.
Communities and society
The Barclays Bank UK Group continues to play an important role in local communities; a role that goes beyond our physical footprint, as
the Board learned when it participated in a briefing session focused on citizenship, societal purpose and sustainability with colleagues and
external partners. In light of this, the Board programme included updates on access to cash and access to banking and increasing the
range of more flexible options available to our customers and clients, with the focus of the Directors’ discussions being on the importance
of direct community engagement and the need for alternative touchpoints such as banking pop-ups in community spaces and the
introduction of mobile banking vans.
The Board is acutely aware of increasing customer and client expectations on climate and sustainability therefore, over the last year, the
Directors have engaged with the Barclays Group and the Executive Committee in order to gain a more granular understanding of the
progress that has been made to date in relation to the Barclays Group’s climate strategy, and future focus areas.
The Board is looking forward to continuing to engage on these very important topics during 2022 and beyond.
For more information about the Barclays Bank UK Group’s key stakeholders, how management and/or the Directors engaged with them,
the key issues raised and actions taken, please refer to the Section 172(1) Statement on pages 11 to 12 of the Strategic Report and pages
16 to 19 of the Barclays PLC 2021 Annual Report.
home.barclays/annualreport 27 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Directors’ Report
The Directors present their report together with the audited accounts for the Company for the year ended 31 December 2021.
Section 414A of the Act requires the Directors to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report. The information can be found on pages 2
to 12.
The Company has addressed the Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Act through the
disclosure contained on pages 49 to 50 of the Barclays PLC 2021 Annual Report. In addition, the Company has chosen, in accordance with
section 414C(11) of the Act and as noted in this Directors’ Report, to include certain matters in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be
disclosed in this Directors’ Report. Such information is incorporated by reference into this report.
The particulars of important events affecting the Company since 31 December 2021 can be found in the notes to the financial statements.
An indication of likely future developments can be found in the Strategic Report.
Other information that is relevant to the Directors’ Report, and which is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located at:
Page
49
Climate change
13 to 15
Environment, Social and Governance Report
17 to 27
Chair’s introduction and Governance Report
7 to 8
Performance measures
5 to 6
Managing risk
6
Principal Risks
Disclosures required pursuant to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008 (2008 Regs) as updated by the 2018 Regs can be found on the following pages:
10
Engagement with employees (Sch.7 Para 11 and 11A 2008/2018 Regs)
9
Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons (Sch.7 Para 10 2008 Regs)
160 to 177
Financial Instruments (Sch.7 Para 6 2008 Regs)
Hedge accounting policy (Sch.7 Para 6 2008 Regs) 161 to 162
Profits and dividends
The results of the Barclays Bank UK Group show statutory profit after tax of £1,869m (2020: £379m). The Barclays Bank UK Group had net
assets of £17,400m at 31 December 2021 (2020: £17,027m).
The Company will pay a £1,010m dividend to its parent, Barclays PLC. Further details on dividends on ordinary shares paid in 2021 are set
out in Note 10 to the financial statements.
Share capital
There was no increase in ordinary share capital during the year. Barclays PLC owns 100% of the issued ordinary shares. There are no
restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or agreements between holders of ordinary shares known to the Company, which may result
in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or voting rights. Further information on the Company’s share capital can be found in Note
26 to the financial statements.
Powers of Directors to issue or buy back the Company’s shares
The powers of the Directors are determined by the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association. No shares were repurchased in 2021.
Directors
The list of current Directors of the Company can be found in the Governance Report on page 19. Changes to Directors during the year and
up to the date of signing this report are set out below.
Name Role Effective date of appointment / resignation
Sir John Timpson Non-Executive Director Resigned 8 July 2021
David Thorburn Non-Executive Director Resigned 3 February 2022
home.barclays/annualreport 28 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Governance
Directors’ Report
Disclosure of information to the auditor
Each Director confirms that, so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware
and that each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information. This confirmation is given pursuant to
section 418 of the Act and should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to those provisions.
Directors’ responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditor’s report set out on pages 125 to 133, is made with a view to
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditor in relation to the financial statements.
Going concern
In preparing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements, the Directors are required to:
▪ assess the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern;
and
▪ use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Barclays Bank UK Group or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s business activities, financial position, capital, factors likely to affect its future development and performance
and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed are discussed in the Strategic Report and Risk
Management sections.
The Directors have evaluated these risks in the preparation of the financial statements and consider it appropriate to prepare the financial
statements on a going concern basis.
Preparation of accounts
The Directors are required by the Act to prepare the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group accounts for each financial year and, with
regard to Barclays Bank UK Group accounts, in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. The Directors have
prepared these accounts in accordance with (a) UK-adopted international accounting standards; and (b) International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), including interpretations issued by the IFRS
Interpretations Committee. Pursuant to the Act, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Barclays Bank UK Group and the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 134 to 205, the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company have
used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they
consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, provide the information necessary for its
shareholder to assess the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
Directors are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group keep accounting records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance Statement in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and financial statements as they appear on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.
The Directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
home.barclays/annualreport 30 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk management
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk management strategy
This section introduces Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to managing and identifying risks, and for fostering a strong risk culture.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)
The ERMF outlines the highest level principles for risk management by setting out standards, objectives and key responsibilities of different
groups of employees the Barclays Bank UK Group. It is approved by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board on recommendation of the Barclays
Bank UK Group Board Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO); it is then adopted by the Barclays Bank UK
Group with modifications where needed.
The ERMF sets out:
▪ Principal risks faced by the Barclays Bank UK Group which guides the organisation of the risk management function
▪ Risk appetite requirements: This helps define the level of risk we are willing to undertake in our business
▪ Risk Management and Segregation of duties: The ERMF defines a Three Lines of Defence model
▪ Roles and responsibilities for risk management and governance structure
The ERMF is complemented by frameworks, policies and standards that are mainly aligned to individual principal risks:
▪ Frameworks cover the management processes for a collection of related activities and define the associated policies used to govern them
▪ Policies set out principles, control objectives and other core requirements for the activities of the Barclays Bank UK Group. Policies
describe “what” must be done
▪ Standards set out the key control requirements that describe how the requirements set out in the policy are met.
Segregation of duties - the "Three Lines of Defence" model
The ERMF sets out a clear lines of defence model. All colleagues are responsible for understanding and managing risks within the context
of their individual roles and responsibilities, as set out below:
▪ The First line comprises of all employees engaged in the revenue generating and client facing areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group and all
associated support functions, including Finance, Operations, Treasury, and Human Resources etc. The first line is responsible for
identifying and managing the risks in which they are engaged in, developing a control framework, and escalating risk events to Risk and
Compliance.
▪ The Second line is comprised of the Risk and Compliance functions. The role of the second line is to establish the limits, rules and
constraints, policies and standards under which first line activities shall be performed, consistent with the risk appetite of the Barclays
Bank UK Group, and to monitor the performance of the first line against these limits and constraints. Controls for first line activities,
especially those related to operational risk, will ordinarily be established by the control officers operating within the control framework of
the firm. These will remain subject to supervision by the second line;
▪ The Third line of defence is Internal Audit, who are responsible for providing independent assurance over the effectiveness of
governance, risk management and control over current, systemic and evolving risks;
▪ The Legal function provides support to all areas of the bank and is not formally part of any of the three lines, However, it is subject to
second line oversight with respect to operational and conduct risks.
Principal risks
The ERMF identifies nine principal risks (see managing risk in the strategic report section) namely: credit risk, market risk, treasury and
capital risk, climate risk, operational risk, model risk, conduct risk, reputation risk and legal risk. Note that climate risk was added in January
2022; see page 49 for more information.
Each of the principal risks is overseen by an accountable executive within the Barclays Group who is responsible for the framework, policies
and standards that set out associated responsibilities and expectations, and detail the related requirements around risk management. In
addition, certain risks span more across than one principal risk.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk which the Barclays Group is prepared to accept in the conduct of their activities. It provides a
basis for ongoing dialogue between management and Board with respect to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s current and evolving risk profile,
allowing strategic and financial decisions to be made on an informed basis. Risk appetite is approved by the Barclays PLC Board in
aggregate and disseminated across legal entities and businesses, including the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK Board
cannot approve a higher risk appetite than that determined by the Group Board without the approval of the Group Board but may choose
to operate at a lower level of risk appetite than that approved by the Barclays Group. The Barclays Group total risk appetite and its
allocation to the Barclays Bank UK Group are supported by limits to enable and control specific exposures and activities that have material
concentration risk implications.
Risk committees
The Barclays Bank UK Group product/risk type committees consider risk matters relevant to their business, and escalate as required to the
Barclays UK Risk Committee, whose Chairman, in turn, escalates to the Barclays Group Risk Committee, Barclays Bank UK PLC Board
Committees and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
home.barclays/annualreport 35 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
▪ a widening of credit spreads more generally or reduced investor appetite for Barclays Bank UK PLC’s debt securities, which could
negatively impact Barclays Bank UK PLC’s cost of and/or access to funding
iii) The impact of interest rate changes on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s profitability
Changes to the Bank of England base interest rate are significant for the Barclays Bank UK Group, especially given the uncertainty as to the
direction of interest rates and the pace at which they may change.
A period of low interest rates and flat yield curves, including any rate cuts and/or negative interest rates, may affect and put pressure on
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s net interest margins (the difference between its lending income and borrowing costs) and could adversely
affect the profitability and prospects of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Interest rate rises could positively impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s profitability as income increases due to margin decompression.
However, further increases in interest rates, if larger or more frequent than expected, could lead to generally weaker than expected growth,
reduced business confidence and higher unemployment. This, combined with the impact interest rate rises may have on the affordability of
loan arrangements for borrowers, could cause stress in the lending portfolio with resultant higher credit losses driving an increased
impairment charge which would most notably impact retail unsecured portfolios and could have a material effect on the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
In addition, changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the value of the securities held in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s liquid
asset portfolio. Consequently, this could create more volatility than expected through the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Fair Value through
Other Comprehensive Income (FVOCI) reserve.
iv) Competition in the banking and financial services industry
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates in a highly competitive environment in which it must evolve and adapt to the significant changes as a
result of financial regulatory reform, technological advances, increased public scrutiny and prevailing economic conditions. The Barclays
Bank UK Group expects that competition in the financial services industry will continue to be intense and may have a material adverse
effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s future business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
New competitors in the financial services industry continue to emerge. Technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made
it possible for non-banks to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products such as electronic securities trading,
payments processing and online automated algorithmic-based investment advice. Furthermore, payments processing and other services
could be significantly disrupted by technologies, such as blockchain (used in cryptocurrency systems) and “buy now pay later” lending,
both of which are currently subject to lower levels of regulatory oversight. Furthermore, the introduction of Central Bank Digital Currencies
could potentially have significant impacts on the banking system and the role of commercial banks within it by disrupting the current
provision of banking products and services. It could allow new competitors, some previously hindered by banking regulation (such as
FinTechs), to provide customers with access to banking facilities and increase disintermediation of banking services.
New technologies have required and could require the Barclays Bank UK Group to spend more to modify or adapt its products or make
additional capital investments in its businesses to attract and retain clients and customers or to match products and services offered by its
competitors, including technology companies.
Ongoing or increased competition and/or disintermediation of banking services may put pressure on the pricing for the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s products and services, which could reduce the Barclays Bank UK Group's revenues and profitability, or may cause the Barclays
Bank UK Group to lose market share, particularly with respect to traditional banking products such as deposits, bank accounts and
mortgage lending. This competition may be on the basis of quality and variety of products and services offered, transaction execution,
innovation, reputation and price. The failure of any of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses to meet the expectations of clients and
customers, whether due to general market conditions, under-performance, a decision not to offer a particular product or service, changes
in client and customer expectations or other factors, could affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to attract or retain clients and
customers. Any such impact could, in turn, reduce the Barclays Bank UK Group’s revenues.
v) Regulatory change agenda and impact on business model
The Barclays Bank UK Group remains subject to ongoing significant levels of regulatory change and scrutiny. As a result, regulatory risk will
remain a focus for senior management. Furthermore, a more intensive regulatory approach and enhanced requirements may adversely
affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, capital and risk management strategies and/or may result in the Barclays Bank UK Group
deciding to modify its legal entity, capital and funding structures and business mix, or to exit certain business activities altogether or not to
expand in areas despite otherwise attractive potential.
There are several significant pieces of legislation and areas of focus which will require considerable management attention, cost and
resource, including:
▪ Changes in prudential requirements may impact minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) (including
requirements for internal MREL), leverage, liquidity or funding requirements, applicable buffers and/or add-ons to such minimum
requirements and risk weighted assets calculation methodologies all as may be set by international, EU or national authorities. This
includes the upcoming implementation of the remaining Basel III reforms, as well as the expected incorporation of risks associated with
climate change into the prudential framework and increased scrutiny of firms’ governance and risk management frameworks
(including in respect of climate change and ESG risks). Such or similar changes to prudential requirements or additional supervisory
home.barclays/annualreport 39 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
issued by them) because certain alternative RFRs (such as the Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) and the Secured Overnight
Financing Rate (SOFR)) are look-back rates whereas term rates (such as LIBOR) allow borrowers to calculate at the start of any interest
period exactly how much is payable at the end of such interest period. This may have an adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s cash flows.
▪ Operational risk: changes to existing reference rates and indices, discontinuation of any reference rate or index and transition to
alternative RFRs may require changes to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IT systems, trade reporting infrastructure, operational
processes, and controls. In addition, if any reference rate or index (such as LIBOR) is no longer available to calculate amounts payable,
the Barclays Bank UK Group may incur additional expenses in amending documentation for new and existing transactions and/or
effecting the transition from the original reference rate or index to a new reference rate or index.
▪ Accounting risk: an inability to apply hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 could lead to increased volatility in the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s financial results and performance.
Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial
condition, prospects and reputation.
For further details on the impacts of benchmark interest rate reforms on the Barclays Bank UK Group, refer to Note 35.
vii) Change delivery and execution risks
The Barclays Bank UK Group will need to adapt and/or transform the way it conducts business in response to changing customer
behaviour and needs, technological developments, regulatory expectations, increased competition and cost management initiatives.
Accordingly, effective management of transformation projects is required to successfully deliver the Barclays Bank UK Group's strategic
priorities, involving delivering both on externally driven programmes, as well as key business initiatives to deliver revenue growth, product
enhancement and operational efficiency outcomes. The magnitude, complexity and, at times, concurrent demands of the projects required
to meet these priorities can result in heightened execution risk.
The ability to execute the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy may be limited by operational capacity and the increasing complexity of the
regulatory environment in which the Barclays Bank UK Group operates. In addition, whilst the Barclays Bank UK Group continues to pursue
cost management initiatives, they may not be as effective as expected and cost saving targets may not be met.
The failure to successfully deliver or achieve any of the expected benefits of these strategic initiatives and/or the failure to meet customer
and stakeholder expectations could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations,
financial condition, customer outcomes, prospects and reputation.
Material existing and emerging risks impacting individual principal risks
i) Climate risk
The risks associated with climate change are subject to rapidly increasing societal, regulatory and political focus, both in the UK and
internationally. Embedding climate risk into the Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk framework in line with regulatory expectations and
requirements, and adapting the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations and strategy to address the financial risks resulting from both: (i) the
physical risk of climate change; and (ii) the risk from the transition to a low-carbon economy, could have a significant impact on the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s customers and
clients and the creditworthiness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s counterparties.
Physical risks from climate change arise from a number of factors and relate to specific weather events and longer-term shifts in the
climate. The nature and timing of extreme weather events are uncertain but they are increasing in frequency and their impact on the
economy is predicted to be more acute in the future. The potential impact on the economy includes, but is not limited to, lower GDP
growth, higher unemployment and significant changes in asset prices and profitability of industries. Damage to properties and operations
of borrowers could impair asset values and the creditworthiness of customers leading to increased default rates, delinquencies, write-offs
and impairment charges in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolios. In addition, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s premises and resilience may
also suffer physical damage due to weather events leading to increased costs for the Barclays Bank UK Group.
As the economy transitions to a low-carbon economy, financial institutions such as the Barclays Bank UK Group may face significant and
rapid developments in stakeholder expectations, policy, law and regulation which could impact the lending activities the Barclays Bank UK
Group undertakes, as well as the risks associated with its lending portfolios and the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets. As
sentiment towards climate change shifts and societal preferences change, the Barclays Bank UK Group may face greater scrutiny of the
type of business it conducts, adverse media coverage and reputational damage, which may in turn impact customer demand for the
Barclays Bank UK Group's products, returns on certain business activities and the value of certain assets resulting in impairment charges.
In addition, the impacts of physical and transition climate risks can lead to second order connected risks, which have the potential to affect
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s retail and wholesale portfolios. The impacts of climate change may increase losses for those sectors sensitive
to the effects of physical and transition risks. For example, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s UK mortgage and agriculture portfolios are
particularly exposed to both the physical and transition risks of climate change. The mortgage portfolio is affected by the risks of flooding,
subsidence and energy efficiency performance requirements, all of which may impact property valuations, whilst the agriculture portfolio is
exposed to flooding and drought, as well as the potential for legislative changes and changes in consumer behaviour. Furthermore, any
home.barclays/annualreport 41 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
subsequent increase in defaults and rising unemployment could create recessionary pressures, which may lead to wider deterioration in the
creditworthiness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients, higher ECLs, and increased charge-offs and defaults among retail customers.
With effect from 1 January 2022, climate risk became one of the principal risks within the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Enterprise Risk
Management Framework. Failure to adequately embed risks associated with climate change into its risk framework to appropriately
measure, manage and disclose the various financial and operational risks it faces as a result of climate change or failure to adapt the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy and business model to the changing regulatory requirements and market expectations on a timely basis,
may have a material and adverse impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s level of business growth, competitiveness, profitability, capital
requirements, cost of funding, and financial condition.
In March 2020, the Barclays Group announced its ambition to become a net zero bank by 2050 and its commitment to align all of its
financing activities with the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement. In order to reach these ambitions and targets or any other climate-
related ambitions or targets the Barclays Group may commit to in future, the Barclays Bank UK Group will need to incorporate climate
considerations into its strategy, business model, the products and services it provides to customers and its financial and non-financial risk
management processes (including processes to measure and manage the various financial and non-financial risks the Barclays Bank UK
Group faces as a result of climate change). The Barclays Bank UK Group also needs to ensure that its strategy and business model adapt to
changing standards, industry and scientific practices, regulatory requirements and market expectations regarding climate change, which
remain under continuous development and are subject to different interpretations. There can be no assurance that these standards,
practices, requirements and expectations will not be interpreted differently than what was the Barclays Group’s understanding when
defining its climate-related ambitions and targets, or change in a manner that substantially increases the cost or effort for the Barclays
Bank UK Group to achieve such ambitions and targets. In addition, the Barclays Group’s ambitions and targets may prove to be
considerably more difficult or even impossible to achieve under such changing circumstances. This may be exacerbated if the Barclays
Group chooses or is required to accelerate its climate-related ambitions or targets as a result of (among other things) regulatory
developments or stakeholder expectations.
Achieving the Barclays Group’s climate-related ambitions and targets will also depend on a number of factors outside the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s control, including (among other things) availability of data to measure and assess the climate impact of the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s customers, advancements of low-carbon technologies and supportive public policies in the markets where the Barclays Bank UK
Group operates. If these external factors and other changes do not occur, or do not occur on a timely basis, the Barclays Group may fail to
achieve its climate-related ambitions and targets and this could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business,
results of operations, financial condition, prospects and reputation.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to climate change, refer to the climate change risk management section.
ii) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to
fully honour their obligations to members of the Barclays Bank UK Group, including the whole and timely payment of principal, interest,
collateral and other receivables.
a) Impairment
Impairment is calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS9 which results in recognition of loss allowances, based on ECLs, on a
forward-looking basis using a broad scope of financial instruments. Measurement involves complex judgement and impairment charges
are potentially volatile, particularly under stressed conditions which could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. For further details, refer to Note 7.
b) Specific sectors and concentrations
The Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality and recovery rates of loans and advances due from
borrowers and counterparties in any specific portfolio. Any deterioration in credit quality could lead to lower recoverability and higher
impairment in a specific sector. The following are areas of uncertainties to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s portfolio which could have a
material impact on performance:
▪ Consumer affordability: this has remained a key area of focus, particularly in unsecured lending. Macroeconomic factors, such as
unemployment, higher interest rates or broader inflationary pressures, that impact a customer’s ability to service debt payments could
lead to increased arrears in both unsecured and secured products.
▪ UK real estate market: UK property represents a significant portion of the overall Barclays Bank UK Group’s retail credit exposure. In
2021, property prices rose, particularly in the residential property market where customers took advantage of temporary changes in
stamp duty rates or sought more space as home working became more prevalent during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, there can
be no assurance that house price growth will continue in 2022. House price growth and fewer new high loan-to-value (LTV)
mortgages in 2020 and the beginning of 2021, have diluted the Barclays Bank UK Group’s high LTV stock to very low levels, but there is
potential for house prices to fall, especially in London and the South East of the UK where the Barclays Bank UK Group has a high
exposure. In addition, small segments of the housing market could be subject to specific valuation impacts (for example, certain
properties within the Barclays Bank Group’s residential loan portfolio may be subject to remediation activities relating to fire safety
standards).
home.barclays/annualreport 42 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
provide services in a timely and fair manner; (iii) handle and protect customer data appropriately; and (iv) undertake appropriate activity to
address customer detriment, including the adherence to regulatory and legal requirements on complaint handling. The Barclays Bank UK
Group is at risk of financial loss and reputational damage as a result.
c) Product design and review risk
Products and services must meet the needs of clients, customers, markets and the Barclays Bank UK Group throughout their life cycle.
However, there is a risk that the design and review of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s products and services fail to reasonably consider and
address potential or actual negative outcomes, which may result in customer detriment, enforcement action (including regulatory fines
and/or sanctions), redress and remediation and reputational damage. Both the design and review of products and services are a key area of
focus for regulators and the Barclays Bank UK Group.
d) Financial crime
The Barclays Bank UK Group may be adversely affected if it fails to effectively mitigate the risk that third parties or its employees facilitate,
or that its products and services are used to facilitate, financial crime (money laundering, terrorist financing, breaches of economic and
financial sanctions, bribery and corruption, and the facilitation of tax evasion). UK and US regulations covering financial institutions
continue to focus on combating financial crime. Failure to comply may lead to enforcement action by the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
regulators, including severe penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, financial
condition and prospects.
e) Regulatory focus on culture and accountability
Regulators around the world continue to emphasise the importance of culture and personal accountability and enforce the adoption of
adequate internal reporting and whistleblowing procedures to help to promote appropriate conduct and drive positive outcomes for
customers, colleagues, clients and markets. The requirements and expectations of the UK Senior Managers Regime, Certification Regime
and Conduct Rules have reinforced additional accountabilities for individuals across the Barclays Bank UK Group with an increased focus on
governance and rigour. Failure to meet these requirements and expectations may lead to regulatory sanctions, both for the individuals and
the Barclays Bank UK Group.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to conduct risk, refer to the conduct risk management and conduct risk
performance sections.
vii)Reputation risk
Reputation risk is the risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision or business relationship will reduce trust in the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s integrity and/or competence.
Any material lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer service or operating efficiency may represent a potential reputation risk.
Stakeholder expectations constantly evolve, and so reputation risk is dynamic and varies between geographical regions, groups and
individuals. A risk arising in one business area can have an adverse effect upon the Barclays Bank UK Group’s overall reputation and any
one transaction, investment or event (in the perception of key stakeholders) can reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and
competence. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s association with sensitive topics and sectors has been, and in some instances continues to be,
an area of concern for stakeholders, including: (i) the financing of, and investments in, businesses which operate in sectors that are
sensitive because of their relative carbon intensity or local environmental impact; (ii) potential association with human rights violations
(including combating modern slavery) in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations or supply chain and by clients and customers; and (iii)
the financing of businesses which manufacture and export military and riot control goods and services.
Reputation risk could also arise from negative public opinion about the actual, or perceived, manner in which the Barclays Bank UK Group
(including its employees, clients and other associations) conducts its business activities, or the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial
performance, as well as actual or perceived practices in banking and the financial services industry generally. Modern technologies, in
particular online social media channels and other broadcast tools that facilitate communication with large audiences in short time frames
and with minimal costs, may significantly enhance and accelerate the distribution and effect of damaging information and allegations.
Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to retain and attract customers, in particular, corporate
and retail depositors, and to retain and motivate staff, and could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business,
results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
In addition to the above, reputation risk has the potential to arise from operational issues or conduct matters which cause detriment to
customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or the Barclays Bank UK Group (refer to ‘iv) Operational risk’ above).
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to reputation risk, refer to the reputation risk management and reputation
risk performance sections.
viii)Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Barclays Bank UK Group conducts activities in a highly regulated market which exposes it and its employees to legal risk arising from:
(i) the multitude of laws and regulations that apply to the businesses it operates, which are highly dynamic, may vary between jurisdictions
and/or conflict, and are often unclear in their application to particular circumstances especially in new and emerging areas; and (ii) the
diversified and evolving nature of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses and business practices. In each case, this exposes the Barclays
home.barclays/annualreport 47 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
Bank UK Group and its employees to the risk of loss or the imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of members of the
Barclays Bank UK Group to meet their respective legal obligations, including legal or contractual requirements. Legal risk may arise in
relation to any number of the material existing and emerging risks identified above.
A breach of applicable legislation and/or regulations by the Barclays Bank UK Group or its employees could result in criminal prosecution,
regulatory censure, potentially significant fines and other sanctions. Where clients, customers or other third parties are harmed by the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s conduct, this may also give rise to civil legal proceedings, including class actions. Other legal disputes may also
arise between the Barclays Bank UK Group and third parties relating to matters such as breaches or enforcement of legal rights or
obligations arising under contracts, statutes or common law. Adverse findings in any such matters may result in the Barclays Bank UK
Group being liable to third parties or may result in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s rights not being enforced as intended.
Details of legal, competition and regulatory matters to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed are set out in Note 24. In
addition to matters specifically described in Note 24, the Barclays Bank UK Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings which arise
in the ordinary course of business. The Barclays Bank UK Group is also subject to requests for information, investigations and other reviews
by regulators, governmental and other public bodies in connection with business activities in which the Barclays Bank UK Group is, or has
been, engaged. and may (from time to time) be subject to legal proceedings and other investigations relating to financial and non-financial
disclosures made by members of the Barclays Bank UK Group (including, but not limited to, in relation to ESG disclosures). Additionally, due
to the increasing number of new climate and sustainability-related laws and regulations (or laws and regulatory processes seeking to
protect the energy sector from any risks of divestment or challenges in accessing finance), growing demand from investors and customers
for environmentally sustainable products and services, and regulatory scrutiny, financial institutions, including the Barclays Bank UK Group,
may through their business activities face increasing litigation, conduct, enforcement and contract liability risks related to climate change,
environmental degradation and other social, governance and sustainability-related issues. Furthermore, there is a risk that shareholders,
campaign groups, customers and other interest groups could seek to take legal action against the Barclays Bank UK Group for financing or
contributing to climate change and environmental degradation.
The outcome of legal, competition and regulatory matters, both those to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed and any
others which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict. In connection with such matters, the Barclays Bank UK Group may incur
significant expense, regardless of the ultimate outcome, and any such matters could expose the Barclays Bank UK Group to any of the
following outcomes: substantial monetary damages, settlements and/or fines; remediation of affected customers and clients; other
penalties and injunctive relief; additional litigation; criminal prosecution; the loss of any existing agreed protection from prosecution;
regulatory restrictions on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business operations including the withdrawal of authorisations; increased
regulatory compliance requirements or changes to laws or regulations; suspension of operations; public reprimands; loss of significant
assets or business; a negative effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s reputation; loss of confidence by investors, counterparties, clients
and/or customers; risk of credit rating agency downgrades; potential negative impact on the availability and/or cost of funding and
liquidity; and/or dismissal or resignation of key individuals. In light of the uncertainties involved in legal, competition and regulatory
matters, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters (including formerly active matters or those arising
after the date of this Annual Report) will not have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations,
financial condition and prospects.
home.barclays/annualreport 48 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Climate risk management
The impact on Financial and Operational Risks arising from climate change through, physical risks, risks associated with transitioning to a
lower carbon economy and connected risks arising as a result of second order impacts on portfolios of these two drivers.
Overview
Given the increasing risks associated with climate change, and to support the Barclays Group’s ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050, it
was agreed that climate risk would become a Principal Risk from 2022.
To support this decision, in 2021 the Barclays Group delivered a Climate Risk Integration Plan with three overarching objectives:
1. Governance Framework: Develop a Principal Risk Framework and Risk Appetite Statement and integrate climate drivers into limit
setting
2. Scenario Analysis: Refine methodologies used for the 2020 scenario analysis to support the Bank of England Biennial Exploratory
Scenario on climate change, with specific focus on wholesale credit and physical risk modelling
3. Carbon Modelling: Enhance the BlueTrackTM model to further develop the approach for the Energy sector, expand coverage to Cement
and Metals and consider the overall net zero ambition of the Barclays Group
For more detail on how climate risks arise and their impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group, refer to the ‘material existing and emerging
risks’ section.
Organisation and Structure
On behalf of the Barclays Bank UK Board, the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews and approves the Barclays Bank UK
approach to managing the financial and operational risks associated with climate change. Reputation risk is the responsibility of the
Barclays Bank UK Board, which directly handles the most material issues facing Barclays Bank UK. Broader sustainability matters and other
reputation risk issues associated with climate change are coordinated by the Sustainability team.
Within Barclays Bank UK, a Climate Risk lead was appointed in 2021, and a Barclays Bank UK Climate Risk Forum was established in
November 2021. The forum provides support, guidance and oversight of the implementation and operation of Climate Risk within Barclays
Bank UK . The Barclays Bank UK Climate Risk Forum escalates to the Barclays UK Risk Committee and also into the Group Climate Risk
Committee (CRC).
To support the oversight of Barclays Group climate risk profile, a Climate Risk Committee (CRC) has been established. The CRC is chaired
by the Head of Climate Risk, who took the role of Climate Principal Risk owner in 2021, reporting directly to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The CRC is a subcommittee of the Group Risk Committee (GRC), the most senior executive body responsible for review and challenge of
risk practices and risk profile, for climate risk and other principal risk types. The authority of the CRC is delegated by the GRC.
home.barclays/annualreport 49 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
The Climate Risk Framework (CRF) was developed in 2021 to support the Enterprise Risk Management Framework and outlines the key
principles for managing climate risk.
Climate risk across certain other Principal Risk types is managed via a ‘Climate Change Financial Risk and Operational Risk Policy’, which is
embedded in each of the following Principal Risk Frameworks and contains key principles for identifying and quantifying climate risk, with
supporting reporting and governance.
home.barclays/annualreport 50 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Risk Type Risk Identification Risk Measurement
Credit risk Identified as part of sovereign, portfolio and Measured using a Credit Risk Materiality Matrix
obligor credit annual reviews. completed for obligor/obligee groups with elevated
exposure to climate change risk. Retail portfolios are
monitored through regular reporting of climate
metrics and are assessed against mandate triggers
where appropriate.
Market risk Identified using stress tests, aggregate market risk Measured by using adverse multi-asset stress
exposures from climate related risks. scenarios applied to individual risk factors reflecting
climate change risks across sectors, countries and
regions.
Treasury and capital risk Identified using stress tests and analysis to assess Measured as part of stress testing and key risk
the exposures which may be impacted by climate indicator monitoring.
related risks.
Operational risk Confirmed operational risks associated with Established reporting on internal and external
climate change are included in the Bank’s climate related risk events to the Operational Risk
Operational Risk Taxonomy. Climate risk included Committee. Risk tolerances for premises and
within the Strategic Risk Assessment process. resilience risks are reviewed so these adequately
capture climate related risk drivers.
Risks resulting from climate change aligned to Model, Conduct, Reputation and Legal Principal Risks are out of the scope of the CRF and
continue to be managed under their respective Principal Risk Frameworks. As climate risk continues to evolve, the effect upon these risks
may change. Specific consideration of the impact of these changes will be covered as part of these frameworks.
A Climate Risk Appetite at Barclays Group level was introduced in line with the Barclays Group’s risk appetite approach. It establishes a
direct link between strategic plans and risk appetite, supporting the Barclays Group’s ambition to be a net zero bank by 2050. The Barclays
Bank UK Group has introduced a climate risk appetite and constraint, in line with the Barclays Group approach. Work is ongoing to define
quantitative targets against which the strategic plan will be tested.
Linking with ESG and Reputation Risk
Barclays has published a Climate Change Statement, which sets out the strategic ambition to support economies and clients through the
net zero transition, as well as appetite for conducting business with particularly sensitive energy sub-sectors. It is supported by an internal
Climate Change Standard, which outlines the controls and approach to these sectors in more detail, including requirements for enhanced
due diligence for restricted activities (such as outlined in the Barclays Group Forestry & Palm Oil Standard).
These standards are enforced through an existing transaction origination, review and approval process.
A dedicated Sustainability team considers how the Barclays Group approaches wider sustainability and ESG matters, working closely with
the Environmental Risk Management function.
home.barclays/annualreport 51 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Liquidity risk management (audited)
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Barclays Bank UK Group in order to retain the confidence of the financial markets
and maintain the sustainability of the business. Treasury and Capital Risk have created a framework to manage all liquidity risk exposures
under both normal and stressed conditions. The framework is designed to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount, quality
and funding tenor profile to remain within the liquidity risk appetite as expressed by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board. The liquidity risk
appetite is monitored against both internal and regulatory liquidity metrics.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing liquidity risk within the set risk appetite. Both Risk and Treasury contribute to the
production of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP). The Barclays Bank UK Treasury and Capital Risk function is
responsible for the management and governance of the liquidity risk framework, consistently with Barclays PLC Group policies and
framework and with Barclays Bank UK CRO mandates.
The framework established by Treasury and Capital Risk is designed to deliver the appropriate term and structure of funding, consistent
with the liquidity risk appetite set by the Board.
The framework incorporates a range of ongoing business management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
balance sheet and contingent liabilities. Limit setting and transfer pricing are tools that are designed to control the level of liquidity risk
taken and drive the appropriate mix of funds. In addition, Barclays Group maintains a recovery plan which includes application to the
Barclays Bank UK Group. Together, these tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s obligations as they fall due.
The Barclays Bank UK Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan, internal stress tests, regulatory stress test results, and the
Barclays Bank UK contribution to the Barclays Group recovery plan. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and
managing liquidity risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s funding management objectives, funding plan and risk framework. The
Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and reviews the liquidity risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of the
management of liquidity risk. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and reviews liquidity risk appetite at
least annually and the impact of stress scenarios on the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan/forecast in order to agree the Barclays Bank
UK Group’s projected funding abilities.
Capital risk management (audited)
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management of the capital position, regular stress testing and a robust capital
governance framework. The objectives of the framework are to maintain adequate capital for the Barclays Bank UK Group to withstand the
impact of the risks that may arise under normal and stressed conditions, and maintain adequate capital to cover current and forecast
business needs and associated risks to provide a viable and sustainable business offering.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing and monitoring capital adequacy. The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury and Capital
Risk function provides oversight of capital risk . Production of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process is
the responsibility of Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury.
Capital risk management is underpinned by a control framework and policies. Capital plans reflect the capital management strategy and
are implemented to deliver on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s objectives, which are aligned to those of Barclays Group. The Barclays Bank UK
Group-specific capital plans are developed in conformance with the Barclays Group control framework and policies for capital risk.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan, internal stress tests and results of regulatory stress
tests. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board also approves the recovery options documented in the Barclays Group recovery plan pertaining to
the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and managing capital risk in line with the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s capital management objectives, capital plan and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and
reviews the capital risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of the management of capital risk. The Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and sets risk appetite at a minimum annually and the impact of stress scenarios
on the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan/forecast in order to agree Barclays Bank UK Group’s projected capital resources.
Management assures compliance with minimum regulatory capital requirements by reporting to the Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO with
oversight by the Barclays Group Treasury Committee, as required. In 2021, Barclays complied with all regulatory minimum capital
requirements.
Pension risk
Barclays Bank UK PLC is a participating employer in the UK Retirement Fund (UKRF), whose assets and liabilities are currently held on the
Barclays Bank PLC balance sheet. This participation is expected to cease in 2025. The nature of pension risk for Barclays Bank UK PLC is
contingent, specifically on a Barclays Bank PLC default. Refer to note 28 Staff Costs for further detail.
home.barclays/annualreport 54 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Interest rate risk in the banking book management (IRRBB)
Overview
Interest rate risk in the banking book is driven by customer deposit taking and lending activities, investments in the liquid asset portfolio
and funding activities. As per the Barclays Bank UK Group’s policy to remain within the defined risk appetite, hedging strategies are
executed to mitigate the various IRRBB risks that result from these activities. However, the Barclays Bank UK Group remains susceptible to
interest rate risk and other non-traded market risks from the following key sources:
▪ Interest rate and repricing risk: the risk that net interest income could be adversely impacted by a change in interest rates, differences in
the timing of interest rate changes between assets and liabilities, and other constraints on interest rate changes as per product terms and
conditions.
▪ Customer behavioural risk: the risk that net interest income could be adversely impacted by the discretion that customers and
counterparties may have in respect of being able to vary their contractual obligations with the Barclays Bank UK Group. This risk is often
referred to by industry regulators as ‘embedded option risk’.
▪ Investment risks in the liquid asset portfolio: the risk that the fair value of assets held in the liquid asset portfolio and associated risk
management portfolios could be adversely impacted by market volatility, creating volatility in capital directly.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group ALCO, together with the Barclays Group Treasury Committee, are responsible for monitoring and managing
IRRBB risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management objectives and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee and
Treasury and Capital Risk Committee monitors and reviews the IRRBB risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight
of the management of IRRBB. The Barclays Bank UK Group BRC reviews the interest rate risk profile, including setting of risk appetite at a
minimum annually and the impact of stress scenarios on the interest rate risk of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s banking books.
In addition, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IRRBB policy sets out the processes and key controls required to identify all IRRBB risks arising
from banking book operations, to monitor the risk exposures via a set of metrics with a frequency in line with the risk management horizon,
and to manage these risks within agreed risk appetite and limits.
Operational risk management
The risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or due to external events
(for example fraud) where the root cause is not due to credit or market risks.
Overview
The management of operational risk has three key objectives:
▪ deliver an operational risk capability owned and used by business leaders to enable sound risk decisions over the long term
▪ provide the frameworks, policies and standards to enable management to meet their risk management responsibilities while the second
line of defence provides robust, independent, and effective oversight and challenge
▪ deliver a consistent and aggregated measurement of operational risk that will provide clear and relevant insights, so that the right
management actions can be taken to keep the operational risk profile consistent with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, the stated
risk appetite and stakeholder needs
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates within a system of internal controls that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without
exposing Barclays Bank UK Group to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damages.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and
functional units where the risk arises. The operational risk profile and control environment is reviewed by business management through
business risk committees and control committees. Operational risk issues escalated from these meetings are considered through the
second line of defence review meetings. Depending on their nature, the outputs of these meetings are presented to the Operational Risk
Profile Forum, the Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Risk Committee, the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee or the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee. In addition, specific reports are prepared by
Operational Risk on a regular basis for the GRC and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee. The new Barclays UK Operational Risk
Committee was established in 2021 to strengthen governance and oversight of Operational Risk.
Businesses and functions are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an event-driven basis. The reports include a
profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of key controls, operational risk
events and a review of scenarios. Specific reports are prepared by the business and Barclays Bank UK Group Operational Risk on a regular
basis for the Barclays UK Operational Risk Committee, the Barclays UK Risk Committee, and the BRC.
The Barclays Group Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Barclays Group-wide
Operational Risk Framework, meanwhile the Barclays Bank UK PLC Head of Operational Risk is responsible for overseeing the portfolio of
operational risk across all Barclays Bank UK Group businesses.
The Operational Risk function acts in a second line of defence capacity, and is responsible for defining and overseeing the implementation
of the framework and monitoring the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk profile. The Operational Risk function alerts management
when risk levels exceed acceptable tolerance in order to drive timely decision making and actions by the first line of defence.
home.barclays/annualreport 55 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
Operational risk categories
Operational risks are grouped into risk categories to support effective risk management, measurement and reporting. These comprise: Data
Management Risk; Financial Reporting Risk; Fraud Risk; Information Security Risk; Operational Resilience Planning Risk; Payments Process
Risk; People Risk; Premises Risk; Physical Security Risk; Strategic Investment Change Management Risk; Supplier Risk; Tax Risk; Technology
Risk and Transaction Operations Risk.
Risk themes
Barclays Bank UK Group also recognises that there are certain threats/risk drivers that are more thematic and have the potential to impact
Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategic objectives. These are risk themes which require an overarching and integrated risk management
approach. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk themes include Cyber, Data and Resilience.
For definitions of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk categories and risk themes, refer to page 132 of the Barclays Bank UK PLC
Pillar 3 Report 2021.
Model risk management
The potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses models to support a broad range of activities, including informing business decisions and strategies,
measuring and limiting risk, valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, managing client assets, and meeting
reporting requirements.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Group has a dedicated Model Risk Management (MRM) function that consists of four teams: (i) Independent Validation Unit
(IVU), responsible for model validation and approval; (ii) Model Governance (MG), responsible for model risk governance, controls and
reporting, including ownership of Model Risk Framework, the Group Model Risk Policy, and the associated standards; (iii) Strategy and
Transformation, responsible for inventory, strategy, communications and business management and (iv) Model Risk Measurement and
Quantification (MRMQ), responsible for the design of the framework and methodology to measure and, where possible, quantify model
risk. It is also responsible for the strategic Validation Centre of Excellence (VCoE), which is an independent quality assurance function
within MRM with the mandate to review and challenge validation outcomes.
The model risk management framework consists of the model risk policy and standards. The policy prescribes group-wide, end-to-end
requirements for the identification, measurement and management of model risk, covering model documentation, development,
monitoring, annual review, independent validation and approval, change and reporting processes. The policy is supported by global
standards covering model inventory, documentation, validation, complexity and materiality, testing and monitoring, overlays, risk appetite,
as well as vendor models and stress testing challenger models.
The function reports to the Barclays Group CRO and operates a global framework. Implementation of best practice standards is a central
objective of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The key model risk management activities include:
▪ Correctly identifying models across all relevant areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and recording models in the Barclays Bank UK
Group Models Database (GMD), the Barclays Group-wide model inventory
▪ Enforcing that every model has a model owner who is accountable for the model. The model owner must sign off models prior to
submission to IVU for validation and maintain that the model presented to IVU is and remains fit for purpose
▪ Overseeing that every model is subject to validation and approval by IVU, prior to being used and on a continual basis
▪ Defining model risk appetite in terms of risk tolerance, and qualitative metrics which are used to track and report model risk
Conduct risk management
The risk of poor outcomes for, or harm to, customers, clients and markets, arising from the delivery of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
products and services.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group defines, manages and mitigates conduct risk with the objective of providing good customer and client
outcomes, protecting market integrity and promoting effective competition.
Conduct risk incorporates market integrity, customer protection, financial crime and product design and review risks.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Conduct Risk Management Framework (CRMF) outlines how the Barclays Bank UK Group manages and measures its Conduct Risk
Profile. The Group Chief Compliance Officer is accountable for developing, maintaining and overseeing a group-wide CRMF. The Barclays
Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for providing effective oversight, management and escalation of conduct risk in line
home.barclays/annualreport 56 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Principal risk management
with the CRMF at the Entity and Subsidiary level. This includes overseeing the development and maintenance of the relevant conduct risk
policies and standards including monitoring and reporting on the consistent application and effectiveness of the implementation of
controls to manage conduct risk. It is the responsibility of the first line of defence to establish controls to manage its performance and
assess conformance to these policies and controls.
Senior managers are accountable within their areas of responsibility for owning and managing conduct risk in accordance with the CRMF,
as defined within their regulatory Statement of Responsibilities.
Compliance as an independent second line function helps to prevent, detect and manage breaches of applicable laws, rules, regulations
and procedures and has a key role in helping Barclays achieve the right conduct outcomes and evolve a conduct-focused culture.
The governance of conduct risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group is fulfilled through management committees and forums operated by
the first and second lines of defence with clear escalation and reporting lines into Board level committees. The Barclays Bank UK Group Risk
Committee is the primary second line governance committees for the oversight of the conduct risk profile. The Barclays Bank UK risk
committee’s responsibilities include the identification and discussion of any emerging conduct risks exposures in the Barclays Bank UK
Group.
Reputation risk management
The risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
integrity and/or competence.
Overview
A reduction of trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and competence may reduce the attractiveness of the Barclays Bank UK
Group to stakeholders and could lead to negative publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing and potential
client business, reduced workforce morale and difficulties in recruiting talent. Ultimately it may destroy shareholder value.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays PLC Board is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management of
reputation risk.
The Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for overseeing the management of Reputation Risk for Barclays Bank
UK Group and the Head of Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility is responsible for developing a reputation risk policy and associated
standards, including tolerances against which data is monitored, reported on and escalated, as required. The Reputation Risk Management
Framework sets out what is required to manage reputation risk across the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The primary responsibility for identifying and managing reputation risk and adherence to the control requirements sits with the business
and support functions where the risk arises.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is required to operate within established reputation risk appetite, and its component businesses prepare
reports for its respective Risk and Board Risk Committees highlighting their most significant current and potential reputation risks and
issues and how they are being managed. These reports are a key internal source of information for the quarterly reputation risk reports
which are prepared for the Barclays UK Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
Legal risk management
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the Barclays Bank UK Group to meet its legal obligations,
including regulatory or contractual requirements.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group has no tolerance for wilful breaches of laws, regulations or other legal obligations. However, the multitude of
laws and regulations that the Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to are highly dynamic and their application to particular circumstances is
often unclear. This results in a high level of inherent legal risk which Barclays Bank UK Group seeks to mitigate through the operation of a
Barclays Group-wide legal risk management framework, including the implementation of Barclays Group-wide legal risk policies requiring
the engagement of legal professionals in situations that have the potential for legal risk. Notwithstanding these mitigating actions, Barclays
Bank UK Group operates with a level of residual legal risk, for which the Barclays Bank UK Group has limited tolerance.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses and functions have primary responsibility for identifying and escalating legal risk in their area as
well as responsibility for adherence to minimum control requirements.
The Legal function organisation and coverage model aligns legal expertise to businesses, functions, products, activities and geographic
locations so that the Barclays Bank UK Group receives support from appropriate legal professionals, working in partnership to manage legal
risk. The senior management of the Legal Function oversees, challenges and monitors the legal risk profile and effectiveness of the legal
risk control environment across the Barclays Group. The Legal Function does not sit in any of the Three Lines of Defence but supports them
all.
home.barclays/annualreport 57 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Capital risk
All disclosures in this section (pages 112 to 113) are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
The disclosures below provide key capital metrics for Barclays Bank UK Group with further information on its risk profile included in the
Barclays Bank UK PLC Pillar 3 Report 2021, due to be published on 23 February 2022 and which will be available at home.barclays/investor-
relations/reports-and-events/annual-reports.
Following the withdrawal of the UK from the EU, any references to CRR as amended by CRR II mean, unless otherwise specified, CRR as
amended by CRR II, as it forms part of UK law pursuant to the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 and subject to the temporary
transitional powers (TTP) available to UK regulators to delay or phase-in on-shoring changes to UK regulatory requirements arising at the
end of the transition period until 31 March 2022, as at the applicable reporting date.
As at As at
31 December 31 December
Capital ratiosa,b 2021 2020
CET1 15.2% 15.6%
Tier 1 (T1) 18.8% 19.2%
Total regulatory capital 23.1% 23.9%
Capital resources (audited) £m £m
CET1 capital 10,828 11,247
T1 capital 13,388 13,807
Total regulatory capital 16,442 17,178
Total risk weighted assets (RWAs) (unaudited) 71,213 72,025
Notes
a Capital and RWAs are calculated applying the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements of the CRR as amended by CRR II.
b The fully loaded CET1 ratio was 14.9%, with £10.6bn of CET1 capital and £71.1bn of RWAs, calculated without applying the transitional arrangements of the
CRR as amended by CRR II.
home.barclays/annualreport 112 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Risk performance
Model risk, Conduct risk, Reputation risk, Legal risk
All disclosures in this section (pages 118 and 119) are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Model risk
Barclays is committed to continuously improving model risk management and made a number of enhancements in 2021, including:
• strengthening the periodic assessment of the design and operating effectiveness of model risk controls to ensure adherence to
model risk framework, policies and standards across the model risk lifecycle;
• enhancing model risk assessment and appetite management with the design of a new Model Risk Uncertainty Assessment to
measure and report model uncertainty, enabling risk-based decision making and remediation prioritisation;
• improving model risk governance through the implementation and embedment of MRM led forums;
• expanding its quality assurance function and its operating model to improve consistency and quality of the challenges raised,
assess the relevance and soundness of the responses received from the model owners, and continue to review the rationale for
decisions made by validators;
• improving model inventory data quality through enhanced platform controls and related processes.
In 2022, MRM will continue to focus on the validation of low materiality models, embedding of validation and governance activities, further
roll-out of Model Risk Uncertainty Assessment across the model population and expanding the coverage of the MRM framework to new/
emerging model types.
Conduct risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to continuing to drive the right culture throughout all levels of the organisation. The Barclays
Bank UK Group will continue to enhance effective management of Conduct Risk and appropriately consider the relevant tools, governance
and management information in decision-making processes. Focus on the management of conduct risk is ongoing and, alongside other
relevant business and control management information, the Barclays Bank UK Group conduct risk dashboards is a key component of this.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continues to review the role and impact of conduct risk events and issues in the remuneration process at both
the individual and business level.
Throughout 2021, the Barclays Bank UK Group maintained focus on the new and heightened Inherent conduct risks created by the
COVID-19 pandemic and continues to monitor these on an ongoing basis.
Businesses have continued to assess the potential customer, client and market impacts of strategic change. As part of the 2021 Medium-
Term Planning Process and associated Strategic Risk Assessment, material conduct risks associated with strategic and financial plans were
assessed.
Throughout 2021, conduct risks were raised by each business area for consideration by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee.
The Committee reviewed the risks raised and whether management’s proposed actions were appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continued to incur costs in relation to litigation and conduct matters, please refer to Note 24 Legal,
competition and regulatory matters and Note 22 Provisions, for further details. Costs include customer redress and remediation, as well as
fines and settlements. Resolution of these matters remains a necessary and important part of delivering the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
strategy and an ongoing commitment to improve oversight of culture and conduct.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee and senior management received conduct dashboards setting out key indicators in
relation to conduct risk. These continue to be evolved and enhanced to allow effective oversight and decision-making. The Barclays Bank
UK Group has operated at the overall set tolerance for conduct risk throughout 2021. The tolerance adherence is assessed by the business
through key indicators and reported to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee as part of the conduct risk dashboard.
The Barclays Bank UK Group remains focused on the continuous improvements being made to manage risk effectively with an emphasis on
enhancing governance and management information to identify risk at earlier stages.
For further details on the non-financial performance measures, please refer to page 8 of the Strategic Report.
Reputation risk
Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to identifying reputation risks and issues as early as possible and managing them appropriately. At a
Barclays Bank UK Group level throughout 2021, reputation risks and issues were overseen by the Barclays Bank UK Board. The top live and
emerging reputation risks and issues within the Barclays Bank UK Group are included within an over-arching quarterly report at the
respective Board level. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board reviews reputation risks raised by businesses and considered whether
management’s proposed actions, for example attaching conditions to proposed client transactions or increased engagement with
impacted stakeholders, were appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively. The Board also received regular updates with regard to key
reputation risks and issues, including: Barclays’ response to the COVID-19 pandemic; Barclays’ association with sensitive sectors; access to
banking; lending practices and the resilience of key Barclays systems and processes.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continued to incur costs in relation to litigation and conduct matters, please refer to Note 24 Legal,
competition and regulatory matters and Note 22 Provisions, for further details. Costs include customer redress and remediation, as well as
fines and settlements. Resolution of these matters remains an ongoing commitment to improve oversight of culture and conduct and
management of reputation risks.
home.barclays/annualreport 118 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Risk review
Supervision and regulation
the Barclays Group to the PRA/BoE in 2021 with public disclosures required by both firms and the PRA/BoE in June 2022 (and every two
years thereafter).
TLAC and MREL
The Barclays Group is subject to a Minimum Requirement for own funds and Eligible Liabilities (MREL), which includes a component
reflecting the FSB’s standards on total loss absorbency capacity (TLAC).
The MREL requirements were fully implemented by 1 January 2022, at which time G-SIBs with resolution entities incorporated in the UK will
be required to meet an MREL equivalent to the higher of: (i) two times the sum of their Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements; or (ii) the higher
of two times their leverage ratio or 6.75% of leverage exposures. Internal MREL for operating subsidiaries is subject to a scalar in the
75-90% range of the external requirement that would apply to the subsidiary if it were a resolution entity. The starting point for the scalar is
90% for ring-fenced bank sub-groups.
Bank Levy and FSCS
The BRRD established a requirement for EU member states to set up a pre-funded resolution financing arrangement with funding equal to
1% of covered deposits by 31 December 2024 to cover the costs of bank resolutions. The UK has implemented this requirement by way of
a tax on the balance sheets of banks known as the ‘Bank Levy’.
In addition, the UK has a statutory compensation fund called the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), which is funded by way
of annual levies on most authorised financial services firms.
Structural reform
In the UK, the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 put in place a framework for ring-fencing certain operations of large banks.
Ring-fencing requires, among other things, the separation of the retail and smaller deposit-taking business activities of UK banks into a
legally distinct, operationally separate and economically independent entity, which is not permitted to undertake a range of activities.
Market infrastructure regulation
In recent years, regulators as well as global-standard setting bodies such as the International Organisation of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO) have focused on improving transparency and reducing risk in markets, particularly risks related to over-the-counter (OTC)
transactions. This focus has resulted in a variety of new regulations across the G20 countries and beyond that require or encourage on-
venue trading, clearing, posting of margin and disclosure of information related to many derivatives transactions, which have impacts on
the Wealth business. Focus is deepening and becoming increasingly transparent on the environmental and social disclosure requirements
of financial products, in order to enable consumers to make more informed decisions as to the products they invest in. These new
requirements may have an impact on Barclays Bank UK PLC both as an intermediary of financial products and as a product manufacturer.
The EU Benchmarks Regulation applies to the administration, contribution and use of benchmarks within the EU. Financial institutions
within the EU are prohibited from using benchmarks unless their administrators are authorised, registered or otherwise recognised in the
EU, pursuant to the EU and UK Benchmarks Regulation. The FCA has stated that it does not intend to support LIBOR after the end of 2021.
Global regulators in conjunction with the industry have developed alternative benchmarks and risk-free rate fallback arrangements,
including updates to existing, as well as new, applicable legislation.
Other regulation
Consumer protection, culture and diversity and inclusion
In May 2021, the FCA published a consultation paper proposing the imposition of a new consumer duty on firms. The duty looks to set
higher expectations for the standard of care that firms provide to customers and will impact all aspects of Barclays’ retail businesses,
including every customer journey, product and service as well as our relationships with partners, suppliers and third parties. This will result
in significant implementation costs and there will also be higher ongoing costs for the industry as a result of extensive monitoring and
evidential requirements. Final rules are due to be published by July 2022.
Our regulators have enhanced their focus on the promotion of cultural values as a key area for banks, although they generally view the
responsibility for reforming culture as primarily sitting with the industry. The UK regulators have also begun focusing on diversity and
inclusion in financial services firms, with the Bank of England, PRA and FCA publishing a joint discussion paper and the FCA publishing a
consultation paper on this topic in July 2021.
Data protection and PSD2
Most countries where the Barclays Group operates have comprehensive laws requiring openness and transparency about the collection
and use of personal information, and protection against loss and unauthorised or improper access. The EU’s General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) created a broadly harmonised privacy regime across EU member states, introducing mandatory breach notification,
enhanced individual rights, a need to openly demonstrate compliance, and significant penalties for breaches. The extraterritorial effect of
the GDPR means entities established outside the EU may fall within the Regulation’s ambit when offering goods or services to European
based customers or clients. Following the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, the UK continues to apply the GDPR framework (as onshored into
home.barclays/annualreport 122 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
User access Control performance Our procedures to address the risk included:
management
Risk vs 2020: ◄► Control testing: We tested the design, implementation
and operating effectiveness of automated controls that
Our assessment is the risk is similar to 2020. support material balances in the financial statements. We
also tested the operating effectiveness of the relevant
preventative and detective general IT controls over user
The Group and Parent company’s IT operations support
access management including:
a wide range of products and services, resulting in a
large and complex IT infrastructure relevant to the
financial reporting processes and related internal • Authorising access rights for new joiners;
controls.
• Timely removal of user access rights;
User access management controls are an integral part of
the IT environment to ensure both system access and • Logging and monitoring of user activities;
changes made to system access and changes made to
systems and data are authorised and appropriate. Our • Privileged user access management and
audit approach relies on the effectiveness of IT access monitoring;
management controls.
• Developer accesses to transactions and
Our audit procedures identified control deficiencies in balance information;
certain IT access controls for systems relevant to
financial reporting. More specifically, control deficiencies
• Segregation of duties; and
were identified around monitoring of activities
performed by privileged users on a small percentage of
infrastructure components. Management has ongoing • Re-certification of user access rights.
programmes to remediate the deficiencies. Since these
deficiencies were open during the year, we performed We performed procedures to assess whether additional
additional procedures to respond to the risk of detective compensating controls operate at the same
unauthorised changes to automated controls over level of precision to support our assessed risk of
financial reporting. unauthorised activities and tested management’s
incremental detective control.
Our results: Our testing did not identify unauthorised
user activities in the systems relevant to financial
reporting which would have required us to expand the
extent of our testing.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Materiality for the Group and Parent company financial statements as a whole was set at £72 million (2020: £75 million) and £70 million
(2020: £70 million) respectively, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax from continuing operations (of which it
represents 5.0% (2020: 4.9%) for the Group and 4.8% (2020: 4.6%) for the Parent company), normalised downwards for 2021 by £1
billion to adjust for the impact of ECL releases during the current year following a reduction in the COVID-19 related economic uncertainty.
In the prior year materiality was determined by normalising the benchmark upwards by £0.6 billion to exclude the incremental charge
related to post model adjustments made to the ECL charge to reflect COVID-19 related economic uncertainty.
In line with our audit methodology, our procedures on individual account balances and disclosures were performed to a lower threshold,
performance materiality, so as to reduce to an acceptable level the risk that individually immaterial misstatements in individual account
balances add up to a material amount across the financial statements as a whole.
Performance materiality for the Group and Parent company was set at 75% (2020: 75%) of materiality for the financial statements as a
whole, which equates to £54 million (2020: £56 million) for the Group and £52.5 million (2020: £52.5 million) for the Parent company. We
applied this percentage in our determination of performance materiality because we did not identify any factors indicating an elevated level
of risk.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £3.5 million (2020: £3.5m),
in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
home.barclays/annualreport 129 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
Group materiality
Normalised profit before tax from continuing operations
£1,450m* (2020: £1,521m**)
£72m
Whole financial statements materiality (2020:
£75m)
£54m
Whole financial statements performance
materiality (2020: £56m)
£3.5m
Misstatements reported to the Audit
Committee (2020: £3.5m)
■ Normalised profit before tax from continuing
operations
■ Group materiality
* normalised by adjusting for the impact of ECL releases during the current year following a reduction in the COVID-19 related
economic uncertainty
**normalised the benchmark excluding the incremental charge related to post model adjustments made to the ECL charge to reflect
COVID-19 related economic uncertainty
Scope – general
We were able to rely upon the Group’s internal control over financial reporting in all areas of our audit, where our controls testing
supported this approach, which enabled us to reduce the extent of our substantive audit work.
The Group engagement team performed the audit of the Group as it if was a single aggregated set of financial information, using the
materiality levels set out above.
The Group has certain centralised processes in India, the outputs of which are also included in the aggregated set of financial information.
These services are subject to specified audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and controls. We evaluated
the work which the participating auditor performed in these areas. We also communicated with the participating audit team throughout
the audit by holding regular meetings.
4 Going concern
The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent
company or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Group’s and the Parent company’s financial position means that
this is realistic. They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to
continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements (“the going concern period”).
We used our knowledge of the Group and Parent company, the financial services industry, and the general economic environment to
identify the inherent risks to the business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Group’s and Parent company’s financial
resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period. The risks that management considered most likely to adversely
affect the Group’s and Parent company’s available financial resources over this period and which we challenged were:
• the availability of funding and liquidity in the event of a market wide stress scenario; and
• the impact on regulatory capital requirements in the event of an economic slowdown or recession.
We considered whether these risks could plausibly affect the availability of financial resources in the going concern period by comparing
severe, but plausible downside scenarios that could arise from these risks individually and collectively against the level of available financial
resources indicated by the Group’s financial forecasts.
home.barclays/annualreport 130 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
In some hedging relationships, the Barclays Bank UK Group designates risk components of hedged items as follows:
▪ Benchmark interest rate risk as a component of interest rate risk, such as the LIBOR or Risk Free Rate (RFR) component.
▪ Inflation risk as a contractually specified component of a debt instrument.
▪ Forward exchange rate risk for foreign currency financial assets or financial liabilities.
▪ Components of cash flows of hedged items, for example certain interest payments for part of the life of an instrument.
Using the benchmark interest rate risk results in other risks, such as credit risk and liquidity risk, being excluded from the hedge accounting
relationship. Following market-wide interest rate benchmark reform, sensitivity to risk-free rates is considered to be the predominant
interest rate risk and therefore the hedged items (which often reference risk-free or similar 'overnight' rates) change in fair value on a
proportionate basis with reference to this risk.
In respect of many of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s hedge accounting relationships, the hedged item and hedging instrument change
frequently due to the dynamic nature of the risk management and hedge accounting strategy. The Barclays Bank UK Group applies hedge
accounting to dynamic scenarios, predominantly in relation to interest rate risk, with a combination of hedged items in order for its
financial statements to reflect as closely as possible the economic risk management undertaken. In some cases, if the hedge accounting
objective changes, the relevant hedge accounting relationship is de-designated and a de-designated relationship is replaced with a different
hedge accounting relationship.
The hedging instruments share the same risk exposures as the hedged items. Hedge effectiveness is determined with reference to
quantitative tests, predominantly regression testing, but to the extent hedging instruments are exposed to different risks than the hedged
items, this could result in hedge ineffectiveness or hedge accounting failures.
Sources of ineffectiveness include the following:
▪ Mismatches between the contractual terms of the hedged item and hedging instrument, including basis differences.
▪ Changes in credit risk of the hedging instruments.
▪ If a hedging relationship becomes over-hedged.
▪ The effects of the reforms to IBOR because these might take effect at a different time and have a different impact on hedged items and
hedging instruments.
Barclays Bank UK Group's risk exposure continues, in part, to be affected by interest rate benchmark reform. In most cases, hedged items
and hedging instruments are expected to transition to relevant risk-free rates at the end of their current cash flow period. For GBP LIBOR
contracts, where uncertainty around the timing and effects of LIBOR reform continues beyond the end of the current cash flow period,
financial instruments are generally expected to utilise 'synthetic LIBOR' (as permitted by the FCA on a temporary basis until their contracts
are fully remediated). USD LIBOR linked hedge accounting relationships are still exposed to uncertainty regarding the precise timing and
effects of benchmark reform. USD LIBOR benchmarks will cease to be published from 30 June 2023, but certain hedged items and hedging
instruments continue to contractually reference these benchmarks beyond the cessation date.
The following table summarises the significant hedge accounting exposures impacted by the IBOR reform as at 31 December 2021:
Nominal
Nominal amount
amount of hedging
of hedged items instruments
directly directly
impacted impacted
by IBOR reform by IBOR reform
Current benchmark rate Expected convergence to RFR £m £m
GBP London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) Reformed Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) 586 —
USD LIBOR Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) 3,067 3,063
Total 3,653 3,063
The disparity in outstanding GBP notionals between hedged items and hedging instruments results from a temporary timing mismatch
where derivative contracts have been transitioned to SONIA prior to 31 December 2021, whereas hedged items are expected to transition
early 2022.
home.barclays/annualreport 165 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
34 Auditor’s remuneration
2021 2020
£m £m
Audit of the Barclays Bank UK Group's annual accounts 7 7
Other services:
Audit of the Company's subsidiariesa 1 1
Other audit related feesb 2 2
Total Auditor's remuneration 10 10
Notes
a Comprises the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and fees for the work performed by associates of KPMG in respect of the consolidated financial
statements of the Company.
b Comprises services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings. These include audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the
Listing Rules of the UK listing authority.
35 Interest rate benchmark reform
Following the financial crisis, the reform and replacement of benchmark interest rates such as LIBOR has been a priority for global
regulators. As a result the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and other global regulators instructed market participants to prepare for
the cessation of most LIBOR rates after the end of 2021, and to adopt “near Risk-Free Rates” (RFRs).
Pursuant to FCA announcements during 2021, panel bank submissions for all GBP, CHF LIBOR and Euro Overnight Index Average (EONIA)
LIBOR tenors ceased, and representative LIBOR rates also ceased after 31 December 2021. For USD, certain actively used tenors will
continue to be provided until June 2023; however, in line with the US banking regulators’ joint statement, the Barclays Bank UK Group
ceased issuing or entering into new contracts that use USD LIBOR as a reference rate from 31 December 2021, other than in relation to
those allowable use cases set out under the FCA's prohibition notice (ref 21A). These include market making in support of client activity; or
transactions that reduce or hedge Barclays’ or any client of Barclays’ US dollar LIBOR exposure on contracts entered into before 1 January
2022.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s exposure to rates subject to benchmark interest rate reform has been predominantly to GBP and USD LIBOR
and Euro Overnight Index Average (EONIA). In GBP LIBOR, with the exception of a limited number of small exposures with retail customers,
exposure is related to ESHLA (Education, Social Housing and Local Authority) clients and the derivative hedging thereof. The majority of
these GBP LIBOR exposures have RFR fallbacks and will convert to SONIA at the first interest reset in 2022 Derivative exposures are
represented as gross notional contract amounts. However, net LIBOR derivative exposures are small. Non-derivative exposures include
exposures related to the ESHLA portfolio. Retail lending and mortgage exposure to LIBOR in Barclays Bank UK Group is minimal. Following
transition activity in late 2021 and early 2022, GBP, USD (one week and two month tenors), CHF LIBOR and EONIA positions (“2021
scope”) have transitioned onto RFRs.
There are key differences between IBORs and RFRs. IBORs are ‘term rates’, which means that they are published for a borrowing period (for
example three months), and they are ‘forward-looking’, because they are published at the beginning of a borrowing period, based upon an
estimated inter-bank borrowing cost for the period. RFRs are based upon overnight rates from actual transactions, and are therefore
published after the end of the overnight borrowing period. Furthermore, IBORs include a credit spread over the RFRs. Therefore, to
transition existing contracts and agreements to RFRs, adjustments for term and credit differences may need to be applied to RFR-linked
rates. The methodologies for these adjustments have been determined through in-depth consultations by industry working groups, on
behalf of the respective global regulators and related market participants.
How the Barclays Group is managing the transition to alternative benchmark rates
Barclays has established a Group-wide LIBOR Transition Programme, with oversight from the Barclays Group Finance Director. The
Transition Programme spans all business lines and has cross-functional governance which includes Legal, Compliance, Conduct Risk, Client
Engagement and Communications, Risk, and Finance. The Transition Programme aims to drive strategic execution, and identify, manage
and resolve key risks and issues as they arise. Barclays’ transition plans primarily focus on G5 currencies while providing quarterly updates
on progress and exposures to the PRA/FCA and other regulators as required.
The Transition Programme follows a risk based approach, using recognised ‘change delivery’ control standards. Accountable Executives are
in place within key working groups and workstreams, with overall Board oversight delegated to the Board Risk Committee and the Barclays
Group Finance Director. Barclays performs a prominent stewardship role to drive orderly transition via our representation on official sector
and industry working groups across all major jurisdictions and product classes. Additionally, the Barclays Group Finance Director is Chair of
the UK’s ‘Working Group on Sterling Risk-Free Reference Rates’ (UK RFRWC), whose mandate is to catalyse a broad-based transition to
using SONIA (‘Sterling Overnight Index Average’), as the primary sterling interest rate benchmark in bond, loan and derivatives markets.
Approaches to transition exposure expiring post the expected end dates for LIBOR vary by product and nature of counterparty. The
Barclays Group has actively engaged with the counterparties to transition or include appropriate fallback provisions and transition
mechanisms in its floating rate assets and liabilities with maturities after 2021, when relevant IBORs excluding USD LIBOR cease to be
published. The fallback will provide the relevant replacement rate. In the case of the ISDA Protocol it is the RFR plus a credit adjusted spread
that should be used post cessation or pre-cessation of the relevant IBOR. For the derivative population, adherence to the ISDA IBOR
Fallbacks Protocol has provided Barclays with an efficient mechanism to amend outstanding trades to incorporate fallbacks. Beyond the
ISDA IBOR Fallbacks Protocol, other options have included terminating or bilaterally agreeing new terms with counterparties. Derivative
home.barclays/annualreport 200 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
contracts facing central clearing counterparties have followed a market-wide, standardised approach to reform through a series of CCP-led
conversions.
The FCA has authorised broad usage of synthetic LIBOR as a temporary solution for the ‘tough legacy’ population of unremediated
contracts for GBP. Given cleared derivatives for the 2021 scope transitioned via CCP driven conversions, synthetic LIBOR does not apply in
this context. Barclays’ strategy remains to actively transition LIBOR exposure where viable, and/or to implement and utilise robust
contractual fallbacks where possible. Where contracts remain unremediated, they may be able to utilise synthetic LIBOR on a temporary
basis for 1, 3 and 6 month tenors of GBP LIBOR to assist the transition of certain exposures. Barclays will continue to monitor, assess and
limit the reliance on synthetic LIBOR.
As announced by the FCA on 5 March 2021, USD LIBOR tenors (except 1 week and 2 month tenors) will cease to be representative from 30
June 2023. As detailed above, the key area of focus for transition prior to 2022 was on the other non-USD IBOR currency-tenors that ceased
to be published at the end of 2021. Clients and colleagues have been notified that we have prohibited entering into new USD LIBOR
transactions (with narrow permitted exceptions) from 1 January 2022 in line with regulatory expectations.
Progress made during 2021
During 2021, the Barclays Bank UK Group delivered RFR product capabilities and alternatives to LIBOR across loans, bonds and derivatives
required for LIBOR cessation to support transition of legacy contracts. Barclays Bank UK Group has transitioned the majority (by gross
notional exposure, measured at year-end 2020) of legacy positions in those rates within the 2021 scope, onto new RFRs in line with official
sector expectations and milestones. This has been achieved through bilateral negotiation of contracts with clients, including the use of
appropriate fallback provisions (which became effective post 31 December 2021) and taking part in large scale transition events at the
London Clearing House (LCH). In relation to those contracts yet to be transitioned, we remain in active dialogue with clients. Barclays Bank
UK Group delivered technology and business process changes required to ensure operational readiness in preparation for LIBOR cessation
and transitions to RFRs for those benchmark rates ceasing at the end of 2021. Whilst the majority of IBOR exposures have moved to RFRs,
where appropriate other rates such as fixed rates or Bank of England base rates have also been used.
Risks to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed as a result of the transition
Global regulators and central banks in the UK, US and EU have been driving international efforts to reform key benchmark interest rates and
indices, such as LIBOR, which are used to determine the amounts payable under a wide range of transactions and make them more reliable
and robust. These benchmark reforms have resulted in significant changes to the methodology and operation of certain benchmarks and
indices, the adoption of RFRs, the discontinuation of certain reference rates (including LIBOR), and the introduction of implementing
legislation and regulations. Specifically, regulators in the UK, US and EU have directed that certain non-US dollar LIBOR tenors cease at the
end of 2021. Notwithstanding these developments, given the unpredictable consequences of benchmark reform, any of these
developments could have an adverse impact on market participants, including the Barclays Bank UK Group, in respect of any financial
instruments linked to, or referencing, any of these benchmark interest rates.
The Barclays Bank UK Group predominantly offers products which reference central bank rates rather than LIBOR or other indices which
are likely to be subject to reform. Consequently, the product offering and business model are unlikely to be significantly affected.
Nevertheless, there are other ways the Barclays Bank UK Group could be affected.
Uncertainty associated with such potential changes, including the availability and/or suitability of alternative RFRs, the participation of
customers and third-party market participants in the transition process; challenges with respect to required documentation changes; and
impact of legislation to deal with ‘certain legacy’ contracts that cannot convert into or add fall-back RFRs before cessation of the
benchmark they reference, may adversely affect a broad range of transactions (including any securities, loans and derivatives which use
LIBOR or any other affected benchmark to determine the amount of interest payable that are included in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
financial assets and liabilities) that use these reference rates and indices, and present a number of risks for the Barclays Bank UK Group,
including, but not limited to:
• Conduct risk: in undertaking actions to transition away from using certain reference rates (such as LIBOR) to new alternative RFRs,
the Barclays Bank UK Group faces conduct risks. These may lead to customer complaints, regulatory sanctions or reputational
impact if the Barclays Bank UK Group is considered to be (among other things) (i) undertaking market activities that are
manipulative or create a false or misleading impression, (ii) misusing sensitive information or not identifying or appropriately
managing or mitigating conflicts of interest, (iii) providing customers with inadequate advice, misleading information, unsuitable
products or unacceptable service, (iv) not taking a consistent approach to remediation for customers in similar circumstances, (v)
unduly delaying the communication and migration activities in relation to client exposure, leaving them insufficient time to prepare,
or (vi) colluding or inappropriately sharing information with competitors.
• Litigation risk: members of the Barclays Bank UK Group may face legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and/or other actions
or proceedings regarding (among other things) (i) the conduct risks identified above, (ii) the interpretation and enforceability of
provisions in LIBOR-based contracts, and (iii) the Barclays Bank UK Group’s preparation and readiness for the replacement of
LIBOR with alternative RFRs.
• Financial risk: the valuation of certain Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial assets and liabilities may change. Moreover, transitioning
to alternative RFRs may impact the ability of members of the Barclays Bank UK Group to calculate and model amounts receivable
by them on certain financial assets and determine the amounts payable on certain financial liabilities (such as debt securities issued
by them) because certain alternative RFRs (such as SONIA and SOFR) are look-back rates whereas term rates (such as LIBOR)
home.barclays/annualreport 201 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
allow borrowers to calculate at the start of any interest period exactly how much is payable at the end of such interest period. This
may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s cash flows.
• Operational risk: changes to existing reference rates and indices, discontinuation of any reference rate or index and transition to
alternative RFRs may require changes to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IT systems, trade reporting infrastructure, operational
processes, and controls. In addition, if any reference rate or index (such as LIBOR) is no longer available to calculate amounts
payable, the Barclays Bank UK Group may incur additional expenses in amending documentation for new and existing transactions
and/or effecting the transition from the original reference rate or index to a new reference rate or index.
• Accounting risk: an inability to apply hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 could lead to increased volatility in the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s financial results and performance.
Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial
condition, prospects and reputation, although a number of the above risks in relation to transition of legacy 2021 scope onto RFRs have
been substantially mitigated.
The Barclays Bank UK Group does not expect material changes to its risk management approach and strategy as a result of interest rate
benchmark reform.
The following table summarises the significant exposures impacted by the interest rate benchmark reform:
GBP LIBOR USD LIBOR CHF LIBOR Total
As at 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial assets
Loans and advances at amortised cost 2,404 11 7 2,422
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 84 — — 84
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income — — — —
Non-derivative financial assets 2,488 11 7 2,506
Equity
Other equity instruments — 148 — 148
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitmentsa 2,396 — — 2,396
Note
a The Barclays Bank UK loans portfolio includes facilities that provide clients with the flexibility to borrow across a range of different interest rate options,
including some that are not associated with benchmark reforms such as fixed rate interest. There has been a change to how the drawn amounts on these
facilities are reported in 2021, loans drawn on these facilities against interest rates that are not linked to benchmark reforms have been treated as undrawn
exposures. This has resulted in an increase in GBP LIBOR exposure of £1.9bn. 2020 comparatives have not been restated to reflect this change.
GBP LIBOR USD LIBOR CHF LIBOR Total
As at 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial assets
Loans and advances at amortised cost 10,861 119 7 10,987
Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 2,306 — — 2,306
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income — 8 — 8
Non-derivative financial assets 13,167 127 7 13,301
Equity
Other equity instruments (1,375) (1,161) — (2,536)
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 776 2 — 778
The table above represents the exposures to interest rate benchmark reform by balance sheet account, which have yet to transition. The
exposure disclosed is for positions with contractual maturities after 31 December 2021 (apart from USD, which is for maturities after 30
June 2023). Balances reported at amortised cost are disclosed at their gross carrying value and do not include any expected credit losses
that may be held against them.
home.barclays/annualreport 202 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes to the financial statements
Other disclosure matters
The following table represents the derivative exposures to interest rate benchmark reform, which have yet to transition:
GBP LIBOR USD LIBOR EONIA Total
As at 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m
Derivative notional contract amount
OTC interest rate derivatives 3,731 — — 3,731
OTC interest rate derivatives - cleared by central counterparty — 16,670 — 16,670
OTC foreign exchange derivatives — — — —
Derivative notional contract amount 3,731 16,670 — 20,401
GBP LIBOR USD LIBOR EONIA Total
As at 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m
Derivative notional contract amount
OTC interest rate derivatives 3,693 464 — 4,157
OTC interest rate derivatives - cleared by central counterparty 131,916 18,067 14,400 164,383
OTC foreign exchange derivatives 400 386 — 786
Derivative notional contract amount 136,009 18,917 14,400 169,326
The table above represents the derivative exposures to interest rate benchmark reform, which have yet to transition. The exposure
disclosed is for positions with contractual maturities after 31 December 2021 (apart from USD, which is for maturities after 30 June 2023).
Derivatives are reported by using the notional contract amount and where derivatives have both pay and receive legs with exposure to
benchmark reform, such as cross currency swaps, the notional contract amount is disclosed for both legs. As at 31 December 2021, there
were £nil (2020: £393m) cross currency swaps where both the pay and receive legs are impacted by interest rate benchmark reform.
The Barclays Bank UK Group also had £nil (2020: £5bn) of Barclays issued debt retained by the group, impacted by the interest rate
benchmark reform, predominately in GBP LIBOR.
Fallback clauses
The 31 December 2021 exposure has been broken up into those with robust fallbacks and those without. Fallbacks here are defined as any
mechanism involving a ‘switch’ or ‘hardwire’ or a contractual agreement to transition to an automatically selected rate. One of the most
commonly used is the ISDA 2020 IBOR Protocol published in October 2020 which enabled market participants to incorporate fallback
provisions into legacy non-cleared derivatives and certain non-derivatives transactions. Market participants who have adhered to the ISDA
2020 IBOR Protocol agree, between adhering parties, that their legacy contracts will be amended to include the relevant fallback provisions.
In addition to this, ISDA developed bilateral Swap Rate Fallbacks templates for GBP Swap Rate bilateral derivative trades with the GBP ICE
Swap Rate fallback provisions being published in August 2021. Whilst the fallback provisions have been applied to the majority of trades,
with some limited exceptions being worked through, the switch to the replacement rate as a result of fallback provision inclusion may not
take place until the next rate reset post the cessation or pre-cessation event.
The following tables present a breakdown of the exposures to IBOR reform (excluding USD LIBOR) with fallbacks in place and those
without.
With appropriate fallback clause Without appropriate fallback clause
GBP LIBOR CHF LIBOR Total GBP LIBOR CHF LIBOR Total
As at 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-derivative financial assets
Loans and advances at amortised cost 2,199 5 2,204 205 2 207
Financial assets at fair value through the income 84 — 84 — —
Non-derivative financial assets 2,283 5 2,288 205 2 207
Standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 517 — 517 1,879 — 1,879
The majority of the remaining exposures without fallbacks in place are either facilities where LIBOR is not primarily referenced in the
ordinary course of the contract, or syndicated facilities where the transition is led by a third party agent. Work is ongoing with clients and
agents to transition facilities or insert fallbacks prior to the next rate reset. There may be some scenarios where synthetic LIBOR is
temporarily used whilst Barclays Bank UK Group continues to work with the client to remediate their exposures, with little expectation of
longer term usage.
With appropriate fallback clause Without appropriate fallback clause
GBP LIBOR EONIA Total GBP LIBOR EONIA Total
As at 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Derivative notional contract amount
OTC interest rate derivatives 3,731 — 3,731 — — —
All derivative exposures at year-end have robust fallbacks in place via the ISDA IBOR Fallbacks Protocol.
home.barclays/annualreport 203 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report
Notes
The term Barclays Bank UK Group refers to Barclays Bank UK PLC together with its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise stated, the income
statement analysis compares the year ended 31 December 2021 to the corresponding twelve months of 2020 and balance sheet analysis
as at 31 December 2021 with comparatives relating to 31 December 2020. The abbreviations ‘£m’ and ‘£bn’ represent millions and
thousands of millions of Pounds Sterling respectively.
There are a number of key judgement areas, for example impairment calculations, which are based on models and which are subject to
ongoing adjustment and modifications. Reported numbers reflect best estimates and judgements at the given point in time.
Relevant terms that are used in this document but are not defined under applicable regulatory guidance or International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) are explained in the results glossary that can be accessed at home.barclays/investor-relations/reports-and-events/latest-
financial-results.
The information in this document, which was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 February 2022, does not comprise statutory
accounts within the meaning of Section 434 of the Companies Act 2006. Statutory accounts for the year ended 31 December 2021, which
contain an unmodified audit report under Section 495 of the Companies Act 2006 (which does not make any statements under Section
498 of the Companies Act 2006), will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies in accordance with Section 441 of the Companies Act
2006.
Barclays Bank UK Group is an issuer in the debt capital markets and meets with investors via formal road-shows and other ad hoc
meetings. Consistent with its usual practice, Barclays Bank UK Group expects that from time to time over the coming half year it will meet
with investors to discuss these results and other matters relating to the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Forward-looking statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the Barclays Bank UK Group. Barclays Bank UK Group cautions
readers that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results or other financial condition or
performance measures could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements sometimes use words
such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘seek’, ‘continue’, ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘projected’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘achieve’ or
other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements can be made in writing but also may be made verbally by members of the
management of the Barclays Bank UK Group (including, without limitation, during management presentations to financial analysts) in
connection with this document. Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, statements or guidance regarding or
relating to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s future financial position, income growth, assets, impairment charges, provisions, business
strategy, capital, leverage and other regulatory ratios, capital distributions (including dividend pay-out ratios and expected payment
strategies), projected levels of growth in the banking and financial markets, projected costs or savings, any commitments and targets,
(including, without limitation, ESG commitments and targets), estimates of capital expenditures, plans and objectives for future operations,
projected employee numbers, IFRS impacts and other statements that are not historical fact. By their nature, forward-looking statements
involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances. The forward-looking statements speak only as at the
date on which they are made. Forward-looking statements may be affected by a number of factors, including, without limitation: changes
in legislation; the development of standards and interpretations under IFRS, including evolving practices with regard to the interpretation
and application of accounting and regulatory standards, emerging and developing ESG reporting standards, the outcome of current and
future legal proceedings and regulatory investigations; future levels of conduct provisions; the policies and actions of governmental and
regulatory authorities; the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability along with government and other stakeholders to measure, manage and
mitigate the impacts of climate change effectively; environmental,social and geopolitical risks; and the impact of competition. In addition,
factors including (but not limited to) the following may have an effect: capital, leverage and other regulatory rules applicable to past,
current and future periods; macroeconomic and business conditions in the UK and any systemically important economy which impacts the
UK; the effects of any volatility in credit markets; market related risks such as changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates; effects
of changes in valuation of credit market exposures; changes in valuation of issued securities; volatility in capital markets; changes in credit
ratings of any entity within the Barclays Bank UK Group or any securities issued by such entities; direct and indirect impacts of the
coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic; instability as a result of the UK’s exit from the European Union (EU), the effects of the EU-UK Trade and
Cooperation Agreement and the disruption that may subsequently result in the UK; the risk of cyber-attacks, information or security
breaches or technology failures on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s reputation, business or operations; and the success of future acquisitions,
disposals and other strategic transactions. A number of these influences and factors are beyond the Barclays Bank UK Group’s control. As a
result, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s actual financial position, future results, capital distributions, capital, leverage or other regulatory ratios
or other financial and non-financial metrics or performance measures or ability to meet commitments and targets may differ materially
from the statements or guidance set forth in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s forward-looking statements.
Subject to Barclays Bank UK Group’s obligations under the applicable laws and regulations of any relevant jurisdiction, (including, without
limitation, the UK), in relation to disclosure and ongoing information, we undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-
looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
home.barclays/annualreport 206 Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report