Strategic Report
Performance review
We continued to reward customers who chose to bank with us, launching two switching campaigns in 2018 based on our Blue Rewards proposition.
Our first campaign offered double rewards for a year for switching, followed by a subsequent campaign offering double Rewards for Community and
triple Rewards for Premier customers for switching to a Barclays Current Account through the Current Account Switch Service. 1.4 million customers
now benefit from Blue Rewards, including Cashback.
In 2018, we helped over 110,000 customers take out a mortgage or further borrowing on their property, 22,000 of which were first time buyers.
Demonstrating our commitment to Barclays Group’s green finance agenda, we were the first major UK bank to offer a Green Mortgage product. The
Barclays Green Home Mortgage rewards customers with lower rates on certain deals when purchasing new energy efficient homes and builds upon
Barclays Group’s green offering.
Savings, Investments & Wealth Management
In 2018, we brought our Savings proposition together with our Wealth and Investments business so that we can seek to offer our customers and
clients a flawless experience, whatever stage they are at in their savings and investments journey.
We launched our Flexible Monthly Income Bond, which enables customers to deposit a lump sum for a 3-year term and then drawdown the capital
on a monthly basis to supplement their income. This is a unique and innovative product designed for customers in the retirement segment, with the
launch linked to National Pension Awareness Day.
Customers who want instant access to their savings can now open an Everyday Saver account entirely through BMB. We have seen a huge customer
response to this, with over 60% of Everyday Saver accounts opened digitally in 2018.
In our Wealth Management business, we continued our focus on growth throughout 2018, with a number of new hires and continued strong levels
of new client acquisition, although market conditions have been challenging, impacting our overall assets under management. Investment will be
made to improve the client experience and productivity of our Wealth Managers during 2019.
After a difficult start to the year, with issues relating to the migration of customers to our digital investing proposition, Smart Investor, we have
worked to enhance the platform in 2018 – for example customers can now sign up to Smart Investor via BMB. However, there remains work to do in
2019 to turn the platform into a leading digital investments offering. To this end, we have a confirmed 2019 delivery roadmap, based on client
feedback, that will see significant upgrades to the platform throughout the year.
Barclaycard Consumer UK
Barclaycard Consumer UK is a leading credit card provider, providing flexible borrowing and payment solutions to around 10 million customers in the
UK. We help people move forward, by helping them to borrow and pay, in the way that suits them. We are a responsible lender, providing credit based
on credit history, ability to afford credit and our risk appetite, while seeking to deliver a leading customer experience.
In 2018, we have looked at further ways to meet the needs of our customers. At Barclaycard Consumer UK, we inspire confidence by making sure
everything we do is secure, reliable and useful to our customers and clients, like giving our customers 24/7 fraud protection to keep their money safe
and equipping customers with the knowledge to protect themselves from fraud. Our Fraud Fighter campaign highlights that fraud is not always so
easy to spot and encourages customers to use our Fraud Fighter Tool.
We worked to better understand the needs of different customer circumstances and help put the customer in control. We launched a credit build
tool that offers tips and advice to help customers build their credit score. We helped customers move forward this year with our first ever product
upgrade from Initial to Platinum for qualifying price promise customers – we upgraded customers who kept their accounts in order for 12 months to
help them further build their credit score and go forward to do the things they want to do, with confidence, every day.
We are also committed to ensuring more transparency with our customers, not just in the ways that we communicate with them, but by simplifying
the ways that our products work. Over the last year, we have waived interest charges on purchases that are paid in full if a card also has a promotional
balance. Under this new scheme, cardholders that make new purchases during the billing cycle and pay them off in full by their payment due date
will no longer pay any interest on those transactions, thus removing the need for customers to use separate cards for their spending and balance
transfers.
We challenge ourselves to think differently, and create a model that lowers complaints and provides better customer experience while delivering
sustainable returns. Customers want relevant, personalised payment and borrowing options, coupled with perfect digital-driven experiences and they
want those experiences to come to them, in the digital channels they choose, at the moment that’s right for them. In a first for any of Barclays Bank
UK Group’s retail banking products, customers can now acquire a Barclaycard credit card on an external Open Banking Mobile app.
Business Banking
Business Banking offers products, services and specialist advice to over one million clients in the UK, ranging from start-ups to mid-sized businesses,
to help them achieve their goals.
Business Banking provides support to clients across the UK at all stages of their business cycle through a relationship-based and digitally-driven
service.
Our UK-wide network of experts has helped thousands of businesses get started and grow, with access to specialist industry insights across key
segments such as Agriculture and Real Estate. We also support Education, Social Housing and Local Authorities (ESHLA). Although new lending to
ESHLA clients is met through Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC continues to support ESHLA clients, for example by agreeing a number of
mergers within Social Housing, which gives clients the capacity to continue building more new homes to address UK housing needs.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 3
Strategic Report
Risk management
Strategic Report
Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to internal and external risks as part of our ongoing activities. These risks are managed as part of our business
model.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
At Barclays Bank UK Group, risks are identified and overseen through the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF), which supports the
business in its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture. The ERMF is approved by the Barclays PLC board on
recommendation of the Barclays Group Risk officer; it is then adopted by the Barclays Bank UK Group with minor modifications where needed.
The ERMF specifies the Principal Risks of Barclays Bank UK Group and the approach to managing them.
Risk Appetite
Risk Appetite defines the level of risk we are willing to take across the different risk types, taking into consideration varying levels of financial and
operational stress. Risk Appetite is key for our decision making process, including ongoing business planning, new product approvals and business
change initiatives. We have taken significant steps to de-risk our business, setting us up for sustainable growth in the future.
The management of risk is embedded into each level of the business, with all colleagues being responsible for identifying and controlling risks.
Three Lines of Defence
The First Line of Defence is comprised of the revenue generating and client facing areas, along with all associated support functions, including
Finance, Treasury, Human Resources and Operations and Technology. The First Line identifies its risks, and sets the policies, standards and controls,
within the criteria set by the Second Line of Defence.
The Second Line of Defence is made up of Risk and Compliance and oversees the First Line by setting the limits, rules and constraints on their
operation, consistent with the Risk Appetite.
The Third Line of Defence is comprised of Internal Audit, providing independent assurance to the Board and Executive Management.
Although the Legal function does not sit in any of the three lines, it works to support them all and plays a key role in overseeing Legal risk. The Legal
function is also subject to oversight from the Risk and Compliance functions with respect to the management of operational and conduct risks.
Monitoring the Risk Profile
Together with a strong governance process, using Business and Group-level Risk Committees as well as Board level forums, the Board of Barclays
Bank UK PLC receives regular information in respect of the risk profile of Barclays Bank UK PLC, and has ultimate responsibility for Risk Appetite and
capital plans.
We believe that our structure and governance will assist us in managing risk in the changing economic, political and market environments.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 5
Strategic Report
Performance measures
Areas of continued focus:
Complaints performance
In Barclays UK, we continue to focus on customer experience by transforming customer journeys. Our underlying complaint volumes reduced 9%
year-on-year. However, we have seen an increase in PPI complaints of 2%. Total Barclays UK complaint volumes (including PPI) were down 1%
year-on-year.
Colleague
Further information on our people at Barclays Bank UK Group is on page 19 and 20 of this report.
Citizenship
Further information on our Citizenship and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) activity is available in the Barclays PLC 2018 Annual Report.
Barclays PLC also publishes an annual ESG Report, where additional detail on material ESG themes are available. Reports are available at
home.barclays/annualreport
Notes
a NPS measures customer experience and facilitates benchmarking. It is widely used in banking and other industries and utilises a mixed-methodology to ensure full
representativeness of financial behaviours across the UK population. The basis of Barclays Relationship NPS has been a 12-month rolling average to minimise data fluctuations.
Source: GfK FRS, 12 months ending December 2018. Adults interviewed: 8,765 Barclays main Current Account holders (Barclays Relationship NPS), and 4,741 Barclays main Credit
Card holders (Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS).
b Mortgage awards - Best Lender for Buy to Let (Moneywise), Best lender for Remortgage (Moneywise), Best Lender for Large loans (Moneywise), Best National Bank (Mortgage
Strategy Gazette), Best Intermediary Lender (Mortgage Strategy Gazette), Best Overall Lender (Mortgage Strategy Gazette), Best Buy to Let Lender (Mortgage Strategy Gazette),
Mortgage Lender of the Year (Mortgage Introducer), Best Offset Mortgage Lender (What Mortgage), Best remortgage lender (Personal Finance).
c Open APIs are publicly available application programming interfaces that provide developers programmatic access to our products and services and use them in third-party
applications.
Sir Ian Cheshire
Chairman – Barclays Bank UK PLC
20 February 2019
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 9
Governance
Chairman’s introduction
I am very pleased to present our first full Annual Report and Accounts as a ring-fenced entity.
I am particularly grateful to the new members of the Board, both for agreeing to join us in what is still an emerging regulatory structure and for their
contribution to date as we have started to work together. We have a strong combination of technical and financial skills with broader business
experience in culture, colleague engagement and technology. The new challenges of modern banking make it especially important to understand the
wider external strategic landscape and the Board are focused on how we can help navigate this in order to deliver our mission of #letsgoforward.
Board Activities
The year has been a very busy one for the business, with significant focus on the establishment of Barclays Bank UK PLC as the UK’s first major ring-
fenced bank and the development and execution of our strategy.
We began the year by overseeing the transfer of the UK banking business of the Barclays PLC Group to Barclays Bank UK PLC and the implementation
of a governance framework that enables the Barclays Bank UK Group to meet its regulatory requirements, operate independently within the Barclays
Group and devise its own strategy. Internal control, risk and compliance functions were also established, with appropriate supporting policies and
procedures.
This framework underpins our absolute commitment to ensuring the Barclays Bank UK Group is able to meet its regulatory obligations and maintain
an open dialogue with our regulators.
Directors have spent considerable time, both inside and outside of formal meetings, familiarising themselves with the business and discussing our
Strategy and Medium Term Business Plan.
The resilience of Barclays Bank UK Group’s technology has been an area of focus, with reports regularly discussed at Board meetings. Barclays Bank
UK PLC has introduced a protocol that requires Directors to be notified immediately in the event of a significant outage. We have also looked carefully
at Barclays Bank UK Group’s plans to minimise the impact on customers of the UK leaving the European Union.
The Board plays a critical role in setting the tone from the top and is actively involved in setting an open, positive culture that supports its strategy
and adheres to the highest standards of conduct. We have discussed talent, engagement and culture plans and have reviewed dashboards and other
data to ensure we are making real progress. The Board will receive further presentations on these topics from the CEO and Human Resources team
during the early part of 2019, with roll out to the wider business expected soon after approval of these plans by the Board.
The Board was updated on key ongoing issues for the business, including PPI claims, the adoption of the new IFRS 9 accounting standard and
regulatory matters. As the PPI regime begins to draw to a close we are determined not to have any repetition of that experience.
The Board also reviewed and approved the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Reward Policy, following a recommendation from the Remuneration Committee.
Board Composition
The recruitment of the Board was completed earlier in the year. It now comprises seven independent non-executive directors, two executive directors
and myself as Chairman. I also remain a director of Barclays PLC.
Appointments of non-executive directors to the Board were made via a formal, rigorous and transparent process, with each role being publicly
advertised. Each appointment was based on merit, taking into account the skills, experience and diversity needs of the Board.
The recruitment of seven new directors over a relatively short period necessitated a comprehensive induction programme. Further details are set out
in the Training and Induction section of the Corporate Governance Statement.
Directors visited a number of branches and sites and received presentations from all significant business units. We also received briefings on the
legal and regulatory environment in which Barclays Bank UK Group operates, our responsibilities and the significance of Barclays Bank UK Group to
the UK economy and to society more generally.
Familiarisation with the business will continue this year with further visits and presentations planned.
Board Effectiveness
We as a Board take very seriously our obligation to provide rigorous and constructive challenge to management on significant matters.
The skills, knowledge and experience needed for an effective Board are recorded in a skills matrix, which has been used by the Board to inform non-
executive recruitment, induction and ongoing development. The Nominations Committee will consider Board and senior management succession
plans in more detail over the coming year.
The Barclays’ Charter of Expectations sets out role profiles and time commitments for all key Board positions and states the expectations and
responsibilities for all directors. It also puts processes in place to ensure that the Board is provided with the accurate, timely and high-quality
information that it needs to fulfil its duties.
The effectiveness of the Board will be evaluated by a leading independent evaluator in the coming year.
Risk
We also take very seriously our responsibility for setting Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk appetite, that is, the level of risk it is prepared to take in the
context of achieving its strategic objectives. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s ERMF is designed to identify and set minimum requirements in respect
of the main risks to achieving its strategic objectives and to provide reasonable assurance that internal controls are effective.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 10
Governance
Corporate Governance Statement
Current Directors
Sir Ian Cheshire - Chairman of the Board and the Nominations Committee
Andrew Ratcliffe – Chairman of the Audit Committee
David Thorburn – Chairman of the Risk Committee
Michael Jary – Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Avid Larizadeh Duggan
Kathryn Matthews
Chris Pilling
Sir John Timpson
Ashok Vaswani – Chief Executive Officer
Angela Anna Cross – Chief Financial Officer
The Board
The Board is responsible for ensuring the business is able to take decisions, operate independently and run in a way that promotes the long term
success of Barclays Bank UK Group, creating and delivering sustainable value.
Central to this is the development and execution of a strategy for the business and the establishment of a corporate governance framework that
embeds the right culture, values and behaviours throughout the Barclays Bank UK Group. This framework ensures that the business maintains an
effective and proportional system of internal financial, legal and regulatory controls designed to support the reputation of the business, and mitigate
financial and other risks.
The Board maintains a formal schedule of powers reserved to it to ensure control over key decision making. These include approval over key
appointments, strategy, financial statements and any major acquisitions, mergers or disposals.
What we did in 2018
The primary focus for the Board this year was to oversee the embedding of Barclays Bank UK PLC as the new Barclays ring-fenced bank, which
became fully operational on 1 April 2018. Board agendas have included the following topics:
Strategy and Operational Matters
 Oversight of post ring-fencing embedding activities following the successful transfer of the UK banking business from Barclays Bank PLC to
Barclays Bank UK PLC under the Ring-fencing Transfer Scheme in April 2018
 Strategic projects and the formulation of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy
 The operational impact of the UK’s decision to leave the European Union
 Updates from Barclays Bank UK Group’s Chief Executive Officer on the business’ operations and progress being made against strategy and
key strategic projects such as ongoing enhancements to the customer journey
 Updates on progress towards making the Barclays Bank UK Group a great place to work for colleagues, and
 New developments in UK banking, particularly the emergence of more technology focussed competitors.
Finance and Liquidity
 Development and approval of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s Medium Term Plan for 2018-2020
 Funding plans for Barclays Bank UK Group
 Regular updates on the financial performance of Barclays Bank UK Group and its main businesses through reports from the Barclays Bank
UK Group Chief Financial Officer, and
 Barclays Bank UK Group’s half year financial results and the declaration of a half year dividend.
Governance and risk (including regulatory issues)
 The Structural Reform regulations and the legal and regulatory responsibilities for directors of a ring-fenced bank
 The delegation of authority to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee to approve Barclays Bank UK PLC’s adoption of the Internal
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process (ILAAP)
 Regular reports on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational and technology capability, including updates on controls and cyber risk and
resilience
 A review of the services provided by Barclays Services Limited, the Barclays Group’s service company, to Barclays Bank UK Group
 Regular updates from the Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Controls Officer on the Barclays Bank UK Group internal controls framework
 Appointments to the Board and membership of Board Committees
 Regular updates from the Chairmen of Board Committees and the Chairwoman of the Barclays Investment Solutions Limited Board on
matters discussed at meetings, and
 Risk parameters in the context of the Board’s risk appetite.
Board Committees
Risk, Audit and Remuneration Committees were operational prior to the establishment of the ring fenced bank. Each has met a number of times
during the year, setting forward agendas to establish regular reporting patterns and sufficient time for updates and the coverage of new topics.
A Nominations Committee has been formed and met for the first time in January 2019. During 2018, Nominations Committee items have been dealt
with by the main Board. In particular, the Board considered the independence of non-executive Directors, potential conflicts of interest and measures
to mitigate them.
Details of the terms of reference for each Committee and their respective memberships and activities are set out below.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 12
Training and Induction
The Board received a full induction programme ahead of the transfer of the UK banking business on 1 April 2018.
Directors received introductions to the principal business units of Barclays Bank UK Group, namely Personal Banking (incorporating Community and
Premier Banking as well as Savings, Investment & Wealth Management), Barclaycard Consumer UK and Business Banking and met key executives
within those teams.
Sessions were organised to take Directors through the regulatory frameworks within which Barclays Bank UK Group operates and also their
responsibilities under the Senior Manager Regime and as Directors more specifically. Presentations were also received on Structural Reform, the Risk
& Control Environment, the Finance and Treasury team and Brand and Culture.
Their induction included visits to a number of sites and branches in London, Manchester and Liverpool and receiving deep dives on areas such as
Complaints, Cyber Resilience and Ventures.
Diversity and Inclusion
The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that there is broad diversity among the Directors. This includes but is not limited to, gender,
ethnicity, geography and business experience. In addition, we aim to ensure that all employees are treated equally and have the opportunity to be
successful. For information on Barclays Bank UK Group’s Gender Pay Gap results for 2018 please refer to page of 96 the Barclays PLC Annual Report
2018.
The Barclays Group’s global Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) strategy sets objectives, initiatives and plans across five core pillars: Gender, LGBT, Disability,
Multicultural and Multigenerational, in support of that ambition. Further information on the Barclays Group’s Board Diversity Policy and D&I strategy
can be found on pages 45 and 93 to 98 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 15
Directors’ Indemnities
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006) were in force during the course of the financial
year ended 31 December 2018 for the benefit of the then Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation
to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) in connection with their duties, powers or office. In addition, Barclays Bank
UK PLC maintains Directors’ & Officers’ Liability Insurance which gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
Political Contributions
Barclays Bank UK Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK, the rest of the EU or outside of the EU, nor did it make any political
donations to political parties or other political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure during the
year. Details of any political contributions made by the wider Barclays Group can be found in the 2018 Barclays PLC Annual Report.
Environment
The Barclays Group focuses on addressing environmental issues where we believe we have the greatest potential to make a difference. We focus on
managing our own carbon footprint and reducing our absolute carbon emissions, developing products and services to help enable the transition to
a low-carbon economy, and managing the risks of climate change to our operations, clients, customers and society at large. Disclosure of global
greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) is done at Barclays Group level with information available in the Barclays PLC 2018 Annual Report with fuller
disclosure available on our website at home.barclays.com/citizenship.
Research and Development
In the ordinary course of business, Barclays Bank UK Group develops new products and services in each of its business divisions. Highlights of this
activity appear in the Strategic Report.
Financial Instruments
Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies, including the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted
transaction for which hedge accounting is used, and the exposure credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk are set out in pages 33 to 39.
The Auditors
The Barclays PLC Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external auditors, as well as their relationship with the Barclays Group. The
Barclays Bank UK PLC Audit Committee monitors the Barclays Bank UK Group’s use of the external auditors for non-audit services and the balance
of audit and non-audit fees paid to them. More details on this can be found in Note 35 to the financial statements.
Going concern
In preparing each of the Barclays Bank UK Group and Parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:
 assess Barclays Bank UK Group and Parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern; and
 use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate Barclays Bank UK Group and Parent company or to cease operations,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s business activities, financial position, capital, factors likely to affect its future development and performance, the
process of the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union, and its objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed are
discussed in the Material Existing and Emerging Risks section. The Directors have evaluated these risks in the preparation of the financial statements
and consider it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor
Each Director confirms that, so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Barclays Bank UK PLC’s auditors are unaware
and that each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself /herself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that Barclays Bank UK PLC’s auditors are aware of that information. This confirmation is given pursuant to section
418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to those provisions.
Directors’ responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors’ report set out on page 98 to 105, is made with a view to
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC accounts for each financial
year, and, with regards to Barclays Bank UK Group accounts, in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. The Directors have prepared these
accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. Under the Companies Act 2006, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Barclays Bank UK Group and Barclays Bank UK PLC of their profit or loss
for that period.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 106 to 169, Barclays Bank UK Group has used appropriate accounting
policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been
followed.
Directors are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 17
Governance
People
We place a great deal of importance in providing all colleagues with the right support and frameworks to enable them to rise, and to maximise their
career goals and opportunities. Barclays Bank UK PLC colleague themes and initiatives are aligned to Barclays Group values and Strategic goals. The
following subsections are therefore consistent with those detailed in the People Section of the Barclay’s Group Annual Report and the figures
mentioned are for Barclays Group.
Industrial Relations and Workforce
Barclays places great importance on our constructive approach to global employee and industrial relations. During 2018 we continued to work with
Unite, our recognised trade union in the UK and with nine other unions and staff associations directly or through works councils internationally. In
the UK, we consulted extensively with Unite on a wide range of restructuring proposals and in respect of changes to compensation structures. Our
shared aim where there is restructuring - consistent with our partnership approach to industrial relations - is to minimise compulsory job losses
wherever possible. This is achieved through voluntary redundancy and extensive redeployment processes and arrangements. All colleagues who are
displaced as a result of restructuring are offered career transition support. In 2018 c.900 colleagues were supported globally (a take up rate of over
80% of those impacted by restructuring), with over 95% satisfied with the career transition support provided.
Performance Management
Effective Performance management underpins our values-based culture. To support our success, colleagues align their objectives to business and
team goals, this is ‘what’ they will deliver. Behavioural expectations are set in the context of our values, this is ‘how’ they will achieve their
objectives. We encourage connected performance conversations throughout the year and we continue to run our global recognition programme to
recognise the achievements of those who have demonstrated our values in the workplace.
Colleagues are also encouraged to be involved with the Company’s performance by participating in our all-employee share plans, which have been
running successfully for over 10 years.
Employee Communications
Barclays regularly updates employees on the financial and economic factors affecting the company’s performance and the delivery of the strategy
through Barclays Group CEO and senior leader communications, line manager briefing packs, infographics, videos, interviews and talking points
distributed to employees every quarter in accordance with our financial reporting calendar.
We also hold a variety of events for employees so they can hear directly from the Group Executive Committee and employees are kept regularly
informed about what is happening in their area and across Barclays through regular local engagement initiatives and communications that allow for
discussion and build awareness and understanding. Campaigns and colleague stories throughout the year bring to life how we are living Barclays’
Purpose, ‘Creating opportunities to rise’ and Values: Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence and Stewardship on a daily basis, providing ongoing
evidence of how we are supporting our colleagues, customers and clients and the communities and societies in which we work.
Be Well – Barclays Wellbeing Programme
Barclays global wellbeing programme “Be Well” has focused on three key areas in 2018; a refreshed commitment to make Barclays a “mental health
confident” organisation, further development of our supportive culture and the implementation of new global digital infrastructure as the gateway
to the programme.
The mental health confident agenda has addressed both the stigma that can prevent open conversations about mental health – building on Barclays
“This is Me” programme – while developing colleagues’ capability to understand, identify and take appropriate action where others need help. The
global launch campaign involved a film of senior leaders and Board members sharing their personal reflections on mental health issues and the
important role that support from colleagues can play in helping others. The call to action to colleagues was to become mental health confident
themselves by completing new online development programmes on “mental health awareness” and “mental health confident”. By year end over
16,000 colleagues had completed “awareness” and c.3,500 had completed the “confident” module, which launched in October to coincide with
World Mental Health Day.
85% of colleagues already feel that their line manager takes a sincere interest in their wellbeing according to the 2018 Your View survey. To help
translate this consistently into practical action, a new guide “Leading our supportive culture” was launched in November for managers, addressing
key scenarios and the range of supportive actions that they can take.
The launch in November of a new global Be Well portal and online health check has provided access to all Barclays wellbeing content and support in
one place. The portal incorporates an interactive health check tool which targets content in the portal according to colleagues’ identified health risks.
Gender Pay Reporting
Barclays PLC is publishing a Gender Pay Gap report on 21 February 2019. This document will contain Gender Pay Gap information for the
Company. The results will also be uploaded to the Government’s Gender Pay Gap reporting portal to meet statutory reporting requirements.
Disability & Mental Health
Supporting colleagues with disabilities and mental health conditions to achieve their goals is a key priority. As part of our role as a Disability Confident
Leader under the UK Government’s Department of Work and Pensions Disability Confident scheme, Barclays has taken an active role in encouraging
more businesses to join the scheme, which now exceeds 7,000. To mark International Day of Persons with Disabilities we launched a paper “Building
disability and mental health confidence” which documents our journey to becoming a more accessible and inclusive business.
Our policies for hiring and selection, and in the broad management of our teams require all employees at Barclays to give full and fair consideration
of disabled persons on the basis of their skills and aptitudes. As part of the Disability Confident scheme we actively encourage applications from those
with a disability or health condition, and we continually develop different recruitment models to remove the barriers to work for people of all abilities.
Our Able to Enable internship is just one example. We encourage everyone who is either working with Barclays, or considering doing so, to open up
and share information that will help us to provide the support and adjustments, including appropriate training, that they need to be able to feel valued
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 19
Risk review
Risk management
Barclays’ risk management strategy
Introduction
The activities of Barclays Bank UK Group entail risk taking, every day, throughout its business. This section introduces these risks, and outlines
arrangements for identifying and managing them. Barclays Bank UK Group's approach to fostering a strong risk culture is also described.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)
The ERMF sets the strategic direction for risk management by defining standards, objectives and responsibilities for all areas of Barclays Group. It is
approved by the Barclays PLC Board on recommendation of the Barclays Group Chief Risk Officer; it is then adopted by the Barclays Bank UK Group
with minor modifications where needed. It supports senior management in effective risk management and developing a strong risk culture.
The ERMF sets out:
 Principal risks faced by the Barclays Bank UK Group
 Risk appetite requirements
 Roles and responsibilities for risk management
 Risk committee structure.
Principal risks
The ERMF identifies eight principal risks (see table on page 6 of the Strategic Report) and sets out associated responsibilities and risk management
standards.
Risk appetite for the principal risks
Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk which Barclays Bank UK Group is prepared to accept in the conduct of its activities.
Risk appetite is approved by the Barclays PLC Board and disseminated across legal entities, including Barclays Bank UK PLC and its subsidiaries, with
limits specified to control exposures and activities that have material concentration risk implications for Barclays Bank UK Group.
Roles and responsibilities in the management of risk
The Three Lines of Defence
All colleagues are responsible for understanding and managing risks within the context of their individual roles and responsibilities, as set out below.
First Line of Defence
The First Line of Defence comprises all employees engaged in the revenue generating and client facing areas of Barclays Bank UK Group and all
associated support functions, including Finance, Treasury, Human Resources and the Chief Operating Office (COO) function. Employees in the First
Line are responsible for:
 identifying the risks in their activities and developing appropriate policies, standards and controls
 operating within any and all limits which the Risk and Compliance functions establish over the exposures and activities of the first line; and
 escalating risk events to senior managers in Risk and Compliance.
Second Line of Defence
The Second Line of Defence comprises employees of Risk and Compliance. The role of the Second Line is to establish the limits, rules and constraints
under which First Line activities shall be performed, consistent with the risk appetite of Barclays Bank UK Group, and to monitor the performance of
the First Line against these limits and constraints. Note that the First Line may also set limits for a number of their activities related to Operational
Risk. These will remain subject to supervision by the Second Line.
Third Line of Defence
The Third Line of Defence comprises employees of Internal Audit. They provide independent assurance to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board and
Executive Management over the effectiveness of governance, risk management and control.
The Legal function does not sit in any of the three lines, but supports them all. The Legal function is, however, subject to oversight from Risk and
Compliance with respect to operational and conduct risks.
Risk Committees
Barclays Bank UK Group Product/Risk Type Committees consider risk matters relevant to their business, and escalate as required to the Barclays UK
Risk Committee, whose Chairman, in turn, escalates to the Barclays Group Risk Committee, Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Committees and the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board.
There are two Board-level forums which oversee the application of the ERMF and review and monitor risk across the Barclays Bank UK Group. These
are: the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee. Additionally, the Barclays Bank UK PLC
Board Remuneration Committee oversees pay practices focusing on aligning pay to sustainable performance. Finally, the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board
receives regular information on the risk profile of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and has ultimate responsibility for risk appetite and capital plans.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 23
and emerging risks
Header level 3: Expert Sans Regular, Size 10, Light Blue
c) Data protection and privacy
Proper handling of personal data is critical to sustaining long-term relationships with our customers and clients and to meeting privacy laws and
obligations. Failure to protect personal data can lead to potential detriment to our customers and clients, reputational damage, regulatory sanctions
and financial loss, which under the GDPR may be substantial (see iii (j) Data management and information protection, above).
d) Regulatory focus on culture and accountability
Regulators around the world continue to emphasise the importance of culture and personal accountability and the adoption and enforcement of
adequate internal reporting and whistleblowing procedures in helping to promote appropriate conduct and drive positive outcomes for customers,
colleagues, clients and markets. Failure to meet the requirements and expectations of the UK Senior Managers Regime, Certification Regime and
Conduct Rules may lead to regulatory sanctions, both for the individuals and Barclays Bank UK Group.
vi) Reputation risk
Barclays’ association with sensitive sectors and its impact on reputation
A risk arising in one business area can have an adverse effect upon Barclays Bank UK Group’s overall reputation; any one transaction, investment or
event that, in the perception of key stakeholders reduces their trust in Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and competence.
Barclays Bank UK Group’s association with sensitive topics and sectors is an area of concern for stakeholders, including:
 Disclosure of climate risks and opportunities, including the activities of certain sections of the client base, which has become the subject of increased
scrutiny from regulators, NGOs and other stakeholders.
 The risks of association with human rights violations through the perceived indirect involvement in human rights abuses committed by clients and
customers.
 The manufacture and export of military and riot control goods and services by clients and customers.
These associations have the potential to give rise to reputation risk for Barclays Bank UK Group and may result in loss of business, regulatory censure
and missed business opportunity.
In addition to the above, Reputation risk has the potential to arise from operational issues or conduct matters which cause detriment to customers,
clients, market integrity, effective competition or Barclays Bank UK Group (see iv a) Cyber threat, iv j) Data management and information protection,
and v) Conduct risk, above).
vii) Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters
Legal disputes, regulatory investigations, fines and other sanctions relating to conduct of business and breaches of legislation and/or regulations
may negatively affect Barclays Bank UK Group’s results, reputation and ability to conduct its business.
Barclays Bank UK Group conducts diverse activities in a highly regulated market and therefore is exposed to the risk of fines and other sanctions.
Authorities have continued to investigate past practices, pursued alleged breaches and imposed heavy penalties on financial services firms. A
breach of applicable legislation and/or regulations could result in Barclays Bank UK Group or its staff being subject to criminal prosecution,
regulatory censure, fines and other sanctions in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Where clients, customers or other third parties are harmed by
Barclays Bank UK Group’s conduct, this may also give rise to legal proceedings, including class actions. Other legal disputes may also arise between
Barclays Bank UK Group and third parties relating to matters such as breaches, enforcement of legal rights or obligations arising under contracts,
statutes or common law. Adverse findings in any such matters may result in Barclays Bank UK Group being liable to third parties or may result in
Barclays Bank UK Group’s rights not being enforced as intended.
Details of legal, competition and regulatory matters to which Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed are set out in Note 25. In addition to
matters specifically described in Note 25, Barclays Bank UK Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of
business. Barclays Bank UK Group is also subject to requests for information, investigations and other reviews by regulators, governmental and other
public bodies in connection with business activities in which Barclays Bank UK Group is, or has been, engaged.
The outcome of legal, competition and regulatory matters, both those to which Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed and any others
which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict. In connection with such matters Barclays Bank UK Group may incur significant expense,
regardless of the ultimate outcome, and any such matters could expose Barclays Bank UK Group to any of the following outcomes: substantial
monetary damages, settlements and/or fines; remediation of affected customers and clients; other penalties and injunctive relief; additional
litigation; criminal prosecution; the loss of any existing agreed protection from prosecution; regulatory restrictions on Barclays Bank UK Group’s
business operations including the withdrawal of authorisations; increased regulatory compliance requirements; suspension of operations; public
reprimands; loss of significant assets or business; a negative effect on Barclays Bank UK Group’s reputation; loss of confidence by investors,
counterparties, clients and/or customers; risk of credit rating agency downgrades; potential negative impact of the availability and/or cost of
funding and liquidity; and/or dismissal or resignation of key individuals. In light of the uncertainties involved in legal, competition and regulatory
matters, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters will not be material to Barclays Bank UK Group’s results of
operations or cash flow for a particular period.
In January 2017, Barclays was sentenced to serve three years of probation from the date of the sentencing order in accordance with the terms of
its May 2015 plea agreement with the US Department of Justice (DOJ). During the term of probation, Barclays Group must among other things, (i)
commit no crime whatsoever in violation of the federal laws of the US, (ii) implement and continue to implement a compliance program designed
to prevent and detect the conduct that gave rise to the plea agreement and (iii) strengthen its compliance and internal controls as required by
relevant regulatory or enforcement agencies. Potential consequences of Barclays Group including Barclays Bank UK Group breaching the plea
agreement include the imposition of additional terms and conditions on Barclays Group, an extension of the agreement, or the criminal
prosecution of Barclays Group, which could, in turn, entail further financial penalties and collateral consequences and have a material adverse
effect on Barclays Group’s business, operating results or financial position.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 31
For wholesale portfolios, credit risk approval is undertaken by experienced credit risk professionals operating within a clearly defined delegated
authority framework, with only the most senior credit officers entrusted with the higher levels of delegated authority. The largest credit exposures,
which are outside the Risk Sanctioning Unit or Risk Distribution Committee authority, require the support of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Senior Credit
Officer. For exposures in excess of the Barclays Bank UK PLC Senior Credit Officer’s authority, approval by the Barclays Group Senior Credit
Officer/Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee is also required. Barclays Group Credit Risk Committee, attended by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Senior
Credit Officer, provides a formal mechanism for the Barclays Group Senior Credit Officer to exercise the highest level of credit authority over the
most material Barclays Group single name exposures.
In the wholesale portfolios, credit risk managers are organised in sanctioning teams by industry and/or product.
The role of the Central Risk function is to provide Barclays Group-wide direction, oversight and challenge of credit risk taking. Central Risk sets the
Credit Risk Control Framework, which provides the structure within which credit risk is managed, together with supporting credit risk policies and
standards.
Governance and oversight of expected credit losses
Barclays Bank UK Group relies on Barclays Group processes in overseeing the estimation of ECL, including: i) setting requirements in policy,
including key assumptions and the application of key judgements; and ii) the design and execution of models.
i. Impairment policy requirements are set and reviewed regularly by Barclays Group, at a minimum annually, to maintain adherence to
accounting standards. Key judgements inherent in policy, including the estimated life of revolving credit facilities and the quantitative criteria
for assessing the significant increase in credit risk (SICR), are separately supported by analytical study. In particular, the quantitative thresholds
used for assessing SICR are subject to a number of internal validation criteria, particularly in retail portfolios where thresholds decrease as the
origination PD of each facility increases. Key policy requirements are also typically aligned to Barclays Bank UK Group’s credit risk management
strategy and practices, for example, wholesale customers that are risk managed on an individual basis are assessed for ECL on an individual
basis upon entering Stage 3; furthermore, key internal risk management indicators of high risk are used to set SICR policy, for example, retail
customers identified as High Risk Management Accounts are automatically deemed to have met the SICR criteria.
ii. ECL is estimated in line with internal policy requirements using models which are validated by a qualified independent party to the model
development area, the Independent Validation Unit (IVU), before first use and at a minimum annually thereafter. The IVU is a Barclays Group
function. Each model is designated an owner who is responsible for:
 Monitoring the performance of the model, which includes comparing predicted ECL versus flow into Stage 3 and coverage ratios; and
 Proposing post-model adjustments (PMA) to address model weaknesses or to account for situations where known or expected risk factors
and information have not been considered in the modelling process. Each PMA above an absolute and relative threshold is approved by the
IVU for a set time period (usually a maximum of six months) together with a plan for remediation. The most material PMAs are reviewed by
Barclays Bank UK PLC Chief Risk Officer.
Models must also assess ECL across a range of future economic conditions. These economic scenarios are generated via an independent model
and ultimately set by the Senior Scenario Review Committee, run by Barclays Group. Economic scenarios are regenerated at a minimum
annually, to align with Barclays medium term planning exercise, but also if the external consensus of the UK or US economy materially worsen.
The scenario probability weights are also updated when scenarios are regenerated and reviewed by the Senior Scenario Committee. Each
model used in the estimation of ECL, including key inputs, are governed by a series of internal controls, which include the validation of
completeness and accuracy of data in golden source systems, documented data transformations and documented lineage of data transfers
between systems.
iii. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s organisational structure and internal governance processes oversee the review of impairment results. The
Barclays Bank UK Group Impairment Committee, formed of members from both Finance and Risk, is responsible for overseeing impairment
policy and practice across Barclays Bank UK Group and will approve impairment results. Reported results and key messages are communicated
to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee, which has an oversight role and provides challenge of key assumptions, including the
basis of the scenarios adopted.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 34
Risk review
Principal Risk management
Treasury and Capital risk management
management
Treasury and capital risk
Liquidity risk: The risk that the firm is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have the appropriate amount,
tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets.
Capital risk: The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business activities and to meet its
regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments or stressed conditions (both actual and as defined for internal planning or
regulatory testing purposes). This includes the risk from the firm’s pension plans.
Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that the firm is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch between the interest
rate exposures of its (non-traded) assets and liabilities.
Overview
Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury manages Treasury and Capital Risk exposure on a day-to-day basis with the Barclays Bank UK PLC Asset and
Liability Committee (ALCO) acting as the principal management body. To enforce effective oversight and segregation of duties and in line with the
ERMF, the Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for oversight of key capital, liquidity and interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB)
activities. The following describes the structure and governance associated with the risk types within the Treasury and Capital risk function.
Organisation and structure
Liquidity risk management (audited)
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to Barclays Bank UK Group in retaining the confidence of the financial markets and maintaining
the sustainability of the business. There is a control framework in place for managing liquidity risk and this is designed to maintain liquidity
resources that are sufficient in amount and quality and funding tenor profile that is adequate to meet the liquidity risk appetite as expressed by the
Barclays Bank UK PLC Board based on internal and regulatory liquidity metrics.
This is achieved via a combination of policy formation, review and governance, analysis, stress testing, limit setting and monitoring. Together, these
meet internal and regulatory requirements.
Roles and responsibilities
The Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for the management and governance of the liquidity risk mandate defined by the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board and the production of ILAAPs. Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing liquidity risk within the set risk appetite.
Barclays’ comprehensive control framework for managing Barclays Bank UK Group’s liquidity risk is designed to deliver the appropriate term and
structure of funding, consistent with the liquidity risk appetite set by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 38
Risk review
Treasury and capital risk management
The control framework incorporates a range of ongoing business management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Barclays Bank UK Group
balance sheet and contingent liabilities. Limit setting and transfer pricing are tools that are designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken and
drive the appropriate mix of funds. In addition, Barclays Group maintains a Recovery Plan which includes application to Barclays Bank UK Group.
Together, these tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet Barclays Bank UK Group’s obligations as
they fall due. The control framework is subject to internal conformance testing and internal audit review.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan, internal stress tests and results of regulatory stress tests. The
Barclays Bank UK PLC Asset Liability Committee is responsible for monitoring and managing liquidity risk in line with Barclays Bank UK Group’s
funding management objectives, funding plan and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and reviews the liquidity risk profile
and control environment, providing Second Line oversight of the management of liquidity risk. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee
reviews the risk profile, and annually reviews risk appetite and the impact of stress scenarios on the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan/forecast
in order to agree Barclays Bank UK Group’s projected funding abilities.
Barclays Bank UK Group maintains a range of management actions for use in a liquidity stress, these are documented in the Barclays Group
Recovery Plan. Since the precise nature of any stress event cannot be known in advance, the actions are designed to be flexible to the nature and
severity of the stress event and provide a menu of options that can be drawn upon as required. The Barclays Group Recovery Plan also contains
more severe recovery options to generate additional liquidity in order to facilitate recovery in a severe stress. Any stress event would be regularly
monitored and reviewed using key management information by Treasury, Risk and business representatives.
Capital risk management (audited)
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management of the capital position, regular stress testing and a robust capital
governance framework.
Roles and responsibilities
The management of capital risk is integral to Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to financial stability and sustainability management, and is
embedded in the way Barclays Bank UK Group and its businesses operate.
Capital risk management is underpinned by a control framework and policies. Capital plans reflect the capital management strategy and are
implemented to deliver on Barclays Bank UK Group’s objectives, which are aligned to those of Barclays Group. Barclays Bank UK Group-specific
capital plans are developed in conformance with the Barclays Group control framework and policies for capital risk, including Barclays Bank UK
Group addenda.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan, internal stress tests and results of regulatory stress tests. The
Barclays Bank UK PLC Board also approves the recovery options documented in the Barclays Group Recovery Plan pertaining to Barclays Bank UK.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO), together with the Barclays Group Treasury Committee, are responsible for
monitoring and managing capital risk in line with Barclays Bank UK Group’s capital management objectives, capital plan and risk frameworks. The
Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and reviews the capital risk profile and control environment, providing Second Line oversight of the
management of capital risk. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and annually reviews risk appetite and the
impact of stress scenarios on the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan/forecast in order to agree Barclays Bank UK Group’s projected capital
resources.
Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing and monitoring capital. The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury and
Capital Risk function has responsibility for capital risk oversight. Production of the Barclays Bank UK PLC ICAAP is the joint responsibility of Barclays
Bank UK Group Risk and Barclays Bank UK Group Finance.
In 2018, Barclays Bank UK PLC complied with all regulatory minimum capital requirements.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 39
Operational risk comprises a number of specific risk categories defined as follow:
 Data Management & Information Risk: The risk that Barclays Bank UK Group’s information is not captured, retained, used or protected in
accordance with its value and legal and regulatory requirements.
 Financial Reporting Risk: The risk of a material misstatement or omission within Barclays Bank UK Group’s external financial reporting, regulatory
reporting or internal financial management reporting.
 Fraud Risk: The risk of financial loss when an internal or external party acts dishonestly with the intent to obtain an undue benefit, cause a loss to,
or to expose either Barclays Bank UK Group or its customers and clients to a risk of loss.
 Payments Process Risk: The risk of payments being processed inaccurately, with delays or without appropriate authentication and authorisation.
It includes payments processes from initiation through to external settlement, including any repairs or amendments.
 People Risk: The set of risks associated with employing and managing people, including compliance with regulations, appropriate resourcing for
requirements, recruitment and development risks (excluding health and safety related risk).
 Premises Risk: The risk of business detriment or harm to people due to premises and infrastructure issues.
 Physical Security Risk: The risk of business detriment, financial loss or harm to people as a result of any physical security incident impacting
Barclays Bank UK Group or a Barclays Bank UK Group employee - relating to harm to people, unauthorised access, intentional damage to premises
or theft or intentional damage to moveable assets.
 Supplier Risk: The risk that is introduced as a consequence of obtaining services or goods from another legal entity, or entities, whether external
or internal as a result of inadequate selection, inadequate management or inadequate exit management.
 Tax Risk: The risk of unexpected tax cost in relation to any tax for which Barclays Bank UK Group is liable, or of reputational damage on tax matters
with key stakeholders such as tax authorities, regulators, shareholders or the public. Tax cost includes tax, interest or penalties levied by a taxing
authority.
 Technology Risk: The risk of dependency on technological solutions and failure to develop, deploy and maintain technology solutions that are
stable, reliable and deliver business needs.
 Transaction Operations Risk: The risk of customer/client or Barclays Bank UK Group detriment due to unintentional error and/or failure in the
end-to-end process of initiation, processing and fulfilment of an interaction between a customer/client and Barclays Bank UK Group with an
underlying financial instrument (e.g. mortgage, derivative product, trade product etc.) in consideration.
In addition to the above, operational risk encompasses risks associated with prudential regulation. This includes the risk of failing to: adhere to
prudential regulatory requirements, including capital adequacy requirements; provide regulatory submissions; or monitor and manage adherence to
new prudential regulatory requirements.
These risks may result in financial and/or non-financial impacts including legal/regulatory breaches or reputational damage.
Barclays Bank UK Group also recognises that there are certain threats/risk drivers that are more thematic and have the potential to impact Barclays
Bank UK Group’s strategic objectives. These are Enterprise Risk Themes which require an overarching and integrated risk management approach.
Including:
 Cyber: The potential loss or detriment to Barclays Bank UK Group caused by individuals or groups (threat actors) with the capabilities and intention
to cause harm or to profit from attacks committed via network information systems against us, our suppliers, or customers/clients.
 Data: Aligned to the Data Strategy of the firm and encompassing Data risks to the firm from multiple risk categories, including Data Management,
Data Architecture, Data Security & Protection, Data Resilience, Data Retention and Data Privacy.
 Execution: The risk of failing to deliver and implement the agreed initiatives, priorities and business outcomes required to deliver Barclays Bank UK
Group’s Strategy within agreed timelines.
 Resilience: The risk of the organisation’s ability to survive and prosper in its commercial endeavours in the presence of adverse events, shocks and
chronic or incremental changes.
Roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and
functional units where the risk arises. The operational risk profile and control environment is reviewed by business management through specific
meetings which cover these items. Legal entities, businesses and functions are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an
event-driven basis. The reports include a profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of
key controls, operational risk events and a review of scenarios.
The Barclays Group Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Barclays Group-wide
Operational Risk Management Framework, meanwhile the Barclays Bank UK PLC Head of Operational Risk is responsible for overseeing the
portfolio of operational risk across all businesses.
Operational Risk Management (ORM) acts in a Second Line of Defence capacity, and is responsible for defining and overseeing the implementation
of the framework and monitoring Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk profile. ORM alerts management when risk levels exceed acceptable
tolerance in order to drive timely decision making and actions by the first line of defence. Operational risk issues escalated from these meetings are
considered through the second line of defence review meetings. Depending on their nature, the outputs of these meetings are presented to the
Barclays UK Risk Committee, the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee or the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Audit Committee.
Specific reports are prepared by the business and Barclays Bank UK Group Operational Risk on a regular basis for the Barclays UK Risk Committee,
and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 42
Risk review
Principal Risk management
Model risk management
Model risk
The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Overview
Barclays Bank UK Group uses models to support a broad range of activities, including informing business decisions and strategies, measuring and
limiting risk, valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, managing client assets, and meeting reporting requirements.
Since models are imperfect and incomplete representations of reality, they may be subject to errors affecting the accuracy of their output. Model
errors can result in inappropriate business decisions being made, financial loss, regulatory risk, reputational risk and/or inadequate capital
reporting. Models may also be misused, for instance applied to products that they were not intended for, or not adjusted, where fundamental
changes to their environment would justify re-evaluating their core assumptions. Errors and misuse are the primary sources of model risk.
Robust model risk management is crucial to assessing and managing model risk within a defined risk appetite. Strong model risk culture,
appropriate technology environment, and adequate focus on understanding and resolving model limitations are crucial components.
Organisation and structure
Barclays allocates substantial resources to identify and record models and their usage, document and monitor the performance of models, validate
models and adequately address model limitations. Barclays manages model risk as an enterprise level risk similar to other principal risks.
Barclays Group has a dedicated Model Risk Management (MRM) function that consists of two main units: the Independent Validation Unit (IVU),
responsible for model validation and approval, and Model Governance and Controls (MGC), covering model risk governance, controls and
reporting, including ownership of model risk policy and the model inventory.
The model risk management framework consists of the model risk policy and standards. The policy prescribes Barclays group-wide, end-to-end
requirements for the identification, measurement and management of model risk, covering model documentation, development, implementation,
monitoring, annual review, independent validation and approval, change and reporting processes. The policy is supported by global standards
covering model inventory, documentation, validation, complexity and materiality, testing and monitoring, overlays, risk appetite, as well as vendor
models and stress testing challenger models.
Barclays is continuously enhancing model risk management. The function reports to the Barclays Group CRO and operates a global framework.
Implementation of best practice standards is a central objective of Barclays Group. Model risk reporting flows to senior management as depicted
below.
Roles and responsibilities
The key model risk management activities include:
 Correctly identifying models across all relevant areas of Barclays Bank UK Group, and recording models in the Barclays Group Models
Database (GMD), the Barclays Group-wide model inventory. The heads of the relevant model ownership areas annually attest to the
completeness and accuracy of the model inventory. MGC undertakes regular conformance reviews on the model inventory.
 Enforcing that every model has a model owner who is accountable for the model. The model owner must sign off models prior to
submission to IVU for validation. The model owner works with the relevant technical teams (model developers, implementation, monitoring,
data services, regulatory) to maintain that the model presented to IVU is and remains fit for purpose.
 Overseeing that every model is subject to validation and approval by IVU, prior to being implemented and on a continual basis. While all
models are reviewed and re-approved for continued use each year, the validation frequency and the level of review and challenge applied by
IVU is tailored to the materiality and complexity of each model. Validation includes a review of the model assumptions, conceptual
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 43
Risk review
Principal Risk management
Conduct risk management
Conduct risk
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial services,
including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.
Overview
Barclays Bank UK Group defines, manages and mitigates conduct risk with the goal of providing positive customer and client outcomes, protecting
market integrity and promoting effective competition. This includes taking reasonable steps to assure that the Barclays Bank UK Group culture and
strategy are appropriately aligned to these goals; its products and services are reasonably designed and delivered to meet the needs of customers and
clients; promoting the fair and orderly operation of the markets in which Barclays Bank UK Group does business; and that Barclays Bank UK Group
does not commit or facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption or breaches of economic sanctions.
Product Lifecycle, Culture and Strategy and Financial Crime are the risk categories within the Barclays Group definition of conduct risk.
Organisation and structure
The governance of conduct risk within Barclays Bank UK Group is fulfilled through management committees and forums operated by the First and Second
Lines of Defence with clear escalation and reporting lines to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board committees.
The Barclays UK Risk Committee is the most senior executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays Bank UK
Group’s management of conduct risk.
Roles and responsibilities
The Conduct Risk Management Framework (CRMF) and Barclays Bank UK Group Conduct Risk Management Addendum comprises a number of
elements that allow Barclays Bank UK Group to manage and measure its conduct risk profile.
Senior Managers have ownership within their areas for managing conduct risk. These individuals have a Statement of Responsibilities identifying the
activities and areas for which they are accountable. The primary responsibility for managing conduct risk and compliance with control requirements
sits with the business where the risk arises. The First Line Business Control Committees provide oversight of controls relating to conduct risk.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for owning and maintaining an appropriate Barclays Bank UK Group-wide
CRMF addendum for overseeing Barclays Bank UK Group conduct risk management. This includes assessing the appropriateness and owning the
relevant conduct risk policies and oversight of the implementation of controls to manage the risk.
Businesses are required to report their conduct risks on both a quarterly and an event-driven basis. The quarterly reports detail conduct risks inherent
within the business strategy and include forward looking horizon scanning analysis as well as backward looking evidence-based indicators from both
internal and external sources.
The Barclays UK Risk Committee is the primary Second Line governance forum for oversight of conduct risk profile and implementation of the CRMF
and associated addendum. The responsibilities of the Barclays UK Risk Committee include approval of the conduct risk tolerance and the business
defined key indicators. Additional responsibilities include the identification and discussion of any emerging conduct risks exposures that have been
identified.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 45
Risk review
Principal Risk management
Reputation risk management
Reputation risk
The risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the firm’s integrity and competence by clients, counterparties,
investors, regulators, employees or the public.
Overview
A reduction in trust in Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and competence may reduce the attractiveness of Barclays Bank UK Group to customers and
clients and other stakeholders and could lead to negative publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing and potential client
business, reduced workforce morale and difficulties in recruiting talent.
Organisation and structure
The governance of reputation risk within Barclays Bank UK Group is fulfilled through management committees and forums operated by the First and
Second Lines of Defence with clear escalation and reporting lines to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board committees.
The Barclays UK Risk Committee is the most senior executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of Barclays Bank UK
Group management of reputation risk.
Roles and responsibilities
The Reputation Risk Management Framework (RRMF) comprises a number of elements that allow Barclays Bank UK Group to manage and measure
its reputation risk profile.
Reputation risk is by nature pervasive and can be difficult to quantify, requiring more subjective judgement than many other risks. The RRMF sets out
what is required to manage reputation risk effectively.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for owning, maintaining and overseeing Barclays Bank UK Group reputation risk
management. This includes assessing the appropriateness and owning the relevant reputation risk policies and oversight of the implementation of
controls to manage the risk. The First Line Business Control Committees provide oversight of controls relating to reputation risk.
Barclays Bank UK Group is required to operate within established reputation risk appetite and prepares reports for its Risk and Board Risk
Committees highlighting the most significant current and potential reputation risks and issues and how they are being managed.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 46
Risk review
Principal Risk management
Legal risk management
Legal risk
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of the firm to meet its legal obligations including regulatory or
contractual requirements.
Overview
Overall, Barclays Bank UK Group has limited tolerance for legal risk, however the multitude of laws and regulations are highly dynamic and their
application to particular circumstances is often unclear. This results in a degree of legal risk. The Barclays Group-wide Legal Risk Management
Framework (LRMF), which applies to Barclays Bank UK Group, comprises a number of integrated components that allows Barclays Bank UK Group
to identify, manage and measure its legal risk profile supported by legal risk policies and associated standards aligned to the following legal risks:
 contractual arrangements – failure to engage Barclays’ Legal Function in relation to contractual arrangements
 litigation management – litigation not being managed by or with the support of Barclays’ Legal function
 intellectual property (IP) – failure to protect Barclays’ IP assets or infringement of third party IP rights
 competition/anti-trust – failure to identify and escalate competition/anti-trust issues to Barclays’ Legal function or inappropriate interactions with
competition/anti-trust authorities
 use of law firms – inappropriate instruction of external legal advisors
 contact with regulators – inappropriate interactions with regulators or inappropriate handling of confidential supervisory information from
regulatory or government agencies
 legal engagement – failure to appropriately engage Barclays’ Legal function in relation to key business decisions.
Organisation and structure
The Legal Executive Committee oversees, monitors and challenges legal risk across Barclays Group. The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk
Committee is the most senior body within Barclays Bank UK Group responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness or management of
risk across Barclays Bank UK Group. Escalation paths also exist to the Barclays Group Risk Committee, which oversees, monitors and challenges the
effectiveness of risk management across Barclays Group.
Roles and responsibilities
The LRMF requires Barclays’ businesses and functions to integrate the management of legal risk within their strategic planning and business
decision making including managing adherence to the minimum control requirements. The Barclays Bank UK Group businesses are accountable
and have primary responsibility for identifying legal risk in their area as well as responsibility for adherence to minimum control requirements and
compliance with the LRMF and legal risk policies.
All employees, regardless of their position, business or function or location, must play a part in Barclays Bank UK Group’s legal risk management.
Employees are responsible for understanding and taking reasonable steps to manage and minimise legal risk that may arise in the context of their
individual roles and responsibilities. Employees are required to be familiar with the LRMF and legal risk policies and to know how to escalate
actual or potential legal risk issues.
Legal risk management is everyone’s responsibility, as part of a risk culture aligned to Barclays’ values, promoting transparency and timely
escalation and management of risks and issues, supported by clearly defined roles and responsibilities across the Three Lines of Defence.
The Legal Function does not sit in any of the Three Lines of Defence but supports them all. The LRMF details the main activities the Legal
Function undertakes to support Barclays Bank UK Group in managing risk, including the identification of issues and risks, coverage with
appropriate expertise and escalation. The LRMF, legal risk policies and activities of the Legal Function are designed so that Barclays Bank UK
Group receives advice from appropriate legal professionals in circumstances that are most likely to give rise to legal risk.
The Group General Counsel, supported by the Legal Executive Committee and the Global Head of Legal Risk, Governance and Control, is
responsible for maintaining an appropriate LRMF, developing non-financial legal risk tolerances and for overseeing legal risk management.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 47
Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Capital risk
The risk that the firm has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business activities and to meet its regulatory capital
requirements under normal operating environments or stressed conditions (both actual and as defined for internal planning or regulatory testing
purposes). This includes the risk from the firm’s pension plans.
All disclosures in this section (page 80) are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
Throughout 2018, Barclays Bank UK PLC was regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) on an individual basis. The disclosures below
provide key capital metrics for Barclays Bank UK PLC on an individual basis with further information on its risk profile included in the Barclays PLC
Pillar 3 Report 2018. The Barclays Bank UK Group became regulated by the PRA from 1 January 2019.
As at 31 December 2018, Barclays Bank UK PLC transitional CET1 ratio was 14.2% which exceeded the 2018 transitional minimum requirement.
Capital ratiosa,b As at 31 December 2018
Common equity tier 1 (CET1) 14.2%
Tier 1 (T1) 17.0%
Total regulatory capital 21.3%
Capital resourcesa (audited) £bn
CET1 capital 10.7
T1 capital 12.8
Total regulatory capital 16.1
Total risk weighted assets (unaudited) 75.3
Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) leverage ratioa £bn
CRR leverage ratio 4.9%
T1 capital 12.8
CRR leverage exposure 258
Notes
a Capital, RWAs and leverage are calculated applying the transitional arrangements of the CRR. This includes IFRS 9 transitional arrangements.
b The fully loaded CET1 ratio was 13.8%, with £10.4bn of CET1 capital and £75.4bn of RWAs, calculated without applying the transitional arrangements under the CRR.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 80
Risk review
Risk performance
Model risk
Model risk
The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
Model risk is a focus area for management and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board. It is an important component of regulators’ assessment of Barclays
Bank UK Group’s risk management capabilities. Models are used to support a broad range of business and risk management activities, including
informing business decisions and strategies, measuring and limiting risks, valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital adequacy,
supporting new business acceptance and risk/reward evaluation, managing client assets, or meeting reporting requirements.
Summary of performance in the period
The principal risk framework for model risk in Barclays Group was established in 2016. In 2017, the framework was enhanced and governance and
controls capabilities were established. In 2018 the framework was embedded further in the organisation and governance was improved by:
 strengthening of the Barclays Group-wide Model Risk Management (MRM) framework, policy and associated standards, validation templates and
procedures
 broadening governance of models to include qualitative estimation approaches called ‘non-modelled methods’, which cover material decision
making and financial and regulatory reporting functions of Barclays Bank UK Group, such as the primary stress testing programmes and
impairment estimations
 enhancement of Barclays Bank UK PLC Board oversight of model risk, through the reporting of the model risk tolerance framework and periodic
updates to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board on the progress of the MRM implementation
 improved collection and attestation of the Barclays Group’s global inventory of models
 reporting metrics on policy adherence and breaches
 enhancement of model development and model identification processes, with the areas of model ownership throughout Barclays Bank UK Group
embedding and improving their own model control functions.
In addition to the governance outlined above, which details how new models are validated and existing models are internally controlled and assessed,
models have been classified based on their materiality (the level of reliance placed on the model output for decision making or reporting), and their
complexity. A strengthened programme of review and validation for such material models commenced during 2017 and has made significant
progress in 2018. In 2019 through to 2020, model risk governance will continue with the programme of model documentation and reviews, targeting
prioritised models across Barclays Bank UK Group as well as focusing on performance monitoring of models already brought into governance to
assess compliance with the framework.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 87
Credit risk management
access, we re-performed on a sample basis
management’s assessment of potential
unauthorised access by privileged accounts
and users, whose access rights were not
recertified.
Our results:
Our testing did not identify unauthorised user activities
in the systems relevant to financial reporting which
would have required us to expand the extent of our
planned detailed testing.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Materiality
On 1 April 2018 Barclays Bank UK PLC acquired the UK banking business of Barclays Bank PLC to meet the regulatory ring-fencing requirement
under the Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013. As a result of this the scope of our audit and our materiality levels have changed from the
2017 audit.
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £75 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before tax from
continuing operations of which it represents 4.8%. In 2017, Group financial statements were not prepared.
Materiality for the Parent company financial statements as a whole was set at £72 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before
tax from continuing operations, of which it represents 4.6%. In 2017, materiality for the Parent company financial statements as a whole was set at
£0.8 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represented 0.5%.
We agreed to report to the Board Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £3.75 million, in addition to
other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Profit before tax from continuing Group Materiality
operations £75m
£1,548m
£75m
Whole financial
statements materiality
£3.75m
Misstatements reported to
the Board Audit Committee
Profit before tax from continuing
operations
Group materiality
Scope – general
The Group team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information. The audit was performed using the
materiality levels set out above.
4 We have nothing to report on going concern
The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Parent company or the Group
or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Parent company’s and the Group’s financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going
concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements (“the going concern period”).
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going
concern, to make reference to that in this audit report. However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 103