Contents
Page
Strategic Report
Performance review 1
Managing risk 3
Performance measures 5
Our people and culture 7
Having regard to our stakeholders in our decision making 8
Governance
Governance contents 10
Chair’s introduction 11
Corporate Governance Statement 13
Board and Committee Governance: Additional Information 16
Directors’ Report 22
Risk review
Risk review contents 25
Risk management strategy 27
Material existing and emerging risks 29
Principal risk management 37
Risk performance 43
Supervision and regulation 93
Financial statements
Financial statements contents 97
Consolidated financial statements 105
Notes to the financial statements 113
Strategic Report
Managing risk
Strategic Report
The Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to internal and external risks as part of our ongoing activities. These risks are managed as part of our business
model.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Within the Barclays Bank UK Group, risks are identified and overseen through the Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF), which supports
the business in its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture.
The ERMF governs the way in which the Barclays Bank UK Group identifies and manages its risks. The ERMF is approved by the Barclays PLC board
on recommendation of the Barclays Group Chief Risk Officer; it is then adopted by the Barclays Bank UK Group with minor modifications where
needed.
The management of risk is embedded into each level of the business, with all colleagues being responsible for identifying and controlling risks.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite defines the level of risk we are prepared to accept across the different risk types, taking into consideration varying levels of financial
and operational stress. Risk appetite is key for our decision making processes, including ongoing business planning and setting of strategy, new
product approvals and business change initiatives.
The Barclays Bank UK Group may choose to adopt a lower risk appetite than allocated to it by the Barclays Group.
Three Lines of Defence
The first line of defence is comprised of the revenue generating and customer facing areas, along with all associated support functions, including
Finance, Treasury, Human Resources and Operations and Technology. The first line identifies the risks, sets the controls and escalates risk events to
the second line of defence.
The second line of defence is made up of Risk and Compliance and oversees the first line by setting the limits, rules and constraints on their
operations, consistent with the risk appetite.
The third line of defence is comprised of Internal Audit, providing independent assurance over the effectiveness of governance, risk management
and control over current, systemic and evolving risks.
Although the Legal function does not sit in any of the three lines, it works to support them all and plays a key role in overseeing Legal risk
throughout the bank. The Legal function is also subject to oversight from the Risk and Compliance functions (second line) with respect to the
management of operational and conduct risks.
Monitoring the risk profile
Together with a strong governance process, using Business and Barclays Group-level Risk Committees as well as Board level forums, the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Board receives regular information in respect of the risk profile of the Barclays Bank UK Group. Information received includes
measures of risk profile against risk appetite as well as identification of new and emerging risks.
We believe that our structure and governance supports us in managing risk in the changing economic, political and market environments.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 3
Strategic Report
Our people and culture
We believe that the culture of Barclays Group is built and shaped by the thousands of professionals around the world who serve our customers and
clients with a shared purpose and values. Our people make a critical difference to our success, and our investment in them protects and strengthens
our culture. Barclays Bank UK PLC colleague themes and initiatives are aligned to Barclays Group values and strategic goals. The following sub-
sections are therefore consistent with those detailed in the People Section of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019 and figures mentioned are for
Barclays Group other than as specifically mentioned.
Colleague engagement
We have an established approach to engaging colleagues which includes the majority of mechanisms recommended the UK’s Financial Reporting
Council and with new governance requirements in 2019. This ensures that we understand their perspective, take it into account in our decision
making at the most senior level, and share with them our strategy and progress.
That extends to those who work for us indirectly as well, such as contractors, although in a more limited way. In 2020, our supplier code of conduct
will require organisations with more than 250 employees to demonstrate that they have an effective workforce engagement approach of their own.
It’s important to us that our Board members are engaged with our people – directly, and indirectly through our management team. The Board regularly
receives reports on colleague engagement activity.
Together with direct engagement, this reporting approach and dedicated time at board meetings helps our Board take the issues of interest to our
colleagues into account in their decision making. This has enabled them to confirm that our workforce engagement approach is effective.
Listening to our people
Our regular colleague survey formally captures the views of our people and is a key part of how we track colleague engagement, alongside more
granular colleague sentiment tracking across our businesses. Barclays Bank UK PLC’s overall engagement scorea reduced slightly to 76% in 2019, but
78% of our colleagues would still recommend Barclays Group as a good place to work.
The results from the survey are an important part of the conversations our leaders have about how we run the business, and it’s a specific focus for
our Executive Committee and our Board.
We monitor our culture across the organisation, and in individual business areas, through Culture Dashboards. These combine colleague survey data
with other metrics about our business, so that we can see the effect our people’s engagement has on our performance, and on the continued strength
of our culture. 82% of our people have heard or read the speeches of senior leaders across the Barclays Group talking about the character and culture
of Barclays Group.
Keeping our people informed
In addition to these data sources, our leaders, including our Board, engage face to face with colleagues to hear what they think. That might be through
site visits, large-scale town halls, training and development activity, mentoring, informal breakfast sessions, committee membership, diversity and
wellbeing programmes, or focus and consultative groups.
We make sure we’re regularly keeping everyone up to date on the strategy, performance and progress of the organisation through a strategically-
coordinated, multichannel approach across a combination of leader-led engagement, and digital and print communication, including blogs, vlogs
and podcasts.
We also engage with our people collectively through a strong and effective partnership with Unite, as well as the Barclays Group European Forum,
which represents all Barclays Group colleagues within the European Union.
These conversations help us to deliver things like a collective pay deal for our Unite covered colleagues, who represent 84% of the Group’s UK-based
colleagues, as well as more complex business change and our long-term focus on colleague wellbeing. We regularly brief our union partners on the
strategy and progress of the business and seek their input on ways in which we can improve the colleague experience of working in Barclays. The
collective bargaining coverage of Unite in the UK represents c.52% of our global workforce.
Building a supportive culture
Diversity of thought and experience works best when everyone feels included. People who feel they can be themselves at work are happier and more
productive, so we believe that creating an inclusive and diverse culture isn’t just the right thing to do, but is also best for our business.
Our policies require managers to give full and fair consideration to those with a disability on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities; both when hiring
and through ongoing people management, as well as ensuring opportunities for training, career development and promotion are available to all. As
part of our commitment to the UK government Disability Confident scheme, we encourage applications from people with a disability, or a physical
or mental health condition.
We encourage our people to benefit from Barclays Group performance by enrolling in our share plans, further strengthening their commitment to
the organisation.
Note
a Engagement score is a measure of employee satisfaction, which indicates levels of fulfilment in Barclays.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 7
Strategic Report
Having regard to our stakeholders in our decision making
Section 172(1) statement
The Directors have acted in a way that they considered, in good faith, to be most likely to promote the success of Barclays Bank UK PLC for the
benefit of its member as a whole, and in doing so had regard, amongst other matters, to:
 the likely consequences of any decision in the long term;
 the interests of the Company’s employees;
 the need to foster the Company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;
 the impact of the Company’s operations on the community and the environment;
 the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and
 the need to act fairly as between members of the Company.
The Directors also took into account the views and interests of a wider set of stakeholders, including our pensioners, our regulators, the Government,
and non-government organisations. You can find out more about who are key stakeholders are, how management and/or the Directors engaged
with them, the key issues raised and actions taken on pages 14 to 15 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019 which is incorporated by reference into
this statement.
Considering this broad range of interests is an important part of the way the Board makes decisions, although in balancing those different perspectives
it won’t always be possible to deliver everyone’s desired outcome.
How does the Board engage with stakeholders?
The Board will sometimes engage directly with certain stakeholders on certain issues, but the size and distribution of our stakeholders and of the
Barclays Bank UK Group means that stakeholder engagement often takes place at an operational level.
In addition, to ensure a more efficient and effective approach, certain stakeholder engagement is led at Barclays Group level, in particular where
matters are of group-wide significance or have the potential to impact the reputation of the Barclays Group.
The Board considers and discusses information from across the organisation to help it understand the impact of Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations,
and the interests and views of our key stakeholders. It also reviews strategy, financial and operational performance as well as information covering
areas such as key risks, and legal and regulatory compliance. This information is provided to the Board through reports sent in advance of each Board
meeting, and through in-person presentations.
As a result of these activities, the Board has an overview of engagement with stakeholders, and other relevant factors, which enables the Directors to
comply with their legal duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
For more details on how our Board operates, and the way in which it reaches decisions, including the matters it discussed and debated during the
year, please see pages 16 to 17 of the Governance Report.
The following are some examples of how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in sections 172 (a)-(f) when discharging their section
172 duties and the effect of that on certain of the decisions taken by them.
Engagement in action
(a) Being accountable for our decisions
Our governance is designed to ensure that we take into account the views of all our stakeholders, so that our decision-making is collaborative and
well-informed – both before and after we make our decisions public.
In October 2019 we announced that we would be withdrawing over-the-counter access to cash for our customers at Post Offices in the UK. This
was a decision made after carefully balancing the economic impact of a significant increase in transaction fees, and our ability to put in place
comprehensive plans to safeguard our customers’ access to cash. Following our announcement, we continued to engage with customers, Members
of Parliament, and government. It became clear from this further engagement that our full participation in the Post Office Banking Framework was
crucial to the viability of the Post Office network at this point in time.
As a result of that further engagement and debate, we reversed our decision. The Board has reviewed the planning and decision-making process
around this issue. This has highlighted and re-confirmed, amongst other things, the importance of listening to all of our stakeholders, on an ongoing
basis.
(b) Our role in society/investing in communities
The Board in setting and overseeing the Company’s citizenship agenda has considered the interests of colleagues, customers and the Company’s
impact on the community. Barclays Group is considered part of the fabric of the UK due to its number of customers and colleagues. Through the
products and services, we offer, we help people to buy a home, build a nest egg, start a business and support their family. Whilst this is our prime
responsibility, we strongly believe there is bigger role Barclays Group can play in society.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 8
One example of this is the ‘Thriving Local Economies’ initiative. At a time of economic and political uncertainty and squeezed living standards, our
success as a country will be driven by thriving local economies and by ensuring the businesses and people in those communities have the right
support, and skills, to make the most of the opportunities that exist.
Through investment in our ‘Thriving Local Economies’ initiative, we will make a difference in communities across the UK by partnering with a range
of others initially in pilot schemes in four different local economies running for a five-year period – a metropolitan area, a smaller town, a rural
community and a coastal area. The aim of the pilots, which focus on boosting skills and the growth of local business by targeting bespoke initiatives
utilising the best of our citizenship flagship programmes, is to gain a deep understanding of the needs of our stakeholders, in particular our customers
and the communities, and how best we can serve them.
In 2019 we extended the LifeSkills programme to help millions of adults across the country, providing them with the skills, knowledge and confidence
to succeed in the workplace. For further detail on LifeSkills and our other community programmes (Connect with Work, Eagle Labs and Unreasonable
Impact) please see page 34 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019.
YourBank is another example of how we are thinking differently about the branches that are last in town or remote. We are working with the
communities in each of these towns to make them more sustainable as a banking service for the longer term. The Board has reviewed and endorsed
the Company’s commitment in these cases not to close these branches until at least October 2021.
(c) Serving and protecting our customers
Our customers’ behaviours continue to evolve, placing even greater reliance on our digital capabilities in how we serve their needs in the most
convenient way for them. Given the increased reliance they place on them, our customers expect those digital capabilities to be available whenever
they need them, and for them to protect their interests at all times.
Despite the challenging market environment, the Board concurs with management that it is critical that our investment keeps pace with those
expectations. The Board has, as a result, continued to direct heavy investment in our technology, specifically, in areas of most concern to our
customers, such as operational resilience, cyber security and in supporting our customers against the ever present threat of scams; ensuring that
Barclays Group is as safe to bank with virtually as it has been physically for over 325 years.
The further build out of our digital capability in 2020 and beyond remains fundamental to our strategy to put customers at the centre of everything
we do. More detail on our technology initiatives can be found on page 10 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019 ‘Becoming more digital’ section.
Sir Ian Cheshire
Chair – Barclays Bank UK PLC
12 February 2020
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 9
Our corporate governance processes and the role they play in supporting the delivery of our strategy.
Governance Page
 Chair’s introduction 11
 Corporate Governance Statement 13
 Board and Committee Governance: Additional Information 16
 Directors’ Report 22
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 10
Governance
Chair’s introduction
I am very pleased to present our Governance Report for 2019.
In our second year of operation as a ring-fenced bank, the role of the Board has been clarified against four key priorities: (i) to ensure compliance
with the regulatory and legislative framework of the ring-fencing requirements, whilst recognising the wishes of our shareholder, Barclays PLC
(‘Barclays’); (ii) to add value to the business on all matters considered significant to Barclays Bank UK PLC (the ‘Company’); principally purpose,
culture, strategy, conduct and customer outcomes; (iii) to hold management to account for delivery of the strategy; and (iv) to bring the outside
world into the business through a diversity of perspectives and innovative thinking.
Board activities
Strategy
A key focus of the Board this year has been overseeing the enhancement and embedding of our strategy, to build deeper, longer term relationships
with customers. In pursuing a digital-led strategy we are responding to ever changing customer expectations and behaviours, whilst continuing to
support those who prefer to do their banking in more traditional ways. For further detail on our strategic priorities please see page 1 of the Strategic
Report.
The operating environment continues to be challenging: low interest rates and intense pricing competition in the mortgage and unsecured lending
markets continue to put pressure on margins; new challenger banks and technology are disrupting markets and changing customer expectations;
while the expectations of society are increasing and regulation continues to evolve.
Against this context, the Board has spent considerable time, both inside and outside formal meetings, discussing strategy and the medium term
business plan (‘MTP’). We believe our strategy, structure and governance positions us well in supporting customers in what they want to do
throughout their lives and in managing the risks of a changing economic, political and market environment.
Our relentless focus on strengthening and deepening customer relationships is reflected in improvements in our net promoter score which, as of
December 2019, is +18 (2018: +17). Complaints have also reduced 8% year-on-year but more will be done to ensure we are truly customer focused
and stay ahead of the regulatory agenda and our competitors.
Culture and stakeholder engagement
The Board continues to play a key role in setting and monitoring the culture of the organisation. We recognise the importance of the Barclays Group
being a supportive and collaborative place to work and view engagement with our stakeholders and the impact of Barclays Group on society as a
whole as important. For further detail on how the Board monitors the culture of the organisation, please see page 7 and separately pages 8 to 9 for
how it fosters effective stakeholder relationships aligned to the Company’s purpose.
Our long-standing commitment to the importance and value of our colleagues continues. An extensive engagement matrix has been developed to
ensure sufficient and effective engagement with our colleagues and that the Board is made aware of views expressed. Please see page 7 of the
Strategic Report for further detail.
Risk and control
The Board continues to ensure management maintains an effective system of risk management and internal control for assessing its effectiveness.
Key to this is identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks facing the Company and setting the Company’s risk appetite; that is, the level
of risk it is prepared to take in the context of achieving its strategic objectives.
In conjunction with the Risk Committee, the Board has overseen the operational impact of the UK’s decision to leave the European Union (EU) and
the Company’s readiness for Brexit. In addition, conduct risk remains a key area of focus to ensure the goal of providing positive customer and client
outcomes.
The Board has continued to receive regular updates on operational resilience and cyber threats, with the loss of, or interruption to, business processing
remaining a material inherent risk for the Company and across the financial services industry. The risks arising from an evolving regulatory change
agenda, data management and emerging risks such as climate change have also been, and will continue to be, areas of Board focus.
The Board, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, has been kept updated on PPI redress attributed to claims received prior to the 29 August 2019
complaints deadline.
Board composition, succession planning and effectiveness
Following a formal and transparent process, the Board was delighted to welcome as Executive Directors, both Rupert Fowden, as Interim Chief
Financial Officer, and Matt Hammerstein, as Chief Executive in June and July respectively. James Mack replaced Rupert, joining the organisation and
Board as Chief Financial Officer on 3 February 2020. We welcome James and thank Rupert for his hard work and considerable contribution in role.
There have been no changes to the Non-Executive Directors during the year.
Board and executive composition and succession remains a key area of focus to ensure the quality of leadership is in place to lead the business in the
delivery of strategy against a challenging economic and operating environment. In 2019 this led to organisational structure changes, to be
implemented in early 2020, to optimise delivery of the customer focused strategy.
We believe an effective Board is a cohesive Board which provides informed and constructive challenge to the management team, vital to the
generation of increased and sustainable shareholder return. We view effectiveness as a continuous task and one that relates not only to Board
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 11
Governance
Corporate Governance Statement
The Board aspires to have high standards of corporate governance and, in accordance with the 2018 Regulations, has during the year considered
which corporate governance arrangements would be most appropriate to apply.
We have chosen not to adopt and report against the revised 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, which is designed for premium listed companies
and, whilst we fully support the introduction of the Wates Corporate Governance Principles for Large Private Companies (in particular the focus on
purpose, culture and employee and stakeholder engagement), we feel they are less appropriate for a wholly-owned subsidiary of a premium listed
company which is also a complex financial institution subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime. We have therefore adopted our own corporate
governance principles and arrangements which we believe are most appropriate for the Company, and are designed to ensure effective decision-
making to promote the Company’s success for the long term.
Our primary aim is that our governance is:
 effective, in particular to ensure the safety and soundness of the ring-fenced bank;
 provides checks and balances and encourages constructive challenge;
 drives informed, collaborative and accountable decision-making; and
 creates long-term sustainable value for our shareholder, the ultimate shareholders of Barclays and our wider stakeholders.
Below is a table setting out the principles which underpin our corporate governance arrangements and how these principles have been applied during
2019. Certain additional information, signposted throughout this section, is available in the Strategic Report and the ‘Board and Committee
Governance: Additional Information’ section on pages 16 to 21.
Our group-wide governance framework is set by Barclays and has been designed to facilitate the effective management of the Barclays Group. This
includes the setting of Group policies in relation to matters such as Barclays values, Barclays’ Remuneration Policy and the Barclays’ Charter of
Expectations. Where appropriate, this Corporate Governance Statement makes reference to those Group policies which are relevant to the way in
which the Company is governed.
Our corporate governance principles and how the Company has applied them during 2019
Principle One: Board Leadership and Company Purpose
A successful company is led by an effective and entrepreneurial board whose role is to establish the company’s purpose, values and strategy,
aligned to its culture, and make decisions to promote its success for the long term benefit of its shareholder, having regard to the interests of
other relevant stakeholders and factors.
 Through the leadership of the Board, a clear vision for the Company’s purpose and overall values is articulated, underpinning and defining the
strategy and culture of the organisation. This is embedded at every level of management.
 Purpose has been brought to life for all colleagues in 2019 through Company initiatives such as the creation of a single set of common employee
objectives and a ‘working together’ initiative to increase better connectivity between support areas and front line colleagues and customers.
 Time was spent in 2019 overseeing the development of the Company’s strategy to align with the Barclays purpose of ‘creating opportunities to
rise’. Further detail on our strategy and how it fits within the Barclays Group strategy can be found on page 1 of the Strategic Report and
separately pages 8 to 11 and pages 20 to 22 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019 and the Board’s role in creation of the strategy on pages
16 to 17 ‘What we did in 2019’.
 Culture remains a core area of focus with the Board actively promoting ethical leadership and accountability whilst supporting and reinforcing
the Barclays’ Code of Conduct, the Barclays Way, and the Barclays Values, to achieve a dynamic and positive culture. Detail on how the Board
monitors culture can be found on page 7 of the Strategic Report.
Principle Two: Division of Responsibilities
An effective board requires a clear division of responsibilities with the Chair leading the board and being responsible for its overall effectiveness,
and the executive leadership of the company’s business being delegated to the Chief Executive. The board should consist of an appropriate
combination of executive and independent non-executive directors each with a clear understanding of their accountability and responsibilities.
The board’s policies and procedures should support effective decision-making and independent challenge.
 Clear division of responsibilities between the Chair and Chief Executive. Detail on the role of each can be found on page 16. Page 16 lists ‘Current
Directors’, with a majority of the Board, independent Non-Executive Directors.
 Policies and protocols are in place to support effective decision-making and independent challenge including: the Barclays Group’s corporate
governance manual setting out clearly how the Barclays Group entities and their respective boards and board committees should interact and
Barclays’ Charter of Expectations, setting out clearly the role and responsibilities of each Director. The Chair meets privately with the Non-
Executive Directors prior to each scheduled Board meeting to promote required independence.
 Board duties are executed in part through Board Committees, which provide oversight and make recommendations on the matters delegated
to them by the Board. Detail on the principal Committees, their core responsibilities and activities in 2019 is set out on pages 17 to 20.
 Appropriate information and support is provided to the Board to enable them to undertake their work with due care and discharge their
responsibilities. See pages 16 and 21 for further detail.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 13
Principle Three: Composition, Succession and Evaluation
A board with the right balance of skills, experience and diversity is critical to the sustainable delivery of value to the company’s shareholder and
broader stakeholders. The size of the board should be guided by the scale and complexity of the company and appointments should be based
on merit and objective criteria and with a view to promoting diversity and subject to a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure which is
underpinned by an effective succession plan for board and senior management. A successful board is a cohesive board that provides informed
and constructive challenge to the management team and measures its effectiveness.
 The size and composition of the Board is appropriate to a large UK retail bank. A good balance exists between Executive and independent Non-
Executive Directors who bring a strong combination of technical, finance (including significant financial services experience), retail and audit
skills, with broader experience in culture, colleague engagement and technology. In addition, the independent Non-Executive Directors bring
independent challenge.
 All appointments to the Board and senior management are based on merit and objective criteria with a strong acknowledgement in the benefits
of diversity (gender, ethnicity and thought) for an effective Board and organisation. Diversity will remain a key area of focus. Further detail,
including on the Barclays Group Board Diversity Policy, can be found on page 21.
 There is a regular review of the leadership and succession needs of the business to ensure the depth and diversity of the talent and succession
pipeline at the Board, Executive Committee and one level down. In 2019 this led to organisational structure changes, to be implemented in early
2020, to optimise delivery of the customer focused strategy. Talent and succession remains a key focus for 2020 to ensure the quality of
leadership is in place to lead the business in the delivery of the strategy, against a challenging economic and operating environment.
 New Chief Executive, Matt Hammerstein, and Interim Chief Financial Officer, Rupert Fowden, joined the Board as Executive Directors, with James
Mack replacing Rupert Fowden as the new Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director on the 3 February 2020. All appointments were made
pursuant to a formal and transparent procedure.
 Accountability is driven through routine evaluations of the Board and Board Committees with an external Board evaluation undertaken in 2019
and separately an internal Board Committee evaluation and Non-Executive Director reviews (including the Chair) concluded, relating to 2019
activity. Key findings are summarised on pages 12 and 19.
 Ongoing focus on training and professional development to provide Board members with a deeper and more granular understanding of the
business contributing to informed and sound decision-making. Further detail on ‘training and induction’ can be found on page 21.
Principle Four: Audit, Risk and Internal Control
The board should establish formal and transparent policies and procedures to (i) identify the nature and extent of principal risks the company is
willing to take in order to achieve its long-term strategic objectives; (ii) manage such risks effectively; (iii) oversee the internal control framework;
(iv) promote the independence and effectiveness of internal and external audit functions; and (v) satisfy itself on the integrity of financial reporting.
 Principal risks have been identified, as articulated on page 4, with robust processes in place to evaluate and manage such risks; including regular
reporting to, and oversight by the Risk Committee and the Board.
 The Board approves the Company’s risk appetite; the level of risk the Company is prepared to accept across different risk types.
 Effectiveness of risk management and internal controls is reviewed regularly by the Risk Committee (with responsibility for providing oversight
on current and potential future risk exposures) and the Audit Committee (with responsibility for controls, including reviewing audit reports,
internal controls and risk management systems). Please see pages 17 to 20 for further detail on the role of these Committees.
 Please see pages 16 and 20 of the ‘Board and Committee Governance: Additional Information’ section for detail on the reliability of information
provided to the Board.
 The Audit Committee continues to provide its oversight of the financial reporting processes and the work of the external and internal auditors
(including independence and effectiveness). Further detail can be found on page 18.
Principle Five: Remuneration
The remuneration policies and practices should support strategy and promote long-term sustainable success, and be developed in accordance
with formal and transparent procedures, ensuring no director is involved in deciding their own remuneration outcome. Executive remuneration
should be aligned to the company’s purpose and values and the successful delivery of the strategy; with outcomes taking account of company
and individual performance, and wider circumstances such as pay across the company’s workforce and Barclays’ Fair Pay agenda.
 Barclays’ Remuneration Policy is set by the Barclays’ remuneration committee, but adopted by the Company’s independent Board Remuneration
Committee. Remuneration is aligned to the Company’s strategy and risk management approach and designed to promote the long-term success
of the Company.
 Executive and senior management remuneration approaches are developed in accordance with the Barclays Group’s formal and transparent
procedures (ensuring no director is involved in deciding their own remuneration outcome) and having regard to workforce remuneration policies
and alignment of incentives and rewards with culture and performance as reviewed annually by the Barclays’ remuneration committee and
shared with the Company’s Remuneration Committee.
 The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference, with responsibility for: the development of a remuneration approval
framework to ensure an appropriate level of oversight of senior remuneration decisions; annual consideration of the Company incentive pool to
ensure alignment with delivery of the Company’s strategic ambitions and oversight of reward and recognition across the entire workforce to
ensure alignment with our desired culture and behaviours.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 14
Governance
Corporate Governance Statement
 Barclays remains focused on improving its gender pay gap position, with the 2019 gender pay gap statistics due to be published on the
Government’s Gender Pay Gap reporting portal on or around 13 February 2020, along with a Pay Gaps report in which Barclays makes both
statutory gender pay gap disclosures and voluntary ethnicity pay gap disclosures.
Principle Six: Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement
Directors should foster effective stakeholder relationships aligned to the company’s purpose. The board should recognise the importance of
listening to, and understanding the views of its stakeholders, including the workforce, and specifically the impact of the company’s behaviour and
business on customers and clients, colleagues, suppliers, communities and society more broadly; having regard to these views and impact when
taking decisions.
 Through the Company’s defined purpose and strategy, key stakeholders on whom the success of the Company depends are identified. Please
see page 8 of the Strategic Report for detail of our key stakeholders.
 The Board seeks to understand key stakeholder’s views, and the impact of the Company’s behaviour and business on customers and clients,
colleagues, suppliers, communities and society more broadly. Detail on how we engaged with our stakeholders in 2019, and the link between
stakeholder management and key decisions is set out in the section 172(1) statement on pages 8 to 9 of the Strategic Report. There is more to
be done in this regard in 2020.
 The Board monitors key indicators across areas such as culture, citizenship, conduct and customer satisfaction on a continuing and ongoing
basis.
 Engagement by Board and/or management throughout the year with broader stakeholders through participation in forums and roundtables
and joining industry, sector and topic debates and this will continue in 2020.
 Our long-standing commitment to the importance and value of colleague engagement continues; our people are our most valuable asset. They
make a critical difference to our success. An extensive engagement matrix has been developed to ensure sufficient and effective engagement
with our colleagues and that the Board is made aware of views expressed. Further detail on our colleague commitment and engagement model
can be found on page 7 of the Strategic Report.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 15
Governance
Board and Committee Governance: Additional Information
Current Directors
Sir Ian Cheshire Chair of the Board and the Board Nominations Committee
Michael Jary Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Andrew Ratcliffe Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee
David Thorburn Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Risk Committee
Avid Larizadeh Duggan Independent Non-Executive Director
Kathryn Matthews Independent Non-Executive Director
Chris Pilling Independent Non-Executive Director
Sir John Timpson Independent Non-Executive Director
Matt Hammerstein Chief Executive (appointed 5 July 2019)
James Mack Chief Financial Officer (appointed 3 February 2020)
The Board
The Board is responsible for the overall leadership of the Company ensuring the business is able to take decisions and operate independently, and is
run in a way that promotes the long term success of the Company, creating and delivering sustainable value.
As the Board of a ring-fenced entity, the Board must ensure the Company is managed to meet the obligations and objectives of the ring-fencing
requirements.
The Barclays board sets the overall strategic direction of the Barclays Group and acts as ultimate decision-making body for matters of Barclays Group-
wide strategic, financial, regulatory or reputational significance.
Within this constraint, central to the Board’s leadership role is the development and execution of a strategy for the Barclays Bank UK Group and the
establishment of a corporate governance framework that embeds the right culture, values and behaviours throughout the Company. This framework
ensures that the business maintains an effective and proportional system of internal financial, legal and regulatory controls designed to support the
reputation of the business and mitigate financial and other risks. For further detail on risk management and internal control, please see pages 3 and
20.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to enable objectives to be met and that performance is measured
against them. The Board receives regular and timely information on all key aspects of the business including financial performance, strategy,
operational matters, risks and opportunities, customer and conduct; all supported by key performance indicators.
The Board maintains a formal schedule of powers reserved to it to ensure control over key decision-making. These include approval over key
appointments, strategy, financial statements and any major acquisitions, mergers or disposals.
As listed in ‘Current Directors’ above, the Board comprises a Chair, who was independent on appointment, two Executive Directors and seven
independent Non-Executive Directors. The majority of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors bringing significant expertise (including
external perspectives) and independent challenge. The independence of our Non-Executive Directors is considered annually, using the independence
criteria set out in the ring-fencing requirements, including length of tenure, which can affect independence.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors share the same duties and are subject to the same constraints. However, a clear division of responsibilities
has been established. The Chair is responsible for leading the Board and its overall effectiveness, demonstrating objective judgement and promoting
a culture of openness and constructive debate between all Directors. The Chair facilitates constructive Board relations and the effective contribution
of all Non-Executive Directors and ensures Directors receive accurate, clear and timely information. Responsibility for the day-to-day management
of the Company is delegated to the Chief Executive who is supported by the Company’s Executive Committee.
Expectations of each Director are set out in Barclays’ Charter of Expectations. This includes role profiles and the behaviours and competencies
required for each role on the Board, namely the Chair, Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and Committee Chairs. Pursuant to the Charter
of Expectations, Non-Executive Directors provide effective oversight and scrutiny, strategic guidance and constructive challenge whilst holding the
Executive Directors to account against their agreed performance objectives.
What we did in 2019
The primary focus for the Board this year was to oversee the enhancement to, and execution of, the Company’s digital-led strategy to build deeper,
long term relationships with customers. The Board continued to monitor the ring-fence perimeter of the Barclays Bank UK Group to ensure ongoing
compliance with the ring-fencing requirements.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 16
Governance
Board and Committee Governance: Additional Information
Meetings are attended by management, at the invitation of the Committee Chair, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Internal
Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Controls Officer, General Counsel and the Company’s external auditors, KPMG. During
2019 the Committee formally noted a change in the KPMG Lead Audit Partner.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
 Financial Reporting - assessing the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and examining any significant reporting issues and judgements
made
 Internal Controls - examining the operation and effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s system of internal controls
 Internal Audit - monitoring and examining the operation, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the Internal Audit function
 Regulatory Reporting - reviewing arrangements established by management for compliance with regulatory and financial reporting, including
compliance with the ring-fencing requirements
 External Audit - reviewing and monitoring the external auditor’s independence, objectivity and effectiveness, including oversight of the regulatory
developments within the delivery of audit services
 Whistleblowing - reviewing the integrity, independence and effectiveness of Barclays Bank UK Group’s long standing policies and procedures on
whistleblowing
 Material legal matters - oversight of significant contentious and non-contentious matters, together with current or emerging legal risks.
During 2019, the principal activities of the Committee were:
 Examination of the Company’s full year and half year Financial Statements and recommendation of their approval to the Board
 Examination of the Company’s Q1 and Q3 results for incorporation into Barclays’ Q1 and Q3 financial statements
 Assessing the appropriateness of key management judgements, including consideration of provision for PPI redress (and other material conduct
provisions) and accounting judgements
 Overseeing the external auditor’s independence and objectivity and contributing to the Barclays Group auditor effectiveness exercise
 Overseeing the performance of the Internal Audit function, including an internal quality assurance assessment and approving the 2019 and 2020
audit plans
 Receiving reports from management on certain areas of the business where Internal Audit reports had recommended improvements to existing
controls or on areas of new risks, for example data usage and governance
 Monitoring management progress on the embedding of, and enhancements to, a bespoke Risk Control Self-Assessment (‘RCSA’) framework
 Review and re-adoption of the Barclays Bank UK Group specific policy on the provision of non-audit services by the statutory auditor
 Monitoring the whistleblowing programme including receiving regular whistleblowing metrics as they relate to the Barclays Bank UK Group and
ensuring that the procedures for protection from detrimental treatment of staff who raise concerns continue to be effective
 Receiving updates on financial crime activity that impacted the Barclays Bank UK Group in 2019, including overseeing the first Company’s Money
Laundering Reporting Officer’s report
 Consideration of future internal control needs
 Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness.
A comprehensive internal control framework is in place within the Barclays Bank UK Group and regular reports on its operation (and its continued
enhancement) are received by the Committee on a quarterly basis. This includes reports from Internal Audit and external audit functions the Chief
Controls Officer, as well as related plans and management actions to remediate control recommendations raised in those reports.
Nominations Committee
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Sir Ian Cheshire. The other members are Andrew Ratcliffe, David
Thorburn, Michael Jary and Sir John Timpson (who joined the Committee in May 2019). Meetings are attended by the Chief Executive and the Human
Resources Director, at the invitation of the Chair.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
 Skills and Diversity - to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity for the Board and more broadly across the senior
management of the business
 Director Appointments - to identify, and recommend to the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and its Committees
 Director Independence - to consider and assess the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including recommendations for any steps to
manage conflicts or potential conflicts of interest
 Board Performance - to assess the performance of the Non-Executive Directors and their annual time requirements
 Board Evaluation - to consider any actions, from the Company’s Board evaluation process, that relate to the composition of the Board or Committees
 Board Development – to lead the development and effective implementation of policies and procedures for the induction, training and professional
development of all members of the Board
 Group Talent - to oversee the adoption of internal policies and talent progression for senior management.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 18
During 2019, the Committee’s principal activities were:
 Review of the Company’s talent and succession plans at Board, Executive Committee and one level below
 Review and adoption of the Barclays Group’s Board Diversity Policy
 Monitoring of the Company’s diversity and inclusion initiatives
 Recommendation of the appointment of Executive Directors to the Board, and separately a Non-Executive Director to the Nominations Committee.
There have been no new Non-Executive Directors appointed to the Board during the year
 Approval of a new organisational structure to support delivery of the strategy, including consequential changes to the Executive Committee
 Review of the results of the external independent Board evaluation and the internal Board Committee evaluation and Non-Executive Director
reviews. The reviews concluded that the Board, its Committees and Non-Executive Directors are operating effectively meeting their required
responsibilities. Recommendations arising to further enhance effectiveness are being progressed. These included adoption of Board objectives, as
referenced in the Chair’s introduction, and enhancements to the Board agenda and deep dive programme to ensure the appropriate strategic focus
to the Board’s work in 2020. Focus will also continue on the quality of Board and Committee papers
 Considered and assessed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including the management of any conflicts of interest and their time
commitments.
Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Michael Jary. The other members are Avid Larizadeh Duggan and
Sir John Timpson.
Meetings are attended by management, at the invitation of the Committee Chair, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk
Officer, the Human Resources Director and the Head of Reward.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
 Remuneration Policy – to recommend, for Board approval, a remuneration policy (designed and set by the Barclays’ remuneration committee)
setting out the objectives, principles and parameters including reward and performance structures and pensions. Ensuring such policy is aligned
with Barclays Bank UK Group strategy, risk management and that incentives does not encourage risk taking, beyond the tolerated risk of the
Company, or undermine its ability to comply with ring-fencing requirements
 Overall pay structure – to have oversight for overall pay and benefits across the Barclays Bank UK Group
 Pay – to consider the annual incentive pool and individual remuneration proposals for senior colleagues and the calculation of outturns made under
formulaic incentive schemes. This includes considering ex-ante (current and future) and ex-post (crystallised) risk adjustments to remuneration.
During 2019, the principal activities of the Committee were:
 Considering stakeholder, regulatory and legal updates
 Review and approval, for recommendation to Barclays’ remuneration committee where appropriate, the remuneration of Executive Directors and
other senior employees
 Reviewing and approving the methodology, framework and proposals for the 2019 remuneration review including the incentive funding framework
and incentive pool outcome
 Considering financial and risk performance updates (including appropriateness of risk adjustments to incentives)
 Receiving updates on Barclays Bank UK Group remuneration initiatives and developments
 Oversight of reward and recognition across the entire workforce to ensure alignment with our desired culture and behaviours.
 Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness.
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by David Thorburn. The other members of the Committee are
Michael Jary, Chris Pilling and Andrew Ratcliffe.
Committee meetings are attended by management, at the invitation of the Committee Chair, including the Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer, Chief
Compliance Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Internal Auditor and the Company’s external auditors.
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference and include:
 Risk Appetite and Risk Profile - reviewing and ensuring that the risks undertaken by the business are within the risk appetite of the Board
 Risk Limits – reviewing and adopting risk limits and mandates for financial and non-financial risk, monitoring the risk profile and receiving and
considering reports on key risk issues (including emerging risks)
 Regulatory - reviewing and monitoring the Company’s capital and liquidity position including considering both the existing and forecasted
Company risk profile and the potential impact of stress
 Brexit – reviewing the potential impact on the business of the UK’s decision to leave the European Union and the Company’s readiness for Brexit
 Monitoring the Internal Control and Risk Control framework
 Credit risk – reviewing credit risk performance (including concentration of credit risk and expected credit losses)
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 19
Governance
Board and Committee Governance: Additional Information
 Conduct risk - reviewing the effectiveness of the management of conduct risk, seeking to ensure fair customer outcomes following the
implementation of policies and reviewing the effectiveness of the conduct risk management framework, as it applies to the Company and its
subsidiaries
 Reputation risk - reviewing the effectiveness of the management of reputation risk within the Company, receiving reports on any significant
business decisions that may impact the Company’s reputation and considering the ancillary reputational matters that emerge from other business
decisions. From January 2020 oversight of reputation risk was transferred to the Board
 Risk culture – monitoring to ensure a robust risk culture (relating to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management)
 Ring Fencing – reviewing the ring-fencing requirements (including attestation and ongoing compliance requirements).
During 2019, the principal activities of the Committee were:
 Adopting the Company’s Risk Appetite Statement
 Reviewing regular financial and non-financial risk reporting on each of the principal risks (detailed on page 4) and reviewing emerging risks
 Adopting the 2019 limits and mandates and monitoring the risk profile in accordance with the same
 Reviewing conduct risk and overseeing the execution of conduct remediation programmes
 Monitoring compliance with key portfolio metrics, including the use of Chief Risk Officer discretion
 Reviewing data aggregation risk limitations in accordance with Basel regulations
 Oversight on risk resources and the independence of the Risk function
 Reviewing and adopting the relevant Barclays Group Policies, including the ERMF and the associated framework Company addenda
 Reviewing the risks identified by the findings of internal audits
 Monitoring liquidity and capital levels and considering and approving the Company sections of the Barclays Group ICAAP and ILAAP
 Reviewing the necessary sections of the European Banking Authority and Bank of England stress test submissions (including the Biennial
Exploratory Scenario)
 A review of the key risks associated with Brexit and operational readiness for Brexit
 A focused look at the Company’s education, social housing and local authority (ESHLA) loan portfolio, RCSA Process, affordability portfolio, model
governance and the Company’s agriculture business
 Considering regular reports on the Company’s operational resilience (including the independent review, commissioned by Barclays Bank UK Group,
and referenced above)
 Reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems
 Reviewing the Committee’s effectiveness.
Audit, Risk and Internal Control
The Company is committed to operating within a strong system of internal control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without
exposure to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage.
As referenced above, the Board is responsible for ensuring that management maintains an effective system of risk management and internal control
and for assessing its effectiveness. Such a system is designed to identify, evaluate and manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks facing the Company. A key component of the framework is the
ERMF which supports the business in its aim to embed effective risk management and a strong risk management culture. The ERMF is designed to
identify and set minimum requirements, in respect of the main risks, to achieving the Company’s strategic objectives and to provide reasonable
assurance that internal controls are effective. Further detail on the principal risks and management of them can be found in the Managing risk section
of the Strategic Report on pages 3 to 4.
As detailed above, the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Risk Committee and the Audit
Committee.
The Risk Committee is responsible for providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk exposures examining
reports covering the principal risks including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, as well as reports
on risk measurement methodologies and risk appetite. For further detail on the work of the Risk Committee see pages 19 to 20.
The Board is enhancing its reporting on risk matters during 2020, to include reputation risk, which previously sat within the remit of the Risk
Committee and to ensure sufficient focus around strategic and emerging risks, including those arising from within the broader Barclays Group, which
may impact the Company. Oversight of conduct risk and compliance remains within the remit of the Risk Committee.
As referenced above, the Audit Committee carries out several duties, delegated to it by the Board, including oversight of financial reporting processes,
reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, considering whistle-blowing arrangements and oversight of the work of the external and internal
auditors. Throughout the year ended 31 December 2019 and to date, the Company has operated a system of internal control that provides reasonable
assurance of effective operations covering all controls, including financial and operational controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
The Board together with the Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring the independence and effectiveness of the Internal and external audit
functions. For this reason, the Audit Committee members met regularly with the Chief Auditor and External Audit Partner, separately, without
management present.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 20
Executive Committee
During 2019, the Executive Committee membership included the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, and leaders of each business unit, Human
Resources, Legal and Compliance. The Executive Committee meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief Executive. In addition to the day-to-day
management of the Company the Executive Committee supports the Chief Executive in ensuring that the values, strategy and culture align, are
implemented and are communicated consistently to colleagues – for example through regular leadership team conferences, roadshows and
communications that are available to all colleagues.
Non-Executive Directors time commitment and conflict
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chair, are informed of the minimum time commitment required prior to their appointment and they are
required to devote sufficient time to the Company to effectively discharge their responsibilities. A Non-Executive Director’s preparation for, and
attendance at, Board and Committee meetings is only part of their role.
The time commitments of Directors are considered by the Board on appointment and are reviewed annually. External appointments must be agreed
with the Chair and disclosed to the Board, before appointment, with an indication of the time involved. During the year the Nominations Committee
kept under review the number of external directorships held by each Director and considered the limits on the number of directorships imposed by
relevant regulations. Following this year’s review, the Board is satisfied that there are no Directors whose time commitment is considered to be a
matter for concern.
In accordance with the Act and the Articles of Association, the Board has authority to authorise conflicts of interest, and this ensures that the influence
of third parties does not compromise or override the independent judgement of the Board. The Company Secretary maintains a conflicts register,
which is a record of actual and potential conflicts, together with any Board authorisation of the conflict.
Training and induction
During 2019, Directors updated their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company, by meeting with senior management and visiting a number
of branches and operational sites, as well as attending town halls and senior leadership gatherings. In addition, Directors are regularly provided with
the opportunity to take part in ongoing training and development and can also request specific training they may consider necessary or useful. During
2019 the Directors received training on legal and regulatory developments, including Whistleblowing, Competition Law and the Senior Manager’s
Regime. Please see page 17 ‘What we did in 2019’ for details of the deep dive sessions and briefings held with management on key areas of strategy
and risk matters, providing a deeper and more granular understanding of the business, which in turn contributes to informed and sound decision-
making.
There is an induction programme for all new Directors which is tailored to their specific experience and knowledge, providing access to all parts of
the business, so that the Director should have sufficient understanding of the nature of the business and the key issues the Company faces. When a
Director is joining a Board Committee, the schedule includes induction to the operation of that committee.
Diversity and inclusion
The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that there is broad diversity among the Directors inclusive of, but not limited to, gender, ethnicity,
geography and business experience. In addition, the Company aims to ensure that employees of all backgrounds are treated equally and have the
opportunity to be successful. The Barclays Group’s Global Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) strategy sets objectives, initiatives and plans across five core
pillars: Gender, LGBT, Disability, Multicultural and Multigenerational, in support of that ambition. Further information on the Barclays Group’s Board
Diversity Policy and D&I strategy can be found on pages 28 and 31 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019.
All appointments to the Board and senior management are based on merit and objective criteria in the context of the strategy of the Company and
the diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and personal strengths, as well as skills, knowledge and experience required for the
Board to be effective.
Within the Company we are striving to build a workforce that reflects the diversity of our customers and the communities we serve. We acknowledge
that there is a relative lack of gender diversity on the Board. As set out in our Barclays Group’s Board Diversity Policy, which was reviewed during the
year, our ambition is to achieve a target of 33% women on the Board by 2020 and to improve diversity on the Board in other forms. Prior to the
resignation of Anna Cross (the former Chief Financial Officer) to take on a new role within the Barclays Group we achieved 30% female representation
on the Board. We will continue to focus on diversity in succession and appointment considerations to ensure we bring the very best, diverse, talent
that we can attract to the Board.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 21
Overnanc
Political donations
The Barclays Bank UK Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK, the rest of the EU or outside the EU, nor did it make any political
donations to political parties or other political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure during the
year. Details of any political contributions made by the wider Barclays Group can be found in the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019.
Environment
Barclays focuses on addressing environmental issues where we believe we have the greatest potential to make a difference. We focus on managing
our own carbon footprint and reducing our absolute carbon emissions, developing products and services to help enable the transition to a low-
carbon economy, and managing the risks of climate change to our operations, clients, customers and society at large.
We invest in improving the energy efficiency of our operations and offset the emissions remaining through the purchase of carbon credits. We also
have a long-standing commitment to managing the environmental and social risks associated with our lending practices, which is embedded into
our risk processes. A governance structure is in place to facilitate clear dialogue across the business and with suppliers around issues of potential
environmental and social risk.
Disclosure of global greenhouse gas emissions is done at a Barclays Group level with information available in the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019
with fuller disclosure available on our website at home.barclays.com/citizenship.
Engagement with customers, suppliers and others in a business relationship with the Company
Customers and clients are central to the Barclays business – without them, Barclays would not exist. Barclays works hard to understand the needs of
its customers and clients to inform and improve its products and services. Barclays engages with them in a variety of ways, including conducting a
wide-range of customer and client research; using the invaluable insight to inform and improve Barclays products and services. As an illustration,
during 2019, in response to engagement with Barclays’ SMEs, Barclays held over 200 local clinics to help UK SMEs to prepare for Brexit and beyond
and separately raised the unsecured lending limit to £100k for SME clients with a quicker application process to receive money within 24 hours.
Barclays supply chain helps it deliver for all of its customers, clients and stakeholders. Barclays engages with its suppliers through its contractual
arrangements and requirements to ensure suppliers adhere to the Barclays’ Supplier Code of Conduct and Supply Control Obligations through pre-
contract attestation. From such engagement suppliers have identified prompt payment as critical. Barclays is a signatory to the Prompt Payment
Code in the UK, committing to pay its suppliers within clearly defined terms. Please see page 33 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019 for detail on
Barclays’ supplier on-time payment by value performance in 2019.
Further detail on customer, client and supplier engagement is set out on pages 14 to 15 and page 33 of the Barclays PLC Annual Report 2019.
Branches and Country-by-Country Reporting
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates through branches, offices and subsidiaries in the UK.
The Company is exempt from publishing information required by The Capital Requirements (Country-by-Country Reporting) Regulations 2013 as
this information is published by its parent Barclays PLC. This information is due to be published on or around 13 February 2020 and will be available
at home.barclays/annualreport.
Research and development
In the ordinary course of business, the Barclays Bank UK Group develops new products and services in each of its business divisions.
The Auditors
The Barclays PLC audit committee reviews the appointment of the external auditors, as well as their relationship with the Barclays Group, including
monitoring the Barclays Group’s use of the external auditors for non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid to them. More
details on this can be found in Note 34 to the financial statements. Detail of the oversight of the external auditors by the Company’s Audit Committee
is set out on page 18.
An external audit tender was conducted in 2015 and the decision was made to appoint KPMG as Barclays Group’s external auditor with effect from
the 2017 financial year, with PwC resigning as Barclays Group’s statutory auditor at the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
The Company is in compliance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014, which relates to the frequency and governance of tenders for the
appointment of the external auditor and the setting of a policy on the provision of non-audit services.
Provided that KPMG continue to maintain their independence and objectivity, and the Barclays PLC audit committee remains satisfied with their
performance, the Barclays Group has no intention of appointing an alternative external auditor before the end of the current required period of 10
years.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor
Each Director confirms that, so far as he/she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware and that
each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information. This confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the Act
and should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to those provisions.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 23
Governance
Directors’ Report
Directors’ responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditor’s report set out on page 98 to 104, is made with a view to
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditor’s in relation to the financial statements.
Going concern
In preparing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 assess the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern; and
 use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Barclays Bank UK Group or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s business activities, financial position, capital, factors likely to affect its future development and performance and its
objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed are discussed in the Strategic Report and Risk Management sections.
The Directors have evaluated these risks in the preparation of the financial statements and consider it appropriate to prepare the financial statements
on a going concern basis.
Preparation of accounts
The Directors are required by the Act to prepare Barclays Bank UK Group and Company accounts for each financial year, and, with regards to Barclays
Bank UK Group accounts, in accordance with Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard (‘IAS’) Regulation. The Directors have prepared these
accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. Under the Act, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Barclays Bank UK Group and the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 105 to 165, the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company has used
appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be
applicable have been followed.
The Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, provide the information necessary for shareholders to
assess the Barclays Bank UK Group and Company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.
Directors are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group keep accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Barclays Bank UK Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ Report and Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and financial statements as they appear on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors, whose names and functions are set out on page 16, confirm to the best of their knowledge that:
(a) The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
(b) The management report on pages 1 to 9 which is incorporated in the Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance
of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Katie Marshall
Company Secretary
12 February 2020
Registered in England.
Company No. 9740322
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 24
Risk review
Risk management
Barclays’ risk management strategy
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk management strategy
This section introduces Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to managing and identifying risks, and for fostering a strong risk culture.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework (ERMF)
The ERMF sets the strategic approach for risk management by defining standards, objectives and responsibilities for all areas of the Barclays Group.
It is approved by the Barclays PLC Board on recommendation of the Barclays Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO); it is then adopted by the Barclays Bank
UK Group with modifications where needed. It supports senior management in effective risk management and developing a strong risk culture.
The ERMF sets out:
 Segregation of duties: The ERMF defines a Three Lines of Defence model;
 Principal risks faced by the Barclays Bank UK Group: This list guides the organisation of the risk management function, and the identification,
management and reporting of risks;
 Risk appetite requirements: This helps define the level of risk we are willing to undertake in our business;
 Roles and responsibilities for risk management: The ERMF sets out the accountabilities of the Barclays Bank UK Group CEO and other senior
managers, as well as Barclays Bank UK Group committees.
The ERMF is complemented by frameworks, policies and standards that are mainly aligned to individual principal risks:
 Frameworks cover the management approach for a collection of related activities and define the associated policies used to govern them;
 Policies set out principles and other core requirements for the activities of the Barclays Bank UK Group. Policies describe “what” must be done;
 Standards set out the key control objectives that describe how the requirements set out in the policy are met, and who needs to carry them out.
Standards describe “how” controls should be undertaken.
Segregation of duties - the "Three Lines of Defence" model
The ERMF sets out a clear lines of defence model. All colleagues are responsible for understanding and managing risks within the context of their
individual roles and responsibilities, as set out below:
 First line comprises all employees engaged in the revenue generating and client facing areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group and all associated
support functions, including Finance, Treasury, and Human Resources. The first line is responsible for identifying and managing the risks they
generate, establishing a control framework, and escalating risk events to Risk and Compliance;
 Second line is comprised of the Risk and Compliance functions. The role of the second line is to establish the limits, rules and constraints under
which first line activities shall be performed, consistent with the risk appetite of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and to monitor the performance of
the first line against these limits and constraints. Note that limits for a number of first line activities, related to operational risk, will be set by the
first line and overseen by the Chief Controls Office. These will remain subject to supervision by the second line;
 Third line of defence is Internal Audit, who are responsible for providing independent assurance over the effectiveness of governance, risk
management and control over current, systemic and evolving risks;
 The Legal function provides support to all areas of the bank and is not formally part of any of the three lines, However, it is subject to second line
oversight.
Principal risks
The ERMF identifies eight principal risks (see table on page 4) and sets out associated responsibilities and expectations around risk management.
Each of the principal risks is overseen by an accountable executive within the Barclays Group who is responsible for the framework, policies and
standards that detail the related requirements. Risk reports to executive and Board committees are clearly organised by principal risk. In addition,
certain risks span more than one principal risk; these are also subject to the ERMF and are reported to executive and Board committees.
Risk appetite for the principal risks
Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk which the Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses are prepared to accept in the conduct of their activities. It
sets the ‘tone from the top’ and provides a basis for ongoing dialogue between management and Board with respect to the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s current and evolving risk profile, allowing strategic and financial decisions to be made on an informed basis.
Risk appetite is approved by the Barclays PLC Board and disseminated across legal entities, including the Barclays Bank UK Group. The Barclays
Bank UK Group may choose to adopt a lower risk appetite than allocated to it by the Barclays Group. Total Barclays Group risk appetite and its
allocation to the Barclays Bank UK Group are supported by limits to control exposures and activities that have material concentration risk
implications.
Risk committees
The Barclays Bank UK Group business level product/risk type committees consider risk matters relevant to their business, and escalate as required
to the Barclays UK Risk Committee, whose Chair, in turn, escalates to the Barclays Group Risk Committee, Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Committees
and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 27
Header level 3: Expert Sans Regular, Size 10, Light Blue
compression, further increases in interest rates, if larger or more frequent than expected, could lead to generally weaker than expected growth,
reduced business confidence and higher unemployment, which in turn could cause stress in the lending portfolio. Resultant higher credit losses
driving an increased impairment charge would most notably impact retail unsecured portfolios and could have a material effect on the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
In addition, changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the value of the securities held in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s liquid asset
portfolio. Consequently, this could create more volatility than expected through the Barclays Bank UK Group’s FVOCI reserves.
iv) The competitive environments of the banking and financial services industry
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses are conducted in competitive environments, with increased competition scrutiny, and the Barclays Bank
UK Group financial performance depends upon the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures whether due to
competitor behaviour, new entrants to the market, consumer demand, technological changes or otherwise.
This competitive environment, and the Barclays Bank UK Group’s response to it, may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s ability to maintain existing or capture additional market share, business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
v) Regulatory change agenda and impact on business model
The Barclays Bank UK Group remains subject to ongoing significant levels of regulatory change and scrutiny. As a result, regulatory risk will remain
a focus for senior management. Furthermore, a more intensive regulatory approach and enhanced requirements may adversely affect the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s business, capital and risk management strategies and/or may result in the Barclays Bank UK Group deciding to modify its legal
entity, capital and funding structures and business mix, or to exit certain business activities altogether or not to expand in areas despite otherwise
attractive potential.
There are several significant pieces of legislation and areas of focus which will require significant management attention, cost and resource,
including:
 Changes in prudential requirements may impact minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (MREL) (including requirements for
internal MREL), leverage, liquidity or funding requirements, applicable buffers and/or add-ons to such minimum requirements and risk weighted
assets calculation methodologies all as may be set by international, EU or national authorities. Such or similar changes to prudential requirements
or additional supervisory and prudential expectations, either individually or in aggregate, may result in, among other things, a need for further
management actions to meet the changed requirements, such as:
 increasing capital, MREL or liquidity resources, reducing leverage and risk weighted assets;
 restricting distributions on capital instruments;
 modifying the terms of outstanding capital instruments;
 modifying legal entity structure (including with regard to issuance and deployment of capital, MREL and funding);
 changing the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business mix or exiting other businesses;
 and/or undertaking other actions to strengthen the Barclays Bank UK Group’s position.
 The Barclays Group is subject to supervisory stress testing of which Barclays Bank UK PLC forms a component part. These exercises currently
include the programmes of the Bank of England (BoE) and the European Banking Authority (EBA). Failure to meet the requirements of regulatory
stress tests, or the failure by regulators to approve the stress test results and capital plans of the Barclays Group, could result in the Barclays
Group or certain of its members including the Barclays Bank UK PLC being required to enhance their capital position, limit capital distributions or
position additional capital in specific subsidiaries.
For further details on the regulatory supervision of, and regulations applicable to, the Barclays Bank UK Group, see Supervision and regulation on
pages 93 to 96.
vi) The impact of climate change on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business
The risks associated with climate change are subject to rapidly increasing societal, regulatory and political focus, both in the UK and internationally.
Embedding climate risk into the Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk framework in line with regulatory expectations, and adapting the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s operations and business strategy to address both the financial risks resulting from: (i) the physical risk of climate change; and (ii) the risk
from the transition to a low carbon economy, could have a significant impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business.
Physical risks from climate change arise from a number of factors and relate to specific weather events and longer-term shifts in the climate. The
nature and timing of extreme weather events are uncertain but they are increasing in frequency and their impact on the economy is predicted to be
more acute in the future. The potential impact on the economy includes, but is not limited to, lower GDP growth, higher unemployment and
significant changes in asset prices and profitability of industries. Damage to the properties and operations of borrowers could impair asset values
and the creditworthiness of customers leading to increased default rates, delinquencies, write-offs and impairment charges in the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s portfolios. In addition, the Barclays Bank UK Group’s premises and resilience may also suffer physical damage due to weather events
leading to increased costs for the Barclays Bank UK Group.
As the economy transitions to a low-carbon economy, financial institutions such as the Barclays Bank UK Group may face significant and rapid
developments in stakeholder expectations, policy, law, regulation which could impact the lending activities the Barclays Bank UK Group undertakes,
as well as the risks associated with its lending portfolios and the value of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s assets. As sentiment towards climate
change shifts and societal preferences change, the Barclays Bank UK Group may face greater scrutiny of the type of business it conducts, adverse
media coverage and reputational damage, which may in turn impact customer demand for the Barclays Bank UK Group's products, returns on
certain business activities and the value of certain assets resulting in impairment charges.
In addition, the impacts of physical and transition climate risks can lead to second order connected risks, which have the potential to affect the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s retail and wholesale portfolios. The impacts of climate change may increase losses for those sectors sensitive to the
effects of physical and transition risks. Any subsequent increase in defaults and rising unemployment could create recessionary pressures, which
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 30
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
eader level 3: Expert Sans Regular, Size 10, Light Blue
may lead to wider deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s clients, higher ECLs, and increased charge-offs and
defaults among retail customers.
If the Barclays Bank UK Group does not adequately embed risks associated with climate change into its risk framework to appropriately measure,
manage and disclose the various financial and operational risks it faces as a result of climate change, or fails to adapt its strategy and business
model to the changing regulatory requirements and market expectations on a timely basis, it may have a material and adverse impact on the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s level of business growth, competitiveness, profitability, capital requirements, cost of funding, and financial condition.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to climate change, see page 36 of climate change risk management.
vii) Impact of benchmark interest rate reforms on the Barclays Bank UK Group
For several years, global regulators and central banks have been driving international efforts to reform key benchmark interest rates and indices,
such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), which are used to determine the amounts payable under a wide range of transactions and
make them more reliable and robust. This has resulted in significant changes to the methodology and operation of certain benchmarks and indices,
the adoption of alternative “risk-free” reference rates and the proposed discontinuation of certain reference rates (including LIBOR), with further
changes anticipated.
The Barclays Bank UK Group predominantly offers products which reference central bank rates rather than LIBOR and other indices which are likely
to be subject to reform. Consequently, the product offering and business model are unlikely to be significantly affected. Nevertheless, there are
other ways the Barclays Bank UK Group could be affected.
Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes, the availability and/or suitability of alternative “risk-free” reference rates and other reforms
may adversely affect a broad range of transactions (including any securities, loans and derivatives which use LIBOR to determine the amount of
interest payable that are included in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial assets and liabilities) that use these reference rates and indices and
introduce a number of risks for the Barclays Bank UK Group, including, but not limited to:
 Conduct risk: in undertaking actions to transition away from using certain reference rates (including LIBOR), the Barclays Bank UK Group faces
conduct risks, which may lead to customer complaints, regulatory sanctions or reputational impact if the Barclays Bank UK Group is (i)
considered to be undertaking market activities that are manipulative or create a false or misleading impression, (ii) misusing sensitive information
or not identifying or appropriately managing or mitigating conflicts of interest, (iii) providing customers with inadequate advice, misleading
information, unsuitable products or unacceptable service, (iv) not taking an appropriate or consistent response to remediation activity or
customer complaints, (v) providing regulators with inaccurate regulatory reporting or (vi) colluding or inappropriately sharing information with
competitors;
 Financial risks: the valuation of certain of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial assets and liabilities may change. Moreover, transitioning to
alternative “risk-free” reference rates may impact the ability of members of the Barclays Bank UK Group to calculate and model amounts
receivable by them on certain financial assets and determine the amounts payable on certain financial liabilities (such as debt securities issued by
them) because currently alternative “risk-free” reference rates (such as the Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) and the Secured Overnight
Financing Rate (SOFR)) are look-back rates whereas term rates (such as LIBOR) allow borrowers to calculate at the start of any interest period
exactly how much is payable at the end of such interest period. This may have an adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s cashflows;
 Operational risk: changes to existing reference rates and indices, discontinuation of any reference rate or index and transition to alternative “risk-
free” reference rates may require changes to the Barclays Bank UK Group’s IT systems, trade reporting infrastructure, operational processes, and
controls. In addition, if any reference rate or index (such as LIBOR) is no longer available to calculate amounts payable, the Barclays Bank UK
Group may incur additional expenses in amending documentation for new and existing transactions and/or effecting the transition from the
original reference rate or index to a new reference rate or index; and
 Accounting risk: an inability to apply hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS could lead to increased volatility in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
financial results and performance.
Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
For further details on the impacts of benchmark interest rate reforms on the Barclays Bank UK Group, see Note 13 on pages 131 to 137.
Material existing and emerging risks impacting individual principal risks
i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of loss to the Barclays Bank UK Group from the failure of clients, customers or counterparties, including sovereigns, to fully
honour their obligations to members of the Barclays Bank UK Group, including the whole and timely payment of principal, interest, collateral and
other receivables.
a) Impairment
The introduction of the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, resulted in impairment loss allowances that are recognised
earlier, on a more forward-looking basis and on a broader scope of financial instruments, and may continue to have a material impact on the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Measurement involves complex judgement and impairment charges could be volatile, particularly under stressed conditions. Unsecured products
with longer expected lives, such as credit cards, are the most impacted. Taking into account the transitional regime, the capital treatment on the
increased reserves has the potential to adversely impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulatory capital ratios.
In addition, the move from incurred losses to ECLs has the potential to impact the Barclays Bank UK Group’s performance under stressed economic
conditions or regulatory stress tests. For more information, refer to Note 1 on pages 113 to 117.
b) Specific sectors and concentrations
The Barclays Bank UK Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality and recovery rates of loans and advances due from borrowers
and counterparties in any specific portfolio. Any deterioration in credit quality could lead to lower recoverability and higher impairment in a specific
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 31
Header level 3: Expert Sans Regular, Size 10, Light Blue
financial instruments, and provisions including conduct and legal, competition and regulatory matters. There is a risk that if the judgement
exercised, or the estimates or assumptions used, subsequently turn out to be incorrect, this could result in material losses to the Barclays Bank UK
Group, beyond what was anticipated or provided for. Further development of standards and interpretations under IFRS could also materially impact
the financial results, condition and prospects of the Barclays Bank UK Group. For further details on the accounting estimates and policies, see the
Notes to the audited financial statements on pages 113 to 164.
i) Tax risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is required to comply with the tax laws and practice of all countries in which it has business operations. There is a risk
that the Barclays Bank UK Group could suffer losses due to additional tax charges, other financial costs or reputational damage as a result of failing
to comply with such laws and practice, or by failing to manage its tax affairs in an appropriate manner. In addition, increasing customer tax
reporting requirements for UK and international customers and the digitisation of the administration of tax has potential to increase the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s tax compliance obligations further.
j) Ability to hire and retain appropriately qualified employees
As a regulated financial institution, the Barclays Bank UK Group requires diversified and specialist skilled colleagues. The Barclays Bank UK Group’s
ability to attract, develop and retain a diverse mix of talent is key to the delivery of its core business activity and strategy. This is impacted by a
range of external and internal factors, such as the UK’s decision to leave the EU and the enhanced individual accountability applicable to the
banking industry. Failure to attract or prevent the departure of appropriately qualified and skilled employees could have a material adverse effect on
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Additionally, this may result in disruption to service
which could in turn lead to disenfranchising certain customer groups, customer detriment and reputational damage.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to operational risk, see operational risk management on pages 39 to 40 and
operational risk performance on pages 89 to 91.
iv) Model risk
Model risk is the risk of potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and
reports. The Barclays Bank UK Group relies on models to support a broad range of business and risk management activities, including informing
business decisions and strategies, measuring and limiting risk, valuing exposures (including the calculation of impairment), conducting stress
testing, assessing capital adequacy, supporting new business acceptance and risk and reward evaluation, managing client assets, and meeting
reporting requirements. Models are, by their nature, imperfect and incomplete representations of reality because they rely on assumptions and
inputs, and so they may be subject to errors affecting the accuracy of their outputs. For instance, the quality of the data used in models across the
Barclays Bank UK Group has a material impact on the accuracy and completeness of its risk and financial metrics. Models may also be misused.
Model errors or misuse may result in (among other things) the Barclays Bank UK Group making inappropriate business decisions and/or
inaccuracies or errors being identified in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk management and regulatory reporting processes. This could result in
significant financial loss, imposition of additional capital requirements, enhanced regulatory supervision and reputational damage, all of which
could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to model risk, see model risk management on page 40 and model risk performance
on page 92.
v) Conduct risk
Conduct risk is the risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or the Barclays Bank UK Group from the
inappropriate supply of financial services, including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct. This risk could manifest itself in a variety of ways:
a) Employee misconduct
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s business is exposed to risk from potential non-compliance with its policies and instances of wilful and negligent
misconduct by employees, all of which could result in enforcement action or reputational harm. It is not always possible to deter employee
misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not always be effective. Employee misconduct could have a
material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s customers, clients, market integrity as well as reputation, financial condition and
prospects.
b) Product governance and life cycle
The ongoing review management and governance of new and amended products has come under increasing regulatory focus (for example, the
recast of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and guidance in relation to the adoption of the EU Benchmarks Regulation) and the
Barclays Bank UK Group expects this to continue. The following could lead to poor customer outcomes: (i) ineffective product governance,
including design, approval and review of products, and (ii) inappropriate controls over internal and third party sales channels and post sales
services, such as complaints handling, collections and recoveries. The Barclays Bank UK Group is at risk of financial loss and reputational damage as
a result.
c) Financial crime
The Barclays Bank UK Group may be adversely affected if it fails to effectively mitigate the risk that third parties or its employees facilitate, or that its
products and services are used to facilitate, financial crime (money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing, breaches of economic
and financial sanctions, bribery and corruption, and the facilitation of tax evasion). UK and US regulations covering financial institutions continue to
focus on combating financial crime. Failure to comply may lead to enforcement action by the Barclays Bank UK Group’s regulators, including severe
penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, financial condition and prospects.
d) Data protection and privacy
Proper handling of personal data is critical to sustaining long-term relationships with our customers and clients and complying with privacy laws
and regulations. Failure to protect personal data can lead to potential detriment to our customers and clients, reputational damage, enforcement
action and financial loss which may be substantial (see ‘iii) Operational risk, (e) Data management and information protection’ above).
e) Regulatory focus on culture and accountability
Regulators around the world continue to emphasise the importance of culture and personal accountability and enforce the adoption of adequate
internal reporting and whistleblowing procedures to help to promote appropriate conduct and drive positive outcomes for customers, colleagues,
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 34
Risk review
Material existing and emerging risks
eader level 3: Expert Sans Regular, Size 10, Light Blue
clients and markets. The requirements and expectations of the UK Senior Managers Regime, Certification Regime and Conduct Rules have driven
additional accountabilities for individuals across the Barclays Bank UK Group with an increased focus on governance and rigour. Failure to meet
these requirements and expectations may lead to regulatory sanctions, both for the individuals and the Barclays Bank UK Group.
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to conduct risk, see conduct risk management on page 41 and conduct risk
performance on page 92.
vi) Reputation risk
Reputation risk is the risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision or business relationship will reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s integrity and/or competence.
Any material lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer service or operating efficiency may represent a potential reputation risk.
Stakeholder expectations constantly evolve, and so reputation risk is dynamic and varies between geographical regions, groups and individuals. A
risk arising in one business area can have an adverse effect upon the Barclays Bank UK Group’s overall reputation and any one transaction,
investment or event (in the perception of key stakeholders) can reduce trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and competence. The
Barclays Bank UK Group’s association with sensitive topics and sectors has been, and in some instances continues to be, an area of concern for
stakeholders, including (i) the financing of, and investments in, businesses which operate in sectors that are sensitive because of their relative
carbon intensity or local environmental impact; (ii) potential association with human rights violations (including combating modern slavery) in the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations or supply chain and by clients and customers; and (iii) the financing of businesses which manufacture and
export military and riot control goods and services.
Reputation risk could also arise from negative public opinion about the actual, or perceived, manner in which the Barclays Bank UK Group conducts
its business activities, or the Barclays Bank UK Group’s financial performance, as well as actual or perceived practices in banking and the financial
services industry generally. Modern technologies, in particular online social media channels and other broadcast tools that facilitate communication
with large audiences in short time frames and with minimal costs, may significantly enhance and accelerate the distribution and effect of damaging
information and allegations. Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Barclays Bank UK Group’s ability to retain and attract customers, in
particular, corporate and retail depositors, and to retain and motivate staff, and could have a material adverse effect on the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
In addition to the above, reputation risk has the potential to arise from operational issues or conduct matters which cause detriment to customers,
clients, market integrity, effective competition or the Barclays Bank UK Group (see “iii) Operational risk” above).
For further details on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s approach to reputation risk, see reputation risk management on page 41 and reputation risk
performance on page 92.
vii) Legal risk and legal, competition and regulatory matters
The Barclays Bank UK Group conducts activities in a highly regulated market which exposes it and its employees to legal risk arising from (i) the
multitude of laws and regulations that apply to the businesses it operates, which are highly dynamic, may vary between jurisdictions, and are often
unclear in their application to particular circumstances especially in new and emerging areas; and (ii) the diversified and evolving nature of the
Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses and business practices. In each case, this exposes the Barclays Bank UK Group and its employees to the risk of
loss or the imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of members of the Barclays Bank UK Group to meet their respective legal
obligations, including legal or contractual requirements. Legal risk may arise in relation to a number of the risk factors identified above, including
(without limitation) as a result of (i) the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, (ii) benchmark reform, (iii) the regulatory change agenda, and (iv) rapidly
evolving rules and regulations in relation to data protection, privacy and cyber-security.
A breach of applicable legislation and/or regulations by the Barclays Bank UK Group or its employees could result in criminal prosecution,
regulatory censure, potentially significant fines and other sanctions. Where clients, customers or other third parties are harmed by the Barclays
Bank UK Group’s conduct, this may also give rise to civil legal proceedings, including class actions. Other legal disputes may also arise between the
Barclays Bank UK Group and third parties relating to matters such as breaches or enforcement of legal rights or obligations arising under contracts,
statutes or common law. Adverse findings in any such matters may result in the Barclays Bank UK Group being liable to third parties or may result
in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s rights not being enforced as intended.
Details of legal, competition and regulatory matters to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed are set out in Note 24. In addition to
matters specifically described in Note 24, the Barclays Bank UK Group is engaged in various other legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary
course of business. The Barclays Bank UK Group is also subject to requests for information, investigations and other reviews by regulators,
governmental and other public bodies in connection with business activities in which the Barclays Bank UK Group is, or has been, engaged.
The outcome of legal, competition and regulatory matters, both those to which the Barclays Bank UK Group is currently exposed and any others
which may arise in the future, is difficult to predict. In connection with such matters, the Barclays Bank UK Group may incur significant expense,
regardless of the ultimate outcome, and any such matters could expose the Barclays Bank UK Group to any of the following outcomes: substantial
monetary damages, settlements and/or fines; remediation of affected customers and clients; other penalties and injunctive relief; additional
litigation; criminal prosecution; the loss of any existing agreed protection from prosecution; regulatory restrictions on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
business operations including the withdrawal of authorisations; increased regulatory compliance requirements or changes to laws or regulations;
suspension of operations; public reprimands; loss of significant assets or business; a negative effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s reputation;
loss of confidence by investors, counterparties, clients and/or customers; risk of credit rating agency downgrades; potential negative impact on the
availability and/or cost of funding and liquidity; and/or dismissal or resignation of key individuals. In light of the uncertainties involved in legal,
competition and regulatory matters, there can be no assurance that the outcome of a particular matter or matters will not have a material adverse
effect on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 35
Risk review
Climate change risk management
Climate change risk management
Overview
The Barclays Group has a longstanding commitment to Environmental Risk Management (ERM) and its approach, aided by regulatory initiatives,
has continued to evolve, incorporating climate change in recent years as the understanding of associated risks has grown. In 2018, a dedicated
Sustainability team was created to consider how the Barclays Group approaches wider sustainability and Environmental Social Governance (ESG)
matters, working closely with the ERM function.
In 2019, the Barclays Group published an Energy & Climate Change Statement (https://home.barclays/statements/barclays-energy-and-climate-
change-statement) which articulates our focus on three areas: financing growth of renewables and businesses addressing environmental
challenges; taking a responsible approach to financing energy sources with a greater carbon intensity; and reducing our own carbon footprint. It is
supported by an internal standard containing guidelines for restricting or supporting financing activities in carbon-intensive energy sectors, as well
as enhanced due diligence requirements for environmentally or socially sensitive sectors.
For more detail on how climate change risks arise and their impact on the Barclays Bank UK Group, refer to material existing and emerging risks on
pages 30 to 31.
Organisation and Structure
The matters and risks associated with climate change are managed at a Barclays Group level, with additional oversight and monitoring provided by
the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board and Barclays Bank UK Group CRO for matters pertaining to the Barclays Bank UK Group.
On behalf of the Barclays PLC Board, the Barclays PLC BRC reviews and approves the Barclays Group’s approach to managing the financial and
operational risks associated with climate change.
Broadly, climate change matters are co-ordinated by the Sustainability team, including reputation risks linked to the Barclays Group’s financial and
societal impact. In 2019, reputation risk became the responsibility of the Barclays PLC Board, where the most material issues facing the Barclays
Group are escalated to and directly handled by the Barclays PLC Board.
Risk management – Policy
In 2019, the Barclays Group published a ‘Climate Change Financial Risk and Operational Risk Policy’. This introduced climate change as an
overarching risk impacting certain principal risks: credit risk, market risk, treasury & capital risk and operational risk. The policy is jointly owned by
the relevant Principal Risk Leads with oversight by the Barclays PLC BRC, and applies across the Barclays Group including within the Barclays Bank
UK Group
Each relevant Principal Risk Lead has developed a methodology and implementation plan for quantifying climate change risk.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 36
Risk transfer
A range of instruments including guarantees can be used to transfer credit risk from one counterparty to another. These mitigate credit risk in two
main ways:
 if the risk is transferred to a counterparty which is more creditworthy than the original counterparty, then overall credit risk is reduced;
 where recourse to the first counterparty remains, both counterparties must default before a loss materialises. This is less likely than the default of
either counterparty individually so credit risk is reduced.
Treasury and capital risk management
This comprises:
Liquidity risk: The risk that Barclays Bank UK Group is unable to meet its contractual or contingent obligations or that it does not have the
appropriate amount, tenor and composition of funding and liquidity to support its assets.
Capital risk: The risk that Barclays Bank UK Group has an insufficient level or composition of capital to support its normal business activities and to
meet its regulatory capital requirements under normal operating environments or stressed conditions (both actual and as defined for internal
planning or regulatory testing purposes). This also includes the risk from Barclays Bank UK Group’s pension plans.
Interest rate risk in the banking book: The risk that Barclays Bank UK Group is exposed to capital or income volatility because of a mismatch
between the interest rate exposures of its (non traded) assets and liabilities.
Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury manages treasury and capital risk exposure on a day-to-day basis with the Barclays Bank UK PLC Asset and
Liability Committee (ALCO) acting as the principal management body. The Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for oversight and
provide insight into key capital, liquidity and interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) activities.
Liquidity risk management (audited)
Overview
The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Barclays Bank UK Group in order to retain the confidence of the financial markets and
maintain the sustainability of the business. The liquidity risk control framework is used to manage all liquidity risk exposures under both BAU and
stressed conditions. The framework is designed to maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount, quality and funding tenor profile to
support the liquidity risk appetite as expressed by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board. The liquidity risk appetite is monitored against both internal and
regulatory liquidity metrics.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing liquidity risk within the set risk appetite. Both Risk and Treasury contribute to the production
of the Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process. The Treasury and Capital Risk function is responsible for the management and governance
of the liquidity risk mandate, as defined by the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
The liquidity risk control framework is designed to deliver the appropriate term and structure of funding, consistent with the liquidity risk appetite
set by the Board.
The control framework incorporates a range of ongoing business management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
balance sheet and contingent liabilities. Limit setting and transfer pricing are tools that are designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken and
drive the appropriate mix of funds. In addition, Barclays Group maintains a recovery plan which includes application to the Barclays Bank UK Group.
Together, these tools reduce the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet the Barclays Bank UK Group’s obligations
as they fall due.
The Barclays Bank UK Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan, internal stress tests, regulatory stress test results, and the Barclays
Bank UK contribution to the Barclays Group recovery plan. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and managing liquidity
risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s funding management objectives, funding plan and risk framework. The Barclays UK Risk Committee
monitors and reviews the liquidity risk profile and control environment, providing second line oversight of the management of liquidity risk. The
Barclays Bank UK PLC Board Risk Committee reviews the risk profile, and annually reviews risk appetite and the impact of stress scenarios on the
Barclays Bank UK Group funding plan/forecast in order to agree the Barclays Bank UK Group’s projected funding abilities.
Capital risk management (audited)
Overview
Capital risk is managed through ongoing monitoring and management of the capital position, regular stress testing and a robust capital
governance framework. The objectives of the framework are to maintain adequate capital for the Barclays Bank UK Group to withstand the impact
of the risks that may arise under normal and stressed conditions, and maintain adequate capital to cover current and forecast business needs and
associated risks to provide a viable and sustainable business offering.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
Treasury has the primary responsibility for managing and monitoring capital. The Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury and Capital Risk function
provides oversight of capital risk and is an independent risk function that reports to the Barclays Bank UK Group CRO. Production of the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process is the responsibility of Barclays Bank UK Group Treasury.
Capital risk management is underpinned by a control framework and policies. Capital plans reflect the capital management strategy and are
implemented to deliver on the Barclays Bank UK Group’s objectives, which are aligned to those of Barclays Group. The Barclays Bank UK Group-
specific capital plans are developed in conformance with the Barclays Group control framework and policies for capital risk.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board approves the Barclays Bank UK Group capital plan, internal stress tests and results of regulatory stress tests. The
Barclays Bank UK PLC Board also approves the recovery options documented in the Barclays Group recovery plan pertaining to the Barclays Bank
UK Group. The Barclays Bank UK PLC ALCO is responsible for monitoring and managing capital risk in line with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s
capital management objectives, capital plan and risk frameworks. The Barclays UK Risk Committee monitors and reviews the capital risk profile and
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 38
 provide the frameworks, policies and standards to enable management to meet their risk management responsibilities while the second line of
defence provides robust, independent, and effective oversight and challenge; and
 deliver a consistent and aggregated measurement of operational risk that will provide clear and relevant insights, so that the right management
actions can be taken to keep the operational risk profile consistent with the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy, the stated risk appetite and
stakeholder needs.
The Barclays Bank UK Group operates within a system of internal controls that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without exposing
Barclays Bank UK Group to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damages.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and
functional units where the risk arises. The operational risk profile and control environment is reviewed by business management through business
risk committees and control committees. Businesses and functions are required to report their operational risks on both a regular and an event-
driven basis. The reports include a profile of the material risks that may threaten the achievement of their objectives and the effectiveness of key
controls, operational risk events and a review of scenarios.
The Barclays Group Head of Operational Risk is responsible for establishing, owning and maintaining an appropriate Barclays Group-wide
Operational Risk Management Framework, meanwhile the Barclays Bank UK PLC Head of Operational Risk is responsible for overseeing the
portfolio of operational risk across all businesses.
Operational Risk Management (ORM) acts in a second line of defence capacity, and is responsible for defining and overseeing the implementation
of the framework and monitoring the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk profile. ORM alerts management when risk levels exceed
acceptable tolerance in order to drive timely decision making and actions by the first line of defence. Operational risk issues escalated from these
meetings are considered through the second line of defence review meetings. Depending on their nature, the outputs of these meetings are
presented to the Barclays UK Risk Committee, the BRC or the BAC.
Specific reports are prepared by the business and Barclays Bank UK Group Operational Risk on a regular basis for the Barclays UK Risk Committee,
and the BRC.
Operational risk categories
Operational risks are grouped into risk categories to support effective risk management, measurement and reporting. These comprise: Data
Management & Information Risk; Financial Reporting Risk; Fraud Risk; Payments Process Risk; People Risk; Premises Risk; Physical Security Risk;
Supplier Risk; Tax Risk; Technology Risk; Transaction Operations Risk and Execution Risk.
Enterprise risk themes
Barclays Bank UK Group also recognises that there are certain threats/risk drivers that are more thematic and have the potential to impact Barclays
Bank UK Group’s strategic objectives. These are enterprise risk themes which require an overarching and integrated risk management approach.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s enterprise risk themes include Cyber, Data and Resilience.
For definitions of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s operational risk categories and enterprise risk themes, refer to page 100 of the Barclays Bank UK
PLC Pillar 3 Report 2019.
Model risk management
The risk of the potential adverse consequences from financial assessments or decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group uses models to support a broad range of activities, including informing business decisions and strategies, measuring
and limiting risk, valuing exposures, conducting stress testing, assessing capital adequacy, managing client assets, and meeting reporting
requirements.
Since models are imperfect and incomplete representations of reality, they may be subject to errors affecting the accuracy of their output. Model
errors and misuse are the primary sources of model risk.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Group has a dedicated Model Risk Management (MRM) function that consists of two main units: the Independent Validation Unit
(IVU), responsible for model validation and approval, and Model Governance and Controls (MGC), covering model risk governance, controls and
reporting, including ownership of model risk policy and the model inventory.
The model risk management framework consists of the model risk policy and standards. The policy prescribes group-wide, end-to-end
requirements for the identification, measurement and management of model risk, covering model documentation, development, implementation,
monitoring, annual review, independent validation and approval, change and reporting processes. The policy is supported by global standards
covering model inventory, documentation, validation, complexity and materiality, testing and monitoring, overlays, risk appetite, as well as vendor
models and stress testing challenger models.
The function reports to the Barclays Group CRO and operates a global framework. Implementation of best practice standards is a central objective
of the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The key model risk management activities include:
 Correctly identifying models across all relevant areas of the Barclays Bank UK Group, and recording models in the Barclays Bank UK Group
Models Database (GMD), the Barclays Group-wide model inventory
 Enforcing that every model has a model owner who is accountable for the model. The model owner must sign off models prior to submission
to IVU for validation and maintain that the model presented to IVU is and remains fit for purpose
 Overseeing that every model is subject to validation and approval by IVU, prior to being implemented and on a continual basis
 Defining model risk appetite in terms of risk tolerance, and qualitative metrics which are used to track and report model risk.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 40
Risk review
Principal risk management
Conduct risk management
The risk of detriment to customers, clients, market integrity, effective competition or to Barclays from the inappropriate supply of financial services,
including instances of wilful or negligent misconduct.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group defines, manages and mitigates conduct risk with the goal of providing positive customer and client outcomes, protecting
market integrity and promoting effective competition. Product Lifecycle, Culture and Strategy and Financial Crime are the risk categories under the
Barclays Group definition of Conduct Risk.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The governance of conduct risk within the Barclays Bank UK Group is fulfilled through management committees and forums operated by the first and
second lines of defence with clear escalation and reporting lines to the BRC. The Barclays UK Risk Committee is the most senior executive body
responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group’s management of conduct risk.
The Conduct Risk Management Framework (CRMF) comprises a number of elements that allow the Barclays Bank UK Group to manage and measure
its conduct risk profile.
Senior Managers have accountability for managing conduct risk in their areas of responsibility. This is expressed in their Statement of Responsibilities
which identifies the activities and areas for which they are accountable. The primary responsibility for managing conduct risk sits with the business
where the risk arises. The first line business control committees provide oversight of controls relating to conduct risk.
The Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for providing effective oversight, management and escalation of conduct risk in
line with the CRMF. This includes overseeing the development and maintenance of the relevant conduct risk policies and standards and monitoring
and reporting on the consistent application and effectiveness of the implementation of controls to manage conduct risk.
The Barclays UK Risk Committee is the primary second line governance committee for oversight of the conduct risk profile for Barclays Bank UK
Group and implementation of the CRMF. The responsibilities of the Barclays UK Risk Committee include the identification and discussion of any
emerging conduct risks exposures that have been identified.
Reputation risk management
The risk that an action, transaction, investment, event, decision, or business relationship will reduce trust in Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity
and/or competence.
Overview
A reduction of trust in the Barclays Bank UK Group’s integrity and competence may reduce the attractiveness of the Barclays Bank UK Group to
stakeholders and could lead to negative publicity, loss of revenue, regulatory or legislative action, loss of existing and potential client business, reduced
workforce morale and difficulties in recruiting talent. Ultimately it may destroy shareholder value.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays UK Risk Committee is the most senior executive body responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Barclays Bank UK
Group’s management of reputation risk.
The Barclays Bank UK Group Chief Compliance Officer is accountable for developing a Reputation Risk Management Framework (RRMF), and the Head
of Corporate Relations is responsible for developing a reputation risk policy and associated standards, including tolerances against which data is
monitored, reported on and escalated, as required. The RRMF sets out what is required to manage reputation risk across the Barclays Bank UK Group.
The primary responsibility for identifying and managing reputation risk and adherence to the control requirements sits with the business and support
functions where the risk arises.
The Barclays Bank UK Group is required to operate within established reputation risk appetite, and its component businesses prepare reports for its
respective Risk and Board Risk Committees highlighting their most significant current and potential reputation risks and issues and how they are being
managed. These reports are a key internal source of information for the quarterly reputation risk reports which are prepared for the Barclays UK Risk
Committee and the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board.
Legal risk management
The risk of loss or imposition of penalties, damages or fines from the failure of Barclays Bank UK Group to meet its legal obligations including
regulatory or contractual requirements.
Overview
The Barclays Bank UK Group has no tolerance for wilful breaches of laws, regulations or other legal obligations. However, the multitude of laws and
regulations are highly dynamic and their application to particular circumstances is often unclear; this results in a level of inherent legal risk, for
which the Barclays Bank UK Group has limited tolerance.
Organisation, roles and responsibilities
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s businesses and functions have primary responsibility for identifying, managing and escalating legal risk in their area
as well as responsibility for adherence to minimum control requirements.
The Legal Function organisation and coverage model aligns expertise to businesses, functions, products, activities and geographic locations so that
the Barclays Bank UK Group receives legal support from appropriate legal professionals. The senior management of the Legal Function oversees,
monitors and challenges legal risk across the Barclays Group. The Legal Function does not sit in any of the three lines of defence but supports them
all.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 41
Risk review
Risk performance
Treasury and Capital risk
Capital risk
All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Overview
Throughout 2018, Barclays Bank UK PLC was regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) on an individual basis only. From 1 January
2019, as part of structural reform, Barclays Bank UK Group became regulated by the PRA as a ring-fenced bank. This results in additional entities
being included to reflect the new regulatory scope of consolidation. Due to the change in scope, there are no comparatives.
The disclosures below provide key capital metrics for Barclays Bank UK Group with further information on its risk profile included in the Barclays
Bank UK PLC Pillar 3 Report 2019, available at home.barclays/investor-relations/reports-and-events/annual-reports.
On 27 June 2019, CRR II came into force amending CRR. As an amending regulation, the existing provisions of CRR apply unless they are amended
by CRR II. Certain provisions took immediate effect and other CRR II amendments are expected to take effect from 28 June 2021.
Certain aspects of CRR II are dependent on final technical standards to be issued by the EBA and adopted by the European Commission as well as
UK implementation of the rules. The disclosures in the following section reflect Barclays’ interpretation of the current rules and guidance.
As at 31 December 2019, Barclays Bank UK Group’s transitional CET1 ratio was 13.5% which exceeded the 2019 minimum requirement.
As at 31 December
Capital ratiosa,b 2019
CET1 13.5%
Tier 1 (T1) 16.9%
Total regulatory capital 21.3%
Capital resources (audited) £bn
CET1 capital 10.1
T1 capital 12.7
Total regulatory capital 16.0
Total risk weighted assets (RWAs) (unaudited) 75.0
Notes
a Capital and RWAs are calculated applying the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements of the CRR as amended by CRR II applicable as at the reporting date.
b The fully loaded CET1 ratio was 13.2%, with £9.9bn of CET1 capital and £75.1bn of RWAs, calculated without applying the transitional arrangements of the CRR as amended by
CRR II applicable as at the reporting date.
Barclays Bank UK Group is required to disclose an average UK leverage ratio which is based on capital on the last day of each month in the quarter
and an exposure measure for each day in the quarter. Barclays Bank UK Group is also required to disclose a UK leverage ratio based on capital and
exposure on the last day of the quarter. Both approaches exclude qualifying claims on central banks from the leverage exposure.
As at 31 December 2019, Barclays Bank UK Group average UK leverage ratio was 5.2% which exceeded the 2019 minimum requirement.
As at 31 December
2019
Leverage ratiosa £bn
Average UK leverage ratiob 5.2%
Average T1 Capital 12.6
Average UK leverage exposure 240.1
UK leverage ratio 5.4%
T1 capital 12.7
UK leverage exposure 236.0
Notes
a Capital and leverage are calculated applying the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements of the CRR as amended by CRR II applicable as at the reporting date.
b The CET1 capital held against the 0.35% SRB ALRB was £0.8bn and against the 0.30% CCLB was £0.7bn.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 85
Risk review
Risk performance
Model risk, Conduct risk, Reputation risk and Legal risk
All disclosures in this section are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Model risk
Since the inception of model risk as a principal risk, key achievements to date include creating a complete model inventory across the firm, roll out
of a robust Model Risk Management (MRM) framework and the validation of all high material models. In 2019 the framework and governance of
model risk was further improved by:
 enhancing the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board’s oversight of model risk, through the reporting of the model risk tolerance framework and periodic
updates to the Barclays Bank UK PLC Board on the progress of the MRM implementation;
 validating a third of the population of low material models;
 strengthening the model inventory identification process, including enhancing the model lifecycle technology platform; and
 better alignment of documentation requirements to model materiality
Conduct risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to continuing to drive the right culture throughout all levels of the organisation. The Barclays Bank UK Group
will continue to enhance effective management of conduct risk and appropriately consider the relevant tools, governance and management
information in decision-making processes. Focus on the management of conduct risk is ongoing and the Barclays Bank UK Group Conduct Dashboards
are a key component of this.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continues to review the role and impact of conduct risk events and issues in the remuneration process at both the
individual and business level.
Businesses have continued to assess the potential customer, client and market impacts of strategic change. As part of the 2019 Medium-Term
Planning Process, associated Strategic Risk Assessment and Strategic Elements of the Business Plan, material conduct risks associated with strategic
and financial plans were assessed.
Throughout 2019, conduct risks were raised by each business area for consideration by the Barclays PLC BRC and the Barclays Bank UK PLC BRC. The
Barclays Bank UK PLC BRC reviewed the risks raised and whether management’s proposed actions were appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively.
The Barclays PLC BRC Barclays Bank UK PLC BRC received regular updates with regards to key risks and issues including those relating to regulatory
change and the effectiveness of the control environment.
Although certain legacy litigation and conduct issues have been resolved, the Barclays Bank UK Group continued to incur costs in relation to litigation
and conduct matters, please refer to Note 24 Legal, competition and regulatory matters and Note 22 Provisions, for further details. Costs include
customer redress and remediation, as well as fines and settlements. Resolution of these matters remains a necessary and important part of delivering
the Barclays Bank UK Group’s strategy and an ongoing commitment to improve oversight of culture and conduct.
The Barclays Bank UK Group has operated at the overall set tolerance for conduct risk throughout 2019. The tolerance adherence is assessed by the
business areas through Key Indicators which are aggregated and provide an overall rating which is reported to the Barclays PLC BRC and the Barclays
Bank UK PLC BRC as part of the Conduct Dashboard. This is supported by additional tools such as the Risk and Control Self-Assessment.
For further details on the non-financial performance measures, please refer to page 6 of the Strategic Report.
Reputation risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group is committed to continuing to drive the right culture throughout all levels of the organisation. The Barclays Bank UK Group
will continue to enhance effective management of reputation risk and appropriately consider the relevant tools, governance and management
information in decision-making processes.
The Barclays Bank UK PLC Board considers reputation risks raised by businesses. The Board has also considered whether management’s proposed
actions have been appropriate to mitigate the risks effectively.
The Barclays Bank UK Group continued to incur costs in relation to litigation and conduct matters, please refer to Note 24 Legal, competition and
regulatory matters and Note 22 Provisions, for further details. Costs include customer redress and remediation, as well as fines and settlements.
Resolution of these matters is an ongoing commitment to improve oversight of culture and conduct and management of reputation risks arising.
The Barclays Bank UK Group remains focused on the continuous improvements being made to manage risk effectively, with an emphasis on enhancing
governance and management information to help identify risks at earlier stages.
For further details on the non-financial performance measures, please refer to page 6 of the Strategic Report.
Legal risk
The Barclays Bank UK Group remains committed to continuous improvements to manage legal risk effectively. A number of enhancements have
been implemented during 2019, including updating the Barclays Group framework for managing legal risk and associated policies as well as
reviewing legal risk tolerances and risk appetite. Updated legal risk mandatory training was also implemented across the Barclays Group, reinforced
by ongoing engagement and education of the Barclays Group’s businesses and functions.
Throughout 2019, the Barclays Bank UK Group operated within set tolerances for legal risk. Tolerance adherence is assessed through key
indicators, which are reviewed through the relevant risk and control committees. In addition to ongoing monitoring, legal risk controls are reviewed
and assessed annually as part of the Risk and Control Self-Assessment process.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 92
Risk review
Supervision and regulation
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s operations are subject to a large number of rules and regulations that are a condition for authorisation to conduct
banking and financial services business. These apply to business operations, impact financial returns and include capital, leverage and liquidity
requirements, authorisation, registration and reporting requirements, restrictions on certain activities, conduct of business regulations and many
others.
The day-to-day regulation and supervision of the Barclays Bank UK Group is divided between the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) (a division
of the Bank of England (BoE)) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). In addition, the Financial Policy Committee (FPC) of the BoE has influence
on the prudential requirements that may be imposed on the banking system through its powers of direction and recommendation.
Barclays Bank UK PLC is an authorised credit institution and subject to solo prudential supervision by the PRA and subject to conduct regulation and
supervision by the FCA. From 1 January 2019, the Barclays Bank UK Group became regulated by the PRA. The Barclays Group is subject to prudential
supervision by the PRA on a group consolidated basis. The Barclays Group is also subject to regulatory initiatives undertaken by the UK Payment
Systems Regulator (PSR), as a participant in payment systems regulated by the PSR.
The PRA’s continuing supervision of the Barclays Bank UK Group is conducted through a variety of regulatory tools, including the collection of
information by way of prudential returns or cross-firm reviews, reports obtained from skilled persons, regular supervisory visits to firms and regular
meetings with management and directors to discuss issues such as strategy, governance, financial resilience, operational resilience, risk management,
and recovery and resolution.
Parliament gave the FCA a single strategic objective – to ensure that relevant markets function well – and three operational objectives: to protect
consumers, enhance market integrity and promote competition. The FCA’s supervision of the Barclays Bank UK PLC is carried out through a
combination of proactive engagement, regular thematic work and project work based on the FCA’s sector assessments, which analyse the different
areas of the market and the risks that may lie ahead.
Both the PRA and the FCA apply standards that either anticipate or go beyond requirements established by global or EU standards, whether in relation
to capital, leverage and liquidity, resolvability and resolution or matters of conduct.
The FCA has focused on conduct risk and on customer outcomes and will continue to do so. This has included a focus on the design and operation
of products, the behaviour of customers and the operation of markets. The FCA is conducting on-going work on fair pricing in financial services,
affordability and fair treatment of vulnerable customers. These initiatives may impact future revenues and increase conduct costs and costs of
remediation.
The FCA and the PRA also apply the Senior Managers and Certification Regime (the SMCR) which imposes a regulatory approval, individual
accountability and fitness and propriety framework in respect of senior or key individuals within relevant firms.
Brexit
There remains much uncertainty regarding the state of the future relationship between the UK and the EU and therefore the potential impact of the
UK's withdrawal from the EU on the financial regulatory framework in the UK. Following the UK’s withdrawal from the EU on 31 January 2020, pursuant
to the withdrawal agreement negotiated between the UK and the EU in October 2019, firms incorporated and authorised in the UK are able to continue
to provide services into the EU27 in accordance with the terms of the withdrawal agreement for the duration of the transition period set out in the
agreement. Following the expiry of that transitional period in December 2020, the ability of UK firms to access the EU market and vice versa would
depend upon the terms of any future trade deal between the UK and the EU, including whether such deal provides for any access rights in respect of
financial services. If, after the expiry of the transitional period in December 2020, there is no deal or arrangement covering retail financial services in
place, Barclays Bank UK PLC would no longer be able to provide services from the UK into the EU27 in the way in which these services are currently
provided. As a result of the onshoring of EU legislation in the UK, UK firms would (at least initially) be subject to substantially the same rules and
regulations as before Brexit. The UK may seek to make changes to these rules going forward, particularly in the event of no deal or arrangement
covering financial services, where they are not subject to any requirements to maintain particular rules or standards for equivalence purposes.
Financial regulatory framework
(a) Prudential regulation
Certain Basel III standards were implemented in EU law through the Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR) and the Capital Requirements Directive
IV (CRD IV). Beyond the minimum standards required by CRD IV, the PRA has expected the Barclays Group, in common with other major UK banks
and building societies, to meet a 7% Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio at the level of the consolidated group since 1 January 2016.
Global systemically important banks (G-SIBs), such as the Barclays Group, are subject to a number of additional prudential requirements, including
the requirement to hold additional loss-absorbing capacity and additional capital buffers above the level required by Basel III standards. The level of
the G-SIB buffer is set by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) according to a bank’s systemic importance and can range from 1% to 3.5% of risk-
weighted assets (RWAs). The G-SIB buffer must be met with CET1.
In November 2019, the FSB published an update to its list of G-SIBs, maintaining the 1.5% G-SIB buffer that applies to the Barclays Group. The
Barclays Group is also subject to a ‘combined buffer requirement’ consisting of (i) a capital conservation buffer, and (ii) a countercyclical capital
buffer (CCyB). The CCyB is based on rates determined by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which the Barclays Group maintains
exposures. These rates may vary in either direction. In December 2019, the FPC raised the UK CCyB rate from 1% to 2% with binding effect from
December 2020.
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 93
Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Barclays Bank UK PLC
Credit risk management
A series of remediation programmes were in place - Segregation of duties including access to
during the year to address previously identified control multiple systems that could circumvent
deficiencies. The Group and Parent company have also segregation controls; and
enhanced compensating controls to address the
- Re-certification of user access rights.
issues raised, most of them relating to user access
management.
Control re-performance: To assess whether additional
If the above controls for user access management are detective compensating controls adequately address
deficient and not remediated or adequately mitigated the risk of unauthorised access, we re-performed on a
the pervasive nature of these controls may undermine
sample basis management’s assessment of potential
our ability to place reliance on automated and IT
unauthorised access by privileged accounts and users,
dependent controls in our audit.
whose access rights were not recertified.
Our results:
Our testing did not identify unauthorised user
activities in the systems relevant to financial reporting
which would have required us to expand the extent of
our planned detailed testing.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £100 million (2018: £75 million), determined with reference to a benchmark of
group profit before tax from continuing operations, normalised to exclude the charge related to PPI of £1.4 billion, of which it represents 4.8%. In
the prior year materiality was determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax, of which it represented 4.8%.
Materiality for the Parent company financial statements as a whole was set at £97 million (2018: £72 million), determined with reference to a
benchmark of profit before tax from continuing operations, normalised to exclude the charge related to PPI of £1.4 billion, of which it represents
4.8%. In the prior year materiality was determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax, of which it represented 4.6%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £4.8 million (2018: £3.75m), in
addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Group materiality
Profit before tax from
continuing operations
£2,069m* (2018: £1,548m)
£100m
Whole financial
statements materiality
(2018: £75m)
£4.8m
Misstatements reported to
the Audit Committee (2018:
Profit before tax from
£3.75m)
continuing operations
Group materiality
*normalised to exclude charges related to PPI
Scope – general
The Group team performed the audit of the Group as it if was a single aggregated set of financial information, using the materiality levels set out
above.
The Group has centralised processes in India, the outputs of which are also included in the aggregated set of financial information. These services
are subject to specified audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and controls. We evaluated the work which the
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 102
Notes to the financial statements
Assets and liabilities held at fair value
The hedging instruments share the same risk exposures as the hedged items. Hedge effectiveness is determined with reference to quantitative tests,
predominantly regression testing, but to the extent hedging instruments are exposed to different risks than the hedged items, this could result in
hedge ineffectiveness or hedge accounting failures.
Sources of ineffectiveness include the following:
 Mismatches between the contractual terms of the hedged item and hedging instrument, including basis differences.
 Changes in credit risk of the hedging instruments.
 If a hedging relationship becomes over-hedged, for example in hedges of net investments if the net asset value designated at the start of the period
falls below the amount of the hedging instrument.
 The effects of the forthcoming reforms to IBOR, because these might take effect at a different time and have a different impact on hedged items
and hedging instruments.
Across all benchmarks which Barclays is materially exposed to, there is still uncertainty regarding the precise timing and effects of IBOR reform. There
is yet to be full consensus regarding methodologies for converging existing IBORs to their final benchmark rates. As such, Barclays has not
incorporated any change in assumptions for affected benchmarks into its expectations or calculations. Barclays does, however, assume sufficient
liquidity in IBOR linked benchmarks to provide reliable valuation calculations of both hedged items and hedging instruments (notwithstanding reliefs
already applied within the financial reporting).
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform
Following the financial crisis, the reform and replacement of benchmark interest rates such as IBOR has become a priority for global regulators. Since
the changes are market driven, there is currently some uncertainty around the timing and precise nature of these changes.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk exposure is directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform, across both its cash flow hedge accounting
activities; where IBOR-linked derivatives are designated as a cash flow hedge of IBOR-linked cash flows, and its fair value hedge accounting activities;
where IBOR-linked derivatives are designated as a fair value hedge of fixed interest rate assets and liabilities.
The Barclays Bank UK Group’s risk exposure is predominately to GBP, USD and EUR LIBOR. Retail lending and mortgage exposure is minimal.
Approaches to transition will vary product by product, and counterparty by counterparty. Barclays expected derivative contracts facing central
clearing counterparties to follow a market-wide, standardised approach to reform. Whereas bilateral derivative agreements, loan agreements and
other cash securities to largely be negotiated bilaterally with the counterparty.
There are key differences between IBORs and RFRs. IBORs are ‘term rates’, which means that they are published for a borrowing period (for example
three months), and they are ‘forward-looking’, because they are published at the beginning of a borrowing period, based upon an estimated inter-
bank borrowing cost for the period. RFRs are typically ‘backward-looking’ rates, as they are based upon overnight rates from actual transactions, and
are therefore published at the end of the overnight borrowing period. Furthermore, IBORs include a credit spread over RFR. Therefore, to transition
existing contracts and agreements to the RFR, adjustments for term and credit differences may need to be applied to RFR-linked rates to enable the
two benchmarks to be economically equivalent upon transition. The methodologies for determining these adjustments are undergoing in-depth
consultations by industry working groups, on behalf of the respective global regulators and related market participants.
Barclays has established a Group-wide LIBOR Transition Programme, with oversight from the Barclays Group Finance Director and with cross-
business line and functions-support governance. The Transition Programme follows a risk management approach, based upon recognised ‘change
delivery’ control standards, to drive strategic execution, and identify, manage and resolve key risks and issues as they arise. Accountable Executives
are in place within key working groups, with overall Board oversight delegated to the Barclays PLC Board Risk Committee and the Barclays PLC Group
Finance Director. Barclays performs a prominent stewardship role to drive orderly transition via our representation on official sector and industry
working groups across all major jurisdictions and product classes. The Barclays Bank UK Group is actively engaging with the counterparties to include
appropriate fallback provisions in its floating rate assets and liabilities with maturities after 2021, when most IBORs are expected to cease to exist.
We expect that the hedging instruments will be modified by the amendments to the 2006 ISDA definitions that will include fallback provisions for
when the existing IBORs are permanently discontinued. Additionally, the Barclays Group Finance Director is Chair of the UK’s ‘Working Group on
Sterling Risk-Free Reference Rates’, whose mandate is to catalyse a broad-based transition to using SONIA (‘Sterling Overnight Index Average’) as
the primary sterling interest rate benchmark in bond, loan and derivatives markets. Further, hedge accounting specific impacts of IBOR reform are
expected as transition progresses, with impact on financial reporting becoming clearer following anticipated completion of Phase 2 of the IASB’s
IBOR Reform project.
The following table summarises the significant hedge accounting exposures impacted by the IBOR reform as at 31 December 2019:
Nominal amount
Nominal amount of hedging
of hedged items instruments
directly directly
impacted by impacted by
IBOR reform IBOR reform
Current benchmark rate Expected convergence to RFR £m £m
GBP London Interbank Offered rate (LIBOR) Reformed Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) 1,900 1,900
USD LIBOR / Effective Federal Funds Rate (EFFR) Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) 12,437 12,431
Euro Overnight Index Average (EONIA) Euro Short-Term Rate (€STR) 2,913 2,913
All Other IBORs Various Other RFRs 14 14
Total IBOR Notionals 17,264 17,258
home.barclays/annualreport Barclays Bank UK PLC Annual Report 134