H SBC Holdings plc
Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
C onnecting customers
to opportunities
HSBC aims to be where the growth is, enabling businesses to
thrive and economies to prosper, and ultimately helping people
to fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions.
We aim to deliver long-term value for our shareholders through...
...our extensive ...our access to ...and our balance sheet
international network... high-growth markets... strength.
We are a leading international Our global footprint and market- We continue to maintain a
bank, serving more than leading transaction banking strong capital, funding and
40 million personal, wealth franchise provide extensive liquidity position with a
and corporate customers. access to faster-growing diversified business model.
markets, particularly in
Asia and the Middle East.
Reported revenue by global business
RBWM 41%
CMB 27%
GB&M 27%
GPB 3%
Corporate Centre 2%
Total assets Common equity tier 1 ratio Reported revenue by region
$2.7tn 14.7%
(2018: $2.6tn) (2018: 14.0%)
Asia 49%
Europe 29%
North America 11%
Latin America 5%
Middle East and North Africa 6%
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Overview Contents
Overview
2 HSBC at a glance
4 Group Chief Executive’s review
6 Delivering our strategy
8 Our approach
Customers
10 At a glance
12 Our Retail Banking and Wealth
Management customers
16 Our Commercial Banking customers
18 Our Global Banking and Markets customers
20 Our Global Private Banking customers
22 Customer developments across all
global businesses
24 Protecting our customers data
Employees
26 At a glance
28 Listening to our people
30 Diversity and inclusion
32 Well-being and developing our people
Supporting sustainable growth
34 At a glance
36 Sustainable finance
38 Sustainable finance commitment
40 Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures
42 Our approach to sustainability
risk management
43 Suppliers
44 Sustainable operations
46 Committed to communities
A reminder
The currency we report in is US dollars. A responsible business culture
Adjusted measures 48 At a glance
We supplement our IFRS figures with 49 Ensuring strong corporate governance
alternative performance measures used by 50 Restoring trust
management internally. These measures are 53 Safeguarding the financial system
highlighted with the following symbol: 54 A responsible approach to tax
55 Respecting human rights
56 Supporting financial inclusion
None of the websites referred to in this
Environmental, Social and Governance (‘ESG’)
Update (including where a link is provided), Additional information
and none of the information contained on
58 Approach to reporting/Forward-looking
such websites, are incorporated by reference statements/Non-GAAP financial
in this document. information
59 Abbreviations/Certain defined terms
60 Useful links/Photography credits
Cover image: The pollinators
H Envir S onm B en C tal, S o H cial o and l d Gov i e n rna g nce s U pd p ate l c 2019 A significant amount of the
world’s wild plants and crops
rely on pollinators, such as those
on our front cover. Habitat
fragmentation and climate
change are having a negative
impact on populations of pollinators. Further
information and ways to take action can be
found at: www.wwf.org.uk/updates/
bees-feel-sting-climate-change.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 1
Overview
HSBC at a glance
About HSBC
With assets of $2.7tn and operations in 64 countries and territories at 31 December 2019, HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services
organisations in the world.
More than We employ around We have around
40 million 23 5,0 00 197,000
customers bank with us people around the world shareholders in 130 countries and territories
(full-time equivalent staff)
Engaging with
our stakeholders
Building strong relationships with our
stakeholders helps enable us to deliver our
strategy in line with long-term values, and
operate the business in a sustainable way.
Customers
Our stakeholders are the people who work
for us, bank with us, own us, regulate us, and
live in the societies we serve and the planet
we all inhabit. These human connections are Communities Suppliers
complex and overlap. Many of our employees
are customers and shareholders, while our
business customers are often suppliers. We
exist to serve, creating value for our customers Society
and shareholders. Our size and global reach
mean our actions can have a significant
impact. We are committed to doing business Regulators and
responsibly, and thinking for the long term. governments Employees
This is key to delivering our strategy.
Our section 172 statement, detailing our
Directors’ responsibility to stakeholders, Investors
can be found on page 42 of the
Annual Report and Accounts 2019.
Our values
Our values help define who we are as an organisation, and are key to our long-term success. We aspire to be:
Dependable Open Connected
We are dependable, standing firm for what We are open to different ideas and cultures, We are connected to our customers,
is right and delivering on commitments. and value diverse perspectives. communities, regulators and each other,
caring about individuals and their progress.
2 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Overview
HSBC at a glance
Our global businesses
We serve customers through four global businesses. On pages 30 to 37 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2019 we provide an overview of our
performance in 2019 for each of the global businesses, as well as our Corporate Centre.
Retail Banking and Wealth Commercial Banking Global Banking and Markets Global Private Banking
Management (’RBWM’) (‘CMB’) (’GB&M’) (‘GPB’)
We help millions of our customers Our global reach and expertise We provide a comprehensive We serve high net worth and
manage their day-to-day finances help domestic and international range of financial services ultra high net worth individuals
and save for the future. businesses around the world and products to corporates, and families.
unlock their potential. governments and institutions.
Our global reach
The map below represents customer accounts by country/territory at 31 December 2019.
North America UK Rest of Europe Mainland China
10% 29% 8% 3%
Latin America
2% Middle East and North Africa
3% Rest of A sia Hong Kong
10% 35%
See page 54 of our Annual Report and Accounts 2019 for further information on our customers and approach to geographical information.
Awards
Selected awards and recognitions Euromoney Cash Management Survey 2019 The Banker Transaction Banking Awards 2019
Asiamoney New Silk Road Finance Best Global Cash Manager for Corporates Best Global Transaction Bank
Awards 2019 Best Bank for Cash Management
Best Overall International Bank for BRI Euromoney Trade Finance Survey 2019
PWM/The Banker Global Private Banking
Top Global Trade Finance Bank
Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2019 Awards 2019
World’s Best Bank for Sustainable Finance The Banker Investment Banking Awards 2019 Best Private Bank in Hong Kong
World’s Best Bank for Public-Sector Clients Best Private Bank in the UK
Most Innovative Investment Bank
World’s Best Bank for SMEs
for Emerging Markets
Hong Kong’s Best Bank
Mexico’s Best Bank
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 3
Overview
Group Chief Executive’s review
To succeed, any forward-thinking business must consider the
interests and meet the fair expectations of all its stakeholders.
This is a priority for the Board and management team.
This year, we have also made some changes
to how we report. We have introduced new
information on a range of issues, including
our progress in helping customers make the
low-carbon transition, and summarised our
performance against all our key non-financial
targets and metrics. Where possible, we have
tried to replicate the format we use for our
Annual Report and Accounts 2019.
Above all we have tried to be balanced. This
is not a public relations exercise. We have
been open and honest about our successes –
of which there are many – but equally
transparent about where we need to improve.
There is much we can be proud of. The
successful firms of the future will marry
great technology with great people, and we
have made real strides in both areas over the
past year. Our investment in technology has
improved the way we listen to and learn from
customers, and we have used that information
to improve aspects of our service. At the same
time, we have expanded and upgraded the
learning and development opportunities we
offer our people – including training in digital
technologies – and improved the way we
support their health and well-being. We
Noel Quinn Doing right by people and the planet have also strengthened and streamlined
Group Chief Executive is a proud part of HSBC’s history and our governance structures, and continued
heritage. Our success over 155 years to evolve our approach to conduct and
is founded on a fundamental belief tackling financial crime.
that we must serve the interests of
From an environmental perspective, we
the many communities and groups of
made further and encouraging progress
people that we impact all over the world.
towards our target of delivering $100bn of
sustainable financing by the end of 2025.
This ESG Update details how we are living up
We also continued to reduce our own
to these obligations today, and demonstrates
emissions and carbon footprint. Our expertise,
our ongoing commitment to increasing both
experience and influence continue to be
the quantity and quality of our non-financial
integral to the development of green finance
disclosures. It covers all the usual areas from
markets and we remain a key international
corporate governance and sustainability to
voice in calling for better disclosure of climate
customer satisfaction, employee advocacy
risk. We were recognised for our leadership
and our approach to conduct. It accords with
in this area as the World’s Best Bank for
our reporting obligations under the terms of
Sustainable Finance in the Euromoney Awards
the UN Global Compact and renews our
for Excellence 2019.
commitment to the Compact’s principles.
4 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Overview
Group Chief Executive’s review
“ This ESG Update details
Our focus now is on addressing the
areas where we have greatest room for
improvement, and doing so decisively and
how we are trying to live
at greater pace. Much of this work is already
in train. We are investing heavily to update
our banking platforms and improve customer
up to our wider societal
experience, and deploying technology to
improve the way we develop and manage
talent within the bank. As part of our work
obligations today.” to create a more supportive environment for
our people, we are expanding mental health
training to all managers and encouraging
more people to work flexibly where it is
appropriate to do so. We are also developing
a new series of risk ratings to help us better
understand and manage the climate and
transition risks that we and our customers
face. These initiatives are part of a much
bigger body of work, all of which you can
find detailed in this report.
66%
Yet for all the progress we have made over
the past 12 months, there are still areas In line with our values of being open,
where we can and must improve. Customer dependable and connected, your views
Of employees would recommend
recommendation scores are short of where continue to be of great importance as
HSBC as a great place to work
we want and need them to be. Our people we go about this work and strive to
(2018: 66%) might feel more engaged and recognised, make our non-financial disclosures more
but a significant minority still feel unable to comprehensive and meaningful. We will
speak out against bad behaviours. We need continue to listen and take your feedback
to make more progress in removing obstacles into account, and will incorporate it when
that make it more difficult for employees to we report our ESG progress next year.
do their jobs. Our senior leadership team is
still not diverse enough, and we also have Since the beginning of January 2020, the
a long way to go in fully integrating climate coronavirus outbreak has created significant
and transition risks into our day-to-day disruption for our customers, suppliers
management. and staff, particularly in mainland China
and Hong Kong. As always, their well-being
Addressing these issues and continuing to is our greatest priority. We are monitoring the
improve our non-financial performance is of situation closely and have put measures in
paramount importance. Much has been said place to support them through this difficult
about corporate purpose recently. Ours is time. We will continue to do all that we can
simple. We exist to connect customers to to keep them safe and help them manage
opportunities and in doing so help people, the impact of the crisis.
businesses and economies thrive. But we can
only do that sustainably by considering the
interests and meeting the fair expectations of
all our stakeholders, and by managing our
impact on the environment.
No business can generate value unless it
lives up to these wider societal obligations. Noel Quinn
Ensuring we do that is a priority for the Board Group Chief Executive
and the management team. We have good
18 February 2020
foundations to build on. We have a culture
and corporate identity based around serving
others. We also have talented and dedicated
people, and it is largely thanks to them that
we have made real strides in all aspects of
our non-financial performance.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 5
Overview
Delivering our strategy
WWee wwiillll ccoonnttiinnuuee ttoo ggrrooww tthhee ppaarrttss ooff oouurr
bbuussiinneessss wwhheerree wwee aarree ssttrroonnggeesstt wwhhiillee
aaddddrreessssiinngg aarreeaass ooff uunnddeerrppeerrffoorrmmaannccee..
Our eight strategic priorities: 2019 outcomes
In June 2018, we set ourselves strategic
priorities and financial targets amid an
environment of rising interest rates, In our June 2018 Strategy Update, we outlined client revenue below our target of mid-to-high
resilient global economic growth and eight strategic priorities across the themes single digits. When it came to simplifying
moderate geopolitical risk. of ‘Deliver growth from areas of strength’, the organisation and investing in future
‘Turnaround of low-returning businesses’, skills, we delivered a mixed outcome, with
In reviewing our businesses and geographies ‘Build a bank for the future that puts the employee engagement unchanged at 66%,
today, while it is clear that many parts are customer at the centre’ and ‘Empower our falling below our target of improving each
performing strongly, particularly in Asia and people’. We ended 2019 on track in five of year. However, we achieved a medium
the Middle East, as well as our market-leading our eight strategic priorities, partly on track environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’)
transaction banking services globally, other in two and off track in one. (The following risk rating, outperforming a group of peers.
parts of our business have underperformed. comparisons are against the previous year, Our ratings provider, Sustainalytics, updated
The Group faces several structural issues and unless stated otherwise.) its methodology during 2019. More details
we no longer expect to reach our 2020 return on the approach, as well as further details on
on average tangible equity (‘RoTE’) target, We accelerated growth from our Asia our initiatives involving our customers and
as stated in our third quarter 2019 results. franchise and grew market share in our employees, can be found on the following
UK ring-fenced bank, HSBC UK, which pages.
With the changed macroeconomic we established in 2018. We improved
environment and interest rate outlook, capital efficiency by growing our revenue We remained off track in turning around
we have tempered our revenue growth over risk-weighted assets ratio. The Group our US business and do not expect to
expectations and adjusted our business made efficiency gains that helped achieve achieve a US RoTE of 6% by 2020. We will
plan accordingly. We plan to raise the return positive adjusted jaws in 2019. We also need to reshape the US business in order
profile of our assets and improve the Group’s sustained a top-three rank and/or improved to improve returns.
efficiency to generate higher returns and by two ranks in customer satisfaction in
create more capacity for growth. Our business most of our key RBWM and CMB markets With the provision of our 2020 business
update sets out how we intend to become a compared with 2017. update below, we conclude reporting on
leaner, simpler and more competitive Group our eight strategic priorities. In their place,
that is better positioned to be the world’s We had mixed results in our priority to deliver we will report on our updated performance
leading international bank. growth from our international network. programme going forward, which we set
We gained market share in two of our four out in the following section.
transaction banking products, and grew
transaction banking revenue and international
Introducing our 2020 business update
We are adjusting our plan in order to upgrade Restructuring for growth
the return profile of our risk-weighted assets We plan to remodel our Europe business
(‘RWAs’), reduce our cost base and streamline to focus on its strengths, reducing European
our organisation. This aims to position the RWAs by around 35% and lowering costs.
Group to increase returns for investors, create To achieve this, we will focus our client
the capacity to invest in the future and build a coverage on key international European
sustainable platform for growth. clients and connecting them to Asia and
the Middle East. In Global Markets, we aim
In order to upgrade the return profile of to continue to invest in transaction banking
our RWAs, we intend to reallocate the and financing capabilities while reducing the
low-growth, low-returning assets in our capital allocated to our Rates business, and
Europe and US businesses into high-growth, exiting G10 long-term derivative market-
higher-returning opportunities in other parts of making in the UK. Our investment banking
the Group. For clarity, European restructuring activities in the UK will focus on supporting
will be focused on our operations in UK mid-market clients and international
continental Europe and the non-ring-fenced corporate clients through our London hub.
bank in the UK, which is primarily our GB&M In addition, we intend to reduce our sales
activities in the UK. This does not include and research activities in European cash
our UK ring-fenced bank, HSBC UK, which equities. We also plan to transition our
comprises the retail banking and commercial structured product capabilities from the
banking businesses in the UK. UK to Asia.
6 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Overview
Delivering our strategy
In the US, we require a new approach to global transition to a low-carbon economy, 2022 targets
improve returns. We plan to reposition the demonstrated by our continued commitment
US business as an internationally focused to provide and facilitate $100bn of sustainable Cumulative gross RWA reduction by 2022 of
corporate bank, with a targeted retail offering, finance and investment by 2025. A set of
principally for international and affluent HSBC-specific ESG metrics and targets can >$100bn
customers. We intend to consolidate select be found on page 9.
Fixed Income activities with those in London
to maximise global scale, and reduce the Creating a simpler, more efficient and
RWAs associated with our US Global Markets empowered organisation
business by around 45%. We aim to reinvest Our remodelling plans will be accompanied
Adjusted cost base reduction in 2022 to
these RWAs into CMB, as well as into retail by a substantial cost reduction programme
banking where we intend to increase and a number of steps to simplify HSBC.
$31bn or less
unsecured lending and increase our These aim to reduce our overall cost base
investment in digital. We plan to reduce our US and to accelerate the pace of change. There
branch network by around 30% and embark are three broad parts to these plans. First, we
on a programme to consolidate middle and aim to remove costs linked to discontinued
back office activities and streamline functions activities. Second, through further investments
RoTE in 2022 of
to simplify our US business and lower costs. in technology, we intend to re-engineer
processes to take out costs and improve the
10% to 12%
Our plans for Europe and the US involve customer experience. Third, we plan to simplify
significant changes, including capital our matrix organisational structure. As part
reductions, to our GB&M business. We of this, we intend to move from four lines of
intend for GB&M to support corporate and business to three, by merging GPB and RBWM
institutional clients with global operations who to create one new organisation, Wealth and
value our international network. We plan to Personal Banking. We also plan to merge the
accelerate investments in Asia and the Middle operational support infrastructure of CMB and 2025 target
East and shift more resources to those regions, Global Banking, while maintaining separate
while continuing to strengthen our transaction front-line teams, which should improve Provide and facilitate sustainable finance
banking and financing capabilities. We intend collaboration between the two businesses. and investment of
to strengthen our investment banking Furthermore, we intend to reduce the number
capabilities in Asia and the Middle East, of geographies represented on the Group $100bn
while maintaining a global investment banking Management Board from seven to four. In
hub in London. We also aim to build leading order to match the size and new structure
emerging markets and financing capabilities in of our organisation, we plan to reorganise
Global Markets, and enhance our institutional our global functions and head office.
clients business. This remodelling of GB&M
will be underpinned by continued investment Our targets
in digital systems and solutions. The Group’s updated plan will have three
overarching 2022 targets. We will target a
Investing in our opportunities gross RWA reduction of more than $100bn; we
and areas of strength intend to reduce our cost base to $31bn or less;
The Group will continue to invest in and we will target a RoTE in the range of 10%
our growth opportunities, our customer to 12% in 2022 with the benefit of our cost
experience and delivering value to all of our reductions and redeployed RWAs flowing into
stakeholders. We intend to reinvest the RWAs subsequent years. Our gross RWA reductions
saved as a consequence of our restructuring are expected to largely come from the
in our high-returning Asia and Middle East non-ring-fenced bank in Europe and the
businesses, HSBC UK, our market-leading UK, and the US. We also plan to redeploy
transaction banking franchise and the over $100bn to higher returning areas, which
international wealth opportunity. As part will deliver strong growth in the rest of our
of our customer experience initiatives, we business. As a result, we intend for the Group’s
plan to improve digital capabilities to improve net RWA position to be similar to today, but
customer satisfaction, evolve our product have a higher earning asset mix. We intend to
suite and strengthen our internal processes. sustain our dividend policy and plan to suspend
As an example, we plan for the full launch of share buy-backs in 2020 and 2021 as we go
HSBC Kinetic for small businesses in the UK through the period of restructuring.
in 2020. We plan to continue to support the
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 7
Overview
Our approach
We conduct our business intent on supporting the sustained
success of our customers, people and other stakeholders.
Our purpose is to be where the growth is, connecting customers to opportunities. We help enable businesses to thrive and economies to prosper,
helping people to fulfil their hopes and dreams and realise their ambitions. To achieve our purpose we need to build strong relationships with all of
our stakeholders, including customers, employees and the communities in which we operate. This will help us to deliver our strategy and operate
our business in a way that is sustainable.
Our stakeholders How we listen What we discuss1
Communities We welcome dialogue with external stakeholders, We discuss how we support our customers with the
including non-governmental organisations (‘NGOs’) transition to a low-carbon economy and climate-related
and other civil society groups, including charities. risk management, covering sensitive sectors such as energy,
We engage directly on specific issues and by taking palm oil and forestry.
part in external forums and round-tables.
F or further details on how we support sustainable growth,
see pages 34 to 47.
Customers Our customers’ voices are heard through We discuss a range of subjects, including how we are making
our interactions with them, surveys, listening banking accessible, how we are making our processes easier
to and engaging with social media and from and how we plan to communicate more simply and effectively.
their complaints.
F or further details on how we support our customers,
see pages 10 to 25.
Employees Our people’s voices are heard through our We discuss a range of subjects including our ‘speak up’
employee survey Snapshot, Exchange meetings culture, well-being and the importance of keeping our
and our ‘speak up’ channels, including our global employees engaged.
whistleblowing platform, HSBC Confidential.
F or further details on how we support our employees,
see pages 26 to 33.
Investors We have shareholders in 130 countries. We engage with We discuss our performance, as well as how we manage risk
our shareholders through our Annual General Meetings. and our governance processes.
We also engage with our investors through bilateral
F or further details on how we are building a responsible business
meetings, external events and our annual ESG survey.
culture, see pages 48 to 57.
Regulators and We proactively engage with regulators and Regulators and governments focus on our strategic response
governments governments to facilitate strong relationships to geopolitical and macroeconomic challenges. There is
and understand the expectations that are also focus on non-financial risks, including on cyber and
critical to our business. operational resilience risks, as well as attention to conduct
and financial crime risks.
F or further details on how we are building a responsible business
culture, see pages 48 to 57.
Suppliers Our ethical and environmental code of conduct We discuss conduct requirements related to the economic,
for suppliers of goods and services sets out how environmental and social impacts associated with the supply
we engage with our suppliers on ethical and of goods or services.
environmental performance. The code is available
For further details of our approach to our suppliers, see page 43.
at: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/working-with-suppliers.
1 These are summaries of the discussion points for each of our stakeholder groups and are not exhaustive or exclusive to one stakeholder group.
How we decide what to measure
We listen to our stakeholders in a number of framework of the ESG Guide (which refers to our investors and other stakeholders that
different ways, which the table above sets out to our obligations under the Environmental, they should be publicly reported. We are
in more detail. We use the information they Social and Governance Reporting Guide also informed by stock exchange listing and
provide us to identify the issues that are most contained in Appendix 27 to The Rules disclosure rules globally. Further information
important to them – and consequently also Governing the Listing of Securities on the about the ESG Steering Committee is included
matter to our own business. Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited) in the ‘Ensuring strong corporate governance’
to choose what we measure and publicly section of this report on page 49. We know
Our ESG Steering Committee and other report in this ESG Update. that what is important to our stakeholders
relevant governance bodies regularly discuss evolves over time and will continue to assess
the new and existing themes and issues that Under the ESG Guide, ’materiality’ is our approach to ensure we remain relevant
matter to our stakeholders. Our management considered to be the threshold at which in what we measure and publicly report.
team then uses this insight, alongside the ESG issues become sufficiently important
8 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Overview
Our approach
Our ESG metrics and targets
We have established targets that guide how for measures linked to outcomes that measure based on a rating from Sustainalytics,
we do business, including how we operate underpin the ESG metrics below. a third-party sustainability ratings agency. At
and how we serve our customers. These 31 December 2019, HSBC achieved a medium
targets are designed to help us to make our ESG metrics are also included in the long-term ESG risk rating using the new Sustainalytics
business – and those of our customers – more incentive (‘LTI’) scorecards of executive methodology. HSBC’s rating outperformed
environmentally sustainable. They also help us Directors. The 2017 LTI scorecards of executive compared with a peer set that included
to improve employee advocacy and diversity Directors included achieving a cumulative 10 global banks, three emerging markets-
at senior levels as well as strengthen our financing and investment target of $30bn based banks and one Asia-Pacific-based bank.
market conduct. to $34bn for developing clean energy and The 2019 LTI scorecard includes a customer
lower-carbon technologies and projects measure incentivising improvement in our
The 2020 annual incentive scorecards of that contribute to the delivery of the customer satisfaction scores in home and
the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable scale markets and progress in meeting
Financial Officer and members of the Group Development Goals. The 2018 LTI scorecards customer-linked business objectives.
Management Board have 30% weightings of executive Directors included an ESG rank
Target Performance in 2019
Environmental
Sustainable finance and investment Provide and facilitate1 $52.4bn
$100bn
cumulative progress since 20171
by the end of 2025
Reduce operational CO emissions 2.0 2.26
2
tonnes used per full-time tonnes used per FTE2
equivalent (‘FTE’) by the
end of 20202
Climate-related disclosures Continued implementation We published our
of the Financial Stability
3rd
Board’s Task Force on
Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (‘TCFD’) TCFD, which can be found
on page 40
Social
Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction 6 4
improvements in
8 RBWM markets CMB markets
sustained top-three sustained top-three
rank and/or improved rank and/or improved
scale markets3 in customer in customer
satisfaction3 satisfaction3
Employee advocacy 69% 66%
of employees recommending of employees would recommend
HSBC as a great place to work HSBC as a great place to work4
by the end of 20194
(2018: 66%)
Employee gender diversity 30% 29.4%
women in senior leadership women in senior
roles by the end of 20205 leadership roles5
Governance
Achieve sustained delivery of global 98% 98.2%
conduct outcomes and effective
financial crime risk management of staff to complete annual of staff completed conduct
conduct training training in 2019
1 The sustainable finance commitment and progress figure includes green, social and sustainability activities. For a full breakdown, see pages 38 to 39.
2 S ee reporting guidelines on www.hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/esg-reporting-and-policies for further detail on carbon emissions reporting.
As we define our new baseline for the next phase of our operational sustainability strategy, an updated reporting methodology for air travel – including
cabin seating class – will be incorporated as our new baseline.
3 O ur customer satisfaction performance is based on improving from our 2017 baseline. Our scale markets are Hong Kong, the UK, Mexico, the Pearl River
Delta, Singapore, Malaysia, the UAE and Saudi Arabia.
4 O ur target was to improve employee advocacy by three points each year through to 2020. Our employee advocacy score in 2018 was 66%. Performance
is based on our employee Snapshot results.
5 Senior leadership is classified as 0 to 3 in our global career band structure.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 9
Customers
Customers
We aim to grow in a way that puts the customer at the centre
by improving performance with digital enhancements while
maintaining strong controls on the risk of financial crime.
At a glance
Our relationship Operating with high standards of conduct
We create value by providing the products is central to our long-term success and
and services our customers need and aim to underpins our ability to serve our customers.
do so in a way that fits seamlessly into their
lives. This helps us to build long-lasting In this section we report on our customers
relationships with our customers. We maintain as four distinct groups: our retail customers;
trust by striving to protect our customers’ data medium and large-sized corporate customers;
and information, and delivering fair outcomes global and institutional customers; and high
for them. If things do go wrong, we aim to net worth customers. These groups are served
take action in a timely manner. by our four global businesses respectively:
Retail Banking and Wealth Commercial Banking Global Banking and Markets Global Private Banking
Management (‘RBWM’) (‘CMB’) (‘GB&M’) (‘GPB’)
We help 39 million active We support approximately We support major government, We serve high net worth
customers across the world 1.4 million business customers corporate and institutional and ultra high net worth
to manage their finances, in 53 countries and territories, clients worldwide. Our individuals and families,
buy their homes, save and ranging from small enterprises product specialists deliver including those with
invest for the future. focused primarily on their a comprehensive range of international banking needs.
domestic markets to large transaction banking, financing,
For our customers’ everyday companies operating globally. advisory, capital markets and Services include investment
banking needs, we offer a full risk management services. management, which includes
range of products and services We help entrepreneurial advisory and brokerage
tailored locally and accessible businesses grow by supporting services, and Private Wealth
across multiple channels. Our their financial needs, facilitating Solutions, which comprises
strong global presence provides cross-border trade and payment trusts and estate planning, to
for customers with international services, and providing access to protect and preserve wealth
needs. products and services offered by for future generations.
other global businesses.
How we put the customer first Awards
We are continuing to redesign how we receive We are in the process of implementing a new
feedback from our customers to identify customer centricity framework, a system that
UK’s Competition and Markets Authority
issues and prioritise change more effectively. we hope will help to improve metrics through
We are putting customer feedback at the real-time customer feedback, which can be Our first direct brand tied for first place
centre of decision making. We will measure integrated with other data sources to identify in the study on customers’ likelihood
the likelihood of customers to recommend areas for improvement. The framework is to recommend their bank based on the
HSBC across all our business lines. This will designed to inspire us to do what is right for overall quality of service
provide a consistent metric across our customers and our people. It will help us to
business that we can use to engage our share feedback directly with our people and Business Moneyfacts Awards 2019
people and that we hope will improve how allow them to take action to improve customer HSBC UK, best online banking provider
we benchmark our performance internally experiences. It will also provide a consistent
and against our competitors. way to capture and escalate customer issues
for prioritisation and action.
10 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
How we listen Acting on feedback When things go wrong
We listen to our customers in a number RBWM We encourage our people to capture all
of different ways, including through our complaints so we can address customers’
interactions with them, surveys, social concerns.
media and through their complaints. We
use these insights to improve our services. 18 9%
Customer recommendation index1
RBWM Number of markets where we addressed Increase in complaints per 1,000 customers
complaints regarding mobile banking per month in RBWM’s large markets in 2019.
UK login processes, by expanding biometric
or PIN-based logins. For further details on RBWM
2019 76% complaint volumes, see page 13
2018 75%
CMB
Hong Kong
2019 69% 50 19%
2018 71%
2019
1 The index uses the 0–10 rating scale for the Actions in progress to improve Increase in the total number of CMB
customer recommendation question to create the customer experience for our complaints in 2019.
a 100 point index. Surveys are based on a CMB clients.
relevant and representative subset of the For further details on CMB
market. Data provided by Kantar. complaint volumes, see page 17
6th
GB&M
22%
Our HSBC UK brand came sixth
in the UK Competition and Markets
Authority study on overall service 51%
quality, a rise of six positions.
Decrease in the total number of GB&M
complaints in 2019.
(2018: 44%)
For further details on GB&M
complaint volumes, see page 19
4 of our 8
Customers who said we provide them with
Key CMB markets were ranked within solutions that meet their needs.
the top-three for customer satisfaction
or improved by at least two ranks
(For further details, see page 16) GPB
8 out of 10 3%
Our overall satisfaction score in our Decrease in the total number of GPB
annual customer engagement survey complaints in 2019.
(2018: 7.6)
For further details on GPB
complaint volumes, see page 21
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 11
Customers
At a glance
Customers
Our Retail Banking and
Wealth Management
customers
How we listen to
Customer satisfaction and customer recommendation survey results
our customers Customer satisfaction1
Customer
recommendation
Our customers’ voices are heard through our Branch Contact Relationship Online scores2
interactions with them, surveys, listening to centre manager banking
and engaging with social media and from UK 88% 78% 80% 82% 76%
their complaints. We use all these insights
(2018: 88%) (2018: 76%) (2018: 80%) (2018: 80%) (2018: 75%)
to improve our services.
Hong Kong 86% 95% 72% 55% 69%
Customer recommendation (2018: 87%) (2018: 93%) (2018: 74%) (2018: 47%) (2018: 71%)
In 2019, we surveyed more than one million
France 80% 73% 79% 71% 71%
customers on their likelihood to recommend
HSBC and their satisfaction with our services. (2018: 78%) (2018: 69%) (2018: 76%) (2018: 70%) (2018: 73%)
Our customer recommendation scores US3 86% 67% 76% 66% 69%
improved in three markets, although they fell (2018: 88%) (2018: 54%) (2018: 80%) (2018: 64%) (2018: 67%)
in seven. The declines in six of these markets
were small, but it was bigger in Malaysia, Canada3 87% 67% 83% 68% 72%
driven by lower scores around the (2018: 84%) (2018: 76%) (2018: 85%) (2018: 68%) (2018: 68%)
convenience of our branch locations and Mexico3 69% 48% 86% 81% 90%
the ease of banking with us compared with
(2018: 89%) (2018: 80%) (2018: 78%) (2018: 78%) (2018: 91%)
our competitors. While scores fell slightly in
Hong Kong, Mexico, mainland China, the UAE Singapore3 73% 53% 75% 44% 73%
and Singapore, HSBC remains ranked in the (2018: 74%) (2018: 87%) (2018: 71%) (2018: 47%) (2018: 75%)
top-three banks in each of these markets. The Malaysia 78% 69% 77% 56% 71%
small drop in Hong Kong scores was aligned
(2018: 76%) (2018: 65%) (2018: 72%) (2018: 61%) (2018: 78%)
to a reduction seen in the wider market,
although positive perception of our brand Mainland 93% 91% 77% 56% 82%
increased between the first and second half China4 (2018: 94%) (2018: 92%) (2018: 74%) (2018: 54%) (2018: 84%)
of 2019. We continue to work on action plans
UAE 77% 72% 72% 64% 86%
to improve our services in all these markets.
(2018: 74%) (2018: 68%) (2018: 67%) (2018: 69%) (2018: 87%)
Our customers spoke positively about our 1 C ustomer satisfaction is the percentage of customers providing an 8 or above on a scale from 0 to 10. 2019
trustworthiness and global expertise. In results are to 31 November 2019, 2018 are full year.
Mexico, Hong Kong and mainland China, 2 T he index uses the 0–10 rating scale for the customer recommendation question to create a 100-point
our digital capabilities contributed to our index. This survey is run by market research agency Kantar.
high levels of recommendation. Savings 3 B etween 2018 and 2019, the survey methodology changed for responses for: branch, contact centre and
accounts remained an area of focus as relationship manager in the US, Canada and Mexico; as well as contact centre scores in Singapore. As a
result scores are not comparable.
customers looked for competitive rates and
4 Mainland China online banking scores are from January to June 2019.
lower charges. In August, HSBC UK rose six
places to sixth position in the overall service
still making the transition to the new platforms markets – the UK, Hong Kong, Mexico, the US,
quality category in the UK Competition and
– or did so in late 2019 – we continue to make Singapore, Indonesia and Canada – in these
Markets Authority survey.
progress across our global network. new roles.
Customer satisfaction Branches remain an important way in which we To support our drive to improve our customer
We believe our investment in technology serve our customers even as their expectations experience, in 2020 we will move from
is having a positive impact on customers’ and preferences are changing. We are measuring and reporting customer satisfaction
satisfaction. To make the move to digital improving the location, format and layout of our to customer recommendation across all
banking easier, we have given customers more branches and fitting them with new technology our channels. In preparation, our survey
options to contact us by expanding our online – but the role of our people remains key. We methodology changed in 2019 for contact
chat capabilities in four markets and training continue to invest in our staff with the right centres, branches and relationship managers
employees to show customers how to use our training and tools to support customers in Canada, the US, and Mexico and for contact
digital services to make it easier to bank with us. wherever they choose to bank, whether centres in Singapore. As a result, scores have
in person or online. We expanded our changed and are not comparable with 2018
We have invested in our digital banking tools
development programme for our customer- results for these channels. A survey platform
to improve access, navigation and usability,
facing employees, giving them coaching to migration for retail digital surveys resulted
with the introduction of new online banking
develop the skills and confidence to resolve in a gap in digital satisfaction scores between
platforms, public websites, mobile banking apps
customers’ queries as their first point of contact July and November 2019. Therefore, digital
and security software. While some markets,
whenever possible. We have now trained satisfaction scores reported are not
including Malaysia, Singapore and the UAE, are
approximately 6,000 employees in seven representative of the full year.
12 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Acting on feedback
Acting on customer feedback helps us to improve our services, processes and communication. Here are some examples of actions that we have
taken in response to feedback:
Area of focus Action
Making banking We use facial and touch authentication on Apple and Android devices in 18 markets. HSBC Voice ID, which is
accessible available to our telephone banking customers in five markets, had over three million registered users in 2019. In
November 2019, over 89% of customer transactions globally were conducted via mobile or online channels. These
included more than 32% of cards and deposit account sales and approximately 45% of loan sales.
In the UK, Hong Kong and Mexico, we introduced new no-cost or low-cost bank accounts to help more people access
financial services. In Hong Kong, we made it easier and faster to make payments through our PayMe app, using the
Faster Payment System, a more intuitive design and the ability to top up with a non-HSBC bank account.
Making our In the UK, our mortgage process simplification resulted in 75% of successful applications receiving an offer within
processes easier 10 days, an improvement from 48% in 2018. We also made it easier for international customers to take out a
mortgage through new specialist teams who provide customers one point of contact for guidance.
In the UK and Canada, we launched digital investment advice platforms that offer low-cost multi-asset solutions
tailored to customers’ risk profiles. In Hong Kong, we introduced FlexInvest, which provides a simple mobile journey
for investment funds and makes investing accessible to more people through a low minimum investment amount
and zero transaction fees.
Communicating For customers who find insurance products difficult to understand, we aim to use plain language. In Hong Kong,
more simply and we launched an online platform that explains complicated insurance concepts through games, videos and articles.
proactively
In the UK and Hong Kong, we are proactive in sending digital messages to support our customers and treat them fairly,
from fraud prevention warnings to missed payment notifications to overdraft warnings. In the year to October 2019, we
sent over 11 million SMS messages notifying UK customers to make a deposit to avoid overdraft charges, which were
acted upon in 58% of cases in HSBC UK and 75% in our first direct brand. In 2019, some UK customers were not
provided overdraft warnings because of a policy to not disturb customers during late night hours and a technical issue.
We fixed this issue and will provide a refund to affected customers.
When things go wrong
To improve our services we must be open to and fees and charges (9%). The increase RBWM complaint volumes
feedback and acknowledge when things go in complaints in the UK was related to PPI, (per 1,000 customers per month)1
wrong. We listen to complaints to address an industry-wide issue that had a claims
customers’ concerns and understand where deadline of end of August 2019. Excluding PPI
2019 2018
we can improve processes, procedures and complaints, our ratio of complaints per 1,000
systems. We focus on staff training and customers improved in the UK and globally.
emphasise the importance of recording In Mexico, a banking industry trend, which UK 4.5 4.0
complaints. This improves our complaint we also experienced, involved the continuing
handling expertise and helps ensure our prevalence of fraudulent transactions and Hong Kong 0.5 0.5
customers are provided with fair outcomes. resultant complaints. We provided refunds to
Complaints are monitored and reported to customers and strengthened our fraud control
France2 7.8 7.6
governance forums, while senior executives measures, including a card control app to help
are measured against customer satisfaction customers with online card usage. We made
performance. improvements in our processes to address US 2.9 3.9
delays in responding to customer requests in
In 2019, we invested in a new complaint France and Canada. The ratio of complaints Canada 3.9 3.1
management platform, which makes it easier per 1,000 customers reduced in the US,
for our people to provide our customers helped by a reduction in call waiting times,
with a speedy resolution. In 2019, excluding and in the UAE, following improvements to Mexico 5.7 5.3
complaints related to payment protection our processes for payments, issuing bank
insurance (‘PPI’) in the UK, 77% of complaints statements and card delivery. Singapore 1.3 1.4
were resolved on the same or next working
day, and 83% within five working days. The
Malaysia 0.6 0.4
new platform also helps us analyse trends
and identify solutions to prevent similar issues
recurring. The platform is live in seven markets Mainland China 0.6 0.7
and will be rolled out to other markets. 1 A complaint is defined as any expression of
dissatisfaction, whether upheld or not, from
(or on behalf of) a former, existing or prospective UAE 5.1 5.6
We received 1.4 million complaints in 2019.
customer relating to the provision of, or failure to
The ratio of complaints per 1,000 customers provide, a specific product or service activity.
Global 3.7 3.4
per month in our large markets increased from 2 A methodology change increased the number of
3.4 to 3.7, as referenced in the adjacent table. complaints in France in 2019 due to the inclusion
The most common complaints related to of complaints resolved immediately by contact
process and procedures (33%), product centres, which had not been recorded in
previous years.
features and benefits (5%), service (24%),
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 13
Customers
Our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers
Customers | Our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers
Spotlight: Conduct
We are committed to providing customers Product design key principles:
with products that meet their needs. We have
guidelines to help deliver fair outcomes for our We offer a carefully selected range of
customers as well as help maintain orderly products that are continually reviewed to
and transparent financial markets. Conduct help ensure they remain relevant in each
principles are embedded into the way we country they are offered.
develop and sell products. We have robust We act on feedback from our customers to
oversight of the sales process while our provide better and more accessible products
approach to conduct risk management and services.
continues to evolve to meet our customers’
Empowering our people expectations and regulatory requirements. We conduct regular product reviews and fair
value assessments in each market, to help
Our goal is to empower our people Product design and fair value ensure we deliver fair value.
to resolve issues. Our people have Good product design helps provide the right
raised over 10,000 feasible ideas outcomes for customers. We use customer
since July 2017 when we launched panels and user labs throughout the design Pricing key principles:
a UK programme that gave front-line process to adapt products based on customer
employees a means to flag issues and feedback. In the UK, our first direct brand used We carry out regular comparisons of
help solve customer problems. More a collaborative design service called fdesign, our pricing with that of local competitors
than 8,800 of those issues had been which allows customers to test and give and with our own fair value standards,
resolved by the end of 2019, with feedback on new banking features and tools. considering the total charges and features
more than 400 in progress. The In Hong Kong, we worked with our business of a product.
remaining are either awaiting review customers to develop and test PayMe for
We review the usage levels of product
or undergoing scoping. One issue Business, our digital payments service for
features to assess if customers’ behaviours
resolved in 2019 was automating business, which resulted in improvements
and responses demonstrate they are
the reissuance of payment cards including a flexible end of day reconciliation to receiving fair value.
after a customer changes their match a business’s specific operating hours.
name, to simplify the process For customers who prioritise sustainability Oversight and governance of our fair value
for customers and avoid errors. issues, we offer products that aim to achieve assessments, product safety and front-line
financial and sustainability objectives. These employee incentives are provided by senior
include sustainable multi-asset portfolios in global governance committees.
the UK, socially responsible investment funds
in France and ESG index-linked structured
products in China, Malaysia and the US. Oversight of product design and sales
governance is provided by the Global Wealth
We provide training to our people through Management Oversight Committee, which
our Product Management Academy, with is chaired by the Global Head of Wealth
more than 1,400 of our people completing Products; and the Retail Banking Management
over 3,000 courses since 2017, including on Committee, which is chaired by the Global
customer insight, customer-focused design, Head of Retail Products. The RBWM Global
communications, product development and Incentive Committee, which reports to the
governance. We also rolled out an advanced Chief Executive Officer of RBWM, oversees
workshop for senior product managers in front-line employee incentives.
Hong Kong, Mexico and the UK.
Newly developed products undergo a
review process, which involves testing to
help ensure they are suitable and offer fair
value to customers. There is global oversight
for non-standard or complex products. We
carry out ongoing monitoring and in-depth
reviews on our products to check whether
they continue to meet expectations and assess
whether they have become less suitable over
time. We also seek to protect our customers
from fraud. Where products fail to meet our
customers’ needs or no longer meet our high
standards, improvements are made or they
are withdrawn from sale. When there was
increase in fraud against customers with
pre-approved loans offers in Mexico, we
stopped offering the product to customers
who did not satisfy the highest level of digital
authentication. We will continue to work
to make our digital services even safer for
our customers.
14 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Spotlight: Conduct continued
Meeting our customers’ needs Managing front-line employees and
We have robust oversight of the sales their incentives
process, which aims to meet our customers’ Since 2013, we have used a discretionary
needs effectively. This involves reviewing approach to incentivising our front-line people
the suitability of the products we offer instead of a straight formula linked to sales.
and monitoring sales quality as well as This global improvement has resulted in a
examining how we incentivise our people. more balanced performance assessment for
our people. We have also strengthened our
We consider our customers’ financial needs approach to third-party sales agents that
and personal circumstances to assist us in distribute our products, such as insurance, to
offering suitable product recommendations. ensure that our principles on balanced reward Managing fraud
This is achieved through: are in place. While there is still more to do, this
change is designed to improve oversight and Fraudulent activities are a risk and a
– a globally consistent methodology to alignment with third-party sales agents. concern for our customers. We are
rate the riskiness of investment products,
committed to reducing their impact
which is customised for local regulatory There are numerous examples of our people through a range of actions, including
requirements;
receiving reward and recognition by senior new fraud prevention systems,
– a thorough customer risk profiling management for going above and beyond in improvements to our internal
methodology to help assess customers’ 2019. For example, a colleague at a UK branch processes, and communications to
financial objectives, attitude towards risk, was rewarded for using a creative approach raise awareness. In 2019, we invested in
financial ability to bear investment risk, to validate the identification of a homeless additional prevention systems in North
and their knowledge and experience;
customer, which ensured the customer America, Europe, the Middle East and
– robust testing during the design and received a salary advance. In addition, a Asia as well as increased staffing in
development of a product to help ensure banker in Malta was rewarded for giving up fraud operations. We expanded the
there is a clearly identifiable need in part of their holiday to help a customer with automated customer contact solution,
the market; and an urgent financial issue. which we launched in HSBC UK in
– consistent standards to follow when we 2018, to our first direct and M&S
provide advice and make recommendations Building financial capability Bank customers in the UK. This uses
to our customers, while taking into account We aim to provide tools and content that two-way SMS messaging so customers
local regulations. help customers have the confidence and can respond instantly to our fraud
competence to make the most of their enquiries without needing to phone us.
We realise that some circumstances can money. In 2018, we made commitments
put customers in a vulnerable position, so around building financial capability and HSBC UK adopted a new code
we are training our people to recognise we continue to deliver on these: of practice, the Payment Systems
and treat these individuals fairly. We aim Regulator’s contingent reimbursement
to ensure the suitability of products or – As part of our aspiration to provide a mobile- model, to reduce the occurrence
advice they are offered. centred smart banking experience, the of payment scams and increase
features of our money management app,
customer protection.
For further details on our approach to vulnerable Connected Money, will be integrated into
customers, see page 56. our UK mobile banking app. This will mean
In Mexico, the digitisation within
our customers will have access to money
the banking industry has led to an
Ensuring sales quality management features as part of their increased risk of fraudulent digital
To help ensure the quality of our sales process day-to-day banking experience. In activity on debit and credit cards.
and our people’s behaviour in each of our the UK in November 2019, we introduced We have responded swiftly to protect
a ’Balance after Bills’ feature that helps
markets, we conduct a mystery shopping our customers. We have carried
customers predict how much they have
programme and/or a sales quality programme. left to spend. Approximately 600,000 out special monitoring of manually
Issues identified are treated seriously. customers used the feature in 2019. entered transactions and enhanced
preventative fraud monitoring, as well
We will take action to help achieve a fair – We are expanding card control features so
as improved the process for customers
outcome for our customers. Where concerns customers can control their card spending
who have been victims of phishing.
are found, we will contact the customer to and receive real-time alerts on their activity.
We plan to continue investment in
apologise, explain and remediate. Depending These features have previously been
introduced in the UK, Hong Kong and our fraud prevention capability and
on the severity of the issue, the relevant
Mexico, and in 2019 were expanded to customer contact solutions globally
employee will be given enhanced training
include a gambling block with a 24-hour throughout 2020.
to improve their behaviour and they may
cooling off period for UK customers.
become ineligible for an incentive reward
payment. Where a case of misconduct – We are developing our ability to use
occurs, disciplinary action may be taken, customer data to deliver personalised
messaging that helps customers to manage
which can lead to dismissal.
their money better. In Hong Kong, we may
provide guidance to customers consistently
For example, in many markets we do
paying minimum credit card balances.
spot checks to ensure that when relationship
managers have sold an investment product
For further details on how we support building
they have ensured that a customer will financial capability and inclusion, see page 56.
continue to have sufficient cash reserves
to use in the event of an emergency.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 15
Customers
Our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers
Customers
Our Commercial
Banking customers
How we listen to customers
We remain committed to improving customer said we could make it easier to work with us,
satisfaction for all our business customers, from especially new account openings.
start-ups to large corporates. We have a range of
methods for capturing and acting on feedback Moments of Truth
as well as metrics that we review and act upon. Our Moments of Truth programme, which has
been running since 2016, allows us to constantly
Customer satisfaction1 capture feedback from our customers. We
We still have some way to go to achieve our surveyed more than 25,000 customers in 2019
Account opening
2020 ambition to be ranked in the top three for across 40 markets. To address the feedback, we
customer satisfaction or to have improved by at have more than 50 actions underway, including improvements
least two ranks compared with 2017. Four of our issuing guidelines to improve communications
eight key markets met the target in 2019 – the UK, when relationship managers change in the UK,
Customers told us that opening an
Singapore, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia – with Hong Kong, Canada and France. We enhanced
account was time consuming and
underlying satisfaction scores also improving. the customer experience for setting up online
documentation was repetitive and
In Singapore, satisfaction with our international banking with HSBCnet, our business internet
complex. We are implementing
presence and ‘commitment to long term banking platform. In the UK, the ability to accept
positive changes across a number of
business growth’ have shown continued scanned documents to process amendments
our markets. In the UK, we improved
improvement since 2017. Our scores rose for helped reduce the overall onboarding time. We
the experience for our relationship-
overall customer service and being honest, have also increased customer support through
managed customers, which reduced
trustworthy and fair in Malaysia. In the UAE, a more proactive approach for new users to
complaints about opening accounts by
access to funding is an issue for customers the platform, expanded the availability of online
34% in 2019. We introduced pre-filled
across the market due to a decline in bank training and conducted more training sessions
forms alongside screen-sharing
lending, reflecting the economic outlook. for new and existing users. Scores in all seven
technology to help us complete forms
Although our rank improved in Hong Kong customer journeys that we monitor improved in
interactively with our customers. We
in 2019, efficiency of dealing with questions, 2019, including opening accounts, changing a
also invested in technology to allow
requests and credit terms remained an area relationship manager, setting up online banking
customers to sign documentation
that we need to focus. In Mexico, customers via HSBCnet and opening a line of credit.
digitally, reducing delays.
1 C ustomer satisfaction data for Hong Kong, the Pearl River Delta, Singapore, Malaysia and the UAE was
provided by RFi Group; Mexico by B-network; the UK by Savanta; and Saudi Arabia by Kantar.
Acting on feedback
We have implemented new ways of working, designing and delivering solutions with our customers. We took the following actions to improve
our service and products:
Area of focus Action
Improving customer We provided additional training for customer service advocates in our commercial contact centres in the UK. We also
service introduced a new way of receiving customer experience feedback to help us understand issues and take action, which
contributed to an 8% increase in customers saying they were very confident that their needs were understood.
Developing our We used insight from customer interviews to understand how we can improve how we help businesses. As a result,
product offering we are rolling out a globally consistent proposition to help small business owners achieve their ambitions. This includes
access to a simplified version of HSBCnet, our business internet banking platform, to provide account information, track
payments and manage beneficiaries. The new functionality underwent extensive user testing to ensure it met customer
needs. Business Banking customers will also receive access to a dedicated relationship manager, digital self-service
tools and our HSBCnet mobile app, providing 24/7 support as well as lending and trade solutions.
Access to finance In Hong Kong, we helped small and medium-sized enterprises (‘SMEs’) through a period of economic stress by providing
rebates and subsidised fees for loans approved under official guarantee schemes. We also reduced transaction fees
associated with our PayMe for Business mobile payment service. The InnoTech Business Instalment Loan, which we
introduced in 2017, provides funding to SMEs for digital innovation or e-commerce projects.
Enhancing channel In mainland China, our people can verify VAT invoices for customers in less than one minute via an online platform.
experience On average more than 30,000 invoices are now checked automatically each month, enhancing credit and fraud controls.
16 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
When things go wrong
We encourage our people to capture all and its Move Money function are helping in this category. Complaints about the new
complaints so we can address customers’ to make it simpler for customers to make platform included customers being unable
concerns. We delivered a global complaints payments and transfers. to log on or view their statements. We carried
management procedure in the beginning of out several remedial measures, which led
2019 and we continue to provide training for Internet banking complaints were the third to a reduction in complaints. We also use
all relevant employees that emphasises the highest in volume, making up 8% of all monitoring tools and testing measures to help
importance of effective complaint handling. complaints. In the UK, the introduction of address any issues with the platform before
This focus has contributed to an improvement a new digital business banking platform they affect our customers.
in complaint logging. contributed to an increase in complaints
In 2019, we resolved a total of 92,475 CMB annual complaint volumes1 (000s) Top complaint categories (% of total)
corporate customer complaints, which was
a 19% increase from 2018, with over 85%
coming from the UK, 6% from Hong Kong 2019 2018 2019 2018
and 2% from France.
Processes and
UK1 78.8 62.8 27% 27%
We strengthened our financial crime procedures
procedures as part of our commitment to
safeguard our customers, but as a result Hong Kong 5.4 4.9 Operations 26% 25%
complaints related to these processes and
procedures increased and this remained Europe 2.7 3 Internet banking 8% 4%
the highest source of complaint. In the UK,
enhanced SMS messaging processes are
Latin America 1.3 2.3 Contact centre 6% 6%
designed to ensure customers receive regular
reminders throughout the process. We
Fees, rates and
revisited our procedures for potentially US 1.2 1.8 5% 6%
charges
vulnerable customers and set up dedicated
case managers to cater for these customers Middle East and 1.5 1.5 Sales quality 5% 4%
who find it difficult to complete their reviews North Africa
via our online channels. This allows customers
to attend scheduled telephone appointments Asia-Pacific 0.8 0.9 Account opening 4% 7%
and obtain additional support.
Canada 0.8 0.7 Others 19% 21%
The second most common complaint related
to operational issues, such as those linked
to customer transactions and changes to 1 V olumes for the UK are received complaints from eligible complainants aligned to the current FCA
accounts. The enhancements to HSBCnet reporting requirements. Volume of complaints for all other markets, complaint reason breakdown and
commentary are based on total volumes of resolved complaints.
Spotlight: Conduct
We are focused on our customers’ needs to We launched our new digital business bank, We take the treatment of vulnerable customers
ensure we deliver consistently fair outcomes Kinetic, in the UK in testing mode in late 2019. seriously. In February 2019, we launched a
that are inclusive of the communities we Based on insights from over 2,000 businesses, programme to ensure UK employees are able
serve, while protecting vulnerable customers. we designed this service to help business to identify, support and manage vulnerable
Our products and services are reviewed owners manage their finances on the move, customers. For further details see page 56.
regularly to make sure they remain appropriate so they can plan and make decisions In 2020, we will use lessons learned from the
and relevant to our customers. more quickly. UK to develop our global approach.
Product design and fair value We introduced a new work-flow system that We established a new pricing framework
Good product design helps provide the right will simplify how we approve new products, in early 2019 to ensure we have a more
outcomes for customers. enabling a faster time to market. It will also consistent approach across our principal
provide insight into any delays in delivering products and services. This includes
We are transforming our Global Trade and new products to our customers. standardising price setting, governance,
Receivables Finance business through a communication and documentation.
multi-year strategic investment to enhance Ensuring sales quality
products, systems and processes with We operate sales outcomes testing in some In the UK, we have a structured approach to
customer experience at its heart. We use markets to ensure we correctly explain identify historical charging errors. This aims
customer panels and observe our clients important product features to our customers, to ensure necessary lessons are learned and
across different business lines and such as pricing, mechanics, risks and benefits. applied, and where appropriate, customer
geographies to inform the design and delivery In 2019, we identified 84 issues, including redress takes place in a timely manner.
of our products. The aim is to ensure our documentation, sales process and pricing
products are intuitive and easy to use. issues, as well as some wrong customer Culture and behaviour
outcomes and misconduct. We addressed We understand the responsibility that comes
In 2019, we completed our first green trade these by ensuring appropriate customer with looking after our customers and their
finance deals, providing two product solutions remediation took place along with the money. Our culture reflects this sense of
in pre-shipment and post-shipment finance to necessary internal action to resolve the responsibility, determining how we behave and
clients in Asia Pacific. We are developing a situation. Issues identified are categorised make decisions and our attitude towards risk.
new green finance framework, which will act to determine whether they are isolated or Our performance management framework
as an overlay on some of our conventional systemic and actions are taken, including seeks to incentivise the right behaviours and
trade finance products (e.g. trade loans) and disciplinary action if necessary. manage poor conduct. During the 2019 annual
align fully with the Green Loan Principles pay review, we recognised and rewarded 3%
published as per guidance from the Loan of CMB employees by increasing their variable
Market Association. pay for exhibiting exceptional behaviours.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 17
Customers
Our Commercial Banking customers
Customers
Our Global Banking
and Markets customers
How we listen to our customers
We provide financial services and products We are aware from feedback in previous
to governments, companies and institutional years that in our organisation, processes and
clients around the world. Listening and procedures can be difficult to navigate, notably
reacting to customers is one of the most because of our multiple legal entities that make
important ways of improving our business. it harder for us to provide a consistent service
between countries and regions. We are putting
Customer satisfaction a number of measures in place to combat this.
One of the primary ways we do this is through In 2019, our Smartserve project reviewed 245
HSBC MyDeal
our customer engagement survey, a satisfaction onboarding documents globally. We eliminated
survey that we carry out every year, which we 24 of these documents, merged another 20 and
run in association with Greenwich Associates. enabled 55 documents to be sent via electronic We launched MyDeal to make the
Our client engagement score, the core metric link instead of through email. To help ensure we deal execution process in our primary
embedded in this survey to track customer track progress, we added a new question to the capital markets business more
satisfaction, was 83 (out of 100) in 2019 survey that asked whether it was easy to do efficient. The customer can access the
compared with 85 the year before. Although business with us. More than one-third (37%) of secured platform on mobile or online
a small decline, it was better than our peers’, customers agreed with this statement, slightly and receive real-time information of
whose scores fell more significantly from 85 behind the competition, which scored 41%. a deal throughout its life cycle. This
to 82, leaving us with a small competitive gap. Some of the reasons cited for the negative includes logistics, investor feedback
responses included length of time for approvals, and book-building data.
In 2019, we continued to be well rated by our difficulty in navigating organisation and multiple
customers on conduct-related questions and know your customer (‘KYC’) requests. MyDeal became available to customers
we saw notable improvements in a number in early 2019. By the end of 2019, we
of areas. More than two-thirds (69%) of our Moments of Truth had used the platform in a number of
customers strongly agree that we treat them In addition to the customer engagement survey, jurisdictions to manage more than 84
fairly, an increase from 58% in 2018. More we have been rolling out an ongoing listening deals with a combined value of $47.5
customers said we resolve problems quickly, programme, known as Moments of Truth, billion. It has received positive feedback
with 60% agreeing in 2019 compared with since the end of 2019. Using key performance from customers.
51% the previous year. Around half (51%) indicators and through comments gathered,
agree that we provide them with solutions we will identify issues that require action, as well
that meet their needs, compared with 44% in as measure the impact of the changes we are
2018, showing that there is an opportunity to making. We will measure experiences involving
continue to enhance our advisory relationships. account opening and post-pitch reviews as
well as interactions with other business lines,
including trade finance, cash management,
security services and asset management teams.
Acting on feedback
Based on feedback, we have launched a number of measures and projects that are currently being rolled out across all of GB&M’s business lines.
Area of focus Action
Improving customer Customers told us we could make their experiences easier, faster and smarter through digital servicing and support
service from pre-trade to post-trade. In response, we introduced online chat to HSBC Evolve in the third quarter of 2019.
HSBC Evolve is our Foreign Execution (‘FX’) platform launched in 2016 that is now making it easier to connect with
our dedicated e-FX professionals 24-hours a day.
Making our processes Customers told us to reduce the time it takes for a credit decision to be made and for loan documents to be negotiated.
easier In response, we are carrying out a loan transformation programme. It involves digitising our systems to streamline the
various stages of the lending process, from credit application and credit approval through to document issuance and
digital storage.
Enhancing channel Based on feedback, we enhanced the liquidity management dashboard with new charts and ‘user preference’ features,
experience as well as improved chart viewing and printing. The tool, launched in the third quarter of 2018, is an online platform that
gives corporate and financial institution customers a clearer picture of their cash position globally and provides tools to
self-manage their liquidity.
In 2020, we plan to launch a new cash flow forecasting tool enabling our customers to increase the accuracy,
consistency and quality of cash forecasting processes.
18 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
When things go wrong
Overall, GB&M received 1,668 complaints in We have also developed new guidance on GB&M complaint volumes1
2019, which was a 22% decline compared how to manage complaints. This helps ensure
with 2018. that customer complaints can be dealt with 2019 2018
promptly and efficiently through a smooth,
The main contributor to this decrease was transparent and responsive escalation process. Global Markets² 121 201
Global Liquidity and Cash Management. After
an uptick in 2018, complaints fell as we worked 1 A complaint is defined as any expression
through the significant systems upgrades and of dissatisfaction, whether upheld/justified Global Banking3 340 330
or not, from (or on behalf of) a client relating
issues that affected our customers in 2018.
to the provision of, or failure to provide,
a specific product or service activity. Securities Services 288 360
In 2019, we significantly enhanced our complaint
2 Global Markets also includes the five complaints for
capture and reporting process, with the Research and 38 complaints for Market Operations. Global Liquidity and
919 1,251
introduction of a revised system for classifying 3 G lobal Banking includes the 11 complaints for Cash Management4
complaints. This enabled the aggregation of Global Business Services.
complaint themes within our businesses, 4 G lobal Liquidity and Cash Management excludes Total5 1,668 2,142
allowing for improved investigation of the 1,165 complaints for HOST payment Operations.
underlying themes. Customer complaints data 5 T he total excludes 14 complaints related to GB&M
is now reviewed in greater detail, which has clients part of our asset management group
improved the analysis of customer experience. business, which belongs to our RBWM business.
Spotlight: Conduct
Conduct remains a core priority in GB&M. We We are improving the information we provide electronic surveillance capability through the
are committed to providing our people with to customers that are making or receiving FX use of artificial intelligence (‘AI’).
the necessary support and tools to exercise payments and transfers digitally. We have
good judgement and behaviour, ensuring fair started providing the mid-market FX rate and a Strengthening culture, performance
outcomes for customers while supporting the timestamp of the transaction to give customers and incentives
orderly functioning of financial markets. greater transparency of FX rates. Starting in We recognise that the conduct of our people
Singapore, these improvements continue to is inextricably linked to the way we work.
The three-year deferred prosecution agreement be introduced across our key markets. Conduct considerations continue to be
with the US Department of Justice (‘FX DPA’) embedded throughout our employees’
entered in January 2018 was a strong reminder We continue to invest in our infrastructure, careers. Examples include:
that we needed to strengthen our systems and tools and technologies to make it easier for
controls not only in foreign exchange (‘FX’) but our people to identify, manage and challenge – We introduced mandatory conduct
across the GB&M business. conduct issues before they arise and address objectives in our annual performance
root causes when they do. We held assessments for all our people. Performance
For further details on the FX DPA, see page 50. approximately 100 workshops to give us a against these and other behavioural ratings
more complete understanding of the risks are considered when determining rating
levels and discretionary pay. We also
Delivering fair customer outcomes we face, which led us to identify a number
refreshed our guidance for managers
We are committed to delivering fair outcomes of potential conflict of interest scenarios. This
on linking conduct to remuneration.
for customers. We do this through the design of helps our people to be more aware of the
our products as well as assessing the suitability situations where conflicts of interest may arise, – More than 12,500 people received
and appropriateness of the products for our enabling them to manage, escalate or speak recognition for good conduct behaviours
customers. We have rolled out an inventory of up to prevent any potential customer detriment and outcomes as a result of the ‘At Our Best’
initiative, which enables employees to
all our products in Global Markets. It currently and/or adverse impact on market integrity.
nominate colleagues for positive conduct.
lists approximately 700 products with a
complexity rating for each product. This ensures Strengthening surveillance – In 2019, we introduced three new face-to-
our sales team can have a better understanding We continue to improve our surveillance face conduct training sessions for our
of our product features and complexity when tools to help us proactively manage risk and employees. In addition, approximately 100
deciding if a product is suitable for a customer. understand the conduct of our teams. In 2019, senior leaders received training on fostering
We also periodically review the products and we introduced an FX trade surveillance tool, a positive and open culture to support good
conduct; more than 460 line managers were
services we provide our clients to ensure they known as Trading Hub, in six offices. It is
trained on reinforcing a strong culture within
are, and remain, appropriate for them, with 30 designed to detect trade-related market
their teams; and more than 3,500 employees
such reviews having been completed and 20 in abuse risks. We now have deeper insight
joined an interactive training course focused
progress in 2019. into a number of market abuse scenarios.
on conduct.
Our new ‘digital reasoning’ tool improves our
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 19
Customers
Our Global Banking and Markets customers
Customers
Our Global Private
Banking customers
How we listen to our customers
We provide banking, investment and wealth on our people, products and services. Our While this demonstrates we made progress in
management solutions for individuals, families, overall satisfaction score increased from 7.6 2019 we still have some way to go to achieve
business owners, entrepreneurs and investors to 8.0, based on a scale of 1 to 10, meeting the levels of satisfaction we aspire to see across
all around the world, helping them grow, our threshold target of 8.0. This score reflected the entire business. Our overall net promoter
manage and preserve their wealth, now and a marked improvement in our customers’ score of +24 included strong performances by
across generations. satisfaction with our relationship management our teams in Switzerland and the US, but there
teams, which increased from 8.4 to 8.7, and is scope for improvement in Asia and the UK.
Using our international network and a recovery in customer perception of trust in
breadth of services, we connect customers HSBC Private Banking. These improvements In 2020, we will continue to address the three
to opportunities worldwide, while our experts were driven by: themes we highlighted in the 2018 report, which
in wealth planning, family governance and we consider ongoing initiatives:
philanthropy help them make a positive – better investment advice, with an increase
impact on society. in the proportion of customers receiving – improving the perceptions of the quality of
advice, following it and considering our products and services, with a focus on
Customer satisfaction it valuable; our investment advisory and discretionary
Our customer service teams interact with – better processes, with a reduction in the wealth management capabilities;
customers on a daily basis, listening to and number of customers feeling annoyed or let – changing outdated processes so our
acting on feedback. down by us in the previous 12 months; and customers feel that we are easier to deal
with; and
– better procedures, with customers
In addition to this feedback, we conduct an experiencing reduced bureaucracy. – keeping pace with increasing customer
annual customer engagement survey. In 2019, expectations, including our digital
more than 800 customers shared their views capabilities.
Acting on feedback
Given the direct access our customers have to their relationship managers, issues are usually resolved quickly. However, some of the feedback we
receive can only be addressed through significant long-term investment in our business. We have three global strategic investment programmes
focused on improving customer engagement and supporting sustainable business growth. These programmes, overseen by the GPB executive
committee, are outlined in the following table:
Area of focus Action
Advisory services and We are enhancing our investment service and advisory proposition supported by a new third-party risk and
managed solutions portfolio construction tool from BlackRock, Aladdin Wealth. This will provide in-depth risk analysis of investment
portfolios, offering a better understanding of how they may perform under certain stress or adverse scenarios.
This will help us ensure we have the relevant information to provide proactive and suitable advice to our customers
allowing them to make better informed investment decisions. We launched this new service initially in the US in
January 2019 followed by Switzerland and France. The next roll-outs are planned for the UK and the Channel
Islands, followed by Hong Kong and Singapore.
Digital Our investment in digital wealth management capabilities has lagged behind those of our competitors and this has
had an adverse impact on customer satisfaction. In response, we launched our new online investment services
portal in 2019, which includes portfolio analysis and performance, in five booking centres supported by a new
mobile app in the UK, Hong Kong and Singapore.
We plan to carry out a programme of continual enhancement to help ensure that these services remain competitive.
Global platform We are continuing with our plan to rationalise the number of IT platforms and replace legacy systems with a core
replacement platform that houses a set of strategic solutions. We aim to facilitate global access to our flagship products and
propositions, bringing a consistent customer experience across our main booking centres. To accommodate
migration complexities, the plan to go live in Asia in late 2019 was rescheduled to the second half of 2020.
To support these programmes we are redefining the most important journeys our customers go through every time they contact or interact
with us. The first area we chose to focus on was our customers’ experiences in dealing with corporate actions and we aim to implement the
improvements from that review in 2020. Our aim is to improve the customer experience across all our main booking centres.
20 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
When things go wrong
Improving our complaint handling culture complaints in relation to investment reporting, GPB annual complaint volumes1
and process was a focus for us throughout including issues with tax reporting in the UK;
2019. Encouraging our people to record delay or failure to process customer instructions; 2019 2018
all instances of complaints or feedback is dissatisfaction with postal or online services;
essential to ensure we identify and take action and record updating. We have invested in UK 56 46
on customer concerns so we can improve our online reporting capabilities, making this
our services. We introduced clarity around available in five of our booking centres. Ongoing
Hong Kong 30 22
the definitions of ‘complaint’ and ‘feedback’ improvements in our reporting capabilities are
to simplify the process and provide greater planned for 2020. The number of pricing-related
visibility of issues contributing to customer complaints remained largely unchanged but Rest of EMEA 272 276
dissatisfaction. To support this, we introduced there were marked falls in complaints related to
standardised governance and oversight advice and suitability and product performance,
Rest of Asia 20 13
arrangements. This has led to improvements with the number down from 76 to 43. This was
in the attitude of our teams towards receiving driven by improvements in our sales suitability
and recording complaints. procedures globally and increased customer US 154 193
satisfaction with our fund performance in
In 2019, we received 532 complaints, a 3% Germany. Total 532 550
decrease on 2018. Service and administration
issues were the largest category at 82% with In 2019, we resolved 488 complaints, which
1 A complaint is defined as any oral or written
the number of complaints up 3% compared was a 3% decline from 2018. We upheld 263
expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified
with the previous year. These incorporate complaints, which was a 20% increase on 2018. or not, from, or on behalf of, a person about the
provision of, or failure to provide, a financial
Spotlight: Conduct service or a complaint determination.
Effective line management and supervisory and their variations, as well as any products which resulted in revised procedures to
control is at the heart of a strong customer- specific to their market. prevent this from happening again. We
focused culture that delivers fair outcomes remain focused on improving the quality of
and maintains the integrity of the markets In 2019, we identified some inconsistencies documentation in all our booking centres.
in which we operate. We assess our culture between booking centres in the implementation
through reviews of operational incidents, of our global pricing standards. We published We have invested in technology to test our
employee surveys, customer complaints an updated fair value exchange policy in customers’ trades achieve a fair price in the
and other key performance indicators via November 2019, which is intended to be market and are executed in a timely manner.
a quarterly conduct dashboard. fully implemented in 2020. We tested over 90% of equity, foreign exchange
and fixed income trades in Switzerland and
While our employee surveys show our Sales quality and customer trades Luxembourg in 2019, identifying a small
people believe we are committed to meeting Our sales quality standards are designed number of breaches due to human error and
our customers’ needs and delivering fair to ensure we understand our customers’ reimbursing our customers where required. We
outcomes, we need to use customer feedback circumstances, needs and investment expect to roll out this technology in Asia in 2020.
better to improve our services. In embedding risk appetite in order to provide them with
the right culture in our business we have appropriate investment advice. To achieve Managing front-line employees
focused on the following areas where poor these standards, we have sales quality Since 2018, we have been improving and
conduct can have the most significant impact teams in all our booking centres reviewing standardising the supervision of our customer-
on customer outcomes or market integrity. investment transactions, focusing on sales facing teams. We have moved to a model
suitability, regulatory compliance and where managers no longer have direct
Product design and fair value cross-border rules. They recommend responsibility for their own portfolios, but take
Our global product committee provides and support process improvements and overall responsibility for all customers in their
approval and ongoing oversight of products remediation action where required. team, allocating relationship managers or
and services that help ensure that products investment counsellors to undertake day-to-
meet our customers’ needs; align with our We categorise sales quality findings as day servicing. This allows managers to be a
conduct principles; are transparent; offer fair either red (potential mis-selling), amber (weak second pair of eyes over customer accounts
value exchange; and it also regularly reviews documentation) or green (fully compliant). and focus on planning, coaching, control and
all products and material changes to existing Results are reported and reviewed on a business development. The result is better
products. It also provides oversight of our monthly basis by both local and global senior outcomes for customers.
sales and suitability framework. management. In 2019, we identified eight
cases where there was a likelihood of For further details of our approach to conduct
The committee is supported by local product unsuitable advice. We identified one serious and action we have taken, see page 50.
committees, which are responsible for the conduct case in Hong Kong relating to the
local launch of any globally approved product mis-pricing of a foreign exchange trade,
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 21
Customers
Our Global Private Banking customers
Customers
Customer developments
across all global businesses
Our investment in technology
We invest in technology to improve our We introduced a new business internet Improving access and security
customers’ experiences. Here we highlight banking platform to make it easier for We continued to make it easier and more
some of our areas of focus and progress. our commercial customers in the UK and secure to bank with us across our businesses,
Hong Kong to access and manage their including through technology. This included
Updating our banking platforms money. We worked with more than 2,800 investing in voice recognition for people
We have made a significant investment customers to improve its navigation, phoning our contact centres as well as face
in our digital transformation to improve design and functionality. and touch authentication for Apple and
access, navigation and usability for all of Android devices.
our customers across our businesses, In 2019, HSBC UK was voted by Business
driven by customer needs and feedback. Moneyfacts, an independent provider of UK For our retail customers, these capabilities are
business data, as the best online banking live in 18 markets and used by approximately
For our retail customers in 2019, we upgraded provider for the second consecutive year. We 50% of customers in those markets. HSBC
our public websites in all 38 markets, and relaunched the HSBC UK Business Banking Voice ID is available to our telephone banking
online banking platforms and mobile banking app in January 2019 with a new design and customers in five markets with more than
apps in 16 markets. We also introduced additional features including biometric log in, three million registered users. We also
more than 160 new digital features to make working closely with customers to ensure the upgraded our digital security platform in
everyday banking easier across different design met their requirements. As a result of 17 of our retail banking markets.
markets, including improved digital account the changes, our app rating increased from 1.6
opening, loan and mortgage applications, and in January 2019 to 4.6 out of 5 in December In the UK, we introduced face and touch ID to
instant money transfers. At the end of 2019, 2019 in the Apple app store. our HSBC UK Business Banking app to make it
the retail mobile banking app achieved an safer and easier for commercial customers to
average Apple app store rating of 4.8 in the Our Global Liquidity and Cash Management manage their money on the move. In Hong
UK and 4.7 in Hong Kong. While scores from team used customer feedback to create a Kong, our new Business Express app allows
Android users were less favourable, at 4.0 in more tailored experience on HSBCnet, our mobile push authentication, removing the
the UK and 3.6 in Hong Kong, these scores online platform for business customers. need for a physical security device.
have increased for the past two years due in Changes were designed to save our
part to our improved support for Android customers time on everyday banking tasks Targeted digital communication
biometric login. and bring new features or products to their for customers
attention. Through these efforts to create a Live Chat, our messaging-based platform
In Hong Kong, our payments app PayMe simpler and more intuitive experience, there for retail banking customers on our websites,
continued to grow, with approximately have been 21% fewer calls from customers is available in 16 markets and supporting
1.9 million registered consumer accounts, regarding payments and a 55% fall regarding around 100,000 chats per week. Mobile Chat
and expanded to include payments to accounts and statements over the past is available in the UK and Hong Kong within
merchants for products and services. two years. our HSBC iOS app and supports around
20,000 chats per week. Customers in Hong
Our retail customers are increasingly banking Kong can subscribe to receive in-app mobile
online or on mobile, with nearly half (48%) messaging, which alerts them to faster
digitally active in November 2019, a seven payments and when e-statements are ready,
percentage point or 1.69 million increase with over 6.7 million notifications sent in 2019.
compared with December 2018. Similarly, For commercial customers in Hong Kong, we
89% of retail transactions were digital in now offer in-app chat in our Business Express
November 2019, a five-point increase app to provide customer support.
compared with December 2018.
22 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Communicating through social media
Social media channels help us communicate +100 243,348
with our customers. We keep them informed,
such as advising how to stay ahead of
Over 100 active social Shares of our content
fraudulent activity, while our sports
media accounts
sponsorship content is some of our most liked
and shared. We use technology, like machine
learning and artificial intelligence (‘AI’), to help
us identify potential service issues. In 2019, 425,265 422,265
we created ‘pain point’ reports, highlighting
key issues raised by customers for multiple
Pieces of content Customer queries/
markets. Making it easier for customers to
posted in 2019 cases resolved
interact with us through social media remains
a priority and we have implemented a global
Facebook messenger ‘service bot’, which is
designed to help our international or travelling
As the social media landscape continues
customers direct their queries back to their
to evolve, we will continue to review the
home market customer service team.
channels where we have a presence and
In 2019, we enhanced our social media investigate new opportunities to reach our
capabilities to improve how we support our customers. In 2020, we expect to see an
customers who use Chinese social networks, increased presence on Instagram, which
such as WeChat and Sina Weibo. Through continues to grow in popularity. We are
new technology partnerships, we are now also exploring how popular messaging apps
better able to understand our customers’ – like WhatsApp – can be used to further
views and feedback posted through these improve customer communications.
channels, which can help us to identify
service issues and areas for improvement.
The ethical use of Big Data and AI
We continue to explore and invest in Given the absence of clear rules in this – bring uniformity and predictability to
new technologies that offer the potential area, there is a growing expectation that how we make decisions about the use
to improve the services we provide to businesses should have in place robust of Big Data and AI globally;
customers and to manage our business ethical frameworks to guide decision-making – and encourage colleagues to question
more effectively. as Big Data and AI technologies evolve. and challenge potential new uses of
Big Data and AI.
Our investment in technology includes We have a responsibility to rise to this
artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and machine challenge, and consider not only what The Principles are consistent with our
learning solutions. This technology enables we can do under the law, but what we values and global conduct framework,
us to analyse data at high speed and with should do to earn and maintain the trust as well as our commitments to customers,
greater sophistication. That includes ‘Big of our customers and other stakeholders. shareholders, employees and regulators.
Data’ – unstructured and complex data We have developed Principles for the The Principles supplement rather than
sets that are too large to be processed by Ethical Use of Big Data and AI to help replace any of our global policies.
traditional data processing software. us meet this objective.
Our full Principles are available at www.hsbc.
While this technology offers significant The Principles seek to: com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/
our-conduct.
potential benefits for our customers, it
also poses potential ethical risks not only – increase awareness of the ethical
for the financial services industry, but implications of Big Data and AI;
society as a whole.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 23
Customers
Customer developments across all global businesses
Customers | Customer developments across all global businesses
Protecting our customers’ data
Operational resilience and access control as well as back-up and
Operational resilience is the ability to adapt recovery. An important part of our defence
operations to continue functioning when – not strategy is ensuring our people remain aware
if – circumstances change. We have a clear of cybersecurity issues and know how to
strategic approach to operational resilience report incidents. In 2020, we plan to focus on
that puts the impact on our customers and enhancing our use of data analytics, continue
colleagues at the centre of our thinking. We to implement our cybersecurity education
consider operational resilience from three and communication programme, and help
Cybersecurity
perspectives: how we design and build our ensure our cyber controls are highly effective
operations: Cyber systems and services; how we operate and across the organisation.
monitor our control environment; and how we
intelligence and respond and recover in the event of disruption. We successfully completed a number of
threat analysis We continue to work to strengthen all areas of regulatory driven exercises, aimed at testing
operational resilience to ensure we minimise the readiness of financial institutions to
the number of incidents that occur and any withstand sustained cyber-attacks against
We set up the cyber intelligence and impact on our customers. critical economic functions. These included:
threat analysis (‘CITA’) team to help us iCAST, which was requested by the Hong
identify and prevent emerging cyber In December 2019, the Bank of England Kong Monetary Authority in the second half
threats. CITA proactively collects (‘BoE’), the Prudential Regulation Authority of 2018; and CBEST II, which was requested
intelligence from a variety of sources (‘PRA’) and the Financial Conduct Authority by the UK’s FCA, PRA and BoE in the first
including industry peers and cyber (‘FCA’) launched a consultation on operational half of 2019. These outcomes were positive,
sharing groups, as well as government resilience and how it should be embedded in although we remain vigilant and committed
and law enforcement officials. Its the regulatory framework. We intend to to continual improvement and investment.
mission includes extensive sharing respond to this consultation by April 2020.
and collaboration throughout the We operate a three lines of defence model,
cyber threat intelligence community. We recognise further work is needed to meet aligned to the operational risk management
these evolving requirements. At the BoE’s framework, to ensure robust oversight and
In 2018, CITA helped identify a phishing request, we are collaborating with our peer challenge of our cybersecurity capabilities
campaign by a previously undetected firms, trade bodies and regulators across and priorities. In the first line of defence, we
malicious actor. After an investigation, jurisdictions to ensure that policy changes have risk owners within global businesses and
CITA shared its findings regarding the achieve the intended outcomes for customers, functions, who are accountable for identifying,
threat actor to monitor and further markets and firms. It is important we work owning and managing the cyber risk. They
identify their techniques, with the with industry stakeholders to promote work with control owners to help ensure
industry. In early 2019, CITA learned consistency and reduce the complexity and controls are in place to mitigate issues, prevent
of a payments attack at a peer bank potential delays in delivering resilience that risk events from occurring and resolve them
that suggested the same actor was would arise if different approaches were if they do. These controls are executed in line
behind the attack. CITA shared its followed. We will continue to drive industry with policies produced by the information
findings to regulators and the affected engagement, focusing on the themes of security risk teams, the second line of defence,
bank, helping to prevent further business service, impact tolerances, which provide independent review and
losses to the wider industry. attestation frameworks as well as scenario, challenge. They are overseen by the third line
stress and supplier testing. of defence, which is the independent internal
audit function.
Cybersecurity
We operate in an increasingly sophisticated We report and review cyber risk and control
and hostile cyber-threat environment. In effectiveness quarterly at executive and
response, we have invested in business and non-executive Board level, including at the
technical controls to help prevent, detect and Group Risk Management Meeting and the
react to these threats. Group Risk Committee. We also report it
across the global businesses, functions and
We continually evaluate threat levels for the regions to help ensure appropriate visibility
most prevalent attack types and their potential and governance of the risk and mitigating
outcomes. We strengthened our controls to controls.
reduce the likelihood and impact of advanced
malware, data leakage, infiltration of payment
systems and denial of service attacks. We
continued to enhance our cybersecurity
capabilities, including threat detection
24 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Protecting our customers’ data continued
Cybersecurity memberships advanced privacy enhancing technology to
We participate globally in several industry enhance customer insight and data privacy
bodies and working groups to share information capabilities.
about tactics employed by cyber-crime groups
and to collaborate in fighting, detecting and We continue to strengthen how we safeguard
preventing cyber-attacks on financial data privacy. We conduct annual training
organisations. This includes: sessions for our people, offering further
training where relevant, to help them keep
– attendee of key banking association cyber up to date with key developments and Global data privacy and
working groups in all regions, including requirements. In addition, we have enhanced
analytics symposium
groups run by the Association for Financial our processes to respond to requests from
Markets in Europe and the Hong Kong individuals seeking to exercise their right
Association of Banks; under GDPR. In September 2019, we hosted
a global data and analytics symposium
– contributor to the UK’s National Cyber
Security Centre, specifically through We report data privacy regularly at multiple across 12 countries, bringing together
the Cyber Security Information Sharing governance forums, including at Board level, key data subject matter experts from
Partnership initiative; to help ensure there is appropriate challenge across the Group and leading experts
– member of the Financial Services and visibility among senior executives. In from big technology, financial services
Information Sharing and Analysis addition, we have established data privacy and fintech organisations. The event
Center chapters in the US, governance structures and continue to embed provided participants with an
Asia-Pacific, UK and Europe; accountability across all businesses and opportunity to understand the latest
functions. Our cross-functional data privacy data and analytics trends, the core
– member of the Institute of International
Finance cyber working group; teams work closely to drive the necessary principles of data and AI use and
design, implementation and monitoring also created an awareness on the
– member of the Cyber Defence Alliance of privacy solutions. We implemented importance of protecting customers’
and Cyber Security Industry Group, which procedures that articulate clearly the action data privacy rights.
are both financial services industry-led
to be taken when dealing with a data privacy
information exchange forums in the
breach, including notifying regulators, our
UK; and
customers or other data subjects, as required
– member of government-led computer
under applicable laws and regulations, in the
emergency response teams in major
event of a reportable incident occurring.
markets, including the UK, US and
Hong Kong.
New data-driven technologies bring
opportunities to serve our customers better
Data privacy
and we recognise that data privacy concepts
We are committed to protecting and
such as Privacy by Design are fundamental
respecting the data we hold and process,
to achieving this. We continue to work closely
in accordance with the laws and regulations
with data privacy regulators, industry bodies
of the geographies in which we operate. We
and external stakeholders around the world
are focused on embedding a culture designed
to stay abreast of regulatory developments.
to ensure data privacy is at the heart of our
organisation.
As part of our strategic vision for data privacy,
we continue to enhance our data privacy
Since 2018, there have been significant
operating model and capabilities. We plan
changes to data privacy laws in a number
to continue to publish and embed enhanced
of jurisdictions, including the General Data
procedures, and simplify and automate
Protection Regulation (‘GDPR’), which came
processes within our data privacy control
into force in the European Union (‘EU’). To
environment.
support these regulations, we updated our
data privacy policies and related controls
with the intention of giving our customers,
employees and other stakeholders more
transparency and control over how we use
and manage their information. We monitor
global developments in data privacy legislation
and regulation to ensure we manage change
as well as embed standards and capabilities
appropriately. In the UK, we are investing in
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 25
Customers
Customer developments across all global businesses
Employees
Employees
We have a total workforce equivalent to 235,000 full-time employees,
working across 64 countries and territories. We are working to create
the right environment to help enable everyone to fulfil their potential.
At a glance Snapshot survey results
Our relationship Employee advocacy Speak up
Our people span many cultures,
communities and continents. By focusing
on employee well-being, diversity, inclusion
and engagement, as well as building our
peoples’ skills and capabilities for now and for
74%
the future, we aim to create an environment 66%
where our people can fulfil their potential.
We use confidential surveys to assess
Feel able to speak up
progress and make changes. We want to Would recommend when they see behaviour
have an open culture where our people feel HSBC as a great they consider to
connected, supported to speak up and where place to work be wrong
our leaders encourage feedback. Where we (2018: 66%) (2018: 74%)
make organisational changes, we support
our people throughout the change and in
particular where there are job losses.
For further details on how we are supporting
our people through organisational change,
see page 32.
Employee profile
Top five nationalities1 Age diversity
All employees Senior leaders2 All employees by region
(%) (%) (%)
Chinese 23 British 36 Asia 32 43 18 61
Indian 17 Chinese 9 Europe 17 32 25 18 8
British 16 Indian 6 Latin America 27 43 22 71
Mexican 7 French 6 Middle East 22 49 25 4
French 4 Australian 3 North America 13 29 28 23 7
1 Data is self-reported. Data excludes 2 Senior leaders are defined as 0 to 3 in our Key
unspecified nationalities. global career band structure. ≤29 30–39 40–49 50–59 ≥60
Global recognition for diversity and inclusion
We were named on the following: HSBC employees were named on the
following:
Yahoo Finance/INvolve’s 2019
OUTstanding LGBT+ Role Model lists
Yahoo Finance/INvolve’s 2019 HERoes
Financial Times’ Stonewall’s Bloomberg’s Universum’s Role Model lists
Diversity Leaders Top Global 2020 Gender- Global Diversity
2020 list Employers Equality Index and Inclusion Yahoo Finance/INvolve’s 2019 EMpower
2019 list Index 2019 Ethnic Minority Role Model lists
26 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Employee tenure
All employees Senior leaders1
0–5 years 54% (2018: 55%) 0–5 years 45% (2018: 51%)
6–10 years 17% (2018: 17%) 6–10 years 21% (2018: 17%)
11–20 years 21% (2018: 19%) 11–20 years 24% (2018: 21%)
21–30 years 6% (2018: 6%) 21–30 years 8% (2018: 8%)
≥31 years 3% (2018: 3%) ≥31 years 3% (2018: 3%)
Gender balance
All employees Senior leaders1
Male 48% (2018: 48%) Male 71% (2018: 72%)
Female 52% (2018: 52%) Female 29% (2018: 28%)
1 Senior leaders are defined as 0 to 3 in our global career band structure.
Developing our people
Training at HSBC
6.5 million 3.5 days
Training hours Training days per full-time
(2018: 6.2 million) equivalent employee (‘FTE’)
(2018: 2.8 days)
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 27
Employees
At a glance
Employees
Listening to
our people
How we listen to our employees
It is vital we understand how our people feel, Speaking up The employee voice
as it helps us give them the right support to We want to ensure our people can change In 2019, we continued to develop the way
thrive and serve our customers well. We how we work for the better by sharing an idea our people’s interests are considered in
capture their views on a range of topics, or raising any concerns. There are several Board discussions and decision making. We
such as our strategy, culture, behaviour, ways our people can speak up. Our Exchange encouraged more direct engagement between
well-being and working environment, through forums provide a place for our people to Directors and our people at events such as
our employee survey, Snapshot. Results are share their open and honest views. Typically, Exchanges and town hall meetings. We also
presented to the Group Management Board Exchange meetings are held without an included discussion of employee interests
and relevant executive committees. This allows agenda, meaning people can discuss what and concerns as a formal item at the annual
us to take action based on the feedback. matters most to them. In 2019, over half (60%) meeting of the chairs of the principal
The employee Snapshot results table shows of our people reported in Snapshot that they subsidiary boards for the purpose of informing
selected results from our 2019 survey. had taken part in an Exchange meeting in the Group decision making. Our Group Chief
past three months, a six point increase on a Executive and Group Chief Human Resources
Employee advocacy year earlier. Officer report formally every six months to the
We track whether our people would Board on employee engagement matters.
recommend HSBC as a great place to work, According to Snapshot, nearly three-quarters
which we define as employee advocacy. (74%) of our people feel able to speak up when
At the end of 2019, 66% of our people they see behaviour that they consider to be Employee Snapshot results
who completed Snapshot said they would wrong, unchanged from 2018. Only 59% said
recommend HSBC, unchanged from the year they were confident that if they speak up, 2019 2018
before. We recognise that this falls short of appropriate action will be taken. A further 26%
our stated target of improving this measure by gave a neutral response, showing that there is I am seeing the positive
58% 67%
three points each year through to the end of more we can do to build trust and give our impact of our strategy
2020, and we are aware that the context of people confidence that any concerns they
I feel confident about
restructuring and redundancies in some areas raise will be properly addressed. 66% 75%
HSBC’s future
of our business has impacted our progress.
We want more of our people to have I trust the senior
65% 64%
We also acknowledge that our people feel less confidence in speaking up to their line leadership in my area
positive about the impact of our strategy and managers. In 2020, we began a programme to
I am proud to say
are less confident about the future, particularly raise awareness about how to speak up about 74% 76%
I work for HSBC
in the US and Europe. This has come amid a different types of concerns, how concerns are
period of significant change within the Group, investigated and, crucially, what action we I would recommend
underscoring the need for clear and consistent take as a result of concerns being raised. this company as a 66% 66%
messaging to support our 2020 business great place to work
update. We continue to support our people Well-being
Conditions in my job
closely through organisational change and We continue to closely monitor the outbreak allow me to be as 63% 65%
have used our business update to provide of coronavirus. The well-being of our productive as I can be
greater clarity. customers and our people is important to us,
and we will continue to do all we can to ensure I feel able to speak up
Despite this, trust in leadership has seen a their safety and support them through this when I see behaviour 74% 74%
modest increase, up one point to 65%. We difficult time. which I consider to
have also seen a three-point improvement in be wrong
our people feeling recognised over the past We ran our third all-employee well-being I believe HSBC
year (up to 72%), which our research shows survey in 2019 as part of Snapshot to gain a is genuine in its
is a key contributor to employee advocacy. better understanding of work-life balance and commitment to 72% 74%
Elsewhere, we have seen a decline of two well-being. encourage colleagues
points in our people’s pride in working for to speak up
HSBC, but this remains high at nearly three Just under two-thirds (64%) of our people
quarters (74%). Similarly, we saw a two-point reported they work flexibly, up 15 points since
decline in our people reporting that conditions our last well-being survey in 2017. While we
in their jobs allow them to be as productive as have made improvements in mental health
they can be, following a seven-point increase awareness and support, the research
in the previous year. underscored the need for our continued focus
on mental health in the workplace.
For further details of our well-being survey,
see page 32.
28 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
When things go wrong
Whistleblowing According to our Snapshot survey, knowledge
We want a culture where our people feel of how to use HSBC Confidential was high
able to speak up. Individuals are encouraged at 89%. The survey showed that 65% of
to raise concerns about wrongdoing or respondents have full confidence that they
unethical conduct through the usual escalation can raise concerns without fear of reprisals
channels. However, we understand that there or retaliation. We have more to do to assure
are circumstances where people need to raise our people that we do not condone or tolerate
concerns more discreetly. HSBC Confidential retaliation against people who raise concerns
is a global whistleblowing platform that and that we strictly enforce our policy relating
enables our people, past and present, to raise to this.
concerns in confidence. HSBC does not Employee recognition
condone or tolerate any acts of retaliation We continued to promote the Group’s
against those who raise concerns. whistleblowing arrangement through training We believe it is important to recognise
in 2019 and this has contributed to the our people not just for results but
Within HSBC Confidential, we have multiple increase in the number of cases raised also for upholding our values. This
channels to raise issues, including telephone compared with 2018. underpins our global ‘At Our Best’
hotlines, online portals and email. A broad recognition programme, which passed
range of cases, covering a range of severity a landmark of two million recognitions
levels, are dealt with each year. Some of the since it was launched in 2015. The
2,808
common themes that have been referred programme allows our people to award
to HSBC Confidential include issues with recognition points to their colleagues
behaviour and conduct, allegations of fraud that can be redeemed against a wide
and weaknesses with information security. Whistleblowing cases raised range of goods. In 2019, more than
In 2019, 77% of closed cases related to (subject to investigation) in 2019 930,000 recognitions were made at a
behaviour and conduct, 17% to security (2018: 2,068) value of $9.6m. We also ran a special
and fraud, 5% to compliance and 1% to ‘Spotlight on customer service’
other categories. We also monitor an external 33% campaign, which resulted in 65,500
email address for concerns about accounting, recognitions over a three-month
internal financial controls or auditing matters period, and our GB&M business
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com) and Substantiated closed ran a special campaign recognising
we operate in several languages. We use whistleblowing cases1 outstanding examples of good
independent third-party suppliers to manage (2018: 34%) conduct. This resulted in a 310%
our 24/7 reporting hotlines for 25% of our increase in recognitions in the second
people and will continue to extend this 1 C ases where the investigation found quarter compared with the same
coverage during 2020. the allegations to be substantiated quarter in the previous year.
or partially substantiated.
Whistleblowing concerns are investigated
thoroughly and independently. Remedial
action, taken where appropriate, includes
disciplinary action, dismissal, and adjustments
to variable pay and performance ratings.
The Group Audit Committee has overall
responsibility for the oversight of the Group’s
whistleblowing arrangements and receives
regular updates.
Spotlight: Conduct
We rely on our people to deliver fair outcomes Bullying and harassment of any type are not
for our customers and make sure we act tolerated and we have strict processes to
with integrity in the financial markets. A high manage this behaviour. In 2019, we centralised
standard of personal conduct is critical to our monitoring of these cases and built a
our ability to live up to this commitment and specialist team to oversee such matters when
ensure a healthy working environment. We they do arise. Using data from this monitoring,
manage misconduct by taking action, up to we introduced new global policies to prevent
and including dismissal. We report cases on harassment. We also trained over 1,600 senior
a regular basis to management committees. leaders on the fundamentals of workplace
harassment, focusing on preventing sexual
In 2019, we took action against 2.0% of our harassment, and delivered global mandatory
employees for misconduct. Where we see training to all our people on identifying bullying
trends, we take action, including issuing and harassment.
communications and making policy changes.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 29
Employees
Listening to our people
Employees
Diversity and inclusion
Percentage of our senior We are committed to a company-wide We have also been implementing ‘return to
leadership who are women approach to diversity and inclusion. We want work’ schemes in a number of geographies
29.4% to embrace our people’s diverse ideas, styles around the world. Our Take 2 programme in
and perspectives to reflect and understand India enables female technology candidates
our customers, communities, suppliers who have had a break in their career to return
(2018: 28.2%) and investors. Our actions are focused on to employment. In 2019, we hired 65 female
ensuring our people are valued, respected technologists as a result of this programme,
and supported to fulfil their potential and an increase from 35 in 2018.
thrive. We want them to bring the best of
themselves to work to help deliver more Focus on UK gender pay gap
sustainable outcomes for all of our We were one of the first financial services
Gender diversity statistics1,2 stakeholders. organisations to report its 2019 gender pay
gaps in line with UK regulations. Our median
Our 30% commitment aggregate UK-wide gender pay gap, including
9 64%
Holdings In 2018, we signed up to a commitment, all eight reported HSBC entities, was 47.8%
Board
5 36% led by the gender diversity campaign group and our median bonus gap was 60.5% in
30% Club, to reach 30% women in senior 2019. Our overall UK gender pay gap is driven
Group 16 84%
Management leadership roles by 2020. Senior leaders are by the shape of our workforce. We have a
Board 3 16% classified as 0 to 3 in our global career band higher proportion of men in senior and higher
structure. To help us achieve that aspirational paying roles, particularly in our UK-based
Combined 168 73%
executive target, we set ourselves a goal to reach 29% Global Banking and Markets business.
committee and 62 27% by the end of 2019. We achieved 29.4% and There are more women in junior levels and
direct reports are continuing to take action towards more part-time roles, particularly in HSBC UK, our
balanced leadership teams. When we are UK ring-fenced bank. Additionally, we have a
S20en1i9or 6,915 71%
recruiting for senior positions, we require our number of senior global roles based in the UK.
leadership
2,882 29% external search firms to provide a balance of
Senior 748 68% equally qualified male and female candidates We are committed to improving our gender
leadership and we have introduced guidance for diverse balance in the UK and beyond, and are driving
RBWM 353 32% interview panels. Appointments of external a three-part plan, which focuses on:
female candidates into senior leadership roles
S le e a n d i e o r r s hip 715 72% rose from 28.6% in 2018 to 33% in 2019. – leadership action;
CMB 284 28% – support for our employees; and
Senior 2,327 79% G Ou e r n p d e e o r p # le B a a r l e a n s c up e p fo o r r B tin e g tt o e u r r goal to improve – an open and inclusive environment.
leadership
GB&M 623 21% gender diversity, and our #BalanceforBetter We review our pay practices regularly and also
campaign on International Women’s Day in work with independent third parties to review
2 S le0 e a n 1d i 9e o r r s hip 386 67% 2019 was our most successful employee equal pay, the most recent exercise having
GPB 193 33% social media campaign to date. Our global been undertaken in 2018. If pay differences
employee network, Balance, has played a are identified that are not due to an objective,
Senior 751 73% key role in our work on gender. In 2019, we tangible reason such as performance or skills
l H e O ad S e T rship 276 27% created a series of safe and comfortable and experience, we make adjustments.
spaces for new and expectant mothers.
All 116,157 48% We equipped 125 parenting rooms in 2019, Our 2019 UK Gender Pay Gap Report is available
employees with more planned. at www.hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-
124,801 52% information/esg-reporting-and-policies.
Since 2018, our Accelerating into Leadership
Male Female
programme has provided coaching and
development for high-performing women
1 C ombined executive committee and direct at manager level and the programme is now
reports includes HSBC executive Directors,
being rolled out globally. In 2019 it had 398
Group Managing Directors, Group Company
participants. Our Accelerating Female Leaders
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer and their
direct reports (excluding administrative staff). programme has been extended and focuses
2 S enior leadership refers to employees performing on increasing the visibility, networks and
roles classified as 0, 1, 2 and 3 in our global career sponsorship of high-performing women
band structure. at senior level. Our 2018–2019 cohort had
80 participants, many of whom are already
making lateral moves to gain more experience
or have been promoted.
30 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Our global diversity and inclusion strategy
In 2019, we began implementing a two-year global diversity and inclusion strategy to deliver more inclusive outcomes for our people, customers,
suppliers and the communities in which we operate. We are working closely with our global employee networks to help accelerate our progress.
We are also deepening our insights using data. Here are some of the examples of work that we delivered in 2019:
Beyond gender Our employee networks Beyond employees Enhancing our data
We are expanding our focus We are investing in our We are extending our actions We are enhancing our data to
beyond gender to include employee networks around the beyond employees to integrate support an evidence-based
global approaches to ethnicity, world to improve governance. diversity and inclusion into our approach to driving change.
disability and LGBT+ inclusion. commercial activities.
We have strengthened the Our employee survey, Snapshot,
Our global employee network governance of our global We are using a framework to help allows survey respondents to
for LGBT+ inclusion, Pride, employee networks. Global benchmark our commercial self-identify against a number
continued to grow and entered executive sponsors are now practices to deliver outcomes that of demographic characteristics
new markets in 2019. The in place for four of our seven are more equal from a gender where legally permitted. This data
network’s efforts helped improve global employee networks, perspective for our customers, has allowed us to understand how
our standing on Stonewall’s which cover: age; disability; suppliers and communities. We different employee groups feel
Global Workplace Equality Index, ethnicity; faith; gender; LGBT+; helped the 30% Club set up the about working with us. It also
and we were named as one of and parents and carers. We are Strategy Best Practices Working informs our global diversity and
only 14 top global employers. also appointing global co-chairs Group, which is formed of inclusion strategy, highlighting
We have launched a new global for the networks to help us deliver representatives from large issues and opportunities and
programme aimed at transforming a more consistent approach and multinationals known for their tracking our progress. In the
disability confidence, working to ensure that voices from around leading work on gender equality. second half of 2019, 7.6% of
closely with the Business the networks are heard at The working group is helping to survey respondents who shared
Disability Forum’s global all levels. codify how companies worldwide demographic information
taskforce. We have also started can embed gender-equality selected a category other than
to explore ways we can better principles into company-wide heterosexual/straight to identify
enable ethnic minority colleagues operations. In November, the their sexual orientation, 0.9%
to progress their careers, feel group launched the ‘Are you identified as transgender or
confident about speaking up and missing millions?’ report, which gender non-binary, 3.2%
build more trusting relationships highlighted how companies can identified as a person with
with their colleagues. benefit commercially from gender disabilities and 12.2% identified as
considerations. belonging to an ethnic minority.
Building disability confidence
In 2019, we launched a global programme to our people on how to better support colleagues. The film received more than
improve the experience for colleagues with colleagues with disabilities. 200,000 views on LinkedIn, more than any
disabilities. The programme is setting – Conducting accessibility reviews across other piece of our content in 2019. The
company-wide principles and improving multiple sites to identify and remove video was recognised in various awards,
workplace adjustment processes so that we barriers to a more inclusive working including Silver in the HR category at the
can operate in a more disability-confident environment. Cannes Corporate Media and TV Awards,
and Silver at the EVCOM Clarion Awards
way. Our achievements have so far included: – Publishing a neurodiversity video to mark
in the diversity and inclusion category.
World Autism Awareness Day and to
– Launching 17 disability-smart guides with help raise visibility of the barriers and
the Business Disability Forum to educate opportunities surrounding neurodiverse
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 31
Employees
Diversity and inclusion
Employees
Well-being and
developing our people
Employee well-being
We want to ensure well-being is part of our Mental health will continue to be a key
people’s daily conversation. We believe this priority. We will develop our mental health
improves their health and happiness as well education and work with partners to raise
as the service we provide to our customers further awareness, influence policy and
and communities. encourage action on a global scale.
Our well-being priorities are mental health, Flexible working
flexible working and financial capability. These We published flexible working guidelines to
Supporting our people priorities have been driven by feedback from HR teams globally to make our approach more
through organisational our people through surveys and Exchange consistent, reduce barriers for those who want
meetings. to work flexibly and to support managers to
change make fair decisions.
Mental health
To ensure we have the right roles in the At the World Economic Forum in Davos in The well-being survey in June 2019 showed
right locations, our businesses regularly January 2019, we committed to providing that 64% of those surveyed say they work
re-evaluate their structures. We strive to mental health education to all managers flexibly, up 15 points compared with 2017.
support colleagues closely through all globally. We worked with experts and Those who work flexibly report higher
organisational change, which will colleagues to build a bespoke e-learning productivity, higher than average resilience
include those who will be affected by curriculum accessible to all 235,000 and better mental health. However, we are
our business update. Our focus is to employees, which was delivered in aware that common barriers still exist. The
prioritise retention of our permanent September 2019. We also built and began survey identified that junior colleagues are less
employees through mechanisms such rolling out additional classroom learning aware of flexible working opportunities and
as redeployment. Redundancies were for managers. These were adapted to ensure that senior colleagues are more concerned
necessary in 2019, and we sought to they work for local cultures and languages. about the potential impact on career
treat people fairly and responsibly. We plan to share our insight with other progression. We would like to see more senior
Where appropriate, we provided organisations. role models advocating flexible working.
suitable notice periods and consulted
with representative bodies. We use Our global well-being survey in June 2019, Financial well-being
objective and appropriate selection which was completed by 52% of our people, Overall levels of financial capability among our
criteria for redundancies. We prohibit showed that 83% rated their mental health as people have not improved significantly since
selection on grounds linked to personal either ‘good’, ‘very good’ or ‘excellent’, the 2017. The number of employees who rated
characteristics, for example gender, same as for physical health. However, only their financial status in the well-being survey
race, age or having raised past 58% felt comfortable talking about mental as either ‘doing all right’ or ‘living comfortably’
concerns. In many markets, including health to their manager, compared with 72% rose from 51% to 54% in June 2019, while
the UK and Hong Kong, our severance for their physical health. We hope that our 12% said they are ‘finding it somewhat
payments exceeded statutory programme will help reduce this stigma. difficult’ to get by financially and 5% said
minimums and our employees were they are ‘finding it very difficult’.
For World Mental Health Day, we ran a global
additionally provided with access to
public campaign with the charity United for Existing support for our people is inconsistent,
counselling via employee assistance
Global Mental Health, called ‘Speak Your with fewer than half of those surveyed
programmes and career transition
Mind’, which encouraged people to talk saying they knew where to find support.
support.
more openly and share their stories. We We searched for a global financial education
also published guidelines to our HR teams platform but were unable to find a suitable
globally to make mental health support more proposition. There is room for improvement
consistent and accessible and to help our and we will focus our efforts on this area
response to potential and actual suicide. in 2020.
Supporting colleagues through menopause
For World Menopause Day, six colleagues Online resources also helped guide
including the Group Chief Human our people to our well-being hub where
Resources Officer shared their experiences they can access support related to their
of menopause by video to help raise physical, mental and financial well-being.
awareness and increase understanding.
32 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Learning and development
We understand that to have a skilled and Leadership development We also created a new and more inclusive
capable workforce for today and the future, Over 16,000 of our people participated approach to identify potential future leaders
we must invest in our people at all stages of in HSBC University’s management and by enabling our people to self-elect into an
their careers. We measure our success leadership programmes. These included an assessment and development process, which
through our retention, engagement scores, online course for new managers or those examines learning agility, leadership ability
internal mobility and from external awards. returning to management after a break. and aspiration.
We also launched a new risk management
We provide training through HSBC University, curriculum and an executive development Internship, graduate and international
our online learning portal and global network curriculum, which are designed to support manager programme
of training centres, which we launched in 2017. our most senior leaders with their approach We recognise that to be prepared for the
We target a 97% completion rate for formal to protect and grow the organisation. future, we need to build talent from the
training on our values, strategy and approach earliest stages of careers. Our global intern
to risk management. This helps keep our We engage proactively in succession planning and graduate programme in 2019 had more
people aware of the risks we face so they can and understand the importance of ensuring than 80,000 applicants, from which we
make better decisions to grow our business we have a diverse talent pipeline for senior recruited 860 graduates, of which 45% were
in a safe way. roles. In 2019, 67% of our most critical roles female. Once hired, our graduates go through
were filled by internal talent, with 33% of several rotations during a two-year period
Our training has a strong foundation in good those placements being female. We realise the before being placed in their destination roles.
conduct, with topics including managing importance of accelerating the progress of our Some of our highest-performing graduates
non-financial risk, data privacy, cybersecurity, women to strengthen the leadership pipeline. continue into our international manager
anti-money laundering, sanctions, anti-bribery We have a number of programmes to equip programme, a fast-track career path for future
and corruption, insider risk, competition law, talented female staff with the skills and leaders of our business. We currently have
raising concerns and well-being. networks necessary to make the leap 271 individuals across 46 countries and
to management. territories on the scheme.
We also have programmes to develop and
advance our diverse workforce, including Nurturing talent
programmes for ethnic minority employees, We promote a continuous feedback culture
people with disabilities, women, veterans and so encourage all our people to have
and LGBT+ colleagues in some regions. regular performance conversations with their
45%
line managers throughout the year, in addition
Building for the future to their formal annual discussions. We also
Through HSBC University, we provide training encourage them to use our online career
to support our people to develop technical and planning tool to help them with their thinking Of the graduates recruited in 2019
role-based skills, as well as personal skills. We on future roles and the capabilities were female
put a strong emphasis on leadership skills to they require.
foster a culture of curiosity, innovation,
collaboration and performance. Managers are encouraged to have open
>16,000
dialogue with our people through feedback
We have introduced new programmes to sessions. In addition to access to HSBC
develop digital skills and understanding University, all employees have access to
of sustainable finance and environmental other experiences, such as volunteering Of our people participated in
sustainability. We created online training to and sustainability opportunities, participation HSBC University’s management
improve personal skills, such as novel and in our employee resource groups, mentoring and leadership programmes
adaptive thinking, design mindset, social and sponsorship programmes.
intelligence, curiosity and creativity. We also
introduced a range of self-directed resources In 2019, we launched a portal that provides
and workshops to improve team cohesion access to career development resources
and performance. and tools for all our people. Its features
include guidance to help our people have
conversations about their careers with their
line managers by focusing on strengths
and aspirations.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 33
Employees
Well-being and developing our people
Supporting sustainable growth
Supporting sustainable
growth
At a glance
We recognise our wider role in society and We have supported projects in 45 countries We work with regulators, international
believe we can make a positive impact with and territories, which have included renewable organisations and civil society to help them
how we do business. We understand that the energy, green buildings and electric vehicles. deliver effective regulations and governance
global transition to a low-carbon economy is for our customers, the financial services
necessary to combat climate change and While we are making progress, we also industry and wider society.
deliver a more sustainable future. recognise that we and the wider financial
services sector need to increase momentum We also seek to improve the financial
A key part of our sustainability strategy and improve how we measure our progress. capability and employability of our own people
involves supporting our customers and their We set out further metrics in our third and those living within the communities in
suppliers with their transition to a low-carbon disclosure under the Task Force on Climate- which we operate. We work with non-profit
economy. We aim to achieve this by providing related Financial Disclosure (‘TCFD’) in partners to help us reach into communities
sustainable finance, offering advice on how to this section. of particular need.
structure financing solutions that align to the
Paris Agreement and engaging with them on Considering our own environmental impact, We understand the need for our workforce
transition and physical risk. we are continuing to pursue the ambitious to contribute to society inside and outside of
target that we set ourselves to procure 100% their working life, so we encourage and
We are making good progress on our pledge of our electricity from renewable sources incentivise our colleagues to get involved in
to provide and facilitate $100bn of sustainable by 2030. charitable activities and participate in paid
financing and investment by 2025, having volunteering days.
already delivered $52.4bn of this commitment.
Our engagement in 2019 Awards and
achievements
Progress against our targets
Target Progress Environmental Finance Awards 2019:
$100bn $52.4bn
Lead manager of the year, Green Bonds:
Local authority/municipality
Lead manager of the year, Social Bonds:
Of sustainable financing and Cumulative progress since 2017 Corporate
investment to be provided and Lead manager of the year, Sustainability
facilitated by 2025 Bonds: Corporate
Euromoney Awards 2019:
World’s Best Bank for Sustainable Finance
Asia’s Best Bank for Sustainable Finance
The Middle East’s Best Bank for Sustainable
Finance
Target Progress
100% 29.4%
Extel Awards 2019:
No.1 in a range of categories including
Of our electricity will be sourced Signed renewable electricity from ESG, Socially Responsible Investment
from renewable sources by 2030 power purchase agreements and Sustainability
(2018: 28.5%)
World Resources Institute 2019:
Achieved 9 out of 10 (dark green status)
in research on bank’s sustainable finance
commitments
34 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Supporting
sustainable
growth
At a glance
Our approach to the UN Sustainable Development Goals
We believe that we have a role to play in ensure that this is achieved. The wider
helping to address the challenges relating to financial services sector has a role to play in
climate change, environmental degradation, achieving these goals, and there is work to be
poverty, inequality, peace and justice, which done in this area. According to our sustainable
is why we have committed to provide and financing and investing survey, which we
facilitate $100bn of sustainable financing published in 2019, more than nine out of
by 2025. This forms part of our approach 10 global investors and issuers of corporate
to the United Nations (‘UN’) Sustainable debt said they believed ESG factors were
Development Goals (‘SDGs’). The 17 goals important. However, six out of 10 said there
and 169 targets that comprise the SDGs form were barriers that deterred them from
the globally agreed framework designed not investing sustainably. This is a challenge
only to protect the planet, but also to end for the financial services sector to overcome
poverty and ensure peace and prosperity. and we are working hard to bridge this gap.
Achieving the goals requires partnerships For further details about our SDG bond, see:
between governments, the private sector and www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-income-
investors/green-and-sustainability-bonds.
civil society. Further, the Paris Agreement
outlines the goal of keeping global warming to
well below 2°C and it is estimated that $100tn
of investment is needed by 2030 to help
Supporting the transition
to a low-carbon economy
We acted as a mandated lead arranger
in the refinancing of the £2.5bn Beatrice
offshore wind farm off the north-east
coast of Scotland, which is jointly owned
by UK energy firm SSE, Danish fund
manager Copenhagen Infrastructure
Partners and Edinburgh-based energy
firm Red Rock Power Limited, a subsidiary
of Beijing-headquartered SDIC Power.
To encourage low-carbon electricity
generation and ensure progress towards
carbon neutrality by 2050, the UK
government awarded Beatrice a 15-year
contract for difference, a mechanism in
which public funding underpins power
revenues that could otherwise fluctuate
with swings in electricity prices.
Beatrice is one of the largest wind
farms globally with a capacity of
580MW, which is capable of powering
approximately 450,000 homes.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 35
Supporting sustainable growth
Sustainable
finance
Sustainable business
We aim to manage climate-related risks and We maintained leadership in green, social and Factoring ESG into investment
embed sustainability factors into our financing sustainable bonds, ranking second globally in management
of business activities to help our customers 2019, according to data provider Dealogic. We We believe that ESG factors have an impact
meet their goals. supported several green bond issuances that on the value of all investments and are integral
were market firsts in the public and private to sound investment decisions necessary to
In 2019, we launched a sustainable supply sectors, including as joint lead manager for preserve and deliver long-term growth of our
chain finance programme, expanded our the inaugural sovereign green bonds for customers’ capital.
green and sustainable loans propositions Hong Kong and the Republic of Ireland.
and introduced green deposits for corporate Our business lines collaborate closely in
and institutional customers. We continue to increase knowledge and delivering investment solutions that address
engagement on sustainability issues with customer needs, including sustainability
We seek to use our position as a leading our people and customers. In our GB&M preferences.
global financial services organisation to and CMB businesses, we logged more than
help our customers make a social and 3,000 meetings or phone calls in 2019 with our HSBC Asset Management has had a
environmental impact through their supply clients to discuss sustainable finance options long-standing commitment to incorporate
chains. Our sustainable supply chain finance and opportunities. In 2019, more than 5,300 ESG factors into investment decisions,
programme provides a tiered pricing on modules were completed within within the having been a signatory to the Principles for
financing where our customers are able seven-part online learning course developed Responsible Investment since 2006. We apply
to recognise their suppliers’ sustainable in partnership with Cambridge CISL for responsible investment principles through the
achievements (see case study on Walmart HSBC University. entire investment process, incorporating the
on page 37). analysis of ESG factors, alongside financial
Industry leadership and engagement analysis, across all asset classes to target
We extended the reach of our formal green The Centre of Sustainable Finance, launched in sustainable long-term returns. At September
loan proposition aligned to the Green Loans 2018, supports our ambition to be the leading 2019, nearly 90% of our total assets under
Principles, launching new products for bank for sustainable finance by providing management are considered responsibly
corporate customers in Mexico and Canada. thought leadership about transforming the invested according to the Global Sustainable
In the UK, we reduced the minimum loan real economy and strengthening the financial Investment Alliance definition. Since 2010,
size for labelled green loans to make them system’s response to climate change. In we have excluded direct investment in
available to a wider group of customers 2019, the centre published 45 reports and companies involved in the manufacture of
including small and medium-sized businesses. articles, nearly twice the number compared cluster munitions, anti personnel mines and
In 2019, we facilitated the first green loan in with the previous year, and attracted over other weapons banned by international
Ireland aligned to the Green Loans Principles 100,000 page views. convention.
and the first Green Loans Principles-compliant
loan facility for a Chinese bank. In addition, we supported the development At September 2019, HSBC Asset Management
of industry standards and principles, including had approximately $5bn in sustainable
Track record of innovation the Green Finance Principles for China’s Belt investments, which consists of strategies that
We have a strong track record of innovation. and Road Initiative, facilitated collaboration contribute to the Group’s sustainable financing
We support customers around the world with across the industry through the Climate and investment commitments. This represents
financing, facilitation and investment solutions Finance Leadership Initiative, and we chaired 1% of total assets under management and
to achieve their sustainability goals. In 2019, the Institute for International Finance includes exclusionary, best in class, and
we were recognised by Euromoney as the Sustainable Finance working group. norms based screening, sustainability themes
World’s Best Bank for Sustainable Finance and impact strategies. We complement our
and were awarded the regional equivalent proprietary ESG ratings with thematic research
awards for Asia and the Middle East. For a and in 2019 published a further report on
sixth consecutive year, we were ranked first in climate-related scenario analysis.
2019 for climate change research by Extel, as
well as number one for SRI and Sustainability. In 2019, HSBC Asset Management, in
partnership with the International Finance
Corporation, announced the creation of an
innovative green bond fund targeting real
economy issuers in emerging markets,
known as HSBC REGIO.
36 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Supporting
sustainable
growth
Sustainable finance
Sustainable business continued
Active ownership Our wealth management and private banking
We aim to use our power as an investor to businesses also help our customers achieve
encourage companies to protect and enhance their sustainable investment preferences while
value through active management. We fulfil meeting their financial goals through customer
this responsibility through proxy voting, education, insight sharing, adviser training and
company engagement and filing or co-filing engagement. We offer a range of sustainable
shareholder proposals. investment products, including green bonds,
investment funds, discretionary mandates and
Improving access to
This active ownership is a key pillar of ESG index-linked structured products.
our approach to responsible investment. It trade finance in a
allows us to have a better understanding and The wealth management business has
evaluation of the ESG risks and opportunities launched a wealth insight publication sustainable supply
at a company level to drive positive behaviour #WhyESGMatters globally with an aim chain
and promote high standards. In 2019, we to educate customers on different ESG
voted on more than 78,000 resolutions at over topics and themes.
Walmart in 2017 announced ‘Project
7,400 company meetings in 74 markets. We
Gigaton,’ an initiative to work with
also engaged on ESG issues with more than
suppliers to reduce or avoid one
2,300 companies and other issuers, across
our equity and fixed income holdings, in >78,000 billion tonnes of greenhouse gases
from the global supply chain by
71 markets.
2030. Walmart also encourages its
We also work collaboratively within the Resolutions HSBC Asset suppliers to participate in THESIS, a
investment management industry and Management voted on during third-party programme that scores
took an active role as co-founders and 2019 at over 7,400 company suppliers on sustainability criteria and
steering committee members of the Climate meetings in 74 markets encourages continued improvement.
Action 100+ initiative, a landmark five-year
In April 2019, our teams in Asia,
collaborative investment initiative designed
Europe and North America launched
to influence change by ensuring the world’s
2nd a sustainable supply chain finance
largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters
programme to support Walmart’s
take necessary action on climate change.
ambitions and help their suppliers
Sustainable investments across Dealogic ranking for green, social with the transition to a lower
our business and sustainability bond issuer globally emissions world. This programme,
Our insurance business became a signatory and number 1 in Asia in 2019 which is the first of its type in the
retail sector, provides Walmart’s
of the UNEP FI Principles of Sustainable (2018: 2nd)
suppliers that show continued
Insurance in 2013. In support of our
sustainability improvements with
commitments to these principles, we continue
enhanced access to trade finance
to implement our insurance sustainability
at a price aligned to the suppliers’
policy in our investment process. This also
performance. The collaboration with
includes applying restrictions within our
its global reach demonstrates how
proprietary assets to investments that may
financial institutions can accelerate
have adverse impacts on people and the
customers’ efforts to further
environment. This involves incorporating
sustainability.
ESG principles into all our investment
governance and creating an impact
investment strategy within the portfolios.
In Hong Kong, this began with an investment
in an impact fund targeting mission-driven
businesses with a focus on the UN SDGs.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 37
Supporting sustainable growth
Sustainable finance commitment
We are making good progress on our pledge to provide and facilitate such as clean water or housing. Our sustainable finance data
$100bn of sustainable financing and investment by 2025, having dictionary, including detailed definitions of contributing activities,
already delivered $52.4bn of this commitment. We have supported can be found on: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/
projects in 45 countries and territories, which have included those esg-reporting-and-policies.
addressing climate change and those seeking to benefit society
Facilitation
We provide advisory services to facilitate Cumulative progress1,2 ($bn) 2019 highlights
the flow of capital and to provide access – We ranked number two in Dealogic’s green, social and
to capital markets. Products include: 38.0 sustainability bonds league table and number one in the
green, social and sustainable bonds; sustainability bonds table.
finance advisory mandates; short-term – We supported several green bond issuances that were
debt; debt capital markets; and equity market firsts in the public and private sectors, including
capital markets. as joint lead manager for the inaugural sovereign green
2019 16.6
bonds for Hong Kong, Chile and the Republic of Ireland.
2018 11.1
2017 10.3
Financing
We provide lending for specific finance Cumulative progress1,2 ($bn) 2019 highlights
activities. Products include project finance – HSBC UK aligned its green lending offering to the Loan
(e.g. financing of renewable infrastructure 12.0 Market Association’s green loan principles. The range,
projects), and green loans (e.g. financing which is available for SMEs through to large corporates,
of eligible green products). includes a green loan, a UK industry first green revolving
credit facility and a green hire purchase, lease and
2019 6.2 asset loan.
– We acted as a mandated lead arranger in the refinancing
2018 5.3 of the Beatrice offshore wind farm off the north-east coast
of Scotland.
2017 0.5
F or further details on the refinancing of the Beatrice offshore
wind farm, see page 35.
Investments
We invest in funds that are defined as socially Cumulative progress1 ($bn) 2019 highlights
responsible investments (‘SRI’). These funds – HSBC Global Asset Management announced the creation
primarily avoid investing in companies that 2.4 of a new green bond fund, the HSBC Real Economy
can have a negative impact on society, such Green Investment Opportunity GEM Bond Fund. The
as tobacco or gambling. Some of the SRI fund’s aim is to enable investors to achieve real economy
funds are investing in companies that aim to impact to deliver against the Paris Agreement and SDGs.
reduce the detrimental impacts that climate 2019 1.1 – We achieved a rating of A+/A using the United Nations
change can create, while others have defined Principles of Responsible Investment (‘UN PRI’).
transition strategies. These transition 2018 1.1
strategies may include using alternative
2017 0.2
energy, clean technology and developing
sustainable products and/or seeking to
increase the beneficial impacts on our society,
such as health, housing and clean water.
1 P wC provided limited assurance over progress towards the $100bn sustainable finance commitment as at 31 December 2019 in accordance with the International
Standard on Assurance Engagement 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. This can be
found on our website: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/esg-reporting-and-policies.
2 Included within the facilitation total is $2.8bn-worth of advisory services on HSBC-issued green/SDG bonds. Our green bond report summarises and our asset
register lists the loans that underpin our issuances. The latest report includes $1.5bn of balances as at 30 June 2019 that have been included within the financing
total. The green report and asset register are available at www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-income-investors/green-and-sustainability-bonds.
38 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Supporting
sustainable
growth
Sustainable finance
Sustainable finance commitment continued
Geographical breakdown Green, social and sustainability Green, social and sustainability breakdown
of our progress breakdown We define sustainable finance as any form of financial service that
The geographical breakdown below integrates ESG criteria into business or investment decisions. This
is based on the region where the includes facilitating access to capital markets, providing finance and
main client relationship is managed. investing in specially defined socially responsible and low carbon
investments funds.
Our progress against the $100bn commitment can be split into
three types:
– Green: Projects that align to the eligible green project category
$39.1bn
as defined by the International Capital Markets Association’s Green
Bond Principles, or a company whose core business operates in
$8.8bn
one of the categories.
$4.5bn – Social: Projects that align to the eligible social project category
as defined by the International Capital Markets Association.
– Sustainability: Projects that mix green and social purposes that
align to the above principles.
Key Key
Europe 50% Green
Asia 30% Social
Americas 16% Sustainability
Middle East and North Africa 4%
Chilean government
green bond
Chile issued a $1.4bn sovereign green bond
in June 2019 to help deliver on its ambition
to build climate-resilient and low-carbon
infrastructure.
We acted as the joint bookrunner and joint
deal manager of the green bond, which is
the first in South America.
The bond will finance projects to improve
infrastructure services while contributing
towards the country’s commitment to
reduce its CO per unit of GDP by 30%
2
by 2030, from 2007 levels.
Eligible projects will include clean
transportation, energy efficiency,
renewable energy, water management
and green buildings.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 39
Supporting sustainable growth
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
We all have a role to play in limiting climate climate risk forum and an ESG Steering disclosure. We also partnered with climate
change and supporting the transition to a Committee also provides executive oversight change experts at MIT to produce exploratory
low-carbon economy. We are a signatory of climate commitments. We have formally transition scenarios. These scenarios were
to the disclosure recommendations by the designated responsibility for managing the used to raise internal awareness of the
Financial Stability Board’s task force. This financial risks from climate change through different speeds with which transition
represents our third disclosure under the the Senior Managers Regime for the could occur, the resulting investment
framework. relevant entities. requirements, the implications for energy
system configuration and the broad
Governance In 2019, the Board held a one-day sustainable macroeconomic costs.
We have an established governance finance and climate change ‘master class’; the
framework to help ensure that risks associated Group Risk Committee carried out a thematic Risk management
with climate change are considered at the review of sustainability and climate change risk We are in the process of incorporating
most senior levels of our business. management; and the Group Audit Committee climate-related risk, both physical and
discussed ESG at four separate meetings. Our transition, into how we manage and
At each Board meeting, the Directors are people have also completed more than 5,300 oversee risk. The Board-approved risk
presented with a risk profile report that sustainability training modules in 2019, a 41% appetite statement contains a qualitative
includes key risks for the business, which increase since the previous year. statement on our approach to climate risk.
may include climate risk where appropriate. We intend to further enhance the climate
Independent non-executive Directors make For further details on how we incentivise risk statement in 2020.
senior management and how climate-related
up the majority of the Board. Both the Group
disclosures inform our strategy, see page 9.
Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial In 2019, we also trained over 800 employees
Officer are required to be members of the on climate risk to strengthen engagement with
Board. In 2019, the Group Chief Risk Officer Strategy customers. For further information on how we
was also a member of the Board. With effect As part of our priority to support the transition manage sustainability risks, see page 42 to 43.
from 1 January 2020, this role ceased to be to a low-carbon economy, we pledged to
a Board member but the Group Chief Risk provide $100bn of sustainable finance, We report on the emissions of our own
Officer will still attend Board meetings. In this facilitation and investment by 2025. At the operations via CDP and achieved a leadership
role, the Group Chief Risk Officer raises any end of 2019, we reached $52.4bn of that score of A- for our 2019 CDP disclosure.
concerns directly by providing verbal or written goal, of which $43.6bn relates to green or
updates on a regular basis to the Board and sustainable products. In 2019, HSBC was Since the revision of the energy policy, we
Group Management Board. named the World’s Best Bank for Sustainable have not agreed any project financing for any
Finance by Euromoney. new coal-fired power plants anywhere.
The Board and regional executive
committees provide oversight of our We recognise that many customers are For further details of our sustainability
strategic commitments and are advised making shifts towards the low-carbon risk policies covering specific sectors, see:
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
by our climate business councils. The economy and that our industry needs to responsibility/sustainability-risk.
Risk Management Meeting of the Group work together to find new ways to measure For further details about the sustainability of
Management Board (‘RMM’) provides these activities. our own operations, see www.hsbc.com/
oversight of climate risk through the our-approach/building-a-sustainable-future/
‘top and emerging risk’ report, which is In 2019, HSBC participated in the CDP sustainable-operations.
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project)
reviewed on a monthly basis. A dedicated
working group to develop financial sector
Table 1: Wholesale loan exposure to transition risk sectors
Oil and Building and Power and Metals and
gas construction Chemicals Automotive utilities mining Total
% of total wholesale loans ≤ 3.8% ≤ 3.9% ≤ 3.9% ≤ 3.2% ≤ 3.2% ≤ 2.7% ≤ 20.6%
and advances to customers
and banks in 20191,2,3
% of total wholesale loans ≤ 3.9% ≤ 3.8% ≤ 3.9% ≤ 3.4% ≤ 3.0% ≤ 2.8% ≤ 20.8%
and advances to customers
and banks in 20181,2,3
1 A mounts shown in the table include green and other sustainable finance loans, which support the transition to the low-carbon economy. The methodology for
quantifying our exposure to higher transition risk sectors and the transition risk metrics will evolve over time as more data becomes available and is incorporated in
our risk management systems and processes.
2 C ounterparties are allocated to the higher transition risk sectors via a two-step approach. Firstly, where the main business of a group of connected counterparties
is in a higher transition risk sector, all lending to the group is included irrespective of the sector of each individual obligor within the group. Secondly, where the
main business of a group of connected counterparties is not in a higher transition risk sector, only lending to individual obligors in the higher transition risk sectors
is included.
3 Total wholesale loans and advances to customers and banks amount to $680bn (2018: $668bn).
40 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Supporting
sustainable
growth
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Developing our approach to transition risk from over 750 customers within the six higher are designed to help us identify key areas of
We have started to develop and publish new risk transition sectors, which represented 34% vulnerability to climate change, the associated
transition metrics to help us gain a deeper of our exposure. We are using this information impact on property portfolios and economic
understanding of the complexities of this topic. to inform our decision making and strategy. activity. We also aim to review our policies
For instance, this information is helping us and procedures with respect to physical risks
Transition risk is the possibility that a to understand which customers need to adapt, associated with climate change for our own
customer will be unable to meet its financial their readiness to change and identify potential buildings and branches. These reviews will
obligations due to the global movement from business opportunities to support the help us to understand any gaps in policies
a high-carbon to a low-carbon economy. transition. This information is also being used and procedures and will also improve our
to supplement the management of transition understanding of our physical risk exposure
We are considering transition risk from three risk in our credit risk management processes. and how this might change over time.
perspectives: understanding our exposure to
transition risk; understanding how our clients To improve our understanding of the progress In next year’s TCFD disclosure, we also expect
are managing transition risk; and measuring our our clients are making in reducing carbon to disclose more qualitative information on our
clients’ progress in reducing carbon emissions. emissions, in 2019 we launched a pilot scheme approach to climate stress testing.
to develop a series of new transition metrics to
To better understand our exposure to transition help disclose our customers’ progress towards
risk, we identified six higher transition risk a low-carbon economy. As part of the pilot, we
sectors in 2018, based on their contribution calculated a weighted carbon-intensity ratio Memberships
to global carbon dioxide emissions and other for over 900 customers within the six high
factors. These transition risk sectors and our risk transition sectors. We first obtained a
exposure to them are disclosed in table 1. client’s total revenue carbon intensity from a Founding member, the Climate
Figures in this table capture all lending activity third-party provider, CDP. The revenue carbon Finance Leadership Initiative
to customers within these sectors, including intensity ratio is effectively the carbon that is
those that are environmentally responsible emitted per million dollars of revenue. It was Founding member, Chapter Zero:
as well as sustainable financing activities. calculated as emissions from both direct and The Directors’ Climate Forum
This means that green financing for large indirect emissions, known as scope 1 and 2
companies that work in higher transition emissions, divided by total revenue. We then Member, the FCA and PRA’s Climate
sectors is included. For further information weighted the revenue-carbon intensity ratio by Financial Risk Forum (‘CFRF’)
on how we designate counterparties as our exposure to that client within the sector.
‘higher transition risk’, see footnote 2 on Chair, climate risk working group
the previous page. Next steps of the CFRF
In 2020, we intend to continue to explore
In 2019, to better understand how our clients what data is available to provide us with For further details of our sustainability-
are managing transition risk, we had more than greater insight of our clients’ portfolio r o e u la r- t a e p d p m ro e a m ch b / e e r s s g h - i i p n s fo , r s m ee a t w io w n/ w.hsbc.com/
3,000 engagements with customers through emissions. We also aim to continue to review sustainability-memberships.
meetings or phone calls, across all sectors, our retail exposures on a geographical basis
to discuss their approach to climate change. in respect of natural hazard risk, for example
We also developed a questionnaire to improve considering flood risk for properties that we
our understanding of our customers’ climate have provided financing on. These reviews
transition strategies. We received responses
Table 2: Customers’ questionnaire responses and pilot carbon intensity metrics
Oil and Building and Power and Metals and
gas construction Chemicals Automotive utilities mining Total
Proportion of sector for which 33% 37% 27% 39% 30% 44% 34%
questionnaires were completed4
Proportion of questionnaire responses 84% 51% 85% 64% 94% 62% 72%
that reported either having a board
policy or a management plan4
Sector weight as proportion of high 18% 19% 19% 15% 15% 13% 100%
transition risk sector4
Pilot as % of total sector4 38% 41% 30% 52% 42% 46% 41%
Proportion of pilot that report carbon 49% 53% 38% 48% 38% 30% 44%
intensity metric through CDP4
Weighted average carbon emissions 688 408 517 301 7,235 787
per million dollars of revenue (total
client emissions/revenue weighted by
exposure)4,5
4 A ll percentages are weighted by exposure.
5 C ustomer responses to CDP have been used to formulate the carbon intensity metrics in table 2. If a client does not complete the CDP questionnaire, information
is not included in the metrics. The CDP questionnaire is voluntarily completed by clients between April and July of a given year and may not all be from a single
point in time. Figures obtained from CDP have not been separately validated. The carbon intensity ratio is calculated by CDP using both reported figures and
estimated data. Carbon emissions are measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCOe) and revenue is measured in millions of US dollars.
2
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 41
Supporting sustainable growth
Our approach to
sustainability risk
management
We recognise that businesses can have Our policy approach One challenge to our approach is that many
an impact on the environment, individuals Our sustainability risk policies are focused on of our customers have a diverse portfolio of
and communities around them. We have sectors that may have high adverse impacts businesses that operate across a wide range
developed, implemented and refined our on people or the environment and in which of sectors. In such cases, we will not finance
approach to working with our business we have a significant number of customers. any activity that does not meet our policy
customers to understand and manage These policies cover agricultural commodities, requirements. However, we may support that
these issues. chemicals, defence, energy, forestry, mining customer’s other business activities, which
and metals, UNESCO World Heritage Sites, will have economic and other benefits
We define sustainability risk as the risk and Ramsar-designated wetlands. to society.
that the financial services that we provide
to customers, and indeed our own activities, These policies define our appetite for business This approach allows us to continue to engage
could contribute to unacceptable impacts in these sectors, and seek to encourage and influence our customers, as well as to
on people or the environment. We seek to customers to meet good international support them in moving towards good
analyse the impact of ESG issues and follow standards of practice. Where we identify practice in all of their businesses.
international good practice in these areas. We activities that could cause material negative
believe that one of the key ways in which we impacts, we will only provide finance if we can For further details of our policy prohibitions and
other financing restrictions, see: www.hsbc.
can contribute to sustainable development is confirm customers are managing these risks
com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/
to create partnerships with our customers to responsibly. Such customers are subject to
sustainability-risk.
help improve their standards of sustainability. greater due diligence and generally require
additional approval by sustainability risk
Sustainability risk management
specialists. We will not provide finance if the
Within our risk function, we have created a
business activities are not aligned to our aims
combined reputational and sustainability risk
and values.
team in order to further improve the way we
Our sustainability policies are being aligned manage these risks. The team is responsible
with our approach to climate risk, which is for reviewing, implementing and managing
being enhanced during 2020. our sustainability risk policies as well as our
application of the Equator Principles. Our
For further details, see our TCFD on page 40. global network of 84 sustainability risk
managers supports the implementation
Certification schemes of these policies.
One way that we aim to encourage good
standards from our customers is through the We check whether customers in sensitive
use of internationally recognised certification sectors comply with our policies at the start
schemes, such as in our approach to the palm of any financing relationship and we monitor
oil sector (for further details, see below). In the them each year using the same systems
forestry sector, our policy for financing forest applied to monitoring credit risk. If a customer
plantations or downstream supply chain is not complying with our policies, but has
operations, which are located in or sourced the appetite to make changes, we aim to
from high-risk countries, is linked to support it through the process of carrying
certification by the Forestry Stewardship out the necessary improvements to
Council or the Programme for the become compliant.
Endorsement of Forest Certification.
Our approach to palm oil
In the palm oil sector, our policies are linked we agreed that another major international
to certification under the Roundtable on bank would take our place. We remain
Sustainable Palm Oil (‘RSPO’) for palm oil committed to the RSPO and certified
growers, physical traders or refiners, as sustainable palm oil, and will continue to
well as No Deforestation, No Peat and support continual improvement through our
No Exploitation commitments. membership of committees or task forces.
We have been a Board member of the RSPO
since its inception in 2004. In 2019, in line
with promoting good corporate governance,
42 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Supporting
sustainable
growth
Our approach to sustainability risk management
Our approach to coal
For this to be possible, we need to be sure Equator Principles in 2019
that we can agree a credible action plan We were an early adopter of the Equator
with our customers to achieve compliance Principles in 2003. Since then the Equator We have no appetite for the development
in a reasonable timeframe. If customers are Principles Association has expanded rapidly, of new thermal coal mines or activity that
unable or unwilling to improve to meet our reaching over 100 members. involves mountaintop removal. All other
standards over that reasonable timeframe, finance of mining activity is subject to due
we aim to end the relationship soon as is The Principles provide a due diligence diligence including reviewing the customer’s
contractually possible. framework to manage the environmental track record on health and safety issues as
and social risk of financing large projects. well as human rights concerns.
We recognise that there are increasing The Equator Principles Association has
demands on banks and other institutions undertaken a targeted review of the Principles, We strengthened our energy policy in
for disclosure and are working on metrics with a focus on social impact and human 2018 so that we will not finance any new
to provide more insight into our portfolios rights, climate change, standards and scope coal-fired power plants, with the targeted
without compromising our duty to client of application. We contributed actively to this and time limited exceptions of Bangladesh,
confidentiality. review, which was concluded and agreed by Indonesia and Vietnam to appropriately
its members in November 2019. balance local humanitarian needs with the
We also use the same sustainability risk need to transition to a low-carbon economy.
policies for our insurance-related investments We report annually on the transactions
as we do for our lending business. Our completed under the principles. Since then, we have not agreed any project
insurance business, which provides a broad financing for any new coal-fired power
range of insurance products and services Our latest Equator Principles report is plants anywhere.
available at: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/
to customers globally within our RBWM
risk-and-responsibility/sustainability-risk/
global business, also takes ESG risk factors
equator-principles.
into account when investing on behalf
For further details of our approach to human
of customers. rights, see page 55.
For further details of our approach to sustainable
investments, see page 36.
Suppliers
Our approach with our suppliers
We have globally consistent standards and Our goal is to work collaboratively with we treat suppliers fairly through our behaviour
procedures for the onboarding and use of our supply chain partners on sustainability and actions, in line with our values.
external suppliers. We require suppliers to at all times. When a supplier or one of its
meet our compliance and financial stability sub-contractors is found to no longer be in Supplier diversity initiative
requirements, as well as to keep to our compliance with this code, we will work with We have a connected global supply base and
sustainability code of conduct. Payment on them on an improvement plan or, if deemed inclusive sourcing strategies that reflect the
time is of paramount importance, and as such necessary, terminate the relationship. communities where we operate, and help
our commitment to paying our suppliers is in ensure we meet the needs of our diverse
line with local requirements, including the The ethical code of conduct, which we require customer base. Our supplier diversity and
Prompt Payment Code in the UK. suppliers to adopt, sets out the standards for inclusion action plan encourages the use of
economic, environmental and social impacts minority owned and SME businesses.
Supplier ethical code of conduct and outlines the requirements of having a
We have an ethical and environmental code governance and management structure to Our supplier code of conduct and diversity
of conduct for suppliers of goods and services, help ensure compliance with this code. initiative are available at: www.hsbc.com/
our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/working-
which must be complied with by all suppliers.
with-suppliers.
While our businesses and functions are Our supplier management conduct principles
accountable for the suppliers they use, our also set out how we conduct business with
global procurement function owns the code our third-party suppliers both in our legal and
of conduct review process for them. commercial obligations. They also explain how
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 43
)sennot(
snoissime
OC
latoT
2
1,000,000
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000
CO2
per
FTE
(tonnes)
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
)ennot(
etsaw
ecffiO
70,000
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0
%
Supporting sustainable growth
Sustainable
operations
Achieving our 2020 operational goals
We believe it is important to support committed to procuring 100% of These goals are governed by the Group
the global transition to a low-carbon electricity from renewable sources by Chief Operating Officer’s Sustainability
economy by leading by example in 2030. In 2019, we achieved both our Committee, which meets quarterly.
our own operations. energy and paper reduction stretch Each goal is ‘owned’ by an executive
targets ahead of our 2020 deadline. As sponsor who is responsible for the
In 2012, we set environmental and we continue to work towards achieving delivery of the target.
ethical targets to achieve by the end our remaining 2020 goals, we also are
of 2020, including strategic goals to working on the next phase of our We collaborate closely with our
reduce our carbon emissions and operational sustainability strategy. strategic suppliers to help achieve our
usage of energy, waste, water and goals, while our people play a key role in
paper. We also set targets to increase supporting sustainability initiatives at
29.4%
recycling of our office and electronic work and in the communities we serve.
waste, and aim to commission buildings We also aim to fund innovative pilot
to the highest sustainability standards. projects that support our operational
Renewable electricity signed from
sustainability goals.
power purchase agreements
We reached our paper, waste, energy
and carbon reduction targets ahead (2018: 28.5%)
of schedule, and in 2017 we stretched
these to more ambitious goals. We also
Reducing carbon emissions 1.2MWh/FTE by 2020 with a final Carbon emissions (total and by FTE) Waste reduction and recycling (tonnes and percentage)
Launched in 2012, our overall goal reduction of 1.4MWh/FTE. As a way to
was to reduce carbon emissions to encourage smart travel, we encourage 100
2.5 tonnes per FTE by the end of 2020. employees to use various types of IT
We achieved this goal in 2017, and solutions to connect with colleagues 90
stretched this goal to 2.0 tonnes per around the globe and support flexible 80
full-time equivalent employee (‘FTE’) working. In 2019, we improved IT
by the end of 2020. By year end 2019, solutions to support connectivity 70
we reduced carbon emissions to 2.26 via audio and video conferencing. 60 tonnes per FTE. We achieved this
by cutting our energy consumption, In 2019, the way carbon emissions 50
being more efficient in our building were reported to the Hong Kong
40
management, working with our market changed in accordance with
strategic partners and focusing on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidance. 30
a renewable procurement strategy. This change resulted in an increase
20 Since 2011, our carbon emissions of 4% in our total reported carbon
have fallen by 35% per FTE, to a emissions for 2019 as Hong Kong 10
total of 530,000 tonnes by 20191. represented our second largest
electricity consumption market. 0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
As energy makes up 78% of our carbon
emissions, we continue to focus on Key: Key:
35%
energy reduction and efficiency Total CO emissions (tonnes) Office waste recycled
2
projects. During 2019, we implemented CO per FTE Office waste not recycled
2
over 810 energy conservation measures, 2020 target was set at 2.5 CO tonnes/FTE until 2017, % reduction of office waste from 2011 baseline
such as replacing aged air-cooled Reduction in carbon emissions when the ta rget was stretched 2 to 2.0 CO tonnes/FTE % of office waste recycled
chillers, installing LED lamps and per FTE from 2011 baseline 2 2020 reduction target was set at 50% until 2017,
upgrading controls on major electrical when the target was stretched to 75%
equipment to provide more efficient
use. These energy conservation 1 P wC performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance
with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410
measures amounted to an estimated
‘Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements’,
energy avoidance in excess of
issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards
22 million kWh. In 2019, we achieved Board. This can be found on our website at www.hsbc.com/
our energy reduction target of our-approach/esg-information/esg-reporting-and-policies.
44 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Key:
Renewable electricity contracted via PPAs
Other electricity
%
Breakdown of electricity consumption by region 2019 (%)
50
40
30
20
10
0
Asia Europe North Latin Middle East
America America and Turkey
)sennot(
snoissime
OC
latoT
2
1,000,000
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000
CO2
per
FTE
(tonnes)
4.0
3.5
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
)ennot(
etsaw
ecffiO
70,000
60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0
%
Carbon emissions (total and by FTE) Waste reduction and recycling (tonnes and percentage)
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Key: Key:
Total CO emissions (tonnes) Office waste recycled 2
CO per FTE Office waste not recycled 2
2020 target was set at 2.5 CO tonnes/FTE until 2017, % reduction of office waste from 2011 baseline 2
when the ta rget was stretched to 2.0 CO tonnes/FTE % of office waste recycled
2
2020 reduction target was set at 50% until 2017,
when the target was stretched to 75%
Supporting
sustainable
growth
Sustainable operations
Achieving our 2020 operational goals continued
Our renewable electricity challenge to achieve due to several factors,
Our carbon and renewable strategy has including having operations in markets
evolved as we sought to take a more where PPA structures are currently
active approach by setting reduction unavailable. In markets where we have
targets and being active in the energy a small electricity consumption and
markets in which we operate. Between the PPA market is active, we are
2005 and 2011, we were carbon neutral focusing on collaborating and finding
thanks to our carbon offset programme. partnerships with other companies
Since then, our strategy has shifted to find solutions. In 2019, we installed
from purchasing renewable energy small solar panels in properties in
credits to influencing the markets in Oman, Bahrain and Malta.
which we operate by sourcing electricity
through power purchase agreements We are members of RE100, a global
(‘PPAs’) that bring additional renewable initiative of more than 200 influential
energy to the country’s local grid. businesses who are committed to 100%
renewable electricity, and to supporting
In 2017, we made a commitment to the opening up of PPA markets and
ensure that 100% of our electricity encouraging new, innovative solutions.
would be obtained from renewable By finding solutions for problems we
sources by 2030, with an interim face in procuring renewable electricity,
commitment of 90% by 2025. By the we not only help achieve our ambitious
end of 2019, we contracted up to 29.4% goal, but also help our customers and
of our electricity consumption through other companies solve their renewable
PPAs in various countries. Reaching our sourcing problems.
100% target via PPAs will be a challenge
Our waste challenge and educate employees about recycling
One of our 2020 goals was to reduce practices. We will continue to educate
our total waste by 50% from our 2011 and empower our people to take action
baseline. This was achieved in 2015 to reduce, segregate and recycle office
and so was stretched to 75% from the waste. Further, we have worked
2011 baseline. By the end of 2019, we with our catering partners to remove
reduced our total waste by 66%. We single-use plastics from the majority
continued to make progress with our of our larger offices and with our
waste reduction target, but it will be facilities manager to provide clearer
difficult to achieve the last 9% of our recycling signage.
stretch target as this represents general
waste in our buildings. Reducing this We continue to pursue our target to
means changing people’s behaviours reduce our electronic waste, although
to simply create less daily waste. we are not yet confident that we have
sufficient representative data to track
In 2019, we identified which of our this target under uniform methodology
buildings produced the majority of and report a global figure. In order to
our waste and launched a ‘pledge to better address our e-waste target, at the
reduce’ campaign to raise awareness beginning of 2019 we created a global
among our people and encourage working group with representatives
action. We also created a video from IT, Procurement and Sustainability
following two employees on a zero- to capture and report our e-waste
waste challenge in which they identified practices around the world. Having
and acted on daily behavioural changes. multiple suppliers in different regions
This encouraged colleagues to take leads to challenges when consolidating
action and join in on the challenge reporting under one consistent metric
by making individual pledges. across all markets. We will continue to
improve the collection and collation of
Our recycling target is for 100% of data in partnership with our various For further details about our sustainable
our office and electronic waste to be suppliers to support global reporting of operations, see: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/
building-a-sustainable-future/sustainable-
recycled by 2020. In 2019, we recycled our e-waste practices across markets
operations.
62% of our office waste. Recycling can and adherence to our targets.
be confusing across markets and cities,
and solutions have to be local. During
2019, local events took place to engage
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 45
Supporting sustainable growth
Committed to
communities
Our approach to partnerships
Throughout our history, we have been business was awarded the Quality Award
committed to contributing to the long-term and the Financial Education Champion
prosperity of our communities. In 2019, 2020 Award by the Investor Financial and
3,900 we contributed $100.7m to charities and Education Council.
non-governmental organisations (‘NGOs’)
running environmental and community The world of work is evolving rapidly. We
People trained on freshwater focused projects in a number of jurisdictions. support research designed to help our people
conservation We support partnerships that help develop and communities develop the skills needed to
responsible businesses and we focus on navigate these changes. In January 2019, we
improving the employability and financial co-sponsored a special chapter focused on
capability skills needed to help our people labour resilience in the financial sector within
and communities thrive. We work with our the wider Global Labour Resilience Index
network to support local causes and help report. This report, entitled ‘Unlocking the
provide relief in incidents of natural disaster. full potential of work’, was published at the
World Economic Forum.
Skills for a sustainable future
In a world of rapidly changing technology Globally, we invest in communities to support
and wealth inequality, new skills are needed in-need groups grow their future skills. In
to succeed. Australia, Canada and Mexico we have
partnerships with charities to support
In 2019, we donated more than $9.6 million to indigenous peoples to have access to and
charitable partnerships focused on building complete secondary and post-secondary
financial capability and another $26 million education, as well as gain practical work
on enhancing employability skills. These are experience.
projected by charities to have benefited more
than 810,000 people around the world in 2019. Our corporate volunteering
Our people volunteer time and expertise to
We have a long tradition of growing financial support their local communities with global
literacy in our communities. Our 11-year impact. We are committed to helping our
partnership with Junior Achievement people contribute to the communities in which
supported more than 687,000 young people, we work, and encourage volunteering through
aged seven to 11, to develop essential money paid volunteering days. In 2019, our people
management skills in 30 countries. gave 257,000 hours to community activities
during work time.
Our people often volunteer their time and
skills to help such initiatives. More than 11,000
of our people supported the JA More Than
Money programme, and our Hong Kong
The China Social Welfare Foundation
The China Social Welfare Foundation new adult beneficiary group with the
(’CSWF’), founded in 2005, is one of the launch of a programme called the Financial
country’s largest non-profit organisations. Capability Education for Workers on Belt
and Road Initiative Infrastructure Projects.
Its purpose is to support the poor and
disadvantaged through skills development This programme targets training over
and public social welfare programmes. 10,000 volunteers to deliver financial
capability workshops and training
We have worked with CSWF since 2011 around 60,000 workers engaged on key
by supporting disadvantaged children to construction projects within the Belt and
develop essential skills through a number Road Initiative, including many working
of financial education programmes. In 2018, in the shipping, railroad and energy
our cooperation with CSWF expanded to a sectors by 2020.
46 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Supporting
sustainable
growth
Committed to communities
Our approach to partnerships continued
Concluding the HSBC Water Programme Our water programme in partnership
The HSBC Water Programme, which The HSBC Water Programme supported
launched in 2012, came to an end in December WaterAid’s and WWF’s work in garment
2019. The programme, a partnership with factories, tanneries and mills to improve
Earthwatch, WaterAid and WWF, supported their environmental and social impact by
72 projects in 42 countries that were the end of 2020. Its work has included:
nominated by our people.
– In China, WWF and its retail brand partners
This $150 million programme created lasting trained Chinese apparel producers to The Tatawwar
improvements through water provision, overcome water challenges and introduce programme
protection, education and scientific research. better water use within industrial parks.
– In Bangladesh and India, an initiative
In 2018, the Tatawwar programme was
In partnership with WaterAid, the HSBC delivered essential water and sanitation
launched in the United Arab Emirates,
Water Programme helped to tackle the world’s services in apparel factories and
Oman, Egypt, Bahrain and Qatar. The
water and sanitation crises, focusing on six surrounding communities. This project
countries. This joint work meant that more enabled WaterAid to gather data to provide programme, meaning ‘to develop’ in
than 3.5 million people have been shown evidence of the financial benefits of water, Arabic, runs in partnership with the
how to improve their hygiene behaviour, sanitation and hygiene interventions. British Council and Potential.com
with the aim to give young people
which helps prevent the spread of disease. – In Vietnam, the programme supported
in these markets the chance to
The programme also provided clean water WWF’s collaboration with policymakers,
to 1.7 million people, and 2.7 million people clothing manufacturers and retailers to develop essential business skills,
received improved sanitation. help small and medium-sized enterprises build their social awareness and
improve their water and energy create sustainable solutions for the
The HSBC Water Programme also worked management practices. communities in which they live.
with WWF to train more than 3,900 people
on freshwater conservation and protect over Looking ahead In the 2018–2019 academic year,
760,000 hectares of wetland. It brought into In 2020, we intend to launch our new Tatawwar reached more than 475
force 32 new policies, standards, guidelines global initiative to address climate change in young people through webinars
and legislation that aimed to improve the collaboration with charities and other industry and workshops. The programme is
health of five priority areas: the Ganges, partners. This will be a five-year programme continuing with Potential.com in the
Mara, Mekong, Pantanal and Yangtze. to identify and catalyse solutions to climate 2019–2020 academic year to further
change, focusing on energy transition in support young people in their journey
Collaborating with Earthwatch, it funded emerging markets, business innovation, to develop future skills.
a training and research programme that ran natural carbon sinks and protecting nature.
between 2017 and 2019, which empowered
our people to become sustainability
champions. The initiative resulted in more
than 1,800 colleagues being trained and
over 50,000 data points collected for scientific
2.7 million
research on urban climate resilience. Earlier
in the partnership, Earthwatch engaged
more than 8,000 HSBC colleagues in citizen
science, gathering data for over 40 scientific People received improved sanitation as
publications on water quality and nature- a result of the HSBC Water Programme
based solutions.
$100.7m
For further details of the HSBC Water
Programme, see www.waterprogramme.org.
Contributed to charities and NGOs
running environmental and community
focused projects
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 47
A responsible business culture
A responsible business culture
We remain committed to high standards of governance.
We work alongside our regulators and recognise our
contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance Safeguarding the financial system
Our relationship
We act on our responsibility to run our
business in a way that upholds high
standards of corporate governance.
We are committed to working with our
>689 million 50,000
regulators to manage the safety of the
financial system, adhering to the spirit
and the letter of the rules and regulations
Transactions across 236 million Approximately 50,000
governing our industry. In our endeavour
accounts that we screen each suspicious activity reports
to restore trust in our industry, we aim to
month for signs of money filed to law enforcement
act with courageous integrity and learn
laundering and financial crime and regulatory authorities
from past events to help prevent their
recurrence.
We meet our responsibilities to society,
Corporate governance
including through paying taxes and being
transparent in our approach. We also seek
to ensure we respect global standards on
human rights in our workplace and our supply
chains, and continually work to improve our
compliance management capabilities.
36%
We acknowledge that increasing financial 6
inclusion is a continuing effort, and we are
carrying out a number of initiatives to Women on
increase access to financial services. Number of executive and non- the Board
(2018: 36%)
executive committee meetings
where sustainability was discussed
(2018: 10) Female
Male
A responsible approach to tax
$5.6bn $9.3bn
Protecting human rights
Taxes paid in 2019 Taxes collected on behalf
At HSBC we recognise the duty of
states to protect human rights and the (2018: $7.0bn) of governments
role played by business in respecting (2018: $7.6bn)
them, in line with the UN Guiding
Principles’ Protect, Respect and
Remedy framework.
48 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
A
responsible
business
culture
Ensuring strong corporate governance
Ensuring strong
corporate governance
We are committed to high standards of Additional non-financial disclosures detailing In 2019, the Board held a one-day sustainable
corporate governance. The Group has a the policies pursued by HSBC in relation finance and climate change ‘master class’; the
comprehensive range of policies and systems to the workforce, environment, social Group Risk Committee carried out a thematic
in place to ensure that it is well managed, matters, human rights, and anti-corruption review of sustainability and climate change
with effective oversight and controls. We and anti-bribery matters are included in risk management; and the Group Audit
comply with the applicable provisions of other sections of the Annual Report and Committee discussed ESG at four separate
the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Accounts 2019 and this ESG Update. meetings. The Group Risk Committee is
requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate responsible for overseeing enterprise risks
Governance Code. Certain matters, including the review and that have an impact on the Group, including
approval of annual operating plans, risk climate risk. The Group Audit Committee
For further details of our corporate appetite, performance targets, credit or responsibilities include reviewing disclosures
governance practices, see our Annual market risk limits and any substantial change in the ESG Update. This helps to ensure our
Report and Accounts 2019.
in balance sheet management policy, require sustainability agenda remains prominent at
Board approval before implementation. the most senior levels.
The Board and its role Acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital
The Board aims to promote the Group’s expenditure or realisation or creation of a Executive responsibility for the ongoing
long-term success and deliver sustainable new venture, which are above certain limits, monitoring, assessment and management
value to investors and other stakeholders, also require prior Board approval. of the risk environment and the effectiveness
as well as encouraging a culture of risk of the risk management framework resides
awareness, openness and debate. Led by Shareholder engagement with the Group Chief Risk Officer. In 2019, the
the Group Chairman, the Board sets the The Board gives a high priority to Group Chief Risk Officer was also a member
Group’s strategy and risk appetite. It also communicating with shareholders. Extensive of the Board. With effect from 1 January 2020,
approves capital and operating plans for information about HSBC and its activities is this role ceased to be a Board member but the
achieving strategic objectives on the provided to shareholders in the Annual Report Group Chief Risk Officer will still attend Board
recommendation of management. and Accounts and the Interim Report as well meetings. The Group Chief Risk Officer is
as on www.hsbc.com. To complement the supported by the Risk Management Meeting
Powers of the Board regular publications provided on HSBC’s of the Group Management Board.
In exercising its duty to promote the success website, there is regular dialogue with
of the Group, the Board is responsible for institutional investors. A climate risk working group was established
overseeing the management of HSBC globally in 2018, which seeks to implement the
and, in so doing, may exercise its powers, Any individual or institutional investor can objectives of the climate business council
subject to any relevant laws, regulations make an enquiry by contacting the investor through the development of policy and limit
and HSBC’s articles of association. relations team, Group Chairman, Group Chief frameworks designed to protect the Group
Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer from climate-related risks (including transition
The Board is committed to effective and Group Company Secretary and Chief risk and physical risks) that are outside risk
engagement and fostering its relationship Governance Officer. Our Senior Independent appetite. The chairs of this committee are
with all of its stakeholders. The Board Director is also available to shareholders if members of the Group Risk Management
receives reports from management they have concerns that cannot be resolved Board.
on issues concerning customers, the or for which the normal channels would not
environment, communities, suppliers, be appropriate. He can be contacted via Our climate business council coordinates
employees, regulators, governments and the Group Company Secretary and Chief sustainable finance activities across the
investors, which it takes into account in Governance Officer at 8 Canada Square, Group, supported by various working
discussions and in the decision-making London E14 5HQ. groups within global businesses, functions
process under section 172 of the Companies and regions. An ESG Steering Committee,
Act 2006. Further information on how the Sustainability governance chaired by the Group Chief of Staff, leads
Directors have had regard to the matters set The Board has oversight of the Group’s our approach on ESG topics, including
out in section 172 when discharging their sustainability initiatives, and through the considerations related to external
duties is disclosed on pages 42 and 43 of Group Audit Committee it has oversight disclosure and materiality.
the Annual Report and Accounts 2019. of ESG reporting. The Group Management
Board is accountable for their delivery, For further details, see our TCFD disclosure
on page 40.
reflected in sustainability targets within the
long-term incentive scorecards for executive
Directors, and selected scorecards of Group
Managing Directors.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 49
A responsible business culture
Restoring trust
Restoration of trust in our industry remains We recognise that we have a responsibility to Beyond these improvements, as part of our
a significant challenge as past misdeeds help protect the integrity of the global financial commitment to protect the integrity of the
continue to remain in the spotlight. But it is a system. In order to fulfil that responsibility, financial system, and to do our part to fight
challenge we must meet successfully. We owe we have made, and continue to make, financial crime, we continue to enhance our
this not just to our customers and to society at significant investments in our ability to detect, systems and are working to integrate our
large, but to our employees to ensure they can deter and prevent financial crime. We have reforms into our day-to-day risk management
be rightly proud of the organisation where they exited customers, products and countries practices so that our programme is effective
work. We aim to act with courageous integrity where we deemed the financial crime risk too and sustainable over the long term. We
in all we do. This guiding principle means high to manage. We are also working with continue to focus on anti-bribery and
having the courage to make decisions based governments and other banks to advance our corruption as part of a dedicated three-year
on doing the right thing for customers and mutual interests in this area. These steps are programme to advance the Group’s anti-
never compromising our ethical standards enabling us to much more effectively reduce bribery and corruption risk management
or integrity. the risk of financial crime. capability. As part of our commitment to the
UN Global Compact, we have pledged to work
We have also sought to learn from past In 2012, we launched our Global Standards against corruption in all its forms, including
mistakes, such as the following three initiative, which focused on putting in place extortion and bribery.
examples, and we are seeking to develop the most effective standards to combat
and implement specific measures designed financial crime across our operations globally. The AML DPA expired in December 2017,
to prevent recurrence of similar events in As part of this effort, we designed and and we are pleased that our progress in
the future. implemented new, globally consistent policies strengthening our AML and sanctions
on AML and sanctions that often extend compliance capabilities has been recognised.
Anti-money laundering and sanctions beyond the requirements of local laws and Our work in this area will continue to be
Between the 1990s and 2010, as regulations. Among other steps, we hired consistent with our strategic priority of
acknowledged by HSBC in various agreements experienced senior personnel to lead the effort safeguarding our customers and delivering
with US and UK authorities in 2012, HSBC and significantly increased our financial crime industry-leading financial crime standards.
failed to implement appropriate anti-money compliance capabilities; we put in place a
laundering (‘AML’) and sanctions controls. robust investigations capability; we improved Over the coming years, we aim to evolve
These oversight and control failures resulted and expanded our financial crime compliance significantly our approach to financial crime
in HSBC allowing at least $881m in drug training initiatives; and we upgraded or risk management by building advanced
proceeds to be laundered through HSBC into replaced key compliance IT systems, with analytical capabilities, including artificial
the US financial system and approximately over $1bn spent since 2015. In 2013, we also intelligence, designed to help us target illicit
$660m in transactions involving sanctioned established a Financial System Vulnerabilities conduct with greater sophistication and
countries, such as Iran, Cuba, Sudan, Libya Committee (‘FSVC’) to oversee our financial precision. This will help us make a step
and Burma, to be processed, in violation of crime risk management reforms. The FSVC change in our effectiveness at fighting
applicable US laws. reported to the Board on matters relating to financial crime and set a new standard that
financial crime and financial system abuse, aims to lead the industry. We continue to
In December 2012, HSBC entered into and provided a forward-looking perspective build a dynamic risk assessment process
resolutions with, among others, the US on financial crime risk, anti-bribery and which will enable us to be faster and more
Department of Justice (‘DoJ’) and the UK corruption. More recently, in order to simplify accurate at detecting potential financial crime.
Financial Services Authority (now the Financial our governance framework and processes, We expect to generate actionable insight that
Conduct Authority, or ‘FCA’), regarding these and as a reflection of the completion of we can use ourselves and provide to law
past AML and sanctions-related failings. Global Standards and the growing maturity enforcement to help keep criminals out of the
Under these agreements, which included of our financial crime and fraud risk financial system. This will benefit the Group,
a five-year deferred prosecution agreement management, responsibility for the oversight our customers and society at large.
with the DoJ (the ‘AML DPA’), HSBC made of financial crime risk has now transferred
payments totalling $1.9bn to US authorities from the FSVC to the Group Risk Committee, For further details about our financial crime risk
and undertook various further obligations, with the final meeting of the FSVC taking management initiatives, see page 53.
including the retention of an independent place on 15 January 2020.
compliance monitor. Over the past several
years, we have radically restructured our global
operations and significantly strengthened our
ability to combat financial crime.
50 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
A
responsible
business
culture
Restoring trust
Major criminal and regulatory fines and penalties and PPI remediation1
Pre-
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
2006
AML-related
1,921
investigations
GPB tax-related
13 43 13 360 521
investigations
RMBS-related
765
investigations
Libor/Euribor 36
FX-related
618 6 175 102
investigations
PPI 333 870 1,138 700 553 448 502 741 750
Key
Duration of conduct period $m Fines/penalties/other costs
1 T his chart only includes fines and penalties arising out of major investigations involving criminal, regulatory, competition or other law enforcement authorities,
and costs relating to PPI remediation. The chart reflects the year in which a fine or penalty was imposed or when the remediation cost was paid, which may
be different from when a loss or provision was recognised under IFRSs. Settlements or other costs arising out of private litigation or arbitration proceedings
are not included.
Customer tax evasion HSBC has already reached agreements customer accounts and our private banking
Prior to 2011, our Swiss private bank provided with multiple law enforcement authorities to business was stretched over too many
its customers with traditional Swiss banking resolve investigations relating to allegations geographical markets, all of which contributed
services, which enabled customers to conceal of tax evasion or tax fraud, money laundering to failings in standards, culture and controls.
their assets from tax authorities and avoid and unlawful cross-border banking solicitation
paying their taxes. These services included, arising out of these past practices. These In recent years, our Global Private Banking
among other things, the opening of encoded include the deferred prosecution agreement (‘GPB’) business has taken significant steps to
numbered accounts that kept the account entered into between our Swiss private bank address these historical control weaknesses,
holder’s name confidential and the provision and the DoJ in December 2019 (the ‘Swiss most notably in Switzerland. Beginning in
of ‘hold mail’ services whereby all mail was Tax DPA’). The Group continues to cooperate 2012, GPB developed a tax transparency
kept at the bank for customers to avoid in ongoing investigations by other tax policy that included enhanced know your
receiving letters at their domestic addresses. administration, regulatory and law customer (‘KYC’) and AML procedures and a
Our Swiss private bank, through certain of its enforcement authorities around the world review of existing accounts against potential
relationship managers, offered these services in connection with similar allegations. We indicators of non-compliance with tax
with the knowledge that customers would acknowledge that the compliance culture and obligations. Accounts were closed where
use them in order to conceal their assets from standards of due diligence in our Swiss private issues were identified and could not be
tax authorities. bank were significantly lower in the past than resolved. GPB has also amended its standard
they are today. With hindsight, it is clear that terms and conditions, which now require
we maintained too many small and high-risk customers to affirm that they are in
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 51
A responsible business culture | Restoring trust
compliance with their tax obligations, Since the historical conduct described in
allow the bank to refuse requests for cash these agreements, we have introduced a
withdrawals and place strict controls on number of measures designed to make the
withdrawals over $10,000. Furthermore, control environment more robust and prevent
GPB discontinued its ‘hold mail’ service and these failings from recurring in the future. We
has withdrawn from markets where it has have dedicated, and continue to dedicate,
been unable to conduct due diligence to a significant resources to strengthen our
satisfactory standard on its customers. These systems and controls. While the investigations
significant reforms have been noted by law focused specifically on our FX activity, they
enforcement authorities. For example, in the have also given us good reason to look again
Swiss Tax DPA, the DoJ acknowledged that at other aspects of our conduct more broadly
our Swiss private bank had, among other within the GB&M business.
things, “substantially reduced the total number
of markets and clients it serves”; “undertaken Improvements to our conduct agenda started
substantial remedial measures and extensively more than four years ago and continue to
35 cooperated with the Department of Justice this day. We are enhancing and accelerating
and IRS’s investigation”; and “implemented progress made in strengthening and
new policies and procedures intended to remediating our systems and controls and
Strategic markets that our GPB protect against the use of its services for broader compliance culture through a newly
business focuses on, down from tax evasion, including policies limiting cash established GB&M Conduct Committee, led
more than 140 as a result of withdrawals and discontinuing the use of hold by our GB&M Chief Executive Officer. Market
de-risking mail, as well as a tax transparency policy that experts are providing input. The agenda
required a review of accounts against possible focuses on culture and behaviours; customers,
indicia of tax evasion and the closure of any including suitability, conflicts of interest,
account with unresolved issues”. pricing and transparency; markets, covering
market conduct, trade execution and
The number of accounts and total customer competition; governance and controls; and
assets of GPB have been significantly reduced strategy and business planning. Progress is
by this intensive de-risking exercise, where we being tracked and reported through our own
have put compliance and tax transparency governance channels, as well as being
ahead of profitability. Where we used to offer reported to the FRB, DoJ and our regulators
banking services to customers in more than in line with our agreements with them all.
140 countries, GPB now focuses on 35
strategic markets, with customer assets Conduct is core to how we operate and
actively managed down by $140bn between manage our business. We are continuing
2013 and 2018. to work on implementing improvements to
algorithmic trading to manage risk around
For further details about our Global Private benchmark orders, and embedding our
Banking customers, see page 20. updated policies and procedures for sales,
order handling, managing confidential
Foreign exchange conduct customer information and conflicts of interest,
Prior to 2013, our foreign exchange (‘FX’) pre-hedging and market abuse. In 2019, we
business lacked adequate governance, introduced further improvements to the
oversight and risk management to ensure management of sensitive information through
compliance with safe and sound banking technology controls, procedures and related
practices and applicable internal policies. training. We have also continued to invest in
As a result, we failed to detect and address enhancing our voice, trade and electronic
unsafe and unsound conduct by certain of surveillance capabilities across the globe to
our FX traders, which included the misuse of improve the monitoring of telephone calls,
confidential inside information to conduct FX instant messages and trades to spot
trades, possible agreements with traders of potentially improper activity. Global and
other institutions to coordinate FX trading regional conduct governance forums have
and disclosure of confidential information been created to provide supervision and
to traders of other institutions. oversight over the implementation and
effectiveness of our conduct agenda. An
In November 2014, HSBC agreed to regulatory extensive plan is in place, and we aim to
settlements with the FCA and the US deliver this as fast and efficiently as we can.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission in Our success will determine how well we
connection with their respective investigations deliver the right outcomes for our customers
of HSBC’s trading and other conduct involving and stakeholders, consistently and reliably,
FX benchmark rates. In September 2017, for many years to come.
HSBC entered into a consent order with the
US Federal Reserve Board (‘FRB’) in For further details about our Global Banking and
connection with its investigation into HSBC’s Markets customers, see page 18.
FX activities. Under the terms of that order,
HSBC agreed to undertake certain remedial
steps and to pay a civil money penalty to the
FRB. In January 2018, HSBC Holdings plc
entered into a three-year deferred prosecution
agreement with the DoJ (‘FX DPA’), regarding
fraudulent conduct in connection with two
particular transactions in 2010 and 2011.
52 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
A
responsible
business
culture
Safeguarding the financial system
Safeguarding the
financial system
We have continued to make strong progress towards becoming a recognised industry leader
in managing financial crime risks, which include money laundering, bribery and corruption,
sanctions breaches and terrorist financing. Collectively these pose significant risks for HSBC
and the financial services industry and create huge costs for wider society. A range of initiatives
will make us better at managing these risks.
Technology
We are investing in and developing new technologies that we believe will enable us
to make a significant impact on the fight against financial crime.
The scale of our work
Our global social network analytics platform, which we launched in 2018, enables
us to identify links between different customers and transactions, making it easier to
Each month, we screen over 689
see where there might be criminal networks. In 2019, the platform won two industry
million transactions across 236
awards: the Celent Model Bank Award for Risk Management and The Banker’s Tech
million accounts for signs of money
Project Award for Compliance. In August 2019, we became the first bank to introduce
laundering and financial crime. In
a system that will automatically screen all our trade finance transactions for potential
addition, we screen approximately
signs of financial crime.
131 million customer records and
40 million transactions monthly for
Our flagship technology initiative will dynamically assess the potential financial
sanctions exposures. During 2019,
crime risk an individual customer presents by analysing a range of data sources.
we filed almost 50,000 suspicious
We began trials on a restricted version of the system in 2019, having successfully
activity reports to law enforcement
tested a prototype in 2018. This will help us to develop the final system, which we
and regulatory authorities where we
believe will enable us to be faster and more accurate at detecting suspicious activity
identified potential financial crime.
and be more granular in our risk assessments.
Other financial crime workstreams
Our enhanced ability to manage money-laundering and sanctions risks has now
transferred to the business and function management in the countries and territories
where we operate. They manage those risks based on our operational risk management
framework which provides the overarching approach used across the bank.
Our three-year anti-bribery and corruption programme, which we launched in 2017,
has strengthened our controls and processes, and improved our global register for
associated persons. The programme is now focused on enhancing the global gifts
and entertainments register, which provides a consistent way to record, notify,
approve and monitor gifts and entertainment.
The global fraud landscape is characterised by increasingly sophisticated attacks
targeting online banking and other digital services. Our multi-year fraud transformation
programme, which we launched in 2018, continues to prioritise investment in
technology-based defences and training of our people to enhance our fraud defences.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 53
A responsible business culture
A responsible
approach to tax
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in the – We seek to have open and transparent initiatives including the US Foreign Account
jurisdictions in which we operate and to relationships with all tax authorities. As Tax Compliance Act, the OECD Standard for
minimise the likelihood of customers using with any group of our size and complexity, Automatic Exchange of Financial Account
our products to avoid or evade tax. Our a number of areas of differing interpretation Information (the ‘Common Reporting
approach to tax and governance processes or disputes with tax authorities exist at Standard’), and the UK legislation on the
is designed to achieve these goals. any point in time. We work with the local corporate criminal offence of failing to
tax authorities to try to agree and resolve prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
We have established a formal tax risk these in a timely manner. – We have processes in place to help ensure
management framework, which is designed – We have reduced the number of subsidiaries that tax-motivated products are not
to ensure that tax-motivated transactions located in very low or nil tax jurisdictions provided to our customers.
or products are not adopted by the Group. to 44 by the end of 2019. This excludes
Significant investment has been made to subsidiaries located in low or nil tax For further details of our approach to financial
strengthen our tax risk processes and train jurisdictions which are subject to tax in crime and action we have taken, see page 50.
staff to identify instances of potential tax another jurisdiction. We intend to continue
evasion. There remain areas where further this process, with the aim of ensuring Our tax contributions
improvements are required and we are that the HSBC entities remaining in The effective tax rate for the year was 34.8%.
working to address these. such jurisdictions are regulated entities Further detail is provided on page 259 of our
essential for conducting business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2019.
With respect to our own taxes, we are guided
With respect to our customers’ taxes, we
by the following principles: As highlighted below, in addition to paying
are guided by the following principles:
$5.6bn of our own tax liabilities during 2019,
– We are committed to applying both the we collected taxes of $9.3bn on behalf of
– We have made considerable investment
letter and spirit of the law in all jurisdictions governments around the world. A more
implementing processes designed to
in which we operate. This includes detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes
increase transparency and reduce the risk
adherence to a variety of measures paid in 2019 is provided on page 72 of our
of banking services being used to facilitate
arising from the OECD Base Erosion customer tax evasion and financial crime. Annual Report and Accounts 2019. The tax we
and Profit Shifting initiative. These processes incorporate requirements paid during 2019 was lower than in 2018 due
arising from external tax transparency to differences in the timing of payments.
Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region
Tax on profits $1,988m (2018: $3,141m) Europe $3,077m (2018: $3,398m) Europe $3,636m (2018: $2,259m)
Withholding taxes $282m (2018: $276m) Asia-Pacific $1,487m (2018: $2,742m) Asia-Pacific $3,288m (2018: $3,025m)
Employer taxes $1,041m (2018: $1,068m) Middle East and North Africa $313m Middle East and North Africa $127m
Bank levy $889m (2018: $1,135m) (2018: $234m) (2018: $118m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,164m (2018: $1,074m) North America $314m (2018: $399m) North America $876m (2018: $1,096m)
Other duties and levies $227m (2018: $360m) Latin America $400m (2018: $281m) Latin America $1,379m (2018: $1,148m)
54 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
A
responsible
business
culture
Respecting human rights
Respecting
human rights
We recognise the duty of states to protect Suppliers own operations and supply chains, we are
human rights and the role played by business We request that all suppliers of goods raising awareness with our customers in
in respecting them, in line with the UN and services comply with our ethical and designated sectors and regions as part of
Guiding Principles’ Protect, Respect and environmental code of conduct. We expect our annual credit review processes. We
Remedy framework. We have signed, our suppliers to respect the human rights of are educating our own colleagues through
or expressed support for, a number of their employees and comply with all relevant training and communications.
international codes, as set out in our legislation, regulations and directives in the
2015 Statement on Human Rights. countries and communities in which they For further details of our approach to modern
slavery, see www.hsbc.com/our-approach/
operate. Our code of conduct states our
risk-and-responsibility/modern-slavery-act.
Our Human Rights Steering Committee, commitment to making a positive contribution
which we set up in 2018, continues to develop to human rights, reflecting the UDHR and
our approach to human rights. This approach ILO Declaration principles. Stakeholder engagement
will incorporate recommendations from We remain committed to developing our
initiatives such as the OECD’s Due Diligence In 2019, our Corporate Real Estate function approach to managing human rights risks
Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, worked with one of our suppliers, using a as they affect rights holders. We attended
published in May 2018. It will also incorporate risk-based approach, to select and review the UN Business and Human Rights Forum
recommendations from the OECD’s Due 55 suppliers from its supply chain. These in November 2019 and continued our
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Corporate subcontractors, located in 22 countries and involvement with the Thun Group, an informal
Lending and Securities Underwriting, territories in Asia, the Middle East and North group of bank representatives that provides
published in October 2019. Africa, Latin America and Europe, provide guidance on how the UN Guiding Principles
important outsourced services to HSBC. should be applied across banking activities.
We primarily reflect human rights More than 1,000 checks were completed with We support the UN Global Compact’s
considerations as they apply to our people, near full compliance observed. We found no promotion of sustainable and socially
our suppliers and our customers. Some indicators of modern slavery, but we identified responsible policies, and participate in the UK
examples are provided below. a small number of other exceptions where chapter’s Modern Slavery Act working group.
our ethical and environmental standards
Employees were not fully met. These exceptions are Our pioneering scheme to help survivors of
We are committed to an inclusive culture being addressed in collaboration with the human trafficking is being used as a model
where our people can be confident that their respective suppliers. for making financial services more accessible
views matter, where their workplace is an to vulnerable communities through the UN’s
environment free from bias, discrimination and For further details of our approach to suppliers, finance against slavery and trafficking project.
harassment, and where our people can see see: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and- We have also taken the next step to support
that advancement is based on merit. This responsibility/working-with-suppliers. homeless and disadvantaged customers. With
commitment reflects the provisions of both both initiatives, we aim to apply strong ethical
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Customers standards when making decisions on risk to
(the ‘UDHR’) and the International Labour The principal aim of the UN Guiding Principles ensure better customer experiences.
Organization Declaration on Fundamental is to prevent human rights abuses. We seek to
Principles and Rights at Work (the ‘ILO ensure that the financial services we provide to We have engaged with and led global and
Declaration’). Our global internal policies our customers do not result in an unacceptable regional work through the Thomson Reuters
expressly set out our respect for our people’s impact on people or the environment. We are a Foundation on anti-human trafficking toolkits.
right to freedom of association. Given our signatory to the Equator Principles, which are This work has centred on the US, Europe
diverse footprint, we negotiate, consult underpinned by the International Finance and Asia-Pacific and is available across the
and engage with a diverse range of works Corporation’s Performance Standards, and industry. Further, HSBC has been shortlisted
councils, trade unions and employee which focus on issues including land rights, by Thomson Reuters Foundation for a Stop
representative groups on a range of issues. child labour, forced labour, and the rights of Slavery Award in 2020.
In relation to pay, a proportion of our indigenous and local communities. For further
workforce is covered by collective details, see page 42. We work with our In September 2019, we hosted the annual
bargaining agreements. customers to help them improve their Banks and Civil Society meeting, which
sustainability practices. Additionally, our brought together more than 15 banks and 10
For further details of the diversity of our financial crime teams actively seek to identify members of civil society to discuss live and
workforce, see page 30. the proceeds of potential human rights abuses emerging ESG issues, including human rights.
to inform law enforcement and take ‘bad
We continue to meet or exchange
actors’ out of the financial system.
correspondence with NGOs and civil society
Modern Slavery Act groups when they raise concerns related to
Our statement under the UK’s 2015 Modern HSBC customers. We investigate credible
Slavery and Human Trafficking Act gives allegations of human rights violations as
details of our work in combating modern they are reported to us via engagement
slavery. As well as addressing this in our with stakeholders.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 55
A responsible business culture
Supporting financial
inclusion
We believe that when more people have access to formal financial services, the community
as a whole benefits. In 2019, we increased our pace of investment in making banking accessible
and affordable for individuals and businesses in the markets we serve.
Our approach to financial inclusion has three main elements:
Access to products and services
We aim to improve the accessibility of our services for our existing customers and the
wider community.
Banking for vulnerable
We believe that to fully meet the needs of our customers we must build diverse teams
customers that reflect our customer base, design products and services that are aligned to
customer needs, and be accessible through customers’ preferred channels.
After successfully trialling an
approach to providing victims In 2019, we introduced products and services intended to increase access to financial
of human trafficking and modern services for people who may have been excluded in the past because they could not
slavery in the UK with monitored bank qualify for them.
accounts, the service was made more
– In August, we became the first bank in Hong Kong to offer free basic banking
widely available in 2019. This was a first
services, so that a wide range of customers can benefit from safe, affordable
in the UK and our work was cited by
transactions and online banking. This action was commended by the Hong Kong
the UN as an example of how banks
Monetary Authority.
can support victims of trafficking. Over
300 people had been provided with – In Mexico, we helped first-time customers with basic needs gain access to financial
services by launching Stilo Connect, a low-cost digital account with an instant issue
accounts by December 2019. Our ‘no
virtual debit card.
fixed address service’ also provides
access to banking for the homeless.
We also made changes in 2019 to some of our products with the needs of specific
The service enables vulnerable people
customer groups in mind, such as elderly customers, those with non-traditional family
without a fixed home address to
structures, and members of the LGBT+ community.
receive wage and benefit payments, as
well as support in rebuilding their lives.
– In our insurance business, we introduced a product in Hong Kong to support
As a result, HSBC UK was recognised customers developing dementia, offering early screening services (see
by The Banker as Bank of the Year 2019 ‘Independence for elderly customers’). In Singapore, a new retirement product
for financial inclusion in the UK. has a low minimum premium, high-entry age, and supplementary coverage
including Alzheimer’s disease or severe dementia.
– In the UK, we removed barriers for transgender customers, such as eliminating
the need to provide documentation when informing us of their gender transition.
We also provided staff training on gender identity.
After expanding the beneficiary definitions for our life insurance policies in Hong Kong in
2018 to recognise a broader range of family relationships, we were awarded the Service
Innovation Award from the Chinese edition of Bloomberg Businessweek. We expanded
this work to mainland China, and commenced review work across other Asian markets.
As banking becomes more digital, the accessibility of financial services has become
an increasing concern. To expand access to banking beyond our branch network,
we provide customers in select markets access to cash and simple banking services
through third parties such as convenience stores and post offices. In 2019, we focused
on improving accessibility for people with disabilities in many of our markets.
– Our browser-based online banking services were digitally accessible for people with
disabilities in multiple retail banking markets as of December 2019. This was achieved
through making digital accessibility a design foundation and we also carried out a
programme to train our technical teams on accessible digital design. We know we
have more work to do in this area and aim to make progress in the future.
– By the end of 2019, there were 352 voice navigation-enabled ATMs available across
Hong Kong, providing greater accessibility for people with visual impairments and
expanding our ‘barrier-free banking’ programme.
56 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
A
responsible
business
culture
Supporting financial inclusion
Access to financial education
We invest in financial educational to help customers, colleagues, and people in our
communities be confident users of financial services.
In order for people to access and make the most of financial services, we appreciate
people need to understand how to use them effectively to establish, secure and
enhance their well-being and their wealth. We have invested in this financial education
effort globally and with all age groups and continue to grow this offering through both
in-person events and digital content.
Independence for
Here are examples of what we delivered in 2019:
elderly customers
– We delivered more than 1,500 financial well-being events in the US, the UK, Mexico,
Singapore and Australia, reaching more than 30,000 people.
In Hong Kong, we introduced
– We continued to improve our digital financial education offering by making content our Basic Banking Account with
available online in the UK, Hong Kong, the US, Mexico and Australia. In the US, we Independence to complement our
introduced a Spanish language version of our Financial Wellness Center, which was Living with Dementia programme.
created in partnership with community engagement company EverFi. In Hong Kong, This basic account enables people
we introduced digital content to make investing more accessible by explaining living with early stages of dementia
investment products in simple, jargon-free language.
to manage their everyday finances
– Globally, we received over 600,000 unique visitors to our digital financial education independently, while customers’
content in 2019. families or carers oversee their main
– By the end of 2022, we aim to reach four million unique visitors to our digital financial financial arrangements. We also
well-being content, which we are expanding to more markets. updated our procedures with more
guidance on topics like powers of
attorney and trained 195 branch
Engagement with partners dementia ambassadors so our
We proactively get feedback from our customers and external partners on how to colleagues are equipped to help
improve our services for those that need them. Trade associations, governments and customers navigate their finances
regulators are also a valuable source of insight to identify practical barriers to financial during this challenging time. This
inclusion, find ways to improve standards and share best practice. followed the successful launch of
a similar offering in the UK.
Here are examples of what we delivered in 2019:
– HSBC UK worked with UK Finance, a trade body, and others to create the Financial
Abuse Code of Practice. We implemented this code by providing practical support
such as staff procedures, helping people learn to repair their credit history, and
geographically untraceable sort codes to protect victims of financial abuse.
– In Hong Kong, we created a partnership with St James’ Settlement, a non-profit
organisation that provides support to the community, including the elderly and
people with disabilities, to help vulnerable people with money management issues.
Our team gives talks on managing finances to people living with dementia and
their carers.
– In the US, we partnered with the Pacific Asian Consortium in Employment to provide
support to help primarily minority-owned small businesses develop credit histories
and access credit.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 57
Additional information
Additional
information
Approach to reporting Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements
The information set out in this document,
taken together with the information relating to
ESG issues in the HSBC Holdings plc Annual This ESG Update may contain projections, many of which are outside the control of
Report and Accounts 2019, aims to provide estimates, forecasts, targets, opinions, the Group. Actual achievements, results,
prospects, results, returns and forward- performance or other future events or
key ESG information and data relevant to our
looking statements with respect to the conditions may differ materially from those
operations for the year ended 31 December
financial condition, results of operations, stated, implied and/or reflected in any forward-
2019. In this context, we have also considered
capital position, strategy and business of the looking statements due to a variety of risks,
our obligations under the Environmental,
Group, which can be identified by the use of uncertainties and other factors (including
Social and Governance Reporting Guide
forward-looking terminology such as ’may’, without limitation those that are referable
contained in Appendix 27 to The Rules
’will’, ‘should’, ‘expect’, ‘anticipate’, ‘project’, to general market conditions or regulatory
Governing the Listing of Securities on the
‘estimate’, ‘seek’, ‘intend’, ‘target’ or ‘believe’ changes). Any such forward-looking
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
or the negatives thereof or other variations statements are based on the beliefs,
(‘ESG Guide’). We comply with the “comply
thereon or comparable terminology (together, expectations and opinions of the Group at
or explain” provisions in the ESG Guide,
‘forward-looking statements’), including the date the statements are made, and the
save with respect to the following:
the strategic priorities and any financial, Group does not assume, and hereby disclaims,
– A1(b) on emissions laws/regulations: investment and capital targets described any obligation or duty to update, revise or
we are fully compliant with our publication herein. Any such forward-looking statements supplement them if circumstances or
of information regarding Scope 1 and 2 are not a reliable indicator of future management’s beliefs, expectations or
carbon emissions, but we only partially performance, as they may involve significant opinions should change. For these reasons,
publish information on Scope 3 carbon stated or implied assumptions and subjective recipients should not place reliance on, and
emissions, as the data required for that judgements, which may or may not prove to are cautioned about relying on, any forward-
publication is not yet fully available. Our be correct. There can be no assurance that looking statements. No representations or
progress on publishing information with any of the matters set out in forward-looking warranties, expressed or implied, are given
respect to Scope 3 is referenced on statements are attainable, will actually occur by or on behalf of the Group as to the
page 44; or will be realised or are complete or accurate. achievement or reasonableness of any
– A1.3 on total hazardous waste produced, Certain of the assumptions and judgements projections, estimates, forecasts, targets,
A1.6 on the handling of hazardous and upon which forward-looking statements prospects or returns contained herein.
non-hazardous waste, A2.2 on water regarding strategic priorities and targets
consumption and A2.5 on packaging are based are discussed under ’Targeted Additional detailed information concerning
material: taking into account the nature of Outcomes: Basis of Preparation’, available important factors that could cause actual
our business, we do not consider these to separately from this ESG Update at www. results to differ materially from this ESG
be material issues for our stakeholders; and hsbc.com. The assumptions and judgements Update is available in our Annual Report
– A2.1 on direct energy consumption: taking may prove to be incorrect and involve and Accounts 2019 for the fiscal year ended
into account the nature of our business, known and unknown risks, uncertainties, 31 December 2019 filed with the Securities
we do not consider this to be a material contingencies and other important factors, and Exchange Commission (’SEC’) on Form
issue for our stakeholders. We report on 20-F on 18 February 2020.
what we consider to be our most relevant
operational sustainability KPIs as set out
on page 44.
This is aligned with the materiality reporting
Non-GAAP financial information
principle that is set out in the ESG Guide. See
‘How we decide what to measure’ on page 8
for further information on how we determine This ESG Update contains non-GAAP financial information. The primary non-GAAP financial
what issues are material to our stakeholders. measures we use are presented on an ‘adjusted performance’ basis, which is computed
We will continue to develop and refine our by adjusting reported results for the period-on-period effects of foreign currency translation
reporting and disclosures on ESG issues in differences and significant items, which distort period-on-period comparisons. Significant
line with feedback received from our investors items are those items that management and investors would ordinarily identify and consider
and other stakeholders, and in view of our separately when assessing performance in order to better understand the underlying trends
obligations under the ESG Guide. in the business.
Reconciliations between non-GAAP financial measurements and the most directly
comparable measures under GAAP are provided in our 2019 Form 20-F and the corresponding
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures document, each of which is available at:
www.hsbc.com.
58 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Additional
information
Additional information
Abbreviations
Currencies
£ British pound sterling K
$ United States dollar KYC Know your customer
A L
AI Artificial intelligence LGBT+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender. The plus sign denotes
other non-mainstream groups on the spectrums of sexual
AML Anti-money laundering orientation and gender identity
AML DPA Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US Libor London interbank offered rate
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012
LTI Long-term incentive scorecard
B
M
BoE Bank of England
Mainland People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong
C China
CITA Cyber intelligence and threat analysis team N
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business NGO Non-governmental organisation
CSWF The China Social Welfare Foundation P
D PPA Power purchase agreement
DoJ US Department of Justice PPI Payment protection insurance
E PRA Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
ESG Environmental, social and governance R
ESG Guide Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide RBWM Retail Banking and Wealth Management, a global business
contained in Appendix 27 to The Rules Governing the Listing of
Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited RMBS Residential mortgage-backed securities
EU European Union RMM Risk Management Meeting of the Group Management Board
Euribor Euro interbank offered rate RoTE Return on tangible equity
F RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil
FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK) RWAs Risk-weighted assets
FRB Federal Reserve Board (US) S
FSVC Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee SDGs United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
FTE Full-time equivalent staff SEC Securities and Exchange Commission
FX Foreign exchange SMEs Small and medium-sized enterprises
FX DPA Three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US SRI Socially responsible investment
Department of Justice, entered into in January 2018 T
G TCFD¹ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles U
GB&M Global Banking and Markets, a global business UAE United Arab Emirates
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation UDHR Universal Declaration of Human Rights
GLCM Global Liquidity and Cash Management UK United Kingdom
Global HSBC’s capital markets services in Global Banking and Markets UN United Nations
Markets
UN PRI United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment
GPB Global Private Banking, a global business
US United States of America
Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
H
Hong Kong Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s
Republic of China
HOST HSBC Operations Services and Technology
HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings Certain defined terms
HSBC HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC
Holdings
Unless the context requires otherwise, ’HSBC Holdings’ means HSBC
HSBC UK HSBC UK Bank plc Holdings plc and ’HSBC’, the ’Group’, ’we’, ’us’ and ’our’ refer to HSBC
I Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this document the Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards
is referred to as ’Hong Kong’. When used in the terms ’shareholders’
The ILO International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental
equity’ and ‘total shareholders’ equity’, ’shareholders’ means holders
Declaration Principles and Rights on Work of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and those preference shares and
J capital securities issued by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The
Jaws Adjusted jaws measures the difference between the rates of abbreviations ’$m’, ’$bn’ and ’$tn’ represent millions, billions
change in adjusted revenue and adjusted operating expenses. (thousands of millions) and trillions of US dollars, respectively.
1 A full definition is included in the glossary to the Annual Report and Accounts 2019, which is available at www.hsbc.com/investors.
HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019 59
Additional information
Useful links
In this section, we have provided further information on HSBC’s Other relevant website links include:
approach to ESG issues. It contains links to further content, policies
and topics discussed in this document. Please visit the links to obtain – Our conduct framework: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
a more in-depth understanding of our initiatives covering the responsibility/our-conduct
ESG issues that may be of interest to you. – Our approach to our people and culture: www.hsbc.com/our-
approach/culture-and-people
For further information on our approach and measuring our
– Our approach to diversity and inclusion: www.hsbc.com/our-
impact, see www.hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/esg- approach/culture-and-people/diversity-and-inclusion
reporting-and-policies
– Financial Crime Risk policies (including anti-money laundering,
sanctions, and anti-bribery and corruption): www.hsbc.com/
On this area of our website you will find our latest reports, statements
our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/financial-crime-risk/financial-
and policies, including:
crime-risk-policies
– Communication on Progress to UN Principles for Responsible – HSBC Centre of Sustainable Finance:
Investment www.sustainablefinance.hsbc.com
– Communication on Progress to UN Principles for Sustainable – Corporate governance (including our governance framework and
Insurance 2018 Board responsibilities): www.hsbc.com/our-approach/corporate-
governance
– Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2019
– Modern Slavery Act statement: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/
– HSBC green bond report 2018
risk-and-responsibility/modern-slavery-act
– HSBC SDG bond report 2018
– Sustainability risk policies (including Equator Principles): www.hsbc.
– HSBC’s $100bn Sustainable Financing and Investment com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/sustainability-risk
Commitment – Data Dictionary
– Green and sustainability bond frameworks and impact reports:
– PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Assurance Report – www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-income-investors/green-and-
Carbon Emissions sustainability-bonds
– PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Assurance Report – – Working with suppliers: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
Sustainable Finance responsibility/working-with-suppliers
– Reporting Guidelines – Carbon Emissions – Building a sustainable future (including sustainable finance and
– Social and Environmental Key Facts 2018 sustainable operations): www.hsbc.com/our-approach/building-a-
sustainable-future
– Strategic Report 2018
– Our approach to risk and responsibility (including health and safety
– UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2019
and tax transparency): www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility
– Our Principles for the Ethical Use of Big Data and Artificial
Intelligence: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/
our-conduct
– Our sustainability memberships: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/
esg-information/sustainability-memberships
Photography
Hong Kong Stock Code: 5
Beatrice wind farm image on page 35 Incorporated in England on 1 January 1959 with limited liability under
courtesy of © Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Ltd the UK Companies Act
Tatawwar programme image on page 47 Registered in England: number 617987
courtesy of © Mulham Al Wahaibi
© Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2020
All rights reserved
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic,
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the
prior written permission of HSBC Holdings plc.
Published by Global Finance, HSBC Holdings plc, London
Designed by Superunion, London
www.superunion.com
60 HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance Update 2019
Printed by Park Communications on FSC® 100% of the inks used are HP Indigo ElectroInk
certified paper. which complies with RoHS legislation and meets
the chemical requirements of the Nordic Ecolabel
Park works to the EMAS standard and (Nordic Swan) for printing companies, 95% of press
its Environmental Management System chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average
is certified to ISO 14001. 99% of any waste associated with this production
will be recycled and the remaining 1% used to
This publication has been manufactured generate energy.
using 100% offshore wind electricity
sourced from UK wind. This document is printed on Evolution Indigo
Uncoated, a paper containing 100% recycled
fibre. The FSC® label on this product ensures
responsible use of the world’s forest resources.
HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0)20 7991 8888
www.hsbc.com
Incorporated in England with limited liability
Registered number 617987