Opening up a world of opportunity
Our ambition is to be the preferred international
financial partner for our clients.
Our purpose, ambition and values reflect our
strategy and support our focus on execution.
Read more on our values and strategy on pages 5 and 11.
Contents
Strategic report Risk review This Strategic Report was approved by the
Board on 19 February 2025.
1 Performance in 2024 127 Our approach to risk
Sir Mark E Tucker
2 Highlights 131 Top and emerging risks
Group Chairman
4 Who we are 13 Our material banking risks
7
6 Group Chairman’s shareholder letter
8 Group CEO’s shareholder letter Corporate governance report A reminder
11 Our strategy The currency we report in is US dollars.
15 ESG overview 237 Biographies of Directors and
Our approach to ESG reporting
20 Board decision making and senior management
We embed our ESG reporting and Task Force on
engagement with stakeholders 259 Board committees
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) within
(Section 172(1) statement) 279 Directors’ remuneration report our Annual Report and Accounts. Our TCFD
24 Remuneration disclosures are highlighted with the following
25 Financial overview Financial statements symbol: TCFD
30 Global businesses
Use of alternative performance
37 Risk overview 330 Independent auditors’ report
measures
40 Long-term viability and going 341 Financial statements
We supplement our IFRS Accounting Standards
concern statement 353 Notes on the financial statements
figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards
measures used by management internally that
Environmental, social and Additional information constitute alternative performance measures under
governance (‘ESG’) review European Securities and Markets Authority guidance
439 Shareholder information and non-GAAP financial measures defined in and
42 Environmental 454 Abbreviations presented in accordance with US Securities and
Exchange Commission rules and regulations.
63 Social
These measures are highlighted with the following
73 Governance
symbol:
Financial review Further explanation may be found on page 29.
86 Financial summary Targets and forward guidance
98 Global businesses and legal We do not reconcile our forward guidance on RoTE
entities excluding the impact of notable items, target basis
operating expenses, dividend payout ratio target
120 Reconciliation of alternative
basis or banking net interest income (‘banking NII’)
performance measures
to their equivalent reported measures.
For our financial targets, medium-term is defined as
between three to five years, and long term as five to
six years, from 1 January 2025.
See page 2 for details on our forward guidance
Cover image: Opening up a world of opportunity and outlook.
This year’s annual report marks 160 years since our founding and
None of the websites referred to in this Annual Report
celebrates our rich history of shaping finance around the world. To
and Accounts 2024 for the year ended 31 December
mark this occasion, our special anniversary cover encapsulates the
2024 (including where a link is provided), and none of
depth and the breadth of our services, and our commitment to
the information contained on such websites, are
connecting people and businesses through our global network –
incorporated by reference in this report.
creating opportunities, driving progress and pioneering new ideas.
linkedin.com/company/hsbc
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Performance in 2024
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services
organisations in the world.
We have a clear strategy to deliver revenue and profit growth,
enhance customer service and create long-term shareholder value.
Financial performance Return on average tangible equity Operating expenses
14.6% $33.0bn
indicators
Our financial performance indicators (2023: 14.6%) (2023: $32.1bn)
demonstrate our continued focus on the Return on average tangible equity excluding Target basis operating expenses up 5% to
delivery of sustainable returns for our notable items of 16.0% (2023: 16.2%) $32.6bn
shareholders. They also provide insight into
the performance that has driven the Profit before tax Common equity tier 1 capital ratio
outcomes of our financial targets. $32.3bn 14.9%
Read more on our financial performance in 2024
on pages 2 and 27.
For an explanation of performance against our (2023: $30.3bn) (2023: 14.8%)
key Group financial targets, see page 25.
For a reconciliation of alternative performance Net interest income Dividend per share in respect of 2024
measures to their reported equivalents, see $32.7bn $0.87
page 124.
(2023: $35.8bn) Inclusive of a special dividend of $0.21 per
Banking net interest income of $43.7bn share.
(2023: $44.1bn) (2023 dividend per share: $0.61)
Strategic performance Grow our Wealth business Gender representation
$64bn 34.6%
indicators
Our strategy supports our ambition of being Net new invested assets generated in 2024, Senior leadership roles held by women.
the preferred international financial partner for of which $47bn were in Asia. (2023: 34.1%)
our clients. (2023: $84bn generated, of which $47bn
were in Asia)
We are committed to building a business for
the long term, developing relationships that
Serve our clients internationally Sustainable finance and investment
last.
62% $393.6bn
Read more on our strategy on pages 11 to 13.
Read more on multi-jurisdictional client revenue
on page 125. Wholesale multi-jurisdictional client revenue Cumulative total provided and facilitated since
Read more on how we set and define our ESG is generated by clients banking with us across 1 January 2020.
metrics on page 17. multiple markets. (2023: $294.4bn)
Read more on our definition of sustainable (2023: 61%)
finance and investment on page 45.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 1
– Over the medium to long term, we continue to – We intend to continue to manage the CET1 Our targets and expectations reflect our current
expect mid-single digit percentage growth capital ratio within our medium-term target outlook for the global macroeconomic
environment and market-dependent factors, such
for year-on-year customer lending balances. range of 14% to 14.5%, with a dividend
as market-implied interest rates (as of mid-January
– We expect double-digit percentage average payout ratio target basis of 50% for 2025, 2025) and rates of foreign exchange, as well as
annual growth in fee and other income in excluding material notable items and related customer behaviour and activity levels.
Wealth over the medium-term. impacts. We do not reconcile our forward guidance on RoTE
excluding the impact of notable items, target basis
operating expenses, dividend payout ratio target
basis or banking NII to their equivalent reported
measures.
Reshaping the Group for growth
– We continue to make progress on – In March 2024, we completed the sale of – In January 2025, as part of our efforts to
reshaping the Group. In 2024, we HSBC Bank Canada. The completion of the simplify HSBC and increase leadership in our
completed the sales of our retail banking transaction resulted in a $4.8bn gain on sale, areas of strength, we announced that we
operations in France, and exited our inclusive of the recycling of foreign currency will begin to wind down our mergers and
businesses in Canada and Argentina. We have translation and other reserves losses. acquisitions (‘M&A’) and equity capital
also enhanced the efficiency of the Group Following completion of the sale, the Board markets activities in the UK, Europe, and
through smaller inorganic actions. approved a special dividend of $0.21 per the US, subject to local legal requirements.
share, which was paid on 21 June 2024. We will retain more focused M&A and equity
– In 2024, we served our customers through
three global businesses, Wealth and – In December 2024, we completed the sale capital markets capabilities in Asia and the
Personal Banking, Commercial Banking of our business in Argentina. The Middle East.
and Global Banking and Markets. In completion of the transaction resulted in a pre- – In June 2024, we completed the
October 2024, we announced that we are tax loss on sale of $1.0bn during 2024 and a acquisition of Citi’s retail wealth
simplifying our organisational structure to $5.2bn recycling of foreign currency management portfolio in mainland China.
accelerate delivery against our strategic translation reserve losses and other reserves This portfolio complements our growing set of
priorities. Effective 1 January 2025, the Group to the income statement in 4Q24. wealth businesses and our ambition to be the
operates through four new businesses: Hong – During 2024, we completed the sale of our leading international wealth manager for mass
Kong, UK, Corporate and Institutional Banking, business in Russia and recognised foreign affluent and high net worth individuals in
and International Wealth and Premier Banking. currency translation reserve losses of mainland China.
– In January 2024, we completed the sale of approximately $0.1bn. We also completed the – In January 2024, we acquired SilkRoad
our retail banking operations in France. In sale of our operations in Armenia and exited Property Partners Group – expanding our
accordance with the terms of the sale, we our retail banking operations in Mauritius. real estate investment capabilities in Asia-
retained a €7.1bn ($7.4bn) portfolio of home – We also announced divestments in our Pacific, aligning with our ambition of becoming
and other loans. During the fourth quarter of a top direct real estate investment manager in
private banking business in Germany and
2024 we began to actively market this retained our business in South Africa, and we signed the region.
portfolio for sale. On 1 January 2025 we
a memorandum of understanding in relation to Acquisitions and disposals that are classified as
reclassified this portfolio as hold-to-collect-and- the planned sale of our France life material notable items form part of ‘strategic
sell and expect to recognise an estimated $1bn transactions’ and their impacts are separately
insurance business. In addition, we have
presented in our financial reporting. Read more
fair value pre-tax loss in ‘other comprehensive
launched a strategic review of our business in on the financial impact of our strategic
income’ in equity on the remeasurement of the Malta. The review is at an early stage and no transactions on page 102.
financial instruments in 1Q25. Read more on our organisational update on
decisions have been made.
page 5.
ESG update
Transition to net zero mean that we would need to rely heavily on Build inclusion and resilience
– Supporting the transition to net zero is a key carbon offsets to achieve net zero in our supply – In 2024, 34.6% of senior leadership roles
priority for HSBC. In our net zero transition plan chain by 2030. As such, we have revisited our were held by women, and we are on track
published in January 2024, we committed to ambition, taking into account latest best to achieve our ambition of 35% by 2025.
continually calibrate our approach to take into practice on carbon offsets. We are now We also continued to work towards meeting
consideration the latest scientific focused on achieving net zero in our our ethnicity ambitions.
methodologies, climate-related policy operations, travel and supply chain by 2050. – Digital accessibility is important to us. We are
measures and developments in the real world. – Since 2020, we have provided and facilitated using the power of technology to help provide
As we near the mid-point towards our 2030 $393.6bn of sustainable finance and a great digital experience for our customers and
targets, we have begun a review of our investment, which was an increase of $99.2bn employees, including people with disabilities
interim 2030 financed emission targets and in the past year. This consisted of green and and those who are neurodivergent. We also
associated policies. This forms part of our social financing, alongside other forms of expanded our efforts to support customers
annual net zero transition plan review as sustainable financing and investment. with disabilities in our branch spaces.
referenced in our 3Q24 earnings release in
– We have continued to focus on financing Act responsibly
October.
our clients’ transition needs. In 2024, we – We have strengthened our AI governance
– In 2020, we set an ambition to achieve net zero launched HSBC Infrastructure Finance to help processes to help ensure the responsible
in our own operations and supply chain by realise the financing and advisory development and use of AI and launched
2030. We have made good progress in opportunities in creating the infrastructure www.hsbc.com/ai to increase the transparency
reducing our scope 1 and 2 emissions and are for a low carbon economy. We have also of our AI strategy with clients and investors.
currently on track to deliver reductions of more continued to focus on emerging climate – We continued to develop our understanding
than 90% by 2030 compared to our 2019 technologies and supply chain of our salient human rights issues. In 2024,
baseline. However, progress in reducing decarbonisation. we focused on our approach to human rights
emissions in the scope 3 supply chain
– We have continued to participate in cross risk management relating to the goods and
component is proving slower than we
sector efforts to support customers’ services we buy from third parties and in
anticipated. We currently expect a 40%
transitions. respect of our business customers.
emissions reduction across our operations,
travel and supply chain by 2030 which would
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 3
Strategic
report
Our new
Effective from 1 January 2025, we have implemented a new organisational business
organisational structure that aims to unleash our full potential by building on our strong progress in
recent years and driving our success into the future.
structure
Hong Kong UK
Being the market leader in our home market of Hong Our UK ring-fenced bank has a leading market
Kong is one of our clear strengths and remains a position in our home market of the UK and will
strategic priority. continue to be a critical pillar of our strategy.
Corporate and Institutional International Wealth
Banking and Premier Banking
Our new Corporate and Institutional Banking This business brings together Premier focused
business is a market leader in cross-border banking (outside Hong Kong and the UK), our Global
transaction banking and capital markets and Private Bank, and our wealth manufacturing
integrates our Commercial Banking business businesses of Asset Management and Insurance.
(outside the UK and Hong Kong) with our Global
Banking and Markets business.
Group Operating Committee
To align with the new structure, a new Group Operating Committee comprised of 12 members now serves as
the leading decision-making committee of the Group, replacing the Group Executive Committee of 18
members. The Group’s functions are also being realigned to support the new business structure.
* Both our Hong Kong and UK businesses will serve our personal banking customers and commercial clients residing in these
home markets.
For further details on our senior management team, see page 242.
Our values
Our values help define who we are as an organisation, and are key to our long-term success.
We value We succeed We take We get
difference together responsibility it done
Our stakeholders B uilding strong relationships with our stakeholders helps enable us to deliver our strategy in
line with our long-term values, and operate the business in a sustainable way.
Our stakeholders are the people who Many of our employees are Our size and global reach mean our
work for us, bank with us, own us, customers and shareholders, while actions can have a significant
regulate us, and live in the societies our business customers are often impact. We are committed to doing
we serve and the planet we all suppliers. Guided by our purpose, business responsibly, and thinking
inhabit. These human connections we aim to create value for our for the long term. This is key to
are complex and overlap. customers and shareholders. delivering our strategy.
For further details of how we are engaging with our stakeholders, see page 16.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 5
Strategic
report
"Our ambition is to – Our two home markets of Hong Kong and The future economy will require financing and
the UK, where we have scale and market- investment in sectors such as advanced
unlock HSBC’s full leading positions. technologies, specifically digitalisation,
computing and generative AI, as well as clean
potential for the benefit HSBC’s supporting infrastructure is being
energy and healthcare. CIB is well positioned
simplified and realigned to enable these four
of all our stakeholders, businesses to grow. to facilitate this by helping entrepreneurs to
secure the capital they need to build the
provide excellent Simply put, we are aligning our structure to businesses of the future and by supporting
our strategy. our customers as they look to decarbonise.
customer outcomes that
Second, we are significantly improving our International Wealth and Premier Banking
enhance our franchise operating model, led by a tighter team at the (‘IWPB’) is ideally placed to capture the
Group Operating Committee, that will: increasing number of affluent and high-net-
and brand, generating
worth customers. Especially those with
– Provide clarity of accountability, empower international banking needs who seek new
the strategic growth that
colleagues to make faster decisions and investment opportunities to help them to
will deliver attractive accelerate the pace at which we generate protect and grow their wealth. Our
greater productivity; recognised brand, financial strength and
returns for you, our – Make HSBC simple, with fewer complementary footprints across Asia and
management lines and layers, and less the Middle East serve to reinforce HSBC‘s
shareholders."
committees, designed to reduce position in the world’s fastest-growing wealth
bureaucracy, create closer collaboration, markets. We also have an asset management
emphasise teamwork, and facilitate the business with distinct specialism in both
flow of ideas and innovation; regions offering customers access to
investment opportunities across asset
– Adapt quickly to the factors that are classes.
shaping the economies and industries in
which our customers operate; The Hong Kong and UK businesses give us
strong platforms in our home markets. We
– Sharpen and strengthen our focus on serve personal banking customers and small
capital efficiency and firm-wide risk and medium enterprises in these businesses.
management. In Hong Kong specifically, where HSBC was
founded, Hang Seng Bank, a customer-
This will create a step change in the way we
centric community bank, is a strategically
work, the way we serve customers and the
important investment of the HSBC Group,
way we generate sustainable strategic
which enhances the strength of our franchise
growth, driving higher returns for our
and market-leading position. We also have a
shareholders.
fast-growing insurance manufacturing
In short, unlocking HSBC’s full potential. business in Hong Kong, leveraging the
inflows that are propelling Hong Kong to
Designed to deliver strong, sustainable become the leading international wealth hub.
strategic growth In the UK, we have a leading retail,
For 160 years, HSBC has been defined by its commercial and innovation-focused bank
financial strength and international network. which continues to build market share.
Both remain enablers of everything we do.
What is changing is the clarity, speed and Customers in Hong Kong and the UK with
intensity with which we are repositioning global banking needs will be able to access
HSBC around our four complementary, clearly the power of our international network
differentiated businesses. through our CIB and IWPB businesses, that
are anchored in these two leading
Corporate and Institutional Banking (‘CIB’) is international financial centres.
an international wholesale bank with
significant competitive advantages. It has a
powerful deposit franchise with financing
capabilities supported by the strength of our
balance sheet and our network. It has the
products and skills required to serve the
global banking needs of international
corporate clients, particularly in transaction
banking where we continue to invest. This
positions us to better capture global and intra-
regional flows as supply chains reconfigure,
new trade routes emerge, economies grow,
and customers’ expectations of financial
services evolve.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 9
Strategic
report
ESG overview
Our approach to environmental, social and governance is rooted in
creating long-term value for our customers and the economies that we serve.
Our approach
Our approach to ESG is focused on creating In our net zero transition plan published in there is no real benefit to society in simply
long-term value for our customers and wider January 2024, we committed to continually sending those customers to another
stakeholders. We focus our efforts on three calibrate our approach to take into consideration organisation that may be less committed to
areas: the transition to net zero, building the latest scientific methodologies, climate- supporting their transition.
inclusion and resilience, and acting related policy measures and developments in
As such, we are supporting both new and
responsibly. the real world given that our sector portfolios
existing customers that are making positive
reflect progress in the real economy in the
Our approach to the transition regions where we operate. As we near the mid- steps to transition to a net zero economy. We
Supporting the transition to net zero is a key continue to focus on engaging with our
point towards our 2030 targets, it is important
priority for HSBC. We believe the transition to customers on their transition plans,
to take stock of our own progress so far. We
net zero will help make the global economy considering our strategic business lines and
have made good progress in reducing the
stronger and more resilient against mounting markets, managing the products and services
emissions from our own operations but more
climate impacts. In October 2020, we we offer, and adapting the financing choices
uneven progress towards our ambitions for our
announced our ambition to become a net zero we make to help move the world towards a
financed emissions footprint.
bank by 2050. We believe supporting our resilient, net zero economy.
customers’ transition both benefits their Net zero in our own operations,
However, as we have set out in our net zero
business and helps generate long-term business travel and supply chain
transition plan, we must acknowledge that our
financial returns for our shareholders. In 2020, we set an ambition to reach net zero
influence on the decarbonisation of individual
in our operations and supply chain by 2030
Since we set our net zero ambition, collective companies and the industries and economies in
and we continue to make good progress in
global efforts have driven progress in some which our customers operate has limits. There
driving down our direct emissions, which are
vital areas of the decarbonisation challenge. are fundamental prerequisites, outside of our
largely derived from energy consumption. We
Billions of dollars have been allocated to clean control, which impact our ability to meet our
are currently on track to achieve a reduction
energy. Falling costs of renewables and 2030 interim financed emissions targets and
in our scope 1 and 2 emissions of more than
advancements in clean technologies have ultimately reach our net zero ambition. These
90% by 2030 compared with our 2019
accelerated their adoption. And while it is include technological advancements,
baseline, through a programme of energy
taking time for more nascent industries such diversification of the energy mix, market
efficiency initiatives and significant
as hydrogen, carbon capture and storage and demand for climate solutions, evolving
investment in renewable power. However,
sustainable aviation fuel to scale, with customer preferences, and government
progress in reducing emissions in the scope 3
supportive government policies and industrial leadership and effective policy.
supply chain component is proving slower
strategies their adoption can be accelerated,
than we anticipated, driven mainly by the
At the current pace of decarbonisation, a
and their costs reduced.
slower pace of the transition across the real
combination of the above factors has led to
economy.
We have always recognised that the the transition being slower than envisaged by
transition would not be linear. Yet while the recent Paris-aligned net zero scenarios.
It has become clear that we would need to
transition has progressed, the global pace of Moreover, certain high emitting sectors are
rely heavily on carbon offsets to achieve net
change remains insufficient. As the UN’s not yet currently on a 1.5°C pathway. Until
zero in our supply chain by 2030. This
latest Emission Gap report recently warned, the real economy makes significant progress
approach would not be aligned with recently
current government policies, conventional in decarbonising, our own progress towards
updated guidance from the Science Based
energy demand, clean technology adoption, our 2030 targets and 2050 net zero ambition
Targets Initiative on the role of offsets in
and wider consumption patterns are not yet will be constrained.
meeting corporate net zero claims.
aligned with the Paris Agreement goal of
Against this background, we have begun a
holding the temperature increase to well As such, we have revisited this ambition to
review of our interim financed emissions
below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and take into account latest best practice
targets and associated policies as part of the
pursuing efforts to limit the temperature guidance. We are now focused on cutting
annual review of our net zero transition plan
increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. emissions across our operations, travel and
that we referenced in our 3Q24 earnings
supply chain to achieve net zero by 2050. We
As a bank, our ability to finance our release in October. This analysis is complex:
expect to continue to report on our progress
customers’ transition and, in turn, progress it presents considerable data and
up to 2030 and beyond. Presently, across our
toward and meet our targets, relies on methodology challenges and it is going to
operations, business travel and supply chain,
decarbonisation solutions scaling across take time to complete.
we expect to achieve a reduction of around
sectors, alongside growing demand from our
40% in emissions by 2030.
As we calibrate our approach for the latest
customers for capital to transition their
context, we will seek to balance being
business models. Ambitious and credible Interim financed emissions targets
ambitious on net zero while recognising
governmental policy measures also remain Our strategy is to support emission
present near-term global challenges, and the
fundamental prerequisites for decarbonising reductions in the wider economy by working
associated impact of the transition playing out
the real economy at sufficient pace. We are with our portfolio of customers to facilitate
differently across the regions and sectors we
limited by, and cannot on our own overcome, the emission reductions they are seeking to
serve. In doing so we plan to draw on the
the present lag in policy measures and the make. That is what we consider when setting
latest scientific evidence and credible
overall slower pace of the transition. These financed emissions targets. To the extent our
industry-specific pathways while, at the same
factors put our customers’, and our own, net customers are facing challenges, especially in
time, maintaining our commitment under our
zero ambitions at risk. light of the slower pace of the transition,
2021 Climate Resolution.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 15
Strategic
report
Strategic Report
We have been clear on our commitment to Build inclusion and resilience In 2024 we updated our global philanthropy
being transparent on the risks, challenges and To help create long-term value for all strategy to align with our ESG areas of focus:
opportunities arising from our ambition to be stakeholders, we focus on fostering inclusion ‘transition to net zero’; and ‘building inclusion
net zero by 2050. As such, we intend to and building resilience for our colleagues, our and resilience’, allowing us to work alongside
provide the results of our review in our net customers and the communities we operate the communities we operate within to help
zero transition plan update, which we expect within. create change.
to be released in the second half of 2025.
For colleagues, we focus on creating an Act responsibly
We remain committed to net zero, inclusive, healthy and rewarding environment We are focused on operating a strong and
recognising it is a priority for our customers as this helps us to attract, develop and retain sustainable business that puts the customer
to support their growth and prosperity over the best talent, and we support their first, values good governance, and gives our
the long term. While no single actor can drive resilience through access to well-being and stakeholders confidence in how we do what
the transition alone, we will continue to learning resources. we do. Our conduct approach guides us to do
actively look for opportunities to support our the right thing and to focus on the impact we
We strive to provide an inclusive and
customers’ transition and engage in the have on our customers and the financial
accessible banking experience for our
ongoing efforts to achieve the goals of the markets in which we operate. Customer
customers. We do this by providing
Paris Agreement. experience is at the heart of how we operate.
resources that help them manage their
We aim to act responsibly and with integrity
finances, and services that help them protect
across the value chain.
what they value.
Engaging with our stakeholders and our material ESG topics
We know that engaging with our stakeholders is core to being a responsible business. To determine material topics that our stakeholders are
interested in, we conduct a number of activities throughout the year, including engagements outlined in the table below. Disclosure standards
such as the TCFD, World Economic Forum (‘WEF’) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’), as
well as the ESG Guide under the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing Rules and other applicable rules and regulations, are considered as part of
the identification of material issues and disclosures.
Our stakeholders How we engage
Customers Our customers’ voices are heard through our everyday interactions Material topics highlighted through our
with them, customer surveys, listening to their complaints, and engagement1
online feedback through social media and third-party financial
– Customer advocacy
websites and forums.
– Cybersecurity
Employees Our colleagues’ voices are heard through our annual Snapshot
– Employee training
survey, exchange sessions, town hall meetings, leadership summits,
and our ‘speak-up’ channels, including our global whistleblowing – Inclusion
platform, HSBC Confidential. – Employee engagement
Investors We engage with our investors through our AGMs, virtual and in- – Supporting our customers – financed
person meetings, investor roadshows, conferences and investor emissions
surveys, seeking to respond to questions they raise and to convey
– Embedding net zero into the way we operate
their views to senior management.
– Sustainability risk policies, including thermal
Communities We regularly engage with non-governmental organisations (‘NGOs’), coal phase-out policy and energy policy
charities and civil society groups both directly and through cross-
– Net zero transition plan
industry forums, as well as through partnerships. Our Climate
Advisory Panel, comprising representatives from NGOs and industry – Financial inclusion and community investment
experts, provides independent advice and challenge.
– Climate risk
Regulators and We proactively engage with regulators, governments and – Anti-bribery and corruption
governments international leaders to build strong relationships, responding to
– Conduct and product responsibility
consultations via industry bodies to help shape our approach to
financed emissions methodologies, scenario analysis and portfolio – Supply chain management
alignment to support the transition to net zero in the global
– Human rights
economy.
Suppliers Our code of conduct sets out our expectations and the minimum
standards we expect from our suppliers on the environment,
diversity, and human rights. We have begun direct engagement with
our highest-emitting suppliers to understand their carbon reduction
targets and disclosure plans.
1 These form part of our ESG disclosures suite together with other requirements, and are not exhaustive or exclusive to one stakeholder group. For further details of
our disclosures, see our ESG review and ESG Data Pack, as well as our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.
16 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Our ESG ambitions, metrics and targets TCFD
We have established ambitions and targets To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a In our previous disclosures and in our net
that guide how we do business, including number of measures are included in the zero transition plan we have highlighted the
how we operate and how we serve our annual incentive and long-term incentive risks, dependencies and uncertainties
customers. These include targets designed scorecards of the Group CEO, Group CFO associated with our approach and progress
to help track our progress against our and Group Executives that underpin the ESG towards our ESG ambitions. For further
environmental and social sustainability goals. metrics in the table below. details on our climate reporting, see the ESG
They also help us to improve employee review page 43.
For a summary of how all financial and non-
advocacy and the representation of senior
financial metrics link to executive The table below sets out some of the key
leadership, as well as strengthen our market
remuneration, see pages 296 to 308 of the ESG metrics we use to measure progress
conduct. The targets for these measures are
Directors’ remuneration report. against our ambitions. For further details of
linked to the pillars of our ESG strategy:
how we are doing, see the ESG review on
transition to net zero, building inclusion and
page 41.
resilience, and acting responsibly.
Environmental: Sustainable finance and
investment2 Net zero in our own operations3 Financed emissions4
Transition to net
1 $393.6bn 66.1% 7 sectors
zero
Cumulative total provided and Reduction in absolute operational Number of sectors where we have set
facilitated since 1 January 2020. greenhouse gas emissions from interim financed emissions targets,
(2023: $294.4bn) 2019 baseline. comprising five on-balance sheet and
Ambition: Provide and facilitate (2023: 57.3%) two combined financed emissions
$750bn to $1tn of sustainable Updated ambition: Become a net targets. Ambition: Align our financed
finance and investment by 2030. zero bank by 2050. emissions to achieve net zero by 2050.
Social: Gender representation5 Black heritage5 Inclusion Index7
Build inclusion 34.6% 3.0% 78%
and resilience
Senior leadership roles held by Senior leadership roles held by Black Inclusion index score. (2023: 78%)
women. (2023: 34.1%) heritage colleagues in the UK and US Ambition: Maintain 75% in the
Ambition: Achieve 35% senior combined. (2023: 3.0%) Snapshot Inclusion index.
leadership roles held by women Ambition: 3.4% of senior leadership
by 20256. roles held by Black heritage
colleagues in the UK and US
combined by 20256.
Governance: Conduct training8 Customer satisfaction9
Acting 99% 4 out of 6 3 out of 6
responsibly
Employees who completed WPB markets that sustained top- CMB markets that sustained top-
conduct training in 2024. three rank and/or improved in three rank and/or improved in
(2023: 98%) customer satisfaction. customer satisfaction.
Target: At least 98% of employees (2023: 3 out of 6) (2023: 5 out of 6)
complete conduct and financial Target: To be ranked top three and/or Target: To be ranked top three and/or
crime training each year. improve customer satisfaction rank. improve customer satisfaction rank.
1 For further details of our approach to transition to net zero, methodology and third-party limited assurance reports on financed emissions, sustainable finance and
investment progress, and our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3 (business travel and supply chain) greenhouse gas emissions data, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-
are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
2 In October 2020, we announced our ambition to provide and facilitate between $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For further details
and breakdown, see the ESG review on page 45. For details of how this ambition links with the scorecards, see page 297.
3 This absolute greenhouse gas emission figure covers scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 (business travel) emissions. For further details of how this ambition links with
the scorecards, see page 297.
4 See page 48 for further details of our interim targets, which include combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emission targets for two
emissions intensive sectors: oil and gas, and power and utilities. The remaining five sectors for which we have set on-balance sheet financed emissions targets are:
cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining.
5 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 and above in our global career band structure. For further details, see the ESG review on page 65. For further
details of how this ambition links with the scorecards, see page 297.
6 These numerical ambitions do not form part of any US-based senior leader performance or other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where application of such
should not apply under local law.
7 For further details, see the ESG review on page 67. For details of how this ambition links with the scorecards, see page 297.
8 The completion rate shown relates to the ‘Conduct Matters’ training module that was launched in December 2023 and concluded in 2024, and covers permanent
and non-permanent employees (where legally permissible to assign training). For completion rates related to financial crime training, see the ESG review on page 80.
9 The markets where we report rank positions for WPB and CMB – the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China, India, Mexico and Singapore – are in line with the annual
executive scorecards. For further details of customer satisfaction, see the ESG review on page 77. For further details of how this target links with the scorecards, see
page 297.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 17
Strategic
report
Strategic Report
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) TCFD
The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on periods up to 2026; medium term between data limitations, although nascent work is
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) 2027 and 2035; and long term between ongoing in these areas. We expect these
recommendations set an important 2036 and 2050. For financed emissions we data limitations to be addressed in the
framework for understanding and analysing do not plan to set 2026 targets. In 2024, we medium term as more reliable data
climate-related risks, and we are committed disclosed interim 2030 targets for financed becomes available and technology solutions
to regular and transparent reporting to help emissions for seven sectors as outlined on are implemented.
communicate and track our progress. We page 52. Following this, we have set
– We currently focus on disclosing only four
also seek to advocate for the same from our combined on-balance sheet financed
out of 15 categories of scope 3 greenhouse
customers, suppliers and the industry. emissions and facilitated emissions targets
gas emissions including business travel,
for two emissions intensive sectors: oil and
We have set out our key climate-related supply chain and financed emissions,
gas, and power and utilities. We have also
financial disclosures throughout the Annual following our internal materiality
set targets for on-balance sheet financed
Report and Accounts 2024 and related assessment. In relation to financed
emissions for the following five sectors:
disclosures. We recognise that further work emissions, we publish on-balance sheet
cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
lies ahead as we continue to develop our financed emissions for a number of sectors,
automotive; and thermal coal mining.
management and reporting capabilities. In covering 2.7% of our loans and advances to
2024, we enhanced our disclosures, such as – The methodology and data used for customers at 31 December 2023, as
the portfolio breakdown for Energy financed emissions is evolving. We expect detailed on page 56. We also publish
Performance Certificate (‘EPC’) ratings into industry guidance, market practice, data facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and
owner-occupied and buy-to-let properties. availability, scenarios and regulatory power and utilities sectors. Data quality of
disclosure requirements to continue to future disclosures on financed emissions
We have considered our ‘comply or explain’ change, along with the shape of our own and related risks are reliant on our
obligation under both the UK Financial business. We have begun a review of our customers publicly disclosing their
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and 2030 financed emissions targets and greenhouse gas emissions, targets and
Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK associated policies, as part of the annual plans, and related risks. We recognise the
Companies Act 2006, and confirm that we review of our NZTP that we referenced in need to provide early transparency on
have made disclosures consistent with the our 3Q24 earnings release in October. climate disclosures but balance this with the
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended recognition that existing data and reporting
– We do not fully disclose impacts from
Disclosures, including its annexes and processes continue to require significant
climate-related opportunities on financial
supplemental guidance, save for certain enhancements.
planning and performance, including on
items, which we summarise below.
revenue, costs and the balance sheet, For a full summary of our TCFD disclosures,
– We set interim 2030 financed emissions quantitative scenario analysis, detailed including detailed disclosure locations for
targets. However, we use different time climate risk exposures for all sectors and additional information, see pages 444 to 450.
horizons for climate risk management. For geographies or physical risk metrics. This is
climate risk, we define short term as time due to transitional challenges in relation to
ESG disclosure map and directory
The table below sets out the key non-financial information, including risks and policies on environmental, social and governance matters, and
where it can be found:
Transition to At a glance Read more on our approach to the transition and Page 42
net zero understanding our climate reporting
Supporting our customers Read more on our progress made against our $750bn to Page 45
$1tn sustainable finance and investment ambition
Partnering for systemic change Read more on how we partner externally in support of Page 47
systemic change, including an update on our Climate
Solutions Partnership
Embedding net zero Read more on our progress made against our ambition to Page 48
achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050
Read more on our progress in decarbonising our own Page 58
operations and supply chain
Read more on our sustainability risk policies and our Page 61
thermal coal exposures
Detailed Task Force on Climate-related We make disclosures consistent with Task Force on Climate- Page 444
Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) recommendations,
highlighted with the symbol: TCFD
Build Inclusion disclosures Read more on how we are building an inclusive Page 63
inclusion and environment that reflects our customers and communities,
resilience Pay gap disclosures and our latest pay gap statistics Page 65
Act How we govern ESG Read more on our approach to ESG governance and Page 74
responsibly Human rights disclosures human rights Page 75
How our ESG ambitions link to Read more on our ESG ambitions embedded in executive Page 17
executive remuneration remuneration Pages 284 to 300
ESG Data Detailed ESG information Our ESG Data Pack provides more granular ESG www.hsbc.com/esg
Pack information, including the breakdown of our sustainable
finance and investment progress, and complaints volumes
18 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Responsible business culture
We have a responsibility to help protect our The table below outlines high-level Human rights
customers, our communities and the integrity representation metrics. As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we
of the financial system. recognise the role of business in respecting
All employees human rights. Our approach is guided by the
E W m e p a l r o e y b e u e il d m in a g t t a e r r e s s ponsible business culture Male 48.8% UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human
Rights (‘UNGPs’) and the OECD Guidelines for
that values difference, takes responsibility,
Female 51.2% Multinational Enterprises on Responsible
seeks different perspectives and upholds good
Business Conduct. Our Human Rights
standards of conduct. Senior leadership1 Statement and annual statements under the
UK Modern Slavery Act, are available on
There may be times when our colleagues need Male 65.4% www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
to speak up about behaviours in the workplace
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. For
and in the first instance we encourage Female 34.6%
further details of our approach, see the
colleagues to speak to their line manager. Our
annual employee survey showed that 85% of Holdings Board ‘Human rights’ section of the ESG review on
page 75.
colleagues have trust in their direct manager.
Male 46.2%
HSBC Confidential is our whistleblowing
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
channel, which allows colleagues past and
Female 53.8% We are required to comply with all applicable
present to raise concerns confidentially and, if
anti-bribery and corruption laws in every
preferred, anonymously (subject to local laws). 1 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 market and jurisdiction in which we operate.
Our Snapshot survey showed that 80% of and above in our global career band structure. We seek to focus on the spirit of relevant laws
colleagues feel able to speak up when they see For further details of how we look after our
and regulations to demonstrate our
behaviours they consider to be wrong. people, including our inclusion ambitions, how
commitment to ethical behaviours and
we encourage our employees to speak up, and
Our inclusion index measures our colleagues’ our approach to employee conduct, see the conduct as part of our environmental, social
sense of belonging and psychological safety Social section of the ESG review on page 63. and corporate governance.
within the organisation, and in 2024 this
Listening to our customers Environmental matters
remained unchanged at 78%.
We continue to listen, learn and act on our For details of our climate ambition and carbon
To help address under-representation across customers’ feedback. We use the net emission metrics, see the ESG review on
our colleague base, we have an ambition to promoter system to share customer feedback page 42.
achieve a 35% representation of women in with our front-line teams, allowing them to
senior leadership roles (classified as those at respond directly to customers. We also have Group non-financial and sustainability
band 3 and above in our global career band dedicated global forums to promote ongoing information statement
structure) by 20251. We remain on track, improvement of our customers’ experience. This section primarily covers Group non-
having achieved 34.6% in 2024. financial and sustainability information as
Social matters
required by applicable regulations. Other
We have an ambition to increase our Black We aim to help provide people and related information can be found as follows:
heritage senior leader representation in both the communities with the skills and knowledge
UK and US combined to 3.4% by 20251. In 2024 needed to thrive through the transition to a For further details of our key performance
we maintained our position at 3.0%. sustainable future. For this reason, we focus indicators, see page 1.
our support on programmes that help build For further details of our business model, see
Our hiring practices are merit-based, and we inclusion and resilience. We also support page 4.
seek to ensure that every candidate, regardless climate solutions and innovation, and For further details of our principal risks and
of their identity and background, has an equal contribute to disaster relief. For examples of how they are managed, see pages 37 to 39.
opportunity to demonstrate their skill and our programmes, see the ‘Engaging with our For further details of our TCFD disclosures,
potential. We have identified specific Group- communities’ section of the ESG review on including alignment with sections 414CA and
wide priorities, which we track and monitor page 72. 414CB of the Companies Act 2006, see pages
progress against. We adapt implementation of 444 to 450.
our strategy across international operations to
ensure it remains relevant locally. We have
enabled 93% of our colleagues to disclose their
ethnicity, with 67% currently choosing to do so,
where this is legally permissible.
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part of
any US-based senior leader performance or other
objectives, or in other jurisdictions where
application of such should not apply under local
law.
Helping to boost reforestation in the Amazon basin
We acted as sole bookrunner and structuring bank for the World Bank’s $225m, 9-year
principal-protected Amazon reforestation-linked outcome bond, their largest outcome bond
issued to date. Under this bond, up to $36m of capital will be mobilised to support
reforestation activities undertaken by Mombak, the Brazilian project sponsor. Mombak intends
to use these funds to reforest degraded land with native tree species, and in doing so seek to
generate carbon removal credits.
This transaction is the first ever carbon removal credit-backed financing in international debt
capital markets. It represents a new, blended finance solution to help lower the cost of capital
for highly capital-intensive, nature-based solutions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 19
Strategic
report
Strategic Report
Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders
The Board is committed to effective engagement with our
stakeholders and seeks to understand their interests and the
impacts on them when making decisions.
Section 172(1) statement
The Board recognises the importance of directly where practicable and ensuring the the Companies Act 2006 when discharging
engaging with stakeholders effectively to outcomes of engagement activities were their duty to promote the success of the
ensure their interests and priorities are reported to the Board. Further details of the company. It includes examples of principal
understood and given due consideration in Board’s engagement with stakeholders are decisions taken by the Board and how
Board discussions and decision-making. In set out below. Our section 172(1) statement relevant stakeholder impacts were
2024, the Directors took part in a is set out on pages 20 to 23 and describes considered as part of the Board’s decision-
comprehensive stakeholder engagement how the Directors have had regard to the making.
programme, meeting with stakeholders matters set out in section 172(1) (a) to (f) of
Directors’ engagements with key stakeholders in 2024
Stakeholders Engagement Impact and outcomes
Customers – Meetings with key customers in various regions – Continued engagement with customers around the world helped
We recognise that the and engagement events with business customers to further the Board’s understanding of their respective needs,
greater our understanding of to discuss challenges and opportunities in their including how the Group can support customers to achieve their
our customers’ needs, the relevant markets. varied goals, including during their transition to net zero.
better we can help support – Introductory meetings between the new Group – Customer surveys provided insights into how the Group can drive
them to achieve their CEO and key clients across global markets. meaningful improvements in outcomes for customers.
financial aims and succeed in – Regular reports to the Board on customer – Reports from management highlight where there are
our purpose and strategy. matters, including operational resilience, opportunities for innovation and collaboration with our customers
customer experiences across the Group and
and support the Board’s oversight of Group activities to ensure
results of retail customer surveys, including
such innovations are aligned with Group risk appetite and strategic
changes to net promoter scores.
objectives.
Employees – Regular internal communications and – Meeting with colleagues across jurisdictions allowed Directors to
We want to continue to be a presentations from the Group CEO and Group hear first-hand views on important issues, including inclusion
positive place to work and CFO to keep the workforce informed of business matters, talent development and the employee experience.
build careers, with the performance, and leadership and other – Workforce engagements and interactions helped to ensure
success of the Group’s
organisational changes. continued connectivity between the Board and the workforce,
strategy dependent upon
having motivated people – Employee events, including leadership forums, inform Board discussions and decision making and enhance
with the expertise and skills webcasts, town halls, off-sites and employee understanding of the Group culture across different geographies.
required to deliver it. exchange sessions, as well as events that form Such engagements also help enable the Board to put into
part of the workforce engagement programme led perspective employee Snapshot survey results and monitor
by the dedicated workforce engagement non- activity in response to matters raised.
executive Director, including visits to several – Directors taking part in the Bank Director Programme shared their
Global Service Centres. experiences and knowledge with the employees enrolled to
– Participation in sessions with senior leaders in qualify as Group subsidiary directors. Such sessions provided
multiple jurisdictions to discuss Group participants with the opportunity to ask questions and
performance and strategy, including a global town demonstrate how good governance practices are embedded
hall co-hosted by the Group CEO for global throughout the Group. Following the success of this programme,
sustainability colleagues to discuss sustainability a second Director-sponsored development programme launched
matters. in November 2024, aimed at prospective and existing employee
– Interaction with leads of employee resource subsidiary chairs.
groups and participation at multiple events in – Internal communications by executive Directors helped increase
many jurisdictions. awareness among the workforce of Group performance and
significant developments during the year, including changes to
executive leadership and the organisational structure. This
engagement aims to promote better understanding of and
engagement with the Group’s strategic aims across the
workforce. Employee engagement with Group strategy is
monitored through annual Snapshot surveys, the results of which
are presented to the Board.
20 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Stakeholders Engagement Impact and outcomes
Investors – The Group Chairman and the Group CEO held a – Regular interactions with institutional and retail investors
We seek to understand Q&A session with retail shareholders at the annual throughout the year helped the Board to understand investor
investor needs and Informal Shareholders’ Meeting in Hong Kong. sentiment regarding material matters such as strategy delivery
sentiment through ongoing – As part of the hybrid 2024 AGM, shareholders were and outlook, transition to net zero, and to gauge investors’
dialogue and a variety of
able to ask questions of the Board during the continued support for the Group.
engagements with both
retail and institutional meeting, either virtually or in person. – Q&A sessions at analyst and investor briefings and meetings with
investors. – Directors attended the inaugural HSBC Global Directors and senior management provide investors with the
Investment Summit held in Hong Kong in April opportunity to learn more about the Group’s strategic direction
2024, at which the Group Chairman and Group CEO and offered the Board insight into investor priorities and areas of
also presented. interest.
– The Group Chairman and the Senior Independent – The outcomes of targeted engagement at management level on
Director met with a number of large institutional key topics of investor interest were reported to the Board to help
investors. enable its continued monitoring of responses to key matters of
– The Group CEO and the Group CFO, together and strategic importance, which during the year has included our first
separately, attended meetings with investors. net zero transition plan and financial targets.
– In addition to routine meetings with top investors – For details of the Group Remuneration Committee Chair’s
and proxy advisors, the Group Remuneration engagements with key investors and proxy advisory firms, and
Committee Chair led a consultation with how they were taken into account by the Group Remuneration
shareholders on proposed updates to the Directors’ Committee in its decision making and in the development of the
Remuneration Policy, which will be put to Directors’ Remuneration Policy, see the Directors’ remuneration
shareholder vote at the 2025 AGM. report on pages 279 to 317.
– The Group Chairman and the Group CEO and Group – Building on the success of the inaugural HSBC Global Investment
CFO presented the interim and year-end results to Summit, a second summit has been scheduled to take place in
analysts and investors and engaged in Q&A 2025. The summit provides a forum for open and frank exchange
sessions. of thoughts and ideas between world-class experts, political
leaders, institutional investors and top decision-makers.
Communities – Directors met with an environmental non-profit – Meetings with charitable partners enabled the Directors to better
We seek to play an organisation affiliated with WWF to discuss the understand the Group’s impact within local communities as an
important role in supporting Group’s ongoing partnership arrangements. employer, sponsor, collaborator and supporter.
the communities in which – Director attendance at summits to facilitate – These engagements provided opportunities for Directors to learn
we operate through our
engagement with philanthropic partners and civil from and engage in an exchange of knowledge and ideas with
corporate social
responsibility and broader society on issues relevant to our communities, subject-matter experts in areas including nature conservation,
engagement activities. such as the World Economic Forum, Abu Dhabi sustainable aviation fuel and carbon reduction solutions. These in
Sustainability Week and New York Climate Week. turn, give context for Board decision-making on sustainability
– Meetings with members of the Sustainable matters and inform discussions about the Group’s own net zero
Markets Initiative Council to discuss priorities and ambitions.
opportunities.
Regulators and – Various meetings across our key markets with – Frequent and varied engagements between the Board and heads
governments heads of state, international leaders and of state, international leaders, government officials and regulators
Maintaining constructive government officials. provided an opportunity for open dialogue on matters of regulatory
dialogue and relations with – Regular meetings with and presentations from our interest and strategic importance.
the relevant authorities in regulators, including the PRA and FCA, as well as – Through meetings with international officials, and at presentations
the markets in which we
introductory meetings with the newly appointed given by the Group Chairman, Group CEO and other senior leaders
operate helps support the
achievement of our strategic Group CEO. at regulatory forums, Directors were able to communicate the
aims. – Presentations made by the Group Chairman and Group’s strategy, perspectives and insights while helping to
Group CEO at regulatory forums. ensure that they remained abreast of political and regulatory
– Targeted outreach to key international regulatory developments. It also allowed the Board opportunities to share
bodies and government officials on key topics of perspectives on industry best practices.
regulatory and community interest, including our – Regular reports from management enabled the Board to monitor
net zero transition, changes to executive leadership the Group’s responses to geopolitical and regulatory changes and
and geopolitical matters. ensure that appropriate resources and controls are in place. Such
– Regular reports and updates to the Board from reports are critical to ensuring that the Board continues to
management regarding regulatory and political understand and meet its regulatory obligations, and also provide
developments relevant to the Group. valuable context to the Board’s strategic discussions.
Suppliers – Regular reports were provided to the Board from – Meeting with our suppliers helped the Directors understand our
We engage with suppliers, the Group Chief Operating Officer which included suppliers’ challenges, where there are opportunities for
which helps us operate our outcomes of engagement with suppliers and collaboration and innovation and where there are opportunities
business effectively and
updates on supplier risks and priorities across the within our own operations.
execute our strategy.
Group. – Management reports enabled the Board, supported by the Group
– Meetings with key suppliers to discuss how Risk Committee, to monitor management of third-party risk, the
technology solutions may be enhanced through AI delivery of the Group data programme, and to ensure that
and data and opportunities for innovation, sustainable capabilities are in place for delivery of the Group’s
particularly in the areas of improving customer strategic objectives.
experience, risk management and operational – It is important for the Board to understand the Group’s supply
resilience, and regulatory compliance. chain and how suppliers’ operations align to our values and codes
of conduct. Board reports on such matters, and on the outcomes
of supplier engagements, provide context and support the Board’s
understanding when reviewing and approving the annual
statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 21
Strategic
report
Strategic Report
Principal strategic decisions
The Board is responsible for setting and To enable the Board to operate effectively in template requires authors to, among other
monitoring execution against the Group this regard, good governance practices have things, describe any steps taken or to be
strategy. When taking principal decisions in been adopted and are implemented in the taken, to engage with relevant stakeholders,
2024, the Directors considered the likely course of Board meetings administration. explain the extent to which stakeholders are,
short- and long-term consequences of the Governance features as an agenda item at all or will be impacted by the matter under
decision, how it aligned with our strategic scheduled Board meetings. Papers presented consideration, and how this has influenced
priorities, and any other relevant matters, to the Board for its consideration are the recommendation to the Board. The
including those arising under section 172(1) expected to follow a template to help ensure following pages describe some examples of
of the Companies Act 2006, in accordance that Directors have the appropriate how the Board operated during the year with
with their duties. information to take informed decisions. The regard to the matters under sections 172(1)
(a) – (f) of the Companies Act 2006 in the
course of taking principal strategic decisions.
Executive Director Changes
In April 2024, the Group announced that Sir In July 2024, the Board announced its The Board, together with the Nomination &
Noel Quinn would be retiring from his role as decision to appoint Georges Elhedery, then Corporate Governance Committee, undertook a
Group CEO and the Board began a formal Group CFO, as Group CEO. In determining further executive search process to appoint a
process to appoint a successor. As Group that Georges Elhedery was the right successor to the role of Group CFO. Following
CEO, Sir Noel Quinn drove a transformative candidate for the role, the Board took into Board approval, it was announced in July 2024
phase for the bank, leading the execution of account his exceptional leadership and that Jonathan Bingham would be appointed as
its revenue repositioning and overall proven track record of leading through interim Group CFO, with effect from 2
simplification through disposal of non-core change, driving growth, delivering September 2024, to provide strategic leadership
assets. In making the decision to appoint a simplification, prudent risk management and and continuity during the search for a permanent
new Group CEO, the Board had in mind the cost discipline. Georges has extensive candidate. In October 2024, the company
overall strategic direction and desired culture international experience and during his time announced that Pam Kaur, then Group Chief
of the Group and the skills and experience at HSBC has developed strong and Risk and Compliance Officer, would be
required to navigate the next phase of growth productive relationships with various appointed as Group CFO with effect from 1
and development. stakeholders, evidenced through positive January 2025. In taking this appointment
feedback received from analysts, investors decision, the Board took into consideration
The Board takes a long-term view to
and colleagues. Pam’s strong technical expertise and
succession planning and keeps this under
appreciation of the global challenges facing the
continual review, supported by the dedicated The Board’s decision to appoint Georges in
Group, and the banking industry more broadly,
work of the Nomination & Corporate the role of Group CEO was further influenced
together with her reputation within HSBC.
Governance Committee. Upon confirmation by his clear and ambitious vision of HSBC’s
of Sir Noel Quinn’s retirement, a formal ability to deliver for its customers, investors, Throughout the executive Director
executive search process was undertaken, employees and communities with a strong appointment processes, both the Board and
supported by an external executive search focus on execution. Since his appointment, the Nomination & Corporate Governance
agency and led by the Nomination & Georges has prioritised meetings with Committee oversaw engagement with
Corporate Governance Committee. The customers, employees and other regulators and the necessary regulatory
search process considered internal and stakeholders in HSBC’s home markets as approval processes. See the Nomination &
external candidates with the depth of well as key growth areas to continue to Corporate Governance Committee Report on
knowledge and understanding required to develop these relationships in his new role. page 259 for further information about the
lead an organisation with the global scale and appointment and induction process of the
complex nature of HSBC. Group CEO and the Group CFO respectively,
and the Board’s succession planning activities.
Group Strategy
Over the last five years, the Group has The Board receives regional strategic updates international network, and further contributed
repositioned its portfolio away from non-core from management to inform its to earnings volatility when its results were
markets and directed revenue into higher understanding of business performance and converted to USD. Consideration was given
growth areas. Through meetings with, and alignment with long-term Group strategy. to regulatory matters, the impacts of a sale
regular updates from senior management During the year, and following conclusion of on our employees and customers, particularly
across the Group, the Board continues to the sale of HSBC Bank Canada, the Board the impacts of migration and continuity of
monitor strategic execution and alignment endorsed a number of transactions to further services, and it was concluded that the
over geographical and business areas, the Group’s core ambitions. One such prospective buyer was well positioned to take
including in the context of changing transaction was the sale of the Group’s the business forward. The Board also took
geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, with business in Argentina. A strategic review of the decision to explore the sale of the
due regard to the impacts of its operations on the business was undertaken which Group’s private banking business in Germany,
stakeholders. The Board took time during the considered whether it supported our strategy in alignment with the Group’s strategic
year to consider strategic key performance for international expansion and growth. direction. Following a review, it was noted
indicators and the Group CEO provided that the German business was primarily
The review concluded that HSBC Argentina,
regular updates and progress reports on focused on domestic clients and had not
as a largely domestically-focused business,
these. been integrated into the Global Private
had limited connectivity with the Group’s
Banking business more widely. It was
22 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Group Strategy continued
determined that, to maintain focus on Global have indicated that employees want to be During the year, the Board looked closely at
Private Banking’s strategic objectives and empowered to get things done, which is one formulating the right organisational structure
prioritise focus on our international of our core values. This feedback, together to create a transparent and accountable
connectivity to scale growth in alignment with the Board’s ongoing monitoring of leadership team and has overseen significant
with our strategy, it would be favourable for customer needs, helped inform the Board’s changes to the Group Executive Committee
the business to enter into an arrangement consideration of the new structure, with its (‘GEC’) and approved several key
with an organisation better placed to grow key aims: to simplify and improve internal appointments. In conjunction with the wider
and invest in the business. The Board decision-making processes and business simplification, from 1 January 2025,
supported a sale of the private banking accountability; and enable colleagues to be the Board endorsed that the 18 member GEC
business to a suitable buyer. better positioned to serve our customers would be replaced by a new Group Operating
quickly and effectively. Committee comprised of 12 members, which
Following Georges Elhedery’s appointment
will serve as the leading executive decision-
as Group CEO, he has been focused on The Board further considered the impacts of
making committee for the Group. In taking
driving a more streamlined and dynamic organisational changes on employees and our
the decision to approve this change, the
organisational structure to enable the Board relationships with customers, investors and
Board had regard to the governance and
and management to execute at pace. During regulators. The new structure will help foster
oversight requirements of the Group, and the
the year, the Board provided oversight and clearer communication, empower teams, and
likely impacts on employees and customers
challenge to management on plans to reduce the complexity of reporting lines, with
and our ongoing commitments to our
accelerate the delivery of this strategy. In a focus on improving the employee
regulators.
October 2024, the Board approved a experience at the Group and ultimately
simplification of the Group’s organisational providing better outcomes for our customers The Board has further reviewed the
structure, to take effect from 1 January 2025, and communities. The Board will oversee and Committee structure and identified areas of
in order to create a more agile business that monitor the implementation of the new improvement, leading to the creation of a
makes it easier for colleagues to achieve best organisational structure and its impacts over new Board Sustainability Working Group
in class service for our customers, and drive the course of 2025. (‘SWG’) (see page 249), changes to the
the future success of the Group for the Group’s Technology and Operations
As HSBC accelerates delivery of its strategy,
benefit of all our stakeholders over the long Committee (see page 276) and combining of
the Board has also given considerable
term. the ESG Committee and Sustainability
thought to how to optimise the Group’s
Execution Committee (see page 249) as
As part of its meetings, the Board monitors governance and leadership structure, while
explained in further detail below.
the results of the annual employee Snapshot continuing to generate sustainable returns
survey and receives regular updates on and maintain a reputation for high standards
customer initiatives and priorities from across of business conduct.
the Group. Annual Snapshot survey results
Sustainability
The Board is responsible for setting the In recognition of the complexity of the As part of the Board’s aim to simplify and
Group’s ESG strategy and takes a direct and sustainability landscape and real-world optimise the Group’s governance and
active role in monitoring the Group’s progress transition challenges, the Board established leadership frameworks, the Board also
towards its ESG ambitions. ESG remains an the SWG, comprised of five non-executive reviewed the effectiveness of the executive
important area of focus for the Board, and Directors and supported by members of level ESG governance structure and
ESG matters were considered at most of its executive management, including the Group associated reporting to the Board. Following
meetings during the course of the year. An CEO and Group CFO. This working group has this review, in 2024 the Board endorsed the
ESG dashboard is presented to the Board an initial remit to provide oversight and rationalisation of the ESG Committee and
regularly, which contains key metrics to help guidance in relation to the Group’s Sustainability Execution Committee into a
the Board monitor progress against the sustainability activities, including the targets single governance body, the ‘ESG
Group’s ESG ambitions and drive informed and timelines set out in the net zero transition Committee’. The newly constituted ESG
discussions and decision making. plan, key sustainability risk policies and Committee continues to report to the new
communication with key stakeholder groups. Group Operating Committee, with escalation
In January 2024, the Group published its first
The SWG provides strategic input and of matters to the SWG or the Board, as
net zero transition plan which outlines the
guidance as appropriate and its areas of focus appropriate. This consolidation allows for
proposed steps for delivering the Group’s
and priority are kept under review as needed. greater Board oversight of significant ESG
ambition to align its financing portfolio to net
The SWG is actively involved in the and sustainability matters, and more
zero by 2050. Since its publication, the Board
consideration of our approach to net zero streamlined reporting of key matters up to
has been informed of feedback from
transition, covered in more detail within our Board level.
customers, investors and shareholder groups,
ESG update on page 3 and our ESG overview
and government officials, all of which have
on page 15.
provided valuable context to Board
discussions on the progress and
development of its sustainability agenda.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 23
Strategic
report
Strategic Report
Managing risk continued
In mainland China an excess of inventory and appetite to inform our strategic and financial Climate stress tests
low confidence have resulted in the fall in plans, helping to improve the quality of Scenario analysis supports our strategy by
both commercial and residential real estate management’s decision making. The results assessing our potential exposures to climate
prices. A recovery remains contingent on from the stress tests also drive recovery and risks and vulnerabilities under a range of
reform and broader economy-wide stimulus resolution planning to help enhance the climate scenarios. Scenario analysis helps to
measures. We continue to closely monitor Group’s financial stability under various build our awareness of climate change,
market conditions and take steps to severe macroeconomic or idiosyncratic understand plausible impacts to our strategy,
proactively manage our commercial real scenarios. The selection of stress scenarios is plan for the future and meet our growing
estate portfolios. based upon the identification and assessment regulatory requirements.
of our top and emerging risks and our risk
In the fourth quarter of 2024 management In 2024, we enhanced our internal climate
appetite.
adjustments to ECL were applied to reflect scenario analysis exercise by focusing our
sector or portfolio risks that are not fully The Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) efforts on generating more granular insights
captured by our models. cancelled the 2024 Annual Cyclical Scenario for key sectors and regions to support core
stress testing exercise and instead decision-making processes. We also
We continue to assess the impact of Basel
commenced a Desk Based Stress Test continued to embed climate considerations
3.1 standards on our capital, including the
exercise, which used PRA models and their into core processes across the Group and to
release of more beneficial PRA near-final
in-house expertise to test the resilience of respond to our regulatory requirements.
rules, developments in the US and the
the UK banking system against more than Additionally, we produced several climate
associated implementation challenges.
one adverse macroeconomic scenario. HSBC stress tests for regulators around the world,
provided 2023 year-end data to support this. including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
We monitor, and seek to manage, the
The results of this exercise across firms were
potential implications of all the above
published in aggregate only, within the For further details of our approach to climate risk
developments on our customers and our stress testing, see ‘Insights from scenario
Financial Stability Report issued in the fourth
business. While the financial performance of analysis’ on page 223.
quarter of 2024. The PRA announced an
our operations varied by geography, our
updated Stress Testing Framework and
balance sheet and liquidity remained strong. Our operations
intends to return to a concurrent exercise in
We remain committed to investing in the
For further details of our Central and other 2025, involving the submission of stressed reliability and resilience of our technology
scenarios, see ‘Measurement uncertainty and projections. Further details will be provided
systems and critical services. We assess our
sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on page by the PRA during 2025.
third parties to help ensure they deliver the
147.
standard of services we require to provide
During 2024, the Group-wide internal stress
Our risk appetite test was completed and assessed the impact resilient services to our customers. We do so
Our risk appetite sets our approach to of two contrasting scenarios envisioning to help protect our customers, affiliates and
monitoring and managing our risk exposure. It severe macroeconomic conditions over a five- counterparties, and minimise any disruption
defines our desired forward-looking risk year period. These scenarios reflected the to our services. In our approach to defending
profile and informs the strategic and financial uncertain inflation and interest rate against these threats, we invest in business
planning process. It provides a baseline to environment, heightened geopolitical and technical controls to help us prevent,
guide strategic decision making by helping tensions, banking sector challenges, and detect, manage and recover from issues in a
planned business activities to deliver an global economic stress. The outcomes timely manner within our risk appetite.
appropriate balance of return for the risk demonstrated that the Group has sufficient
We are working to balance the opportunity
assumed, while remaining within acceptable capital to withstand severe but plausible
artificial intelligence (‘AI’) presents to
risk levels. Risk appetite supports senior stress conditions. Additionally, the
accelerate delivery of our strategy with the
management in allocating financial resources conclusions drawn from this exercise will also
need for appropriate controls to be in place to
optimally to finance sustainable growth and be included in the Group Internal Capital
mitigate the associated risks. HSBC is
manage risk exposures. Adequacy Assessment Process.
committed to using AI responsibly. HSBC’s
At 31 December 2024 our CET1 ratio and Climate risk Principles for the Ethical Use of Data and AI
ECL charges were within their defined risk Climate risk relates to the financial and non- are available at www.hsbc.com/ai. We
appetite thresholds. Our CET1 capital ratio at financial impacts that may arise as a continue to refine and embed governance
31 December 2024 was 14.9%, up marginally consequence of climate change and the and controls into our risk management
compared with the prior year as capital move to a net zero economy. Climate risk can processes to help meet the Group’s needs
generation and a reduction in RWAs through impact us either directly or through our and increasing regulatory expectations for
strategic transactions were offset by relationships with our clients. These include when AI is both developed internally and
dividends, share buy-backs and organic the potential risks arising as a result of our enabled through third parties.
balance sheet growth. For further details of net zero ambition, which could lead to
We continue to focus on improving the
the key drivers of the overall CET1 ratio, see reputational concerns, and potential legal and/
quality and timeliness of the data used to
‘Own funds’ on page 205. Wholesale ECL or regulatory enforcement action if we are
inform management decisions, and are
charges during the year continued to reflect perceived to mislead stakeholders on our
progressing with the implementation of our
stress in the mainland China and Hong Kong business activities or if we fail to achieve our
strategic and regulatory change initiatives to
commercial real estate sectors however, stated net zero ambition.
help deliver the right outcomes for our
Wholesale and Retail ECL charges remained
customers, people, investors and
within appetite. We seek to manage climate risk across all our
communities.
businesses in line with our Group-wide risk
Stress tests management framework and continue to
For further details of our risk management
We regularly conduct stress tests to assess incorporate climate considerations within our framework and risks associated with our banking
the resilience of our balance sheet and our traditional risk types. and insurance manufacturing operations, see
capital adequacy, as well as to provide pages 136 and 231, respectively.
actionable insights into how key elements of For further details of our approach to climate risk
our portfolios may behave during a crisis. We management, see ‘Climate risk‘ on page 219.
use the outcomes to calibrate our risk For further details of our TCFD disclosures, see
the ‘ESG review‘ on page 444.
38 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Top and emerging risks
Our top and emerging risks report identifies on the financial results, reputation or management. Our suite of top and emerging
forward-looking risks so that they can be business model of the Group. We actively risks is subject to regular review by senior
considered in determining whether any manage and take actions to mitigate our top governance forums. We continue to monitor
incremental action is needed to either risks. Emerging risks are those that, while closely the identified risks and agree
prevent them from materialising or to limit they could have a material impact on our risk management actions to remediate and/or
their effect. Top risks are those that have the profile were they to occur, are not considered reduce them to acceptable levels, as
potential to have a material adverse impact immediate and are not under active required.
Risk Trend Description
Externally driven
Geopolitical and ~ Our operations and portfolios are subject to risks arising from political instability, civil unrest and military conflict, which could
macroeconomic risks lead to disruption of our operations, physical risk to our staff and/or physical damage to our assets. We are also subject to
cyclical and idiosyncratic macroeconomic risks. Among the key risks to the economic outlook is the prospective recalibration
of economic and trade policies following elections in the US and other markets in 2024. This could prove disruptive to the
global economy.
Technology and ~ There is an increased risk of service disruption or loss of data resulting from technology failures or malicious activities from
cybersecurity risk internal or external threats. We continue to monitor changes to the technology and threat landscape, including those arising
from ongoing geopolitical and macroeconomic events and the impact this may have on third-party risk management. We
operate a continuous improvement programme to help support the resilience and stability of our technology operations and
counter a fast-evolving and heightened cyber threat environment.
Environmental, social ~ We are subject to ESG risks, including in relation to climate change, nature and human rights. These risks have increased
and governance owing to the pace and volume of regulatory developments globally, signs of diverging national agendas, increasing frequency
(‘ESG’) risks of severe weather events, which require careful monitoring, and may impact financial and non-financial risks due to
stakeholders placing more emphasis on financial institutions’ actions and investment decisions in respect of ESG matters.
Failure to meet these evolving expectations may result in financial and non-financial risks, including reputational, legal and
regulatory compliance risks.
Financial crime risk ~ We are exposed to financial crime risk from our customers, staff and third parties engaging in criminal activity. The financial
crime risk environment is heightened due to increasingly complex geopolitical challenges, the macroeconomic outlook, the
complex and dynamic nature of sanctions and export control compliance, evolving financial crime regulations, rapid
technological developments, an increasing number of national data privacy requirements and the increasing sophistication of
fraud. As a result, we will continue to face the possibility of regulatory enforcement and reputational risk.
Digitalisation and ~ Developments in technology and changes in regulations continue to enable new entrants to the banking industry as well as
technological new products and services offered by competitors. This challenges us to continue to innovate with new digital capabilities and
advances evolve our products, to attract, retain and best serve our customers. Along with opportunities, new technology, including
generative AI, can introduce risks and disruption. We seek to manage technology developments with appropriate controls and
oversight.
Evolving regulatory } The regulatory and compliance risk environment is set against continued geopolitical risk and regulatory focus on operational
environment risk resilience, financial resilience, model risk, ESG, financial crime and risk management practices. Multiple jurisdictions are
progressing the implementation of Basel 3.1 standards to various timescales, some of which are being delayed. The
governmental and regulatory focus on improving pro-business growth is also driving legislative and regulatory change.
Internally driven
Data risk } We use data to serve our customers and run our operations, often in real-time within digital experiences and processes. If our
data is not accurate and timely, our ability to serve customers, operate with resilience or meet regulatory requirements could
be impacted. We seek to ensure that non-public data is kept confidential, and that we comply with the growing number of
regulations that govern data privacy and cross-border movement of data.
Risks arising from the } We procure goods and services from a range of third parties. Due to the current macroeconomic and geopolitical climate, the
receipt of services risk of service disruption in our supply chain remains heightened. We continue to strengthen our controls, oversight and risk
from third parties management policies and processes to select and manage third parties, including our third parties’ own supply chains,
particularly for key activities that could affect our operational resilience.
Model risk ~ Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes reliance on models. We use models in both financial and non-
financial contexts, as well as in a range of business applications. Evolving regulatory requirements are driving material
changes to the way model risk is managed across the banking industry, with a particular focus on capital models. New
technologies, including AI and generative AI, are driving a need for enhanced model risk controls.
Change execution risk } Delivering change effectively is critical to achieving our strategy and enables us to meet rapidly-evolving customer and
stakeholder needs. We seek to deliver complex change in line with established risk management processes, prioritising
sustainable outcomes and understanding the associated risks. We focus on meeting industry and regulatory expectations and
fulfilling our obligations to customers and clients.
Risks associated with ~ Our businesses, functions and geographies are exposed to risks associated with employee retention and talent availability,
workforce capability, changing skills requirements of our workforce, and compliance with employment laws and regulations. Attrition across the
capacity and Group remains stable, but failure to manage these risks may impact the delivery of our strategic objectives or lead to
environmental factors regulatory sanctions or legal claims, and the risks are heightened during the current period of fundamental organisational
with potential impact change.
on growth
}
~ Risk heightened during 2024 Risk remained at the same level as 2023
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 39
Strategic
report
Strategic Report
Long-term viability and going
concern statement
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, term viability, including those that would increases and strained economic and
the Directors are required to provide a viability threaten its solvency and liquidity. They diplomatic relations between China and the
statement that must state whether the Group determined that the principal risks are the US, the UK, the EU and other countries;
will be able to continue in operation and meet Group’s top and emerging risks as set out on
– reports and updates regarding regulatory and
its liabilities, taking into account its current page 39. These include geopolitical and
internal stress testing. In 2024 the Bank of
position and the principal risks it faces. They macroeconomic risks (including geopolitical
England completed their Desk Based Stress
must also specify the period covered by, and tensions and their impact on sanctions, trade
Test exercise to assess the resilience of the
the appropriateness of, this statement. restrictions and tariff increases, and
UK banking system. The stress scenario
continued distressed Chinese economic
The Directors have specified a period of three explored the potential impacts of a number
activity), digitalisation and technological
years to 31 December 2027. They are satisfied of adverse macroeconomic conditions,
advances, financial crime risk and ESG risks,
that a forward-looking assessment of the including global aggregate demand and
all of which have remained at heightened
Group for this period is sufficient to enable a supply shock, global commodity prices and
levels during 2024.
reasonable statement of viability. In addition, supply-chain disruptions from increased
this period is covered by the Group’s stress The Directors assessed that all of the top and geopolitical tensions, uncertain inflation
testing programmes, and its internal emerging risks identified are considered to be across advanced economies and rapidly
projections for profitability, key capital ratios material and, therefore, appropriate to be changing interest rates. Additionally, HSBC
and leverage ratios. Notwithstanding this, our classified as the principal risks to be completed the 2024 Group-wide internal
stress testing programmes also cover considered in the assessment of viability. They stress test, which explored the impact of
scenarios out to five years and our also appraised the impact that these principal two contrasting scenarios depicting severe
assessments of risks are beyond three years risks could have on the Group’s risk profile, macroeconomic conditions over a five-year
where appropriate (see page 131): taking account of mitigating actions planned or period, reflecting banking sector strains and
taken for each, and compared this with the global economic stress. The results of both
– This period is representative of the time Group’s risk appetite as approved by the these exercises indicated the Group is
horizon to consider the impact of ongoing Board. sufficiently capitalised to withstand severe
regulatory changes in the financial services but plausible adverse stress;
industry. In carrying out their assessment of the
– the results of our 2024 internal climate
principal risks, the Directors considered a wide
– Our updated business plan covers 2025 – scenario analysis exercise further
range of information including:
2029. demonstrate the Group is sufficiently
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, – details of the Group’s business and capitalised to withstand severe stress.
is satisfied that the Group as a whole has operating models, and strategy (see page Further details of the insights from the 2024
adequate resources to continue operations for 11); climate scenario analysis are explained from
page 223;
a period of at least 12 months from the date of – details of the Group’s approach to managing
this report, and it therefore continues to adopt risk and allocating capital; – reports and updates from management on
the going concern basis in preparing the risk-related issues selected for in-depth
– a summary of the Group’s financial position
financial statements. consideration;
considering performance, its ability to
Based upon their assessment, the Directors maintain minimum levels of regulatory – reports and updates on regulatory
have a reasonable expectation that the Group capital, liquidity funding and the minimum developments;
will be able to continue in operation and meet requirements for own funds and eligible – legal proceedings and regulatory matters set
liabilities as they fall due over the next three liabilities over the period of the assessment. out in Note 35 on the financial statements;
years. Notable are the risks which the Directors and
believe could adversely impact the Group’s
In making their going concern and viability – reports and updates from management on
future results or operations;
assessments, the Directors have considered a the operational resilience of the Group.
wide range of detailed information relating to – enterprise risk reports, including the
present and potential conditions, including Group’s risk appetite profile (see page 127)
projections for profitability, liquidity, capital and top and emerging risks (see page 131); Aileen Taylor
requirements and capital resources. – the impact on the Group due to the Russia- Group Chief People & Governance Officer
Ukraine war and conflict in the Middle East;
The Directors carried out a robust 19 February 2025
uncertainty around Hong Kong and mainland
assessment of the emerging and principal
China’s commercial real estate sector,
risks facing the Group to determine its long-
potential trade restrictions and tariff
40 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Environmental,
social and
governance
review
Our ESG review sets out our approach to our 42 Environmental
environment, customers, employees and 63 Social
73 Governance
governance. It explains how we aim to achieve
our purpose, deliver our strategy in a way that is
sustainable, and build strong relationships with all
of our stakeholders.
How we present our TCFD disclosures
Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 18 and
additional information is included on pages 444 to 450. Further
details have been embedded in this section and the Risk review
section on pages 219 to 228. Our TCFD disclosures are highlighted
with the following symbol: TCFD
Shanghai, China, 1870s. Waterfront View.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 41
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Environmental
TCFD
Transition to net zero
We aim to support the transition to net zero and a sustainable future
in partnership with our customers and other stakeholders
At a glance
Supporting the transition to net zero is a key customers on their transition plans, managing transition plan review referenced in our 3Q24
priority for HSBC. In 2020, we set an ambition to the products and services that we offer, and earnings release in October.
become a net zero bank by 2050. We continue adapting the financing choices we make to help
As we calibrate our approach for the latest
to develop our capabilities, products and services move the world towards a resilient, net zero
context, we will seek to balance being ambitious
to support our customers’ transition, reduce economy.
on net zero while recognising the present near-
emissions in our own operations and partner for
We have set 2030 targets that combine financed term global challenges and the associated
systemic change.
and facilitated emissions for the oil and gas impact of the transition playing out differently
We believe supporting our customers’ transition sector on an absolute emissions reduction basis, across the regions and sectors we serve. In
both benefits their business and helps generate and for the power and utilities sector using an doing so we plan to draw on the latest scientific
long-term financial returns for our shareholders. emissions intensity metric. We have also set a evidence and credible industry-specific
Since we set our net zero ambition, we have target for on-balance sheet financed emissions pathways, while, at the same time, maintaining
seen promising progress in some vital areas of for thermal coal mining. our commitment under our 2021 Climate
the decarbonisation challenge. Yet while the For demand-side sectors, we have set 2030 Resolution.
transition has progressed, the global pace of
emissions intensity targets to reflect the need to Own operations and supply chain
change remains insufficient. We are limited by,
scale up low-emissions technologies while In 2020, we set an ambition to reach net zero in
and cannot on our own overcome, the present
transitioning away from existing high-emitting our operations and supply chain by 2030. Our
lag in policy measures and the overall slower
technologies in transport and industry. As part of approach is to reduce emissions from
pace of the transition.
our financial reporting, we present the progress consumption, replace consumption with low-
In our net zero transition plan published in for these sectors against our published financed emissions alternatives, and remove remaining
January 2024 we committed to continually emissions baselines and targets. emissions with high-quality carbon credits, in line
calibrate our approach to take into consideration As we have set out in our net zero transition with external guidance.
the latest scientific methodologies, climate-
plan, we must acknowledge that there are We continue to make good progress in driving
related policies, and developments in the real
fundamental prerequisites, outside of our down our direct emissions. However, progress
world, given that our sector portfolios reflect
control, which impact our ability to meet our in reducing scope 3 emissions in our supply
progress in the regional economies where we
2030 interim financed emissions targets. These chain is proving slower than we anticipated,
operate. As we near the mid-point towards our
include technological advancements, driven mainly by the slower pace of the transition
own 2030 targets, it is important to take stock of
diversification of the energy mix, market demand across the real economy.
our own progress so far. We have made good
for climate solutions, evolving customer
progress in reducing the emissions from our While we remain committed to our approach, it
preferences, and government leadership and
own operations but more uneven progress has become clear that we would need to rely
effective policy.
towards our ambitions for our financed heavily on carbon offsets to achieve net zero in
emissions footprint. At the current pace of decarbonisation, a our supply chain by 2030. As such, we have
combination of the above factors has led to the revisited our ambition to take into account latest
Financed emissions transition being slower than envisaged by recent best practice guidance on carbon offsets. We are
Our strategy is to support emissions reductions Paris-aligned net zero scenarios. Against this now focused on achieving net zero across our
in the wider economy by working with our background, we have begun a review of our operations, travel and supply chain by 2050.
portfolio of customers to facilitate the emissions interim 2030 financed emission targets and
reductions they are seeking to make. We associated policies as part of the annual net zero
continue to focus on engaging with our
In this section
Understanding We continue to evolve our disclosures taking into consideration data Page 43
our climate limitations and other challenges, and provide an overview of key changes for
reporting 2024.
Supporting our Sustainable finance and We seek to support our customers’ transition to net zero, including through Page 45
customers investment the provision and facilitation of sustainable finance and investment solutions.
Partnering for Supporting systemic change We focus on building partnerships that help support an enabling environment for Page 47
systemic change to help deliver net zero scaling net zero solutions in the geographies most impacted by climate change.
Embedding net Financed emissions We aim to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050. Page 48
zero Net zero in our own We aim to achieve net zero in our own operations, travel and supply chain by Page 58
operations 2050, in line with our overarching net zero ambition.
Managing climate risk We manage climate risk across our businesses in line with our Group-wide risk Page 60
management framework and continue to enhance our stress testing and
scenario analysis capability to identify and understand climate-related risks.
Sustainability risk policies Our sustainability risk policies help to set out our appetite for financing and Page 61
advisory activities in certain sectors.
42 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Understanding our climate reporting
Continuing to evolve our climate Lack of consistency across sustainable
disclosures finance taxonomies Key changes to our 2024 disclosures
We engage with standard setters to support Sustainable finance metrics, taxonomies and We are committed to timely and
the development of transparent and consistent practices currently lack global consistency. As transparent reporting. However, we
climate-related industry standards in areas such standards develop and regulatory guidance recognise that challenges may result in us
as product labelling, sustainability disclosures, evolves across jurisdictions, our targets, having to change certain disclosures. In
sustainable finance taxonomy and emissions methodologies and disclosures may also 2024, there was an impact on certain
accounting. In 2025, we will continue to review need to adapt. Recognising these challenges, climate disclosures, including:
and enhance our approach to disclosures. we have developed and disclosed our – Financed emissions for the automotive,
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data thermal coal mining and aviation sectors:
Internal and external data challenges Dictionary to accompany reporting against our In 2024, we made a methodological
The effective measurement, governance and sustainable financing and investment change to the way we calculate
reporting of progress against our climate ambition. For further details, see page 45. financed emissions for our automotive
ambitions relies heavily on the availability and clients. In addition, we identified errors
quality of both internal and external data. The evolution of the dictionary could lead to in both the thermal coal mining and
Newer data sources and topics may be difficult differences in year-on-year reporting. We aviation sectors, including errors in
to assure using traditional verification continue to engage with standard setters in lending product codes. These changes
techniques. This, coupled with diverse external different regions to support the development have resulted in a 25% decrease in
data sources and complex structures, further of transparent and consistent taxonomies to emissions reported for automotive and a
complicates data consolidation. Our internal encourage science-based decarbonisation, 30% increase in emissions reported for
data on customer groups that was used to particularly in high transition risk sectors. aviation in 2022 figures, and a 18%
source financial exposure and emissions data, increase in emissions reported for
is based on credit and relationship Impact on our reporting and financial thermal coal mining in the 2020 baseline
management factors and is not always aligned statements figure on an absolute financed
with the need to analyse emissions across We have assessed the impact of climate risk emissions basis. For further details, see
sector value chains. This can result in on our balance sheet and have concluded that page 51.
inconsistencies in our financed emissions no incremental adjustments were needed to – Thermal coal exposure: we continue to
calculations. capture climate impacts in our financial refine our basis of preparation and have
statements for the year ended 31 December made further enhancements in 2024.
We continue to invest in the development of 2024. The effects of climate change are a For further details, see page 62.
data and analytics capabilities to support our source of uncertainty. We capture known and – Supply chain emissions: we have
transition. This includes sourcing more reliable observable potential impacts of climate- restated our supply chain emissions due
data from external providers. We are also related risks in our asset valuations and to revisions in our methodology and an
developing our processes, systems, controls balance sheet calculations. These are error in the mapping of industry averages.
and governance to meet the demands of future considered in relevant areas of our balance This has resulted in a 25% increase to
ESG reporting. sheet, including expected credit losses, our 2019 baseline emissions and a 2%
classification and measurement of financial increase to our 2023 reported emissions.
Given our dependency on collecting emissions
instruments, goodwill and other intangible For further details, see page 59.
data from our clients and the manual nature of
assets; and in making the long-term viability
the process, enhanced verification and – Asset management financed emissions
and going concern assessment. As part of
assurance procedures are performed on a 2019 baseline: we have re-baselined our
assessing the impact on our financial
sample basis over this data, including the first 2019 intensity figure due to an error in
statements we conducted scenario analysis
and second lines of defence. Our climate the issuer mapping and is now 124
to understand the impact of climate risk on
models undergo independent review by an tCO2e/M$ invested versus 131 tCO2e/
our business (see pages 60 and 223). For
internal model review group, and we obtain M$ invested reported in the Annual
further details of how management
limited assurance on our financed emissions Report and Accounts 2022. For further
considered the impact of climate-related risks
details, see page 57.
and sustainable finance disclosures from
on its financial position and performance, see
external parties, including our external auditors. – Energy consumption: We have restated
‘Critical estimates and judgements’ on page
our 2019 metric for total energy
354.
Policies and implementation consumption due to an error. For further
We continue to review and enhance Progress on our net zero transition plan details, see page 59
implementation of sustainability risk policies as
We continue to take actions across our
we apply them in practice. They are reviewed
organisation to support the implementation of
and, where appropriate, updated based on
our net zero transition plan. This report
factors including risk materiality,
provides key updates on our progress in 2024
implementation experience, evolving scientific
and our annual TCFD reporting.
guidance, updated climate scenarios, policy
and regulatory requirements and evolving For further details of our climate risk exposures,
industry practices. see page 219.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 43
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
To measure and manage our greenhouse gas Our own Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 31 Our financed
emissions, we follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol operations and Indirect Indirect Direct Indirect emissions See
supply chain page 48
global framework, which identifies three scopes See page 58
of emissions. Scope 1 represents the direct
emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the
indirect emissions resulting from the use of
electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 Electricity, Purchased Company
represents indirect emissions attributed to upstream h s e t a e a n a t d i m n g go se o r d v s ic a e n s d facilities
and downstream activities. Our upstream activities cooling (Category 1)
include business travel and emissions from our
supply chain including transport, distribution and
Company
waste. Our downstream activities include those
vehicles
related to investments and including financed
emissions.
Under the protocol, scope 3 emissions are also
Business travel Capital goods Investments and
broken down into 15 categories, of which we (Category 6) (Category 2) financed emissions
(category 15)
provide reporting emissions data for three related
to upstream activities. These are: purchased goods
and services (category 1); capital goods (category 2); Upstream activities HSBC Holdings Downstream activities
and business travel (category 6). We also report
data on downstream activities for financed
emissions (category 15).
For further breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
1 Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and ‘facilitated emissions’.
Assurance relating to ESG metrics TCFD
HSBC Holdings plc is responsible for Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ The work performed for independent limited
preparation of the ESG information and all and, in respect of the greenhouse gas assurance is substantially less than the work
supporting records, including selecting emissions, in accordance with the International performed for a reasonable assurance opinion,
appropriate measurement and reporting Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 such as that provided for financial statements.
criteria, in this Annual Report and Accounts ‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas
Our data dictionaries and methodologies for
2024, ESG Data Pack and the additional reports Statements’, issued by the International preparing the above ESG-related metrics and
published on our website. Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, on independent third-party limited assurance reports
the following specific ESG metrics: can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-
We recognise the importance of ESG and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
disclosures and the quality of data underpinning – our use of proceeds from Green Bond
them. We also acknowledge that our internal issuances 2024 (published in December
processes to support ESG disclosures continue 2024);
to be developed and that currently they partly – our cumulative sustainable finance and
rely on manual sourcing and categorisation of investment provided and facilitated from
data. Certain aspects of our ESG disclosures are 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2024 (see
subject to enhanced verification and assurance page 45);
procedures including the first, second and third – our on-balance sheet financed emissions for
lines of defence. Assurance assists with 2023 for six sectors, our on-balance sheet
reducing the risk of misstatement, although it financed emissions for 2021 and 2022 for
cannot be fully eliminated given the challenges thermal coal mining, and our facilitated
in data, evolving methodologies and emerging emissions for two sectors for 2023 (see
standards. We aim to continue to enhance our page 56);
approach in line with external regulations and
– our thermal coal financing drawn balance
expectations.
exposures for 2021 and 2022 (see page 62);
For 2024, ESG metrics are subject to stand- – our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3
alone independent limited third-party assurance (business travel) greenhouse gas emissions
in accordance with the International Standard data (see page 59), as well as supply chain
on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) emissions (purchased good and services, and
‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or capital goods) data; and
– our re-baselined 2019 intensity metric and the
scope 1 and 2 financed emission intensity
achieved by 31 December 2023 for our HSBC
asset management business (see page 57).
44 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Supporting our customers
Sustainable finance and investment TCFD
We aim to help our customers transition to Dictionary 2024. This included 39% where On-balance sheet sustainable lending
net zero and a sustainable future by providing the use of proceeds was dedicated to green transactions increased by 11% compared
and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of financing, 12% to social financing, and 15% with 2023. In 2024, transactions totalling
sustainable finance and investment by 2030. to other sustainable financing. It also included $0.5bn were identified as no longer fulfilling
Our sustainable finance and investment 24% of sustainability-linked financing and our eligibility criteria. These were declassified
ambition aims to help promote green, 10% of net new investment flows managed and removed from the cumulative progress
sustainable and socially-focused business and and distributed on behalf of investors. total, and reported as a negative entry in
sustainable investment products and 2024. Since 1 January 2020, the cumulative
In 2024, our underwriting of green, social,
solutions. amount declassified from the total is $1.2bn.
sustainability and sustainability-linked bonds
Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and for clients increased over the year, measured Continued progress towards achieving our
facilitated a cumulative $352.5bn of on a proportional share basis, in line with the sustainable finance and investment ambition
sustainable finance and $41.1bn of ESG and wider bond market environment, although it is dependent on market demand for the
sustainable investing, as defined in our remained at 15% of our total bond products and services set out in our
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data underwriting. Sustainable Finance and Investment Data
Dictionary 2024.
Cumulative
progress
2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 since 2020
Sustainable finance and investment summary1 ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn)
Balance sheet-related transactions provided2 47.4 42.7 42.2 26.0 10.4 168.7
Capital markets/advisory (facilitated) 37.3 33.3 34.5 48.7 30.0 183.8
ESG and sustainable investing (net new flows) 14.5 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 41.1
Total contribution6 99.2 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 393.6
Sustainable finance and investment classification by theme1
Green use of proceeds5 42.2 37.1 29.0 27.1 18.9 154.3
Social use of proceeds 9.6 8.4 6.7 11.3 9.7 45.7
Other sustainable use of proceeds3 13.9 10.7 12.6 11.7 8.3 57.2
Sustainability-linked4 19.0 19.8 28.4 24.6 3.5 95.3
ESG and sustainable investing 14.5 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 41.1
Total contribution6 99.2 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 393.6
1 The 2024 data in this table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024, which includes green, social and
sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the limits agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided (including drawn and
undrawn amounts), the proportional share of facilitated capital markets/advisory activities and ESG and sustainable investing net new flows of both HSBC-owned
(Asset Management) sustainable investment funds and Wealth and Global Private Banking investments.
2 In 2024 only 9 months of WPB green/energy efficient mortgages were included for the first time within Other Qualified Green Lending, future years’ reporting will
include 12 months of transactions.
3 Sustainable use of proceeds can be used for green, social or a combination of green and social purposes, assessed by HSBC against internal standards and
relevant industry guidelines.
4 Sustainability-linked products, where the coupon or interest rate is dependent on whether the borrower achieves certain pre-defined sustainability performance
target(s), are assessed by HSBC against internal standards and relevant industry guidelines and can be used for general purposes, which may be sustainable or
non-sustainable.
5 Included within the total cumulative contribution towards our ambition are transactions to customers within the six high transition risk sectors (i.e. automotive,
chemicals, construction and building materials, metal and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities) as described on page 221, of which approximately $56bn is
defined as green use of proceeds in line with the Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024.
6 The $393.6bn cumulative progress since 1 January 2020 is subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with International Standard on
Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. Our Sustainable Finance and
Investment Data Dictionary 2024 and independent third-party limited assurance report is available at: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.
Our sustainable finance and investment data dictionary
We define sustainable finance and investment We update our data dictionary annually, We engage in industry initiatives to develop our
as any form of financial service that integrates including reviewing our product definitions, understanding and approach to ‘transition
ESG criteria into business or investment adding new qualifying products and removing finance’. However, we do not currently plan to
decisions. This includes financing, investing products that no longer qualify, making include transition finance as a product label or
and related activities that support the enhancements to our internal standards, and stand-alone category in our data dictionary and
achievement of the UN SDGs, including but developing our reporting and governance. This reporting. We will continue to monitor industry
not limited to the aims of the Paris Agreement year, we also indicate for the first time the guidance as it develops.
on climate change. types of eligible environmental and social
activities we intend to consider going forward For our 2024 ESG Data Pack and Sustainable
Our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data when qualifying certain use of proceeds Finance and Investment Data Dictionary, see
Dictionary sets out our approach for classifying financing for inclusion towards our sustainable www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
financing and investment as sustainable for the responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
finance and investment ambition including:
purpose of tracking and disclosing our
climate solutions; nature; adaptation and social-
performance against our sustainable finance
related activities.
and investment ambition.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 45
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Sustainable finance and investment continued TCFD
Leveraging our strengths Pentagreen Capital, our joint venture with companies in the Google Cloud Ready
We are focused on three key areas that play to Singapore investment firm Temasek targets Sustainability programme, and support them to
our strengths as an organisation and can help marginally bankable clean energy and adaptation scale up. These companies can now access
deliver an impact on decarbonisation in the projects in Southeast Asia to support them to HSBC products and services that are tailored to
global economy, particularly in Asia-Pacific and commercial scale, with the aim of accelerating the their specific growth ambitions, including
the Middle East where the need for financing at transition to a low carbon economy. Pentagreen venture debt financing options and support from
scale is most critical. In 2024, we were named Capital completed its second deal in 2024: a green our specialist climate tech finance team.
the world’s best bank for sustainable finance in loan for BE C&I Solutions to catalyse the
Decarbonising trade and supply chains
the Euromoney Awards for Excellence. construction of distributed sustainable bioenergy
We continue to focus on helping to decarbonise
projects across Southeast Asia and India.
Transitioning industry trade flows and supply chains through our green
We support our clients in emissions-intensive To support our WPB customers, HSBC UK trade finance and sustainable trade instruments,
industries with their transition goals by engaging launched Energy Efficient Home Cashback sustainable supply chain financing and
with them on their transition plans and by Mortgages, to offer cashback incentives to sustainability-linked lending for trade.
providing financing solutions. customers taking out our mortgage loans to
We supported PDS Limited, a global fashion
finance their purchases of residential properties
In 2024, we refreshed transition plan infrastructure platform, on a trade facility to
with an A or B EPC rating.
assessments for major clients in the oil and gas, enable deployment of working capital linked to
power and utilities and coal mining sectors, and Catalysing the new economy the successful delivery of environmental and
we began assessing major clients in the We aim to support clean industrial development social targets across their operations, aligned to
automotive, aviation, cement, steel and and the scaling of entrepreneurial new economy their ESG approach.
aluminium sectors, to better understand their companies at all stages of financing across the
Mid-market and smaller businesses make up a
objectives and identify opportunities to enable markets we operate in. We do this through
large proportion of global supply chains. In 2024,
their decarbonisation strategies. direct financing and investment as well as
we expanded our sustainable finance
through catalytic partnerships.
Development of clean power generation is capabilities with the launch of a sustainability
critical to achieving net zero. We supported Abu We continue to work closely with Breakthrough improvement loan (‘SIL’) for businesses of this
Dhabi Future Energy Company (Masdar) towards Energy in developing and deploying critical size in Hong Kong and Singapore, broadening
its equity commitments on new greenfield climate solutions. We are an anchor partner in the sustainable finance options available in the
projects in renewable energy and energy the Breakthrough Energy Catalyst platform, region. We recently completed our first SIL
efficiency, by acting as joint lead manager and which provides expertise, resources and capital transaction in Asia-Pacific with Opal Cosmetics,
bookrunner in raising $1bn through its second into first-of-a-kind or first commercial scale a manufacturer and seller of personal care and
green bond issuance. projects. Additionally, in 2024 we directly beauty products headquartered in Hong Kong
supported a number of Breakthrough Energy and with a global supply chain. The proceeds
Scaling infrastructure finance plays an important
Ventures portfolio companies with venture debt from the facility will support the company’s
role in meeting global decarbonisation
and other banking services. We acted as a lead general working capital needs and ongoing
objectives. In 2024, we launched HSBC
arranger in a $100m credit facility for US-based research and development activities. We now
Infrastructure Finance (‘HIF’), which brings
Electric Hydrogen to support the manufacturing offer sustainability improvement loans to clients
together our infrastructure finance, export
and deployment of the company’s electrolyser in 11 markets.
finance, and debt/project finance capabilities to
plants in producing green hydrogen.
increase our capacity to realise opportunities in For more examples of how we are supporting
the transition to a low carbon economy. In 2024, we launched a partnership with Google our customers, see additional case studies on
pages 19, 48, 49, 50, 51, and 57.
Cloud to offer banking support for climate tech
ESG and sustainable investing
We offer a broad suite of ESG and sustainable can include, but are not limited to, climate or discretionary and alternatives. In 2024, we
investing solutions across asset management, net-zero transition plans and controversies continued to expand our investment offering with
wealth, private banking, and insurance, to help identified related to UN SDGs. the launch of eight ESG and sustainable investing
institutional and individual investors generate mutual funds and ETFs. We regularly publish
For the avoidance of doubt, products or assets
financial returns, manage risk and pursue ESG- insights to help our clients better understand the
invested pursuant to our ESG and sustainable
related objectives in line with their preferences. ESG implications of their investments.
investing approach do not necessarily qualify as
As at 31 December 2024, HSBC Asset ‘sustainable investments’ as defined by the EU In 2024, we made updates to integrate ESG into
Management managed $179.8bn in ESG and Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation and/or our client wealth advisory journey in both
sustainable investing portfolios for internal and other relevant regulations, and may not qualify as Switzerland and Luxembourg, including building
external investors. This includes those that are ‘sustainable’ products for the purposes of the UK capabilities to understand private banking
distributed by HSBC Wealth and Private Banking Sustainability Disclosure Requirements and clients’ sustainability preferences, rebalance
and those HSBC Asset Management manages European Securities and Markets Authority fund their investment portfolios and monitor
on behalf of HSBC Life. naming guidance and/or any other regulatory portfolios in line with their preferences. We also
standards. The HSBC ESG and sustainable integrated client sustainability preferences into
HSBC Asset Management recognises that its
investing approach is an internal classification the investment product filtering process for
clients’ investment objectives are evolving, and
used to establish our own ESG and sustainable retail wealth clients in Hong Kong.
sustainability preferences vary, and offers a
investing standards and to promote consistency
broad range of sustainable investing solutions, in In 2024, HSBC Life increased ESG and
across asset classes and HSBC business lines
both traditional and alternative areas of sustainable investing assets across its insurance
where relevant. Our ESG and sustainable
investment. Our ESG and sustainable investing manufacturing entities in Asia, Europe, and Latin
investing approach should not be relied on
approach includes impact funds with a clear America. The majority of these newly-deployed
externally to assess the sustainability
ESG or sustainable objective, thematic funds assets were green and sustainability-linked
characteristics of any given product.
that seek to invest in ESG or sustainable trends, bonds, followed by placements into sustainable
and strategies that seek to mitigate ESG risks by For our private banking and wealth customers, private credit funds.
investing assets with higher ESG performance we offer a range of ESG and sustainable investing
For further details of our asset management
and exclusions of those that are lower ESG products across different asset classes, including
policies, see page 62.
performing. Considerations across our approach mutual funds, ETFs, equities, fixed income,
46 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Partnering for systemic change
Supporting systemic change to help deliver net zero
We focus on building strategic partnerships that technologies. The partnership seeks to provide
can help to create an enabling environment for capacity building and facilitate connections with Our just transition approach
mobilising finance, and support development the investment community to support the The transition to net zero is expected to
and scaling-up of solutions for the net zero development and scaling of key climate drive social changes on a global scale,
transition. For example, in 2024 we made a technologies. presenting risks and opportunities for our
strategic investment in sustainable aviation fuel clients and our stakeholders. Our net
(‘SAF’) through a one-time purchase agreement Our partnership with the Venture Climate zero transition plan sets out our initial
for approximately 1.2m US gallons of SAF Alliance (‘VCA’) supports venture capital firms to approach to incorporating just transition
produced by EcoCeres, which will be used to shape and share best practices that help to considerations. We are taking steps to
refuel Cathay Pacific aircraft at Hong Kong prepare them for the climate transition at the embed just transition principles into our
International Airport. earliest stages of business creation. Work is client engagement activities, our own
underway on developing a climate solutions operations, and our financing decisions.
We continue to participate in several framework to support portfolio-level climate
sustainability-related cross-industry alliances and impact disclosure and expand VCA membership HSBC Asset Management, in line with
initiatives to help stimulate industry engagement across emerging markets. relevant stewardship activities,
on climate and nature-related issues, encourage encourages companies to identify and
the flow of finance for the net zero transition, We are supporting Apparel Impact Institute’s address the impacts of their climate
and improve global financial standards, (‘Aii’) Fashion Climate Fund, which aims to strategy on stakeholders, including
guidance, and frameworks to mobilise finance mobilise $2bn in blended finance to halve workers, suppliers, and the communities
and accelerate action. carbon emissions from the sector by 2030. We in which they operate. This may include
have leveraged our trade finance expertise to specific metrics or objectives in relation,
Through our philanthropy, we partner with a provide insights and help inform Aii’s ‘Brand but not limited to, employee training and
range of non-governmental organisations to Playbook for Financing Decarbonisation’ and the development, green job creation,
develop thought leadership, spur innovation, ‘Landscape and Opportunities to Finance the safeguarding workers’ rights and support
build capacity and test and scale climate Decarbonisation of India’s Apparel for affected communities.
solutions. Manufacturing Sector’.
We are a founding funder of the Just
Highlights from our net zero and Climate Solutions Partnership Transition Finance Lab, hosted at the
sustainability-aligned partnerships Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership with LSE’s Grantham Research Institute,
In 2024 we donated approximately $9m in grant the World Resources Institute, WWF and over which aims to accelerate solutions to
funding to help establish a portfolio of 50 local partners, continues to support nature- achieve progress on climate and wider
partnerships aligned to the strategic focus areas based solutions and energy transition in Asia. environmental goals through a people-
set out in our net zero transition plan: centred approach. Since its launch in
Since 2020, $105m in funding has been
transitioning industry, catalysing the new early 2024, the Lab has produced a range
deployed to our NGO partners. The energy
economy, and decarbonising trade and supply of outputs including: mapping just
programmes have engaged companies across
chains. We are also supporting initiatives transition policies to a set of metrics,
Asia to help set new standards in climate
focused on driving progress on cross-cutting exploration of the role investors can play
commitments for their industries and mobilised
issues, such as nature and the just transition. in facilitating a just transition in India, a
finance to support the uptake of renewables.
case study of the coal-to-clean shift in
Our collaboration with the Mission Possible The nature programmes supported the Asia
Chile, and a detailed examination of the
Partnership seeks to support decarbonisation of Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, focused
financial path to a just transition in the
some of the world’s hard-to-abate heavy on promoting sustainable palm oil production,
critical minerals sector.
industry and transport sectors. We are funding a consumption and trade across Asia, and the
joint initiative focused on demand creation for Nature-based Solutions Accelerator, which
green building materials in the Middle East, supported projects to reach investment
fostering collaboration among industry leaders, readiness.
policymakers, and innovators to unlock projects.
Through this partnership, we also launched an
We launched a new partnership with Third open-access Environmental Crimes Financial
Derivative and Founders Factory to support Toolkit to help financial institutions detect and
climate tech innovation focused on hard-to-abate monitor activities related to environmental and
sectors, particularly in Asia where there is a financial crimes. The first set of tools focuses on
significant need and growing market for such commodity-driven deforestation and land
conversion.
Our approach to nature
Around one third of the emissions reductions build nature-related skills, data capacities and clients, we began including nature-related
required to limit global warming in line with partnerships. questions in our client transition engagement
the Paris Agreement are linked to the land questionnaire.
We are taking steps to embed our approach
use system and nature.
to nature alongside delivery of our net zero Climate Asset Management, HSBC Asset
We have been further developing our implementation plans. We continue to test Management’s joint venture with climate
approach to nature, which builds on the and scale approaches to financing and investment and advisory firm Pollination, has
outline that was set out in our net zero investing in biodiversity and nature, which now raised commitments of more than $1bn
transition plan. This includes considering how has included acting as sole bookrunner and for natural capital projects around the world,
to: understand our exposure to nature; structuring bank for an Amazon reforestation- and announced the final close of its Natural
manage nature-related risks and impacts; linked outcome bond, the World Bank’s Capital and Nature Based Carbon Funds.
support our customers, including financing largest outcome bond issued to date (see
and investing in nature-related solutions; and page 19). In 2024, starting with our European
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 47
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Embedding net zero
Financed emissions TCFD
As part of our ambition to become a net zero We have set combined on-balance sheet
bank by 2050, we published initial financed financed and facilitated emissions targets for
emissions targets for 2030. As we near the two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas,
mid-point towards our 2030 targets, we have and power and utilities. We have also set
begun a review of our interim 2030 financed targets for on-balance sheet financed
emissions targets and associated policies as emissions for the following sectors: cement;
described on page 15. This forms part of our iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
annual net zero transition plan review automotive; and thermal coal mining.
referenced in our 3Q24 earnings release.
As part of our financial reporting, we present
Our analysis of financed emissions comprises the progress for these sectors against our
‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and published financed emissions baselines and
‘facilitated emissions’, which we distinguish targets.
where necessary in our reporting.
We have set absolute emissions reduction
Our on-balance sheet financed emissions targets for the oil and gas, and thermal coal
include emissions related to on-balance sheet mining sectors. For the power and utilities; Supporting India’s
lending, such as project finance and direct cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
transition to a greener
lending. Our facilitated emissions include and automotive sectors, we have set
emissions related to financing we help clients emissions intensity targets that allow us to economy
to raise through capital markets activities. Our deploy capital towards decarbonisation
analysis covers financing from Global Banking solutions. We acted as sole Export Credit Agency
and Markets, and Commercial Banking. (‘ECA’) coordinator and sole green
structurer for an inaugural $1bn green push
Financed emissions link the financing we export finance facility for Reliance
provide to our customers and their activities Industries (‘RIL’), guaranteed by the Italian
in the real economy, and provide an indication ECA, known as SACE. This was RIL’s first
of the associated greenhouse gas emissions. ever green loan and will be used to
They form part of our scope 3 emissions, primarily finance eligible green projects
which include emissions associated with the being developed by RIL’s new energy
use of a company’s products and services. business.
As India’s largest private sector company,
RIL is seeking to address India’s energy
challenges – affordability, sustainability and
security – with the aim of bridging the
green energy divide and supporting clean
energy infrastructure demand globally.
RIL’s new energy proposition is aimed at
creating a manufacturing ecosystem
including solar photovoltaics, advanced
energy storage and green chemical value
chains.
Our approach to financed emissions
In our approach to assessing our financed By estimating emissions and setting targets at 31 December in the year of analysis related
emissions, our key methodological decisions for customers that directly account for, or to wholesale credit and lending, including
were shaped in line with industry practices indirectly influence, the majority of emissions business loans and project finance, as the
and standards. We recognise these are still in each of the most carbon-emissive sectors, value of finance provided to customers. We
developing. we can focus our engagement and resources excluded products that were short term by
where we believe the potential for change is design and typically less than 12 months in
Coverage of our analysis
highest. For each sector, our reported duration to reduce volatility, having considered
Our analysis focuses on the most carbon-
emissions now typically include all the major the PCAF guidance and subject matter expert
emissive sectors and the parts of the value
greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, opinions from the business. For facilitated
chain where we believe the majority of
methane and nitrous oxide, among others. emissions we considered all capital market
emissions are produced, to help reduce double
These are reported as tonnes of CO transactions in scope for the year of analysis.
counting of emissions. This is different to the 2
equivalent (‘tCOe’). These included debt and equity capital
scope of sectors within the wholesale 2
markets, and syndicated loans.
corporate lending portfolio that we use to To calculate annual on-balance sheet financed
manage climate risk. These sectors are set out emissions, we follow guidance from the For further details of our financed emissions
on page 221. Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see
(‘PCAF’) standard. We use drawn balances as our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal
Exposures Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-
we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.
48 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
The chart below shows the scope of our downstream activities within each sector. expert judgement and data available on
financed emissions analysis of the seven The allocation of companies to different parts company revenue streams. As data quality
sectors, including upstream, midstream, and of the value chain is highly dependent on improves, this will be further refined.
Coverage of
Scope of greenhouse
Sector emissions Value chain in scope gases (‘GHGs’)
Oil and gas 1, 2 and 3 All GHGs
Upstream Midstream Downstream Integrated/
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. transport) (e.g. fuel use) diversified
Power and utilities1 1 and 2 All GHGs
Upstream (e.g. Midstream Downstream Diversified utilities -
generation) (e.g. transmission and distribution) (e.g. retail) Power generation
Cement 1 and 2 All GHGs
Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream
materials, extraction) (e.g. clinker and cement manufacturing) (e.g. construction)
Iron, steel and 1 and 2 All GHGs
aluminium
Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream
materials, extraction) (e.g. ore to steel) (e.g. construction)
Aviation 1 for airlines All GHGs
3 for aircraft
Upstream (e.g. parts Midstream Downstream
lessors manufacturers) (e.g. aircraft manufacturing) (e.g. airlines and air lessors)
Automotive 1, 2 and 3 All GHGs
Upstream Midstream Downstream
(e.g. suppliers) (e.g. motor vehicle manufacture) (e.g. retail)
Thermal coal mining 1, 2 and 3 All GHGs
Upstream Midstream Downstream
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. processing) (e.g. retail)
Key: Included in analysis
1 The power and utilities value chain has been updated to show diversified utilities power generation as a separate part of the value chain. This has always been
included in-scope of the power and utilities target.
Setting our targets
Our target-setting approach to date for on- that transactions facilitated in 2028 and 2029 scientific evidence and credible industry-specific
balance sheet financed emissions and will still have an impact on the 2030 progress pathways while, at the same time, maintaining
facilitated emissions, has been to utilise a single number and will need to be taken into our commitment under our 2021 Climate
reference scenario – IEA’s NZE 2021 – to consideration as we manage progress towards Resolution.
underpin both energy supply-related sectors (oil our target.
and gas; power and utilities; and thermal coal Other sector updates
Our approach for financed emissions For the agricultural sector, due to ongoing
mining), and our published targets for demand-
accounting does not rely on purchasing credits data challenges, we are not in a position to
side sectors in transport (aviation and
to achieve any financed emissions targets we report our financed emissions or set a target at
automotive) and heavy industry (cement; and
set. this time. For commercial real estate, we
iron, steel and aluminium).
continue to work towards outlining our financed
Facilitated emissions included in our combined An evolving approach emissions ambition. For residential real estate,
In the upcoming review of our financed
metrics are weighted at 33%, in accordance we continue to expect to measure and report
emissions targets, we will seek to balance being
with the PCAF standard. To further reduce the our financed emissions in future disclosures.
ambitious on net zero while recognising present
inherent volatility in facilitated emissions, we
near-term global challenges and the associated
apply a three-year moving average across
impact of the transition playing out differently
transactions (i.e. average of 2021, 2022 and
across the regions and sectors we serve. In
2023 for the 2023 progress numbers) to track
doing so, we plan to draw on the latest
progress to our combined target. This means
Supermarket group serves up sustainability incentives
across value chain
HSBC UK has collaborated with Asda on its supply chain finance programme for over ten years. In
September 2024, as part of this ongoing partnership, we acted as the lead arranger for a new
facility, which offers $190m of financing to Asda’s suppliers on enhanced pricing terms based on a
supplier’s ESG performance.
From January 2025, the initiative will extend incentives to over 250 of Asda’s suppliers based on
their sustainability practices, as assessed by EcoVadis. This initiative showcases how major
retailers can engage their supply chains to encourage greater transparency and progress towards
wider sustainability goals.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 49
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Financed emissions continued
Data and methodology limitations
Our financed emissions estimates and – Third-party datasets that feed into our – The classification of our clients into sectors
methodological choices are shaped by the analysis may have up to a two-year lag in is performed with inputs from subject
availability of data for the sectors we analyse. reported emissions figures, and we are matter experts, and will also continue to
We are members of the PCAF, which defines working with data providers to help reduce evolve with improvements to data and our
and develops greenhouse gas accounting this. Mapping external datasets to our sector classification approach. Our internal
standards for financial institutions. Its Global internal client entities is challenging due to data on customer groups used to source
GHG Accounting and Reporting Standards for complex company ownership structures. financial exposure and emissions data is
Financed Emissions and for Facilitated based on credit and relationship
– The methodology and data used to assess
Emissions provide detailed methodological management attributes, and is not always
financed emissions and set targets are new
guidance to measure and disclose financed aligned to the data needed to analyse
and evolving, and we expect industry
and facilitated emissions. emissions across sector value chains. As
guidance, market practice, and regulations
the sub-sector, and therefore the value
– We have found that data quality scores vary to continue to change. As we undertake the
chain classification, is based on judgement,
across the different sectors and years of review of our 2030 financed emissions
this may be revised as better data becomes
our analysis. While we expect our data targets, we will use appropriate data
available. As a consequence, classification
quality scores to improve over time, as sources and current methodologies
changes can result in sectoral movement
companies continue to expand their available.
year-on-year. Emissions are calculated at a
disclosures to meet growing regulatory and – We remain conscious that the attribution counterparty group level, rather than at
stakeholder expectations, there may be factor used in the financed emissions subsidiary level, mainly due to the
fluctuations within sectors year-on-year, calculation is sensitive to changes in drawn availability of emissions data, but this may
and/or differences in the data quality scores amounts or market fluctuations, and we lead to over-or under-estimation of
between sectors due to changes in data plan to be transparent around drivers for emissions compared with calculation at the
availability. change to portfolio financed emissions counterparty level. Companies with multiple
– The majority of our clients do not yet report where possible. activities, such as conglomerates with near
the full scope of greenhouse gas emissions – We calculate sector-level emissions to equal business activity split across
included in our analysis, in particular scope intensity metrics using a portfolio-weighted multiple sectors, are excluded as these can
3 emissions at a subsidiary level. In the approach. Due to data limitations, we are have different activities covered by multiple
absence of client-reported emissions, we unable to obtain production data for all of sector targets.
estimated emissions using proxies based our clients. We therefore calculate an – The operating environment for climate
on company production and revenue emissions intensity figure using the 75th analysis and portfolio alignment is maturing.
figures. Although we sought to minimise percentile of available data points to meet We continue to work to improve our data
the use of non-company-specific data, we this data gap. management processes.
applied industry averages in our analysis
where company-specific data was For further details of our financed emissions
methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see
unavailable through our third-party datasets.
our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal
As data improves, estimates will be
Exposures Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-
replaced with reported figures. we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.
Helping to tackle food waste emissions via innovation
Food waste is a growing issue globally with an estimated one-third of all food produced going
to waste, creating significant methane emissions. Mill, a US-based technology company,
produces a food recycler for your kitchen that turns food waste into nutrient-rich food
grounds. These food grounds can be used in composting processes or picked up and
distributed to farm partners as food for soil or animals. These pathways help to keep food out
of landfill, reuse resources and reduce emissions.
In August 2024, HSBC Innovation Banking supported Mill by providing $25m of venture debt
funding following their successful Series C fundraising. The financing supports Mill to continue
to scale its food-recycler business to consumers across the US.
50 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
Our approach to emissions re-baselines and restatements
The PCAF recommends that financial scope 1 and 2 emissions in our own data and targets, including where necessary a
institutions should, in line with the operations. We also now include scope or re-baseline, is required.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value boundary changes as a key driver of change.
We expect our policy to evolve with further
Chain (scope 3) Accounting and Reporting HSBC Asset Management is covered by a
industry guidance.
Standard requirement, establish a different emissions re-baseline and
recalculation policy to ensure consistency, restatement framework as per page 57.
The table below outlines the key drivers of
comparability and relevance of the reported
change and what we expect to disclose when
Emissions data and related processes are
greenhouse gas emissions data over time.
thresholds are breached.
continually evolving. Therefore, we do not
Our emissions re-baseline and restatement
consider data and process enhancements to
policy defines the circumstances for a For further details of our emissions re-baseline
restatement of previously reported emissions be a key driver of change. This may change and restatement policy, see our Financed
data and targets, including a re-baseline. over time as data and processes mature. Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures
Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
In 2024, we reviewed and enhanced our When key drivers, in aggregate, breach our esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-
policy by extending the scope to cover defined significance thresholds, a centre.
restatement of previously reported emissions
additional emissions categories, including
Key drivers of change What we expect to disclose
Changes to the emissions methodology including those driven by – A revised comparative amount for the restatement period that
changes in industry guidance/regulations reflects the new information
– The difference between the amount disclosed in the previous
Errors, such as those in the internal application or interpretation of period and the revised comparative amount
methodology, or errors in internal data – The reasons for revising the comparative amount and why the new
information provides reliable and more relevant information
Scope or boundary changes, such as acquisitions or divestments, – The actions being taken to remediate same or similar errors in the
and inventory boundary and coverage changes future
In 2024, we made the decision to amend the For the aviation sector, we restated the 2022 We are conducting a review of our controls
approach for prioritising data sources for metrics as a lending product code was for population and product codes, and aim to
automotive clients to utilise production data previously excluded in error; it is now enhance them accordingly.
as opposed to reported third-party data, included in our analysis.
We have set out in the table below the
representing a methodological change. This
For the thermal coal mining sector, we re- restated metrics for the automotive and
change was implemented to include tailpipe
baselined the 2020 metric due to three aviation sectors, and the re-baselined metric
emissions instead of all scope 3 categories, in
errors: an incorrect product code exclusion, for the thermal coal mining sector, for
order to be consistent with the target
an error in the hierarchy construct of a client, applicable years where the significance
scenario reference pathway and industry
and the incorrect inclusion of a non-thermal threshold was breached. The significance
practice.
coal project. Methodological changes were threshold was not breached for all other
also applied to align with the refinements to sectors, or for scope or boundary changes.
our basis of preparation in our reporting.
Re-baselines and restatements Previously Reported Restated Metrics Percentage Change
Sector Reporting metrics 2020 2022 2020 2022 2020 2022
Automotive On-balance sheet financed - tCOe/million vkm - 216.6 - 170.1 - (21) %
2
On-balance sheet financed - Mt COe - 5.5 - 4.1 - (25) %
2
Aviation On-balance sheet financed - tCOe/million rpk - 86.5 - 90.2 - 4 %
2
On-balance sheet financed - Mt COe - 2.7 - 3.5 - 30 %
2
Thermal coal mining On-balance sheet financed - Mt CO 2 e 4.0 - 4.7 - 18 % -
IFC and HSBC Asset Management partner to improve
sustainability in emerging markets
In 2024, International Finance Corporation (‘IFC’), a member of the World Bank Group, and
HSBC Asset Management (‘HSBC AM’) announced their intention to establish a specialised
fund vehicle targeting corporate bond issuers in emerging markets, with the aim of increasing
access to finance and supporting sustainable growth. The fund will be classified as Article 9
under the EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation.
This announcement furthers collaboration between IFC and HSBC AM, helping to mobilise
institutional investment in key areas, such as sustainable technologies and social impact in
emerging markets. IFC has committed to invest up to $100m in the fund, which will support
an existing HSBC AM global emerging market corporate sustainable bond strategy.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 51
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Financed emissions continued
Targets and progress
We have set out in the table below our We also set out our defined targets for the When assessing the changes from 2019 to
combined on-balance sheet financed and on-balance sheet financed emissions of the 2023, it is important to emphasise how
facilitated emissions targets for the oil and following sectors: cement; iron, steel and changes to exposure and market fluctuations
gas, and power and utilities sectors. aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal impact yearly updates as we make progress
coal mining. We disclose emissions in 2022 towards our interim targets. Movement from
In 2023, applying three-year average values
and 2023 and progress achieved in 2023 one year to the next may not reflect future
weighted at 33%, facilitated emissions for
versus baseline for each sector, except for trends for the financed emissions of our
the oil and gas sector total 6.5 Mt COe, and
2 the thermal coal mining sector, for which we portfolio.
for the power and utilities sector, they total
disclose financed emissions figures for 2021
346.6 tCOe/GWh. These values are then
2 and 2022. We are continuing to work on our
combined with the on-balance sheet numbers
2023 and 2024 figures and expect to report
for the relevant year to track progress to
on these in future disclosures. In 2021,
target. We set out the annual figures before
thermal coal mining financed emissions
the application of the three-year average in
totalled 1.38 Mt COe. In 2022, they were
the facilitated emissions table on page 56. 2
down by 69% against the re-baselined 2020
figure of 4.7 Mt COe.
2
2023 % change
Sector1 Baseline 2022 2023 vs. baseline 2030 target Unit2 Target scenario
Combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions at 33%, with three-year moving average
Oil and gas 42.6 in 2019 31.9 23.2 (46) % (34) % Mt COe IEA NZE 2021
2
Power and utilities 513.4 in 2019 396.8 349.0 (32) % 138.0 tCOe/GWh IEA NZE 2021
2
On-balance sheet financed emissions
Cement 0.64 in 2019 0.71 0.59 (8) % 0.46 tCOe/t cement IEA NZE 2021
2
Iron, steel and aluminium 1.8 in 2019 2.5 2.1 17 % 1.05 (1.43)3 tCOe/t metal IEA NZE 2021
2
Aviation 84.0 in 2019 90.2 79.6 (5) % 63.0 4 tCOe/million rpk IEA NZE 2021
2
Automotive 191.5 in 2019 170.1 152.4 (20) % 66.0 tCOe/million vkm IEA NZE 2021
2
Thermal coal mining 4.7 in 2020 1.44 N/A N/A (70)%5 Mt COe IEA NZE 2021
2
1 Our absolute and intensity emissions metrics and targets are measured based on the drawn exposures of the counterparties in scope for each sector. Emissions
intensity is a weighted average according to the portfolio weight of each investment, as a proportion of the total portfolio value. For oil and gas; and power and
utilities, the baseline, progress and target figures represent combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions. For cement; iron, steel and aluminium;
aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining, the baseline, progress and target figures represent on-balance sheet financed emissions. For the aviation and
automotive sectors, the target figure is unchanged while the 2022 figure represents restated on-balance sheet financed emissions. For thermal coal mining, the
target is unchanged while the 2020 baseline figure has been re-baselined.
2 For the oil and gas sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt COe’); for the power and utilities sector, intensity
2
is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour (‘tCOe/GWh’); for the cement sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide
2
equivalent per tonne of cement (‘tCOe/t cement’); for the iron, steel and aluminium sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne
2
of metal (‘tCOe/t metal’); for the aviation sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million revenue passenger kilometres (‘tCOe/
2 2
million rpk’); for the automotive sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million vehicle kilometres ('tCOe/million vkm’); and for the
2
thermal coal mining sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt COe’).
2
3 While the iron, steel and aluminium 2030 target is aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we also reference the Mission Possible Partnership Technology
Moratorium scenario, whose 2030 reference range is shown in parentheses.
4 Our aviation unit includes passenger and cargo tonnes, converted into revenue passenger kilometre (‘rpk‘), to align with our target pathway. This is comparable to
revenue tonne kilometre ('rtk') using a 100kg per passenger conversion factor as we already include belly and dedicated cargo in our production figures. The
conversion factor changed from 95kg per passenger used in the baseline disclosure to align with industry practice.
5 The thermal coal mining scope differs from the other sectors. We include solely emissions from thermal coal production and coal power generation, rather than
the total emissions of a counterparty within a sector, to reflect the thermal coal mining absolute financed emissions reduction target.
52 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
We plan to report financed emissions and Consistent with the PCAF guidance on looking basis as we progress towards our
progress against our targets annually, and to financed emissions accounting, we only 2030 targets. In addition, for the intensity-
be transparent in our disclosures about the consider the outstanding drawn financing based sectors, the emissions intensity is
methodologies applied and any challenges or amount given this has a direct link to real sensitive to material clients and changes to
dependencies. However, financed emissions economy emissions. drawn balances year-on-year can therefore
figures may not be reconcilable or influence the trend.
A number of clients have material undrawn
comparable year-on-year in future, and
balances that, if drawn, could significantly We continue to engage with and support our
baselines and targets may require updates or
increase the financed emissions related to clients in their decarbonisation journey by
revisions as data, methodologies and
those clients. We expect to assess how to providing financing and advisory services.
reference scenarios develop.
manage these exposures on a forward-
Oil and gas In 2023, absolute combined on-balance sheet Oil and gas 2023 progress
For the oil and gas sector, our analysis financed and facilitated emissions in our Mt COe from baseline
2
included scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, portfolio decreased by 46% to 23.2 million (46) %
including carbon dioxide and methane, for tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt
upstream and integrated companies. Our COe’) relative to the 2019 baseline, and by
2
baseline and progress figures reflect 27% from 2022 to 2023. The reduction was
combined on-balance sheet financed and due to divestments and other strategic
facilitated emissions. decisions, and temporary factors such as low
loan drawdown levels, and subdued capital
We have set a target to reduce absolute
markets activity.
combined on-balance sheet financed and
facilitated emissions for our oil and gas A return to market conditions with clients
portfolio by 34% by 2030 relative to our 2019 increasing capital markets activity, or other
baseline. This is consistent with a global factors that could lead to clients drawing
1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA down existing loans, will lead to increased
NZE 2021 scenario. financed emissions in our portfolio. Based on
Dealogic data, capital markets activity for the
We show in the chart our progress to date
sector increased by more than 15% in 2024
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
compared with 2023.
2030 figure derived from the updated IEA
NZE 2024 scenario, which suggests a 30%
reduction relative to the 2019 baseline.
e2OCtM
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Power and utilities decarbonise mobility, buildings and industry.
Power and utilities 2023 progress
For the power and utilities sector, our Our target is consistent with a global 1.5°C- tCOe/GWh from baseline
2
analysis included scope 1 and 2 emissions for aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA NZE
(32) %
upstream power generation, and diversified 2021 scenario.
utilities power generation companies. We
We show in the chart our progress to date
focused on power generation companies
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
because they control sector output, which
2030 figure of 194.6 tCOe/GWh derived
has the most material emissions impact in 2
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario. the real economy. Our baseline and progress
figures reflect combined on-balance sheet In 2023, the combined on-balance sheet
financed and facilitated emissions.
financed and facilitated emissions intensity in
our portfolio decreased by 32% to 349.0
We target a combined on-balance sheet
tCOe/GWh relative to the 2019 baseline, and
financed and facilitated emissions intensity of 2
by 12% from 2022 to 2023. This reduction
138 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per
was driven by an increase in the financing of gigawatt hour (‘tCOe/GWh’) by 2030. We
2 renewable energy projects and companies,
have chosen an intensity-based target as
and a decrease in the financing of high electricity demand is expected to more than
emissions intensity clients.
double by 2050, due to both population
growth and electrification required to
hWG/e2OCt
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2019 20202021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 53
ESG
review
Financed emissions continued
Cement including clinker substitution, alternative fuel Cement 2023 progress
For the cement sector, our analysis included use such as bioenergy, and carbon capture tCOe/t cement from baseline
2
scope 1 and 2 emissions for midstream use and storage. Carbon capture use and (8) %
companies with clinker and cement storage is a nascent technology and is
manufacturing facilities. currently applied at around 45 facilities
worldwide with a capture capacity of roughly
We target an on-balance sheet financed 50 MtCO per year. This is short of IEA NZE
emissions intensity of 0.46 tonnes of carbon 2
scenarios, which lay out a pathway of around
dioxide equivalent per tonne of cement
1 Gt CO per year captured and stored by (‘tCOe/t cement’) by 2030, using 2019 as our 2
2 2030. Several cement sector customers are
baseline. Our target is consistent with a
making progress in carbon capture use and global 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by
storage and are launching their first carbon
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario.
capture use and storage pilot projects.
We show in the chart our progress to date
The 2023 emissions intensity of our portfolio,
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the at 0.59 tCOe/t cement, was 8% lower than
2030 figure of 0.47 tCOe/t cement derived 2
2 the 2019 baseline. It was also down by 17%
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario.
in 2023 from 2022. The decline in 2023 was
mainly attributable to improvements in the
While some emissions reductions can be
availability of emissions and production data
achieved through energy efficiency, we
across a number of emissions-intensive
believe that to significantly reduce fuel and
clients. Emissions intensity trends are highly
process emissions from cement
sensitive to material client exposures and
manufacturing, and to meet our targets,
changes to drawn balances year-on-year.
large-scale investments are required in new
production processes and technologies,
tnemec
t/e2OCt
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
2019 2020 2021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Iron, steel and aluminium from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario, and
Iron, steel and aluminium 2023 progress
For the iron, steel and aluminium sector, we of 1.43 tCO2e/t metal from the MPP Tech tCOe/t metal from baseline
2
covered scope 1 and 2 for midstream iron, Moratorium scenario. The MPP Tech
17 %
steel and aluminium production in our Moratorium scenario confines investments to
analysis. We intend to address our coverage near zero emissions technologies from 2030
of aluminium in future disclosures due to the onwards, and assumes no assets are
low materiality in our portfolio, as well as prematurely retired. It projects a slower
volatility caused by the greater emissions transition than IEA NZE scenarios in the near
intensity of aluminium production, compared term due to the use of different assumptions
to iron and steel. for steel production, steelmaking technology
mix, steel emissions intensity, and use of
We target an on-balance sheet financed
hydrogen in steelmaking.
emissions intensity of 1.05 tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalent per tonne of metal (‘tCOe/ The emissions intensity of our portfolio in
2
t metal’) by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline. 2023 rose by 17% to 2.1 tCOe/t metal
2
Our target is consistent with a global 1.5°C- against our 2019 baseline, due to aluminium
aligned pathway for iron and steel, as defined sector exposures impacting the overall
by the IEA NZE 2021 scenario. Meeting the sector’s emissions intensity in 2023, and a
2030 target will be technologically challenging low baseline figure resulting from a higher
as this is a particularly hard-to-abate sector. mix of low emissions-intensive steel clients.
Emissions intensity dropped by 16% in 2023
We show in the chart our progress to date
versus 2022 due to the reduced exposure to
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
aluminium clients, and a larger mix of low
2030 figure of 1.29 tCO2e/t metal derived
emissions-intensive clients.
latem
t/e2OCt
ESG review | Environment
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
2019 2020 2021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) Tech Moratorium
54 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
Aviation reduce emissions. The adoption of
Aviation 2023 progress
For the aviation sector, we included sustainable aviation fuel is in its infancy, tCOe/million rpk from baseline
2
passenger airlines’ scope 1 and aircraft currently accounting for an estimated 0.3% of
(5) %
lessors‘ scope 3 downstream emissions. We global jet fuel production. Sustainable aviation
excluded military and dedicated cargo flights fuel use needs to increase to 15% by 2030 to
as the emissions intensity of such cargo be in line with the IEA NZE 2021. This
flights is different to that of passenger requires a significant ramp-up of investment
airlines. This approach is in line with industry in production capacity and supportive policies,
practice to ensure consistency of financed such as fuel taxes and low carbon fuel
emissions measurement and target setting. standards.
We target an on-balance sheet financed The industry is also adopting the unit of
emissions intensity of 63 tonnes of carbon revenue tonne kilometre (‘rtk’) to take into
dioxide equivalent per million revenue account the transport of cargo for airlines in-
passenger kilometres (‘tCOe/million rpk’) by scope of the target. We plan to consider this
2
2030, using 2019 as our baseline. Our target unit change to rtk in future disclosures to
is consistent with a global 1.5°C-aligned better reflect the industry standard. We
pathway, as defined by the IEA NZE 2021 already include passenger and cargo tonnes
scenario. in our production figures.
We show in the chart our progress to date In 2023, the emissions intensity of our
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the portfolio fell by 5% to 79.6 tCOe/million rpk
2
2030 figure of 70.3 tCOe/million rpk derived relative to the 2019 baseline and was down
2
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario. by 12% from the 2022 restated emissions
intensity. This decline was largely driven by
To meet our target, we believe the sector
improved data quality, higher exposure to
needs significant policy support, investments
lower emissions-intensive airlines compared
in alternative fuels, such as sustainable
with the sector average, and improved
aviation fuel, and new efficient aircraft to
operational efficiency with the return to pre-
Covid air traffic activity levels.
kpr
noillim/e2OCt
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2019 20202021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Automotive Meeting our target is heavily dependent on
Automotive 2023 progress
For the automotive sector, we looked at the share of new electric vehicle sales our tCOe/million vkm from baseline
2
scopes 1 and 2 for midstream manufacturing clients will achieve in 2030, including battery
(20) %
of vehicles, and scope 3 for tank-to-wheel and plug-in electric vehicles. BloombergNEF
exhaust pipe emissions for light-duty estimates that the electric vehicle share of
vehicles. We excluded heavy-duty vehicles sales in 2024 exceeded 20%, however this is
from our analysis as the target pathway below the 27% implied by the IEA NZE 2021
derived from the IEA excludes them, as they scenario based on HSBC analysis.
have a different decarbonisation pathway
Achieving our 2030 financed emissions target
relative to light-duty vehicles. This approach
will be challenging unless there is a strong
reflects a change from previous disclosures
acceleration in the share of electric vehicle
to only include tailpipe emissions instead of
sales. This will require large-scale
all scope 3 categories, in order to be
investments in new electric vehicle and
consistent with the target scenario reference
battery manufacturing plants, alongside
pathway and industry practice. We will
widespread charging infrastructure, and
consider including heavy-duty vehicle
government policies to support electric
manufacturers as well as heavy-duty vehicle
vehicles. production at a later stage of our analysis, as
data and methodologies develop.
The 2023 emissions intensity of our portfolio
dropped by 20% to 152.4 tCOe/million vkm We target an on-balance sheet financed 2
against our 2019 baseline, and by 10%
emissions intensity of 66 tonnes of carbon
versus the restated emissions intensity of our
dioxide equivalent per million vehicle
portfolio for 2022, which excludes non-
kilometres (‘tCOe/million vkm’) by 2030
2 tailpipe scope 3 emissions. The decline
using 2019 as our baseline. This is in line with
against baseline was driven by changes in our
a global 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by
loan book resulting primarily from credit-led
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, modified to
business decisions. From 2022 to 2023, the
match the share of new in-year vehicle sales
reduction was driven by a portfolio mix with
for light-duty vehicles.
lower emissions intensity clients, and lower
We show in the chart our progress to date exposures to carbon-intensive clients.
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
2030 figure of 66.2 tCOe/million vkm derived
2
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario,
which remains close to the 2030 target figure
of 66.0 under the 2021 scenario.
mkv
noillim/e2OCt
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
2019 20202021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 55
ESG
review
Financed emissions continued
Thermal coal mining We show in the chart our progress to date
Thermal coal mining 2022 progress
For the thermal coal mining sector, our against our 2030 target. We also indicate the Mt COe from baseline
2
analysis focused on scope 1, 2 and 3 2030 figure of 2.7 Mt COe derived from the
2 (69) %
emissions in upstream companies, including updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario, which
those involved in extraction. When calculating suggests a 42% reduction relative to the re-
our financed emissions from thermal coal baselined 2020 figure.
mining, we focused on thermal coal
In 2021, absolute on-balance sheet financed extraction and processing companies, and
emissions decreased by 71% to 1.38 Mt diversified mining companies. The majority of
COe relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure.
our reported financed emissions relate to 2
In 2022, the absolute on-balance sheet
scope 3 emissions associated with coal
financed emissions of our portfolio decreased mining, representing financing provided to
by 69% to 1.44 Mt COe relative to the re-
large conglomerates that own diversified 2
baselined 2020 figure, and they rose by 4%
business interests including coal.
from 2021 to 2022. The reduction from the
We have set a target to reduce our absolute on- 2020 re-baselined figure was due to strategic
balance sheet financed emissions by 70% by decisions and temporary factors, such as low
2030, relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure of loan drawdown levels.
4.7 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
(‘Mt COe’). We used 2020 as a baseline to align A return to normal market conditions with
2
with the baseline used for our drawn balance clients drawing down existing loans will lead
exposure targets in our thermal coal phase-out to increased financed emissions in our
policy. Our target is consistent with a global portfolio.
1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA
NZE 2021 scenario.
e2OC
tM
ESG review | Environment
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
On-balance sheet financed emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of on-balance sheet financed emissions using 2022 and 2023 data. For thermal coal
mining, we disclosed in 2023 our 2020 baseline, which has been re-baselined as described on page 51, and we now present figures for 2021
and 2022. The PCAF data quality scores across most sectors improved in 2023 due to better data availability.
On-balance sheet financed emissions – wholesale credit lending and project finance1,2
PCAF data quality score3
Scope 1–2 Scope 3 Emissions
Sector Year (Mt CO 2 e) (Mt CO 2 e) intensity Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3
2022 1.3 16.2 N/A 3.2 3.2
Oil and gas
2023† 1.6 15.2 N/A 2.4 2.7
2022 7.6 N/A 401.7 3.3 N/A
Power and utilities
2023† 7.3 N/A 349.6 3.1 N/A
2022 4.5 N/A 0.71 2.9 N/A
Cement
2023† 6.3 N/A 0.59 2.3 N/A
2022 2.7 N/A 2.5 3.0 N/A
Iron, steel and aluminium
2023† 1.8 N/A 2.1 2.9 N/A
2022 3.3 0.15 90.2 3.2 2.4
Aviation
2023† 2.6 0.21 79.6 3.1 2.6
2022 0.11 4.0 170.1 2.7 3.4
Automotive
2023† 0.12 6.0 152.4 2.2 3.2
2021† 0.05 1.33 N/A 3.1 3.1
Thermal coal mining
2022† 0.07 1.37 N/A 3.1 3.1
Facilitated emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of facilitated emissions using 2022 and 2023 data for the oil and gas, and the power
and utilities sectors.
Applying a 100% weighting, the oil and gas values for scope 1 to 3 emissions decreased from 15.2 Mt COe in 2022 to 9.0 Mt COe in 2023.
2 2
For the power and utilities sector, the values for scope 1 and 2 emissions rose from 3.8 Mt COe in 2022 to 4.6 Mt COe in 2023. For all 100%-
2 2
weighted facilitated values, please refer to the ESG Data Pack4.
Facilitated emissions – ECM, DCM and syndicated loans (33% weighting)
PCAF Data quality score3
Scope 1-2 Scope 3 Emissions
Sector Year4 (Mt COe) (Mt COe) intensity Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3
2 2
2022 0.36 4.7 N/A 3.3 3.3
Oil and gas
2023† 0.27 2.7 N/A 2.1 2.5
2022 1.2 N/A 358.7 2.9 N/A
Power and utilities
2023† 1.5 N/A 322.2 2.6 N/A
1 The total amount of short-term finance excluded for the thermal coal mining sector was 0.04% and 0.1% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021
and 31 December 2022 respectively; in 2023, for all other sectors, it was 0.7% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2023.
2 The total loans and advances analysed for the thermal coal mining sector were 0.1% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021 and 31 December
2022, respectively. For all other sectors in 2023, the total loans and advances analysed were 2.7% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2023. The
total loans and advances analysed for the purpose of the financed emissions calculation and reporting have not been adjusted for assets held for sale.
3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based on financing for on-balance sheet financed emissions.
4 The total capital markets activity analysed applying a 100% weighting in 2023 was $10.4.bn, representing 3.3% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2023.
† Data is subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with ISAE 3000 / ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal
Coal Exposures Methodology and the independent third-party limited assurance report, which are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
business/esg-reporting-centre.
56 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
Reducing emissions in our assets under management
HSBC Asset Management continues to work The Partnership for Carbon Accounting Our financed emissions metrics
towards its interim target1 of reducing scope 1 Financials (PCAF)2 recommends that financial As at 31 December 2023, the scope 1 and 2
and 2 financed emissions intensity by 58% institutions should, in line with the financed emissions intensity of HSBC Asset
between 2019 and 2030 for its in scope assets Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Management’s in scope assets stood at 69.8
under management (AUM), consisting of listed Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting tCO 2 e/M$ invested. The PCAF data quality
equities and corporate fixed income managed Standard requirement, establish a restatement score for our 31 December 2023 financed
within its major investment hubs. As of 31 policy to ensure consistency, comparability emissions intensity was 2.63.
December 2019, in scope assets amounted to and relevance of the reported greenhouse gas
$193.9bn, equating to 38% of global AUM. emissions data over time. HSBC Asset
Management has defined an internal financed
2019 re-baselined metrics emissions re-baseline and restatement
In 2024, we improved our methodology for
framework which adapts HSBC Group’s
calculating financed emissions intensity,
approach and defines relevant circumstances
including a revised mapping logic for issuers’
for HSBC Asset Management.
carbon intensity and EVIC (enterprise value
including cash) data. We have re-baselined our
2019 intensity figure due to an error in the data
mapping and it is now 124 tCOe/M$ invested
2
versus 131 tCOe/M$ invested reported in the
2
Annual Report and Accounts 2022,
representing a decrease of 5.6%.
Reported metrics3 2019 2023 Unit
Scope 1 and 2 financed emissions intensity 124.0* 69.8 tCOe/M$ invested
2
AUM in scope 193.9 223.0 Billions $
PCAF Data Quality Score 2.63 2.63
*indicates that this metric has been re-baselined
1 Our targets remain subject to consultation with stakeholders including investors and fund boards on whose behalf we manage the assets. The 58% target is based
on assumptions for financial markets and other data, including the IEA Net Zero emissions by 2050 scenario and its underlying activity growth assumptions.
Carbon emissions intensity is measured as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million USD invested (tCOe/M$ invested), where emissions are scaled by
2
enterprise values including cash.
2 PCAF defines and develops greenhouse gas accounting standards for financial institutions. Its Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for Financed
Emissions provides detailed methodological guidance to measure and disclose financed emissions. PCAF Standards are available at: https://
carbonaccountingfinancials.com/standard.
3 The re-baselined 2019 financed emissions intensity metric, and 2023 metrics were subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, and
with respect to the greenhouse emissions, in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on
Greenhouse Gas Statements’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. For the independent third-party’s limited assurance report, see
http://www.assetmanagement.hsbc.com/net-zero. The methodology used is available at: http://www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/attachments/
common/creating-a-new-climate-for-change/financed-emissions-disclosures-reporting-criteria.pdf.
Boosting the offshore wind industry in the UK
SeAH Wind Ltd is developing a new offshore wind technology manufacturing facility in
Teesside, North-East England. The factory is seeking to make a significant contribution to the
offshore wind industry and play an important role in addressing the growing global demand for
renewable energy.
Building on previous financing in 2023, we acted as mandated lead arranger and lender for a
$282m loan to SeAH Wind Ltd, with guarantees provided by UK Export Finance and the Korea
Trade Insurance Corporation, bringing total financing arranged by HSBC for the project to
$740m.
The proceeds will be used to support the ongoing construction and expansion of the new UK
manufacturing facility, helping the company grow through its extended product range for
offshore wind.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 57
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Net zero in our own operations TCFD
As described on page 15, we have revisited Our biggest challenge continues to be the In 2024 we incorporated an additional supply
our ambition to achieve net zero in our own limited availability of power purchase chain data source to complement data from
operations and supply chain by 2030 and are agreements and green tariffs in some of our CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project).
now focused on actions to cut emissions markets due to regulations. We continue to We continue to improve the measurement,
across these areas as part of our overall expand our network of experts in the quality and reporting of our supply chain
ambition to become net zero by 2050. renewables space to help us identify emissions data to generate insights to drive
opportunities globally. targeted reduction activities. We have
Reduce, replace and remove engaged with our 300 highest-emitting
Our guiding approach is, and will continue to Business travel suppliers to collaborate and identify
be to reduce, replace and remove emissions We have analysed our travel patterns to
emissions reduction opportunities based on
from our own operations and supply chain. identify areas where we can continue to
supplier maturity levels.
We plan to first focus on reducing carbon reduce emissions. For example, we have
emissions from consumption, and then introduced internal regional reduction targets In October 2024 we convened our first
replace remaining emissions with low-carbon and emission information at the point of Supply Chain Decarbonisation Day to facilitate
alternatives in line with the Paris Agreement. booking to encourage ownership and in-depth discussion and the development of
We will reduce emissions through the flexibility in decision making. joint action plans with some of our largest
purchase of 100% renewables and plan to suppliers in the technology, professional
add investments in sustainable aviation fuel Engaging with our supply chain services and real estate sectors, to help drive
Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our
to replace traditional fuel and reduce emissions reduction. In 2025, we will hold a
operational emissions and is the area in
emissions from our travel over time. similar event with different suppliers.
which we face the most significant
Altogether, across our operations, business
travel and supply chain, we expect to achieve decarbonisation challenge. When we set our Focus on natural resources
ambition in 2020, we did so without detailed We aim to be a responsible consumer of
a reduction of around 40% in emissions by
supply chain data. natural resources across our operations and
2030. In line with current guidance, we
supply chain. Wherever possible, through our
expect to only use carbon credits to remove
It has become clear that progress in reducing
procurement choices, design and
emissions when it is not possible to directly
emissions in our supply chain is proving
construction, or operations, we aim to protect
reduce or replace. However, recognising the
slower than we anticipated, mainly driven by
the environment and mitigate our impact on
importance of high quality carbon removals in
the slower pace of the transition across the
the depletion of natural resources. Our main
limiting global temperature rises, we have
real economy. Many suppliers are still in the
focus areas are waste, paper and sustainable
started to explore some high integrity carbon
early phase of their decarbonisation journey,
diets.
removal projects.
do not have sufficient insight into their own
emissions footprint, and have not set Our presence in environmentally sensitive
Our energy consumption
In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in decarbonisation targets. We have stepped up areas
targeted efforts to support decarbonisation Our global portfolio of buildings supports
our energy consumption compared with 2019
across our supply chain. customers and communities in areas that
(2023: 26.3%).This has been achieved
may be of high or very high water stress, and/
through optimising the use of our real estate
We aim to deepen collaboration with
or protected areas of biodiversity.
portfolio and carrying out a reduction in our
suppliers and increase our focus on those
office space and data centres. We continue
without public disclosures or emissions About 50% of our global offices, branches
to optimise our assets to ensure greater
reduction plans, supporting them through and data centres are located mainly in urban
efficiency and capitalise on new energy
education and incentivisation. We will build or city centre locations with large,
technologies. In 2024 we increased our
partnerships with larger suppliers to drive concentrated populations. These areas have
purchase of electricity from renewable
change in shared supply chains through been identified as being subject to high and
sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This
scaled solutions, including through industry very high water stress, accounting for 49% of
included increasing our coverage of green
initiatives. our annual water consumption and about
tariffs in India and mainland China.
0.8% are in protected areas of biodiversity.
Renewable electricity can help unlock our
We have implemented consumption
emissions reduction potential, and we aim to
reduction measures, including installation of
achieve 100% renewable electricity across
water efficient taps, flow restrictors, auto-
our own operations by 2030.
taps and low or zero flush sanitary fittings.
Our environmental and sustainability management policies
Our buildings policy recognises that regulatory and environmental requirements vary across
geographies and may include environmental certification. The policy is supported by Corporate
Services procedures on environmental and sustainability management, seeking to ensure that
HSBC’s properties continually reduce their overall direct impact on the environment.
Detailed design considerations documented in our global engineering standards aim to reduce or
avoid depletion of critical resources, such as energy, water, land and raw materials. Suppliers are
required to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct and have in place environmental policies
appropriate to the size and nature of their operations to reduce environmental impacts.
58 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Net zero in our own operations continued
2024 Emissions performance Energy and travel greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes CO2e3
We are making progress towards our updated
2050 net zero ambition. In 2024 we achieved a 2024 2023 2019 baseline
reduction in absolute operational greenhouse Scope 11 Ä 15,025 16,918 22,066
gas emissions (energy and business travel) of
66.1% from our 2019 baseline. Overall, Scope 2 (market-based)1 Ä 83,760 167,174 392,270
including supply chain emissions, we achieved a Scope 3 ~ 1,127,909 1,113,498 1,356,631
30.7% reduction against 2019 and 5.5% Category 1: Purchased goods and services1,2 Ä 866,873 880,494 1,033,972
compared with 2023. Category 2: Capital goods1,2 ~ 127,158 123,763 50,651
Emissions from our energy Category 6: Business travel1 ~ 133,878 109,241 272,008
We are currently on track to reduce our scope 1 Ä
Total 1,226,693 1,297,590 1,770,967
and 2 emissions by more than 90% by 2030
Ä
compared with our 2019 baseline. In 2024, we Included Scope 1 and 2 of UK 5,887 5,909 10,432
reduced these emissions (including energy and 1 Data in 2024 is subject to an independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with the
road fleet) to 98,785 tonnes CO2e, representing International Standard on Assurance engagements 3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse
a 76.2% reduction from our 2019 baseline and a Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting Guidance 2024 and third-party limited
46.3% reduction from 2023, helped by further assurance report at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. In
respect of data in 2019 and 2023, see our relevant Annual Report and Accounts.
efficiency measures and portfolio reductions, and
2 Supply chain emissions are calculated using a combination of supplier emissions data and industry
an increase in renewable electricity procurement average emissions factors. A data quality score is applied to this calculation where 1 is high and 4 is
to 75.4%, up from 58.4% in 2023. low, based on the quality of emissions data. This is a weighted average score based on HSBC
supplier spend. Data quality scores can be found in the ESG Data Pack.
Emissions from travel 3 Data is based on the 12-month period to 30 September.
We reduced our emissions from scope 3 For further details of our methodologies, our independent third-party limited assurance reports and
business travel by 50.8% compared with relevant environment key facts, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
2019 with travel volumes remaining well Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes CO2e Energy consumption in kWh in 000s
below pre-pandemic levels, although per FTE
emissions increased by 22.6% compared
with 2023 as travel behaviours normalise
2024 2023 2019 2024 2023 2019
gradually across the bank.
Scope 1, 2 and Ä Ä
Emissions from our supply chain 3 (Category 6) 1.1 1.3 2.9 Total 728,890 772,736 1,049,072
In 2024, we reduced our supply chain emissions Scope 1, 2 and
Ä Ä
by 8.4% against the restated 2019 baseline 3 (Category 1, 2
emissions, while compared with 2023, they and 6) 5.7 5.9 7.8 UK only 206,028 209,939 281,271
remained relatively stable, with a small reduction
Reporting Previously Percentage
of 1.0%. This was mainly driven by suppliers
Revisions metrics reported Restated metrics change
providing real estate-related services and financial
2019 2023 2019 2023 2019 2023
services, while emissions from suppliers of
technology-related goods and services have Category 1:
Purchased Goods and
increased, due to an increase in their investments
Services tonnes CO2e 829,635 859,256 1,033,972 880,494 25 % 2 %
(e.g. data centres), growth of new services (e.g.
cloud and AI) and increase in our spend. Category 2: Capital
Goods tonnes CO2e 37,617 121,783 50,651 123,763 35 % 2 %
In 2024 we also expanded the calculation scope Total Supply chain tonnes CO2e 867,252 981,039 1,084,623 1,004,257 25 % 2 %
by including two additional markets with third
party spend. We continue to widen our Energy consumption kWh in 000s 913,556 n/a 1,049,072 n/a 15 % n/a
reporting as more emissions and spend data are
added to the procurement scope. We apply reviewed and updated emission uplift counterparty emissions. For further details, see
rates to reflect uncertainty concerning the our GHG Reporting Guidance at
Emissions calculations approach
quality and coverage of emission measurement www.hsbc.com/esg
Our emissions report adheres to the
and estimation. This approach is consistent with
Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) Protocol, which In 2024 we conducted a materiality
both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
incorporates the scope 2 market-based assessment on upstream scope 3 categories,
Change’s Good Practice Guidance and
emissions methodology. We report GHG and we have identified categories 1
Uncertainty Management in National
emissions associated with the energy used in (purchased goods and services), 2 (capital
Greenhouse Gas Inventories and our internal
our premises and employees’ business travel goods), and 6 (business travel) as material.
analysis.
and our supply chain in tonnes of CO2
equivalent. As a financial services organisation, Our calculation methodology for supply chain Our approach to re-baselines and
carbon dioxide is the main type of GHG emissions follows the spend-based method restatements
applicable to our operations, however, our under the GHG protocol; a combination of We re-baselined our 2019 and restated our 2023
current reporting also incorporates methane and supplier emissions data and industry averages. supply chain metrics in line with our emissions
nitrous oxide for completeness, although We source actual data via CDP, or direct re-baseline and restatement policy (see page
deemed immaterial. engagement with suppliers, and in the absence 51). As referenced above, in 2024, we made the
decision to amend the methodology. We also
of this we use estimations from a new data
Based on our operational control boundary, in identified an error in the mapping of industry
provider and then industry average carbon
2024 we collected data on energy use and averages. In addition, we have identified an
intensities from CDP to estimate supply chain
business travel for our operations in 34 countries error in our 2019 metric disclosed in our ARA
emissions.
and territories out of the 58 markets we operate 2023 for total energy consumption, which we
in, which accounted for approximately 97.7% of As more of our suppliers report their emissions, have now restated.
our full-time equivalent staff (‘FTEs’). To estimate we should be able to include more accurate data
the emissions of our operations in entities where and fewer industry averages in the calculation. We are conducting a review of our controls
we have operational control and a small We have applied a data quality score to the related to these items and aim to enhance
them accordingly.
presence, we scale up the emissions to 100%. sources of data we used to determine
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 59
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Managing climate risk TCFD
Climate risk relates to the financial and non- Our material exposure to climate risk relates In the table below, we set out our duties to
financial impacts that may arise as a result of to wholesale and retail client financing activity our stakeholders in our four most material
climate change and the move to a net zero within our banking portfolio. We are also roles.
economy. We manage climate risk across all exposed to climate risk in relation to asset
our businesses and are incorporating climate ownership by our insurance business and For further details of our approach to climate
risk, see ‘ESG risk’ on page 133 and ‘Climate
considerations within our traditional risk types employee pension plans. Our clients are
risk’ on page 219.
in line with our Group-wide risk management exposed to climate-related investment risk in
framework. our asset management business.
Banking Employee pensions Asset management Insurance
We manage the climate risk in our Our pension plans have fiduciaries Climate risk management is a key We consider climate risk in the
banking portfolios through our risk to manage climate risk in line with feature of our investment decision management of our shareholder
appetite and policies for financial their duties towards members making and portfolio management and policyholder portfolio of
and non-financial risks. under local regulatory approach. assets.
requirements.
Climate risk
This enables us to identify We monitor climate risk exposure We also engage with companies ESG factors are incorporated into
opportunities to support our internally for our largest plans on topics related to climate investment analysis to evaluate
customers, while continuing to based on asset sector allocation change. climate risk impacts, as well as
meet stakeholder expectations. and carbon emissions data where the ongoing monitoring during the
available. investment cycle.
Banking As part of its stewardship activities, HSBC The Scheme reports its carbon emissions for
Our banking business is well positioned to Asset Management engages on climate its equity and corporate bond mandates in its
support our customers managing their own change issues with investee companies on a annual TCFD Report and will seek to widen
climate risk through financing. For our most priority list, as defined in its Stewardship the coverage of its assessment and reporting
material wholesale customers, we use our Plan. HSBC Asset Management makes over time. In line with the Trustee’s
transition engagement questionnaire to independent engagement decisions in the commitment to good stewardship, the
understand clients’ climate strategies and interests of its clients. Trustee engages its asset managers to
risks. We have set out a suite of policies to ensure that financially material ESG risks are
guide our management of climate risk. We Employee pensions explicitly considered in the investment
The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension
continue to develop our climate risk appetite process.
Scheme (‘the Scheme’), our largest plan with
and metrics to help manage climate
exposures in our wholesale and retail $34bn of assets under management, aims to Insurance
portfolios. We use climate scenario analysis achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions In 2024, our Insurance business enhanced
to gain insights into the long-term effects of across its defined benefit and defined our stress testing modelling capability to
transition and physical risks across our contribution assets by 2050. To help achieve assess the solvency resilience of our
wholesale and retail portfolios (for further this, it is targeting an interim emissions Insurance entities under prescribed climate
details, see page 223). reduction of 50% by 2030, from 2019 levels, scenarios.
for its equity and corporate bond mandates.
Asset management This commitment was made in the context of For further details of the HSBC Asset
Management’s Stewardship Plan, see:
HSBC Asset Management recognises that wider efforts to manage the impact of climate
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/en/
climate-related risks may impact the change on the Scheme’s investments and
institutional-investor/about-us/responsible-
operational and financial performance of the consequent impact on the financial investing/-/media/files/attachments/uk/policies/
investee companies. The impact of these interests of members. stewardship-plan-uk.pdf
risks will vary depending on characteristics For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK)
such as asset class, sector, business model Pension Scheme’s annual TCFD statements and
and geography. HSBC Asset Management UK Stewardship Code submission, see https://
futurefocus.staff.hsbc.co.uk/active-dc/
continues to integrate climate analysis into its
information-centre/search-documents
actively managed product offerings and seeks
to assess climate-related risks that could
impact investment performance, where
applicable and relevant.
60 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Sustainability risk policies TCFD
Our sustainability risk policies form part of our For clients in scope of our sustainability risk Our energy policy
broader risk management framework and are policies, where we identify activities that Our energy policy covers the broader energy
important mechanisms for managing risks, could cause material negative impacts, we system, including upstream oil and gas, fossil
including delivering our net zero ambition. expect clients to demonstrate that they are fuel power generation, hydrogen, renewables
identifying and mitigating risks responsibly and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and
These policies focus on mitigating
and will look to take required actions as waste-to-energy sectors.
reputational, credit, legal and other risks
outlined in our policies. This may, as
related to our customers’ environmental and The policy seeks to balance three objectives:
appropriate, include conducting enhanced
social impacts. driving down global greenhouse gas
due diligence or applying financing
emissions; enabling an orderly transition that
restrictions. Such instances may require
Our policies builds resilience in the long term; and
additional review and approval by our
Our sustainability risk policies comprise our
supporting a just and affordable transition,
sustainability risk specialists and risk
core net zero-aligned policies – thermal coal
recognising the local realities in all the
committees.
phase-out and energy – and our broader
communities we serve.
sustainability risk policies covering:
For further details of how we manage
agricultural commodities, forestry, mining and sustainability risk, as well as our full policies, see The energy policy was first published in
metals, and World Heritage Sites and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and- December 2022, and is reviewed annually,
Ramsar-designated wetlands. We also apply responsible-business/managing-risk/ with the most recent update in February
the Equator Principles when financing sustainability-risk 2025.
relevant projects.
Governance and implementation For further details of our oil and gas, and power
These policies aim to provide clear signals to Our Group Risk and Compliance function has and utilities financed emissions targets, see the
our customers on our risk appetite for certain specialists who review and support 'Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed
activities. implementation of our sustainability risk emissions on page 52.
policies. Our relationship managers are For further details of our energy policy, see
We continue to review policy implementation primarily responsible for assessing relevant www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/managing-risk/
as we apply our sustainability risk policies in considerations under our risk management
sustainability-risk.
practice, and our operationalisation of such framework, including whether our clients may
policies continues to be enhanced. We take a be in scope of applicable sustainability risk
risk-based approach when identifying policies. They are supported by sustainability
transactions and clients to which our risk managers for management of risks as
sustainability risk policies apply and, where outlined in the policies. Where considered
relevant, when reporting on relevant appropriate, policy matters are escalated to
exposures, adopting approaches relevant governance committees.
proportionate to risk and materiality. This Oversight of the development and
helps to focus our efforts on areas where we implementation of policies is the
believe we can help drive meaningful change, responsibility of relevant governance
while taking into account experience from committees comprising senior members of
policy implementation over time. the Group Risk and Compliance function and
global businesses.
We regularly review our policies,
incorporating feedback and building on Biodiversity and natural capital-related
experience from policy implementation over policies
time. We have begun a review of our interim Our sustainability risk policies impose
financed emissions targets and associated restrictions on certain financing activities that
policies as part of the annual review of our may have material negative impacts on
net zero transition plan that we referenced in nature. Our forestry and agricultural
our 3Q24 earnings release in October. commodities policies focus specifically on the
upstream impacts of key agricultural
commodities including palm oil, timber, soy
and cattle. We also require palm oil
customers to obtain certification under the
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 61
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Sustainability risk policies continued
Our thermal coal phase-out policy Our basis of preparation for reporting on The chart below sets out our thermal coal
As set out in the thermal coal phase-out thermal coal financing drawn balance financing drawn balance exposure for the
policy, we are committed to phasing out the exposures is aligned with our thermal coal 2020 baseline as well as the exposure figures
financing of thermal coal-fired power and phase-out policy and applies a risk-based for 2021† and 2022†, which were $1bn
thermal coal mining in EU and OECD markets approach to reporting on relevant exposures. (rounded).
by 2030, and globally by 2040. This includes the use of globally recognised
We continue to work on our 2023 and 2024
third-party data sources to screen clients and
Our policy aims to support thermal coal numbers and expect to report on these in
applies materiality considerations to product
phase-out aligned to science-based future disclosures.
type, customer type and exposure type,
timeframes, recognising the different pace
which informs inclusion and exclusion
between advanced and emerging economies. Thermal Coal Financing drawn balance
requirements.
In turn, our policy supports progress towards
exposure1
our financed emissions targets for the power Specifically, for product types, short-term $bn
and utilities and thermal coal mining sectors. lending exposures are excluded from our
thermal coal financing exposures reporting, in 2
The policy was first published in December
line with our financed emissions
2021 and is reviewed annually, with the most
methodology. For customer types, exclusions
recent update in February 2025.
are applied for certain customer types such 1.5
as sovereigns and individuals. For exposure
For further details of our oil and gas, power and
types, a threshold of $15m for drawn
utilities financed emissions target, see the
‘Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed balances is applied for thermal coal financing 1
emissions’ on page 52. exposures reporting.
For our thermal coal phase-out policy, see
www.hsbc.com/-/files/hsbc/our-approach/risk- We recognise that we provide financing to 0.5
and-responsibility/pdfs/240125-hsbc-thermal- groups of connected companies where the
coal-phase-out-policy.pdf. wider group has thermal coal exposures, and
this introduces additional complexities when 0
Thermal coal financing exposures estimating thermal coal exposure. In such 2020 2021 2022
We aim to reduce thermal coal financing cases, we consider the nature and the extent
drawn balance exposure from a 2020 of the connections and any restrictions on 1 The reduction is based on estimated underlying
baseline by at least 25% by 2025, and aim to use of financing proceeds to fund the thermal numbers aligned to our refined basis of
reduce it by 50% by 2030. coal activities. preparation.
† Data is subject to independent third-party limited
We continue to refine our basis of preparation assurance, in accordance with ISAE 3000/ISAE
and have made further enhancements in 3410. For further details, see our Financed
2024 while taking into account experience Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures
Methodology and independent third-party limited
from policy implementation over time.
assurance report, which are available at
Applying our refined basis of preparation did www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
not have a material impact on the thermal
coal financing drawn balance exposure as of
For further details of our approach to financed
31 December 2020. emissions, see ’Our Approach to financed
emissions’ on page 48.
For further details of our Financed Emissions and
Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
Asset Management policy
HSBC Asset Management’s Energy and fired power and thermal coal mining For further details of the energy policy, see
Thermal Coal Policies have been developed in (collectively ‘thermal coal’) within the 2030/40 www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/
support of HSBC Group’s net zero ambition. timelines set out in the HSBC Thermal Coal files/attachments/common/energy-policy-en.pdf.
In its capacity as a discretionary investment Phase-Out Policy, and is intended to help For further details of the thermal coal policy, see
manager and under its Energy Policy, HSBC meet the dual objectives of phasing out www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/
Asset Management engages and assesses thermal coal within science-based files/attachments/common/coal-policy-en.pdf.
the transition plans of oil and gas, and power timeframes and of energy transition in more
and utilities issuers responsible for around 70 coal-reliant economies.
per cent of relevant emissions based upon all
The Energy Policy and Thermal Coal Policy
listed equity and corporate fixed income
complement one another and are reviewed at
managed within its major investment hubs.
least annually.
Its Thermal Coal Policy is developed in
support of the transition from thermal coal-
62 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Social
Building inclusion and resilience
We play an active role in opening up a world of opportunity for our customers,
colleagues and communities by connecting across our international networks
to help build a more inclusive and resilient society.
At a glance
Inclusion is key to opening up a world of Employee well-being is essential. We offer all easily. We also provide financial education for
opportunity. It involves a commitment to colleagues a wide range of resources that help our customers.
identifying and addressing barriers that may support their mental, physical and financial
stop people from accessing opportunities well-being so they can thrive in and out of Communities
In 2024, we updated our global philanthropy
because of who they are or where they are work. We are working to ensure that our
strategy to align with our ESG areas of focus –
from. offices, branches and digital spaces are
‘transition to net zero’ and ‘building inclusion
accessible.
Inclusion goes hand in hand with resilience. and resilience’, allowing us to work alongside
We aim to help people build the capabilities Customers the communities we operate within to help
they need to achieve their goals and to deal We are committed to helping our customers create change.
with the challenges they face, so we are access the financial services they need. They
We believe that fostering inclusion and
focused on delivering products, services and should not find it more difficult to access
building resilience helps us to create long-term
education that support our colleagues, finance because of their gender, ethnicity,
value and growth. By removing unnecessary
customers and communities. sexual orientation, neurodiversity or disability.
barriers and striving to be a fair and equitable
Our ambition is to create a welcoming,
Colleagues inclusive and accessible banking experience organisation, we can attract and retain the best
We believe that an inclusive, healthy and talent, support a wider customer base to
for all our customers.
rewarding workplace helps the whole Group achieve their goals and stimulate growth in our
succeed. We are focused on inclusive hiring so We build resilience by creating products and communities.
we can help ensure our colleagues – and services that simplify the banking experience,
particularly our leadership – are representative so customers can manage their wealth more
of the communities we serve.
In this section
Our commitment Our approach to inclusion We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive Page 64
to inclusion environment that reflects our customers and communities.
Fostering a diverse Page 65
environment
Fostering an inclusive Page 66
culture
Building a healthy Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey and report insights to our Group Operating Page 67
workplace Committee and the Board.
Being a great place to We aim to create a great workplace that will help in attracting, retaining and Page 68
work motivating our colleagues so they can deliver for our customers across
countries and territories.
Developing skills, Learning and skills We energise our colleagues for growth and build resilience by equipping Page 70
careers and development them with skills that they need today and preparing them to meet future
opportunities challenges.
Building customer Our approach to customer We aim to support financial well-being and remove barriers customers can Page 71
inclusion and inclusion and resilience face in accessing financial services.
resilience
Engaging with our Helping to build a more We focus on a number of priorities where we can make a difference to the Page 72
communities inclusive and resilient community and support sustainable growth.
society
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 63
ESG
review
ESG review | Social
Our commitment to inclusion
Our approach to inclusion
Our purpose, ‘Opening up a world of We have identified specific Group-wide implementation of our global inclusion
opportunity’, explains why we exist as an priorities, which we track and monitor strategy to help ensure it remains locally
organisation and is the foundation of our progress against. Embracing our unique relevant and compliant with local laws.
global inclusion strategy. international footprint, we adapt
How we hold ourselves to account
We set strategic priorities We monitor progress We are transparent
Our strategic priorities are aligned to three We consistently track and measure We are transparent in sharing our data
public aspirational ambitions, which have performance against our priorities, utilising through external disclosures and we
been created to increase representation of our data capabilities to accurately monitor participate in benchmarking to measure
under-represented groups. In 2024, we progress through: our progress across the industry. In 2024,
continued to make progress against our we:
priorities by: – an inclusion dashboard, which monitors
progress against ambitions and is – ranked as a Top 75 employer in the UK
– achieving a 34.6% representation of reported to the Group Operating Social Mobility Index, improving 30
women in senior leadership roles, with Committee on a quarterly basis; and places to number 37;
an ambition of achieving 35% by 20251;
– review meetings between our Head of – ranked number 3 in the Stonewall
– attaining a 3.0% representation of Black Inclusion and each Group Operating Workplace Equality Index in the UK and
heritage colleagues in senior leadership Committee member to discuss progress maintained our Stonewall Gold standard;
in the UK and US combined, against an against aspirational ambitions and to and
ambition to achieve 3.4% by 20251; and support further progress.
– were awarded an Ambassador Status by
– increasing our Inclusion index as Carers UK.
measured in our Snapshot survey, to
78% against a 2024 target of 75%.
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part
of any US-based senior leader performance or
other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where
application of such should not apply under
local law.
We are evidence-led
Our priorities are informed by data, and we continue to enable our colleagues to self-identify across a range of data points that reflect their
personal identity, including ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity and ability.
We have enabled our colleagues to self-identify through our systems and our Snapshot survey, helping us to understand the diverse
composition of our global workforce.
Data availability enables us to embrace our international footprint, set locally-relevant priorities, support under-represented groups and
improve outcomes for our colleagues. In countries and territories where we are able to do so, we invite colleagues to share their data with
us. In 2024, we enabled 93% of our colleagues to disclose their ethnic background, with 67% of colleagues currently choosing to do so,
where this is legally permissible. In certain markets we invite colleagues to share additional characteristics with us, for example, disability or
socio-economic background.
For further details of our representation data, pay gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and
the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Parker Review UK disclosures
The history of our organisation is rooted in multiculturalism, and we remain focused on
embracing the different cultures and perspectives in the communities we serve while
enabling our customers to realise their global ambitions.
HSBC has supported the aims and objectives of the Parker Review and participated in annual
reporting since its formation in 2016.
We are committed to building a diverse workforce that reflects the communities we serve.
98.5% of our UK-based senior leadership population (including our Executive Committee and
their direct reports) have made self-disclosures regarding their ethnic heritage. A total of
17.1% of our senior leadership identify as coming from an ethnic minority background, broadly
aligned to the UK Census representation of 18%.
Our ambition is to ensure we remain reflective of UK Census data.
64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Fostering a diverse environment
Women in senior leadership Black colleagues in senior leadership Gender representation
Increasing female representation in our senior Having a workforce that better reflects the
46.2%
leadership roles is one of our longest- communities we serve remains one of our
Holdings Board
standing strategic priorities. Since achieving strategic priorities. We have an ambition to
53.8%
our ambition of having 30% of senior increase our Black heritage senior leader
leadership positions held by women in 2020, representation in both the UK and US
78.9%
we set a new ambition to reach 35% by combined to 3.4% by 20251. In 2024 we Group
20251. We are on track to meet our 2025 maintained our position at 3.0%. Executives 21.1%
ambition, with 34.6% of senior leadership roles held by women at the end of 2024. Our Previously in 2020, we set our initial ethnicity C G o ro m u b p i ned 68.0%
ambition to double the number of Black
hiring practices are merit-based, and we seek Executives and
to ensure that every candidate, regardless of colleagues in senior leadership roles globally reports1 32.0%
by 20251. While this ambition was not tracked
their identity and background, has an equal
opportunity to demonstrate their skill and through our senior leadership performance Subsidiary 67.2%
potential. A total of 36.8% of all external
scorecards, it remained a strategic priority. directors2
Since 2020, we have increased the 32.8%
appointments into senior positions were
representation of our Black colleagues in
female, compared with 37.7% in 2023. 65.4%
senior leadership by 60%. We have seen a Senior
Women represented 38.0% of all promotions
number of changes to the global footprint of
leadership3
into senior leadership roles in 2024. 34.6%
our business since setting this ambition, and
In 2024, we relaunched our Accelerating despite our efforts so far, we are not making 62.3%
Middle
Women’s Leadership programme, developed the progress towards our ambition as quickly management3
in partnership with Cranfield Business School. as we would like and we are unlikely to 37.7%
The programme aims to strengthen our talent achieve our 2020 ambition by 2025.
pipeline by improving the representation of Junior 50.9%
women in senior leadership roles. It is We remain committed to focusing on the management3
development of our Black heritage 49.1%
designed to increase the visibility, career
colleagues. To address this, we use the
advocacy and network of our high-performing
Solaris programme as a development 48.8%
senior women, ultimately driving engagement All employees
initiative for our UK-based Black heritage
and enhancing leadership capability. In 2024, 51.2%
women. To date, 41 women have completed
we ran two pilot sessions held in the UK and
the programme, with 20% of participants
Hong Kong. We also launched a modified
version of the programme in a US pilot called securing a promotion. Male Female
Accelerating Enterprise Leaders, which also Our immersive development programme, ‘In 1 Combined Group Executives and direct reports
welcomes our male colleagues. includes HSBC Group Executives and their direct
Their Shoes’ was designed to bring to life the
reports (excluding administrative staff) as of 31
lived experiences of minority ethnic
Our Coaching Circles programme, which December 2024.
matches senior leaders with a small group of colleagues, including the challenges they 2 Directors (or equivalent) of subsidiary companies
colleagues to provide advice and support on face. In 2024, the programme was that are included in the Group’s consolidated
the development of leadership skills and recognised as an Outstanding Innovation at financial statements, excluding corporate directors.
the Learning Excellence Awards and was 3 In our leadership structure, we classify senior
network building, welcomed 4,052 women
highly commended in the Global Diversity leadership as those at global career band 3 and
and 4,103 men in 2024.
above; middle management as those at global
Initiative of the Year category at the British
career band 4; and junior management as those
Diversity Awards. Since its launch,12,707
at global career bands 5 and 6.
colleagues have completed the programme.
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part of
any US-based senior leader performance or
other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where
application of such should not apply under local
law.
Representation and pay gaps
We publish this data annually to ensure both colleagues with a disability in the UK. This now We are committed to paying colleagues fairly
transparency and a maintained focus on covers approximately 81% of our workforce. In regardless of their gender or ethnicity and have
addressing representation gaps within the 2024, our mean aggregate UK-wide gender pay processes to review that remuneration is free
organisation. Our gender and ethnicity pay gap gap was 40.6% compared with 43.2% in 2023, from bias. We also review our pay practices
reporting shows the difference in average pay and the ethnicity pay gap was 7.7% compared and undertake a pay equity review annually. If
between these two groups of people and the with 4.5% in 2023. Our UK gender pay gap is pay differences are identified that are not due
wider workforce, regardless of role or seniority. driven by several factors, including the shape of to objective, tangible reasons such as
our workforce, where there are more men than performance, skills or experience, we make
We have reported our UK gender
women in senior higher-paid roles and more adjustments.
representation and pay gap data since 2017 in
women than men in junior roles. While we are
line with reporting regulations, and have confident in our approach to pay equity, until For further details of our representation data, pay
voluntarily extended this to include the US, women and ethnic minority colleagues are gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/who-
mainland China, Hong Kong, India, Mexico, proportionately represented across all areas we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and the ESG
Singapore, Malaysia, and the UAE, alongside Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
and levels of the organisation we will continue
ethnicity data for the UK and US. In 2024, we
to see gaps in average pay.
have also extended this to include our
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 65
ESG
review
ESG review | Social
Fostering an inclusive culture
Looking to the future and beyond our public Through sponsorship by our non-executive We have also expanded our workplace
commitments, we refreshed our global directors and our Group Operating adjustments programme through our provider
inclusion strategy to refocus our ambitions Committee, we bring together our senior Microlink, with services now available to over
against our strategic priorities, and set out our leaders and colleagues, bringing to life our 44,000 colleagues in India, a 17 percentage
approach to inclusion over the next three to values of ‘valuing difference’ and ‘succeeding point increase compared with 2023.
five years. We have established key together’.
principles that enable us to pivot towards Socio-economic diversity
In 2024, our ERGs led numerous initiatives To better support our colleagues from lower
building a more inclusive culture for all of our
and events including our Pride ERG for socio-economic backgrounds, we have
colleagues.
LGBTQ+ colleagues, who worked with our partnered with the London School of
Our colleagues’ personal sense of belonging Group Benefits team to expand Gender Economics and Progress Together to produce
and psychological safety are two key Dysphoria healthcare benefits in India. a comprehensive framework targeting socio-
measures captured as part of our Inclusion economic mobility in 2024.
Our Ability ERG, for our colleagues with a
Index in the annual Snapshot survey, which
disability, created a framework called ‘Know The ‘VOICE’ is designed to support
we monitor and review by various identities
me Better’, as a tool to help facilitate individuals, people managers, and
that comprise our global workforce. In 2024
conversations between colleagues and line organisations in retaining and advancing
we achieved a score of 78%, which is three
managers regarding a colleague’s disability. colleagues from lower socio-economic
percentage points ahead of our annual
backgrounds within the UK financial services
aspirational goal, and on par with the financial
Our focus on disability sector. The blueprint was developed through
services industry benchmark.
We are dedicated to creating an inclusive
extensive input from professionals across the
culture where all employees, including those
Analysis of our Inclusion index allows us to industry who come from a lower socio-
with disabilities can thrive. Our progress is
measure engagement levels of specific economic background, and they shared their
guided by our Global Disability Council,
colleague groups in greater detail, in particular experiences as part of our qualitative
sponsored by our HSBC UK Chief Executive
different personal identities, to better research. It highlights the biases that can
Officer, with senior leaders across the
understand the experiences of our colleagues impact retention and progression and offers
business meeting every two months.
globally. We found that scores from actionable, evidence-based strategies rooted
colleagues who identify as male and female in behavioural science to drive meaningful
We have launched the second cohort of our
were comparable, at 79% and 77% change.
Career Development Programme for our
respectively, remaining unchanged from
colleagues in middle and junior management
Through our Strive ERG for colleagues who
2023. From an ethnicity perspective, our
with a disability, in partnership with an
come from a lower socio-economic
Black heritage colleagues were two
external coaching provider. In 2024, we
background we have developed internal
percentage points below the Group-wide
launched an international pilot of the
mentoring programmes pairing junior and
average, while our Asian heritage colleagues’
programme in Hong Kong.
senior colleagues for coaching and
results were on a par with the overall score,
development sessions.
at 78%. From a sexual orientation In 2024, stories from our colleagues were
perspective, colleagues who identified as showcased globally as part of our Disability
We have enabled our colleagues in Singapore
LGB+ were one percentage point above the Confidence series. The series leveraged the
to share their socio-economic background.
Group-wide result. power of our colleagues sharing their
experiences, the support they receive, and In 2023, we entered the Social Mobility Index
Our employee resource groups
how this has helped them empower others to for the first time and gained recognition as a
Bringing together the shared identities,
do the same. top 75 employer. We continue to be
values and interests of our colleagues allows
recognised as a top 75 employer, improving
us to build an inclusive culture across the
our rank by 30 places to number 37 in 2024.
organisation and our volunteer-led employee
resource groups (’ERGs’) enable this. Our
ERGs provide insight on key societal issues.
Supporting our colleagues with caring responsibilities
We have found that many of our colleagues are often involved in both their careers and
significant caring responsibilities outside work, and are finding managing both responsibilities
increasingly challenging. In our Snapshot survey nearly 16% of colleagues self-identified as
having caring responsibilities.
In 2024 we launched the Global Carers Charter, which comprises a series of tools, policies
and support available for colleagues with caring responsibilities. Following its launch in the UK,
HSBC’s Global Carers Charter was awarded Ambassador Status by Carers UK.
66 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Building a healthy workplace
Listening to our colleagues
We value difference at HSBC, and we do this 2023. Our inclusion index, a key measure of 77% in 2024, up by one percentage point
by seeking out different perspectives and building an inclusive culture at HSBC, from 2023. We recognise that our speak up
listening. Our colleagues succeed together by remained unchanged at 78%, against an culture requires continued focus to ensure
being connected across the organisation, and ambition of maintaining 75%. we create the right environment for our
they take responsibility by speaking up. people. Our Snapshot survey revealed an
We have found that 75% of colleagues have
These activities are core to our values and we increase in colleagues able to state their
said that working conditions enable them to
capture regular feedback from our colleagues opinion without fear of negative
be productive, which is up two percentage
to help improve HSBC and the employee consequences, with 73% of colleagues
points compared with 2023. Despite this,
experience. feeling able to do so, up by one percentage
62% of colleagues report that work
point from 2023.
How we listen processes allow them to work efficiently,
Our annual employee engagement survey is which is down three percentage points We strive to improve awareness and
called ‘Snapshot’ and runs every September. compared with 2023. This remains one of the education around poor behaviours and
It is an opportunity for all employees to share lowest scoring items across the Snapshot strengthen our understanding and response
feedback on what it is like to work at HSBC. survey, particularly across our senior to these issues across all levels of the
leadership population. There are a number of organisation. In 2024, to ensure continued
Our 2024 survey achieved a response rate of
initiatives underway to make it easier for high-quality investigations into conduct
88%, up from 85% in 2023, with more than
colleagues to work efficiently. concerns, we introduced six new investigator
182,000 colleagues choosing to share their
training modules aimed at the Human
views. This high level of participation enables We also run an annual Pay and Benefits
Resources investigator community.
us to share results confidentially across all survey, which in 2024 helped to evaluate
levels of the organisation. Insights from our changes to our performance approach, as Our colleagues continue to receive training on
Snapshot survey are shared with the Group well as capturing ongoing feedback about bullying, harassment, discrimination and
Operating Committee and the Board, and are colleague expectations on compensation and retaliation at least every other year in our
provided directly to more than 11,000 people development in support of our employer Global Mandatory Training curriculum and as
managers with 10 or more responses from value proposition. We complement these part of other learning resources, including in
their teams. We support teams to have good large surveys with continuous lifecycle People Manager training.
conversations about their feedback through feedback from new joiners, internal movers
We have mandatory procedures for handling
the provision of interactive dashboards, action and voluntary leavers.
and investigating employee concerns, which
planning tools and discussion guides.
We are committed to building on our high include those for bullying and harassment.
Our Employee Engagement Index, our key levels of engagement and feedback Cases are continually monitored from our
measure of how people feel about HSBC, has throughout 2025. speak-up channels, and data is reported to
increased to 80%, up three percentage points management committees to ensure there is
compared with 2023. This was the largest For further details of our Snapshot data, see the visibility at leadership level.
ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
increase seen across the Snapshot indices,
In 2024 the bank received a total of 624
and puts us six points ahead of the global
Employee conduct and harassment
concerns raised relating to bullying and
financial services benchmark that we
We expect all our employees to treat each
harassment. Where the concerns were
measure against.
other with respect and dignity, and we do not
substantiated following an investigation,
tolerate or condone discrimination,
Key driver analysis shows engagement is appropriate action was taken, which included
harassment or bullying in any form, as
most influenced by a clear understanding of termination of services where appropriate. In
outlined in our Global Anti-Bullying and
HSBC’s strategic objectives, confidence in 2024, 26% of concerns raised were either
Harassment Code. This is supported by our
the future and our strategy, positivity towards partly or fully substantiated and 34 colleagues
Global Code of Conduct, which helps us to
career and development, and trust and were dismissed in relation to bullying,
maintain high standards across the Group.
confidence in leadership. harassment, discrimination or retaliation.
We encourage our colleagues to speak up
Following significant increases last year, the We are committed to addressing this type of
about poor behaviour or things that do not
career index remained stable at 71% and is behaviour and will continue to take action
seem right. At times, we know it can be
six points ahead of the global financial where we find that an employee has
difficult to raise concerns, so regular
services benchmark. The proportion of breached our values and high standards of
communication and tracking is important to
colleagues stating a preference to remain conduct.
us. We measure confidence to speak up via
with HSBC for five or more years increased
our Snapshot Speak Up Index, which is at
to 70%, up three percentage points from
Delivering accessible learning
We are committed to fostering an inclusive workplace for all colleagues, regardless of
technology or ability.
In 2024, our Global Mandatory Training received Gold at the Brandon Hall Awards for Best
Training Program for Global Accessibility Standards.
To uphold these standards we collaborate closely with our accessibility experts, ensuring our
digital learning aligns with the high benchmarks set for our customer-facing websites. Our
Global Mandatory Training assigned to all colleagues undergoes an external audit to identify
any gaps affecting the experience of colleagues, such as those with visual impairments or
those who are neurodiverse. We also conduct inclusive user testing to incorporate learner
feedback into the design, helping to ensure a seamless experience for everyone.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 67
ESG
review
ESG review | Social
Being a great place to work
To fulfil our purpose and drive our strategy, Recognising colleagues’ success Our ‘At Our Best’ recognition platform offers
we need the best people, performing at their We believe in recognising our colleagues’ employees the opportunity to recognise their
best. Focusing on opportunities for success and have a number of mechanisms peers for role model behaviours linked to our
colleagues, making them a part of something to help enable colleagues to be rewarded for values. In 2024, our colleagues recognised
bigger and being clear on what they can their work. one another over 1.5 million times, up three
expect when they deliver on our strategy, is percentage points from 2023. Managers are
In 2024, we introduced performance routines,
fundamental to delivering for our customers. also encouraged to recognise colleagues’
to encourage our colleagues to talk about
service anniversaries every five years up to
Our workforce proposition strengthens our their ambitious goals throughout the year.
30 years of service, and at 40 years. In 2024
ability to attract, retain and energise our This is complemented with improving the
over 28,000 anniversaries were celebrated.
colleagues and is driven by three key reward exchange of feedback, so colleagues know
principles of rewarding colleagues’ how they are doing and how they can Share plans are another way to empower
responsibly, recognising colleagues’ success improve. These activities are brought colleagues to participate in the Group’s
and supporting our colleagues to grow. together through performance check-in success. In 2024, we invited 194,000
conversations at the year-end, with a colleagues to participate in our share plans
Rewarding colleagues responsibly simplified approach to performance and 93% of colleagues globally now have
Our pay and benefits proposition aims to
assessments. access to a share plan.
reward colleagues responsibly, helping to
ensure financial security for all. We remain These changes were communicated to over Supporting our colleagues to grow
committed to providing a competitive total 215,000 colleagues in 59 markets at the To help our colleagues to grow personally and
compensation package with an appropriate beginning of the year. Our Pay and Benefits professionally, we are committed to
mix of fixed pay and variable pay. In our survey measures several factors, including supporting their mental, physical and financial
Snapshot survey, 52% of colleagues feel they our colleagues’ understanding of well-being, offering flexibility and helping
are paid fairly for what they do, the sentiment performance routines, with 76% reporting a colleagues develop new skills.
remaining unchanged from 2023. ‘good understanding’ of how to practice
We use colleague feedback, benchmarking
them. In our Snapshot survey, 87% of
Following our accreditation as a global living from industry experts and we work with
colleagues reported that they had a clear
wage employer in 2024 we have continued to external partners across business, civil
understanding of what is expected of them
work with the Fair Wage Network, which society and academia. As a founding member
and 94% of colleagues said they have had at
provides an independent source of wage of the World Wellbeing Movement, we are
least one performance check-in conversation
levels. HSBC has achieved accreditation as a working with the associated Wellbeing
with their manager.
global living wage employer in 2025 in Research Centre at the University of Oxford
respect of the next two years. A living wage Variable pay allows us to recognise the to shape our approach to well-being. In
should be sufficient to cover an adequate performance and behaviours of our Snapshot, a record 78% of our colleagues
standard of living given the cost of goods and colleagues. In 2024 we introduced ‘Target said, ‘my organisation cares about my well-
services in each country in which we operate. Variable Pay’ to 150,000 colleagues in 47 being’, up nine percentage points from 2023.
We will continue to review all wages globally markets.
We further detail our approach to supporting
against local living wage benchmarks.
We have supported managers in their our colleagues to grow on the following page.
For our UK suppliers that have staff working understanding of the changes, with nearly We further detail our approach to skills and
within the UK, we seek to encourage them to 18,000 people managers attending training. career development on page 70.
pay at least the living wage. Changes to our pay structure provide more
clarity and transparency on how we make pay
For further details of our approach to workforce decisions and how performance impacts
reward, see page 301.
variable pay, helping colleagues understand
how they contribute to the performance of
the organisation.
Our first ever global activity challenge
We launched our first ever global activity challenge designed to help colleagues increase their
activity levels and well-being over a four-week period. With over 70 activities to choose from,
we supported colleagues with a new global internal community group on our intranet, two
expert speaker events, tailored content given on the Virgin Pulse app and motivational videos
filmed by colleagues. During the challenge, colleagues collectively logged physical activity
equivalent to 478,000 miles, which is equivalent to 19 times around the equator. After the
challenge, two thirds of the participants surveyed responded positively to joining the next
challenge.
One in four global colleagues with the Virgin Pulse app joined the challenge, with Asia-Pacific
accounting for 77% of all participation.
68 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
ESG review | Social
Developing skills, careers and opportunities
Learning and skills development
Employee development energises our Our Global Mandatory Training covers key
colleagues for growth and helps equip them principles and foundational concepts of AI Energising our
with the skills they need today while also usage and we have developed foundational
colleagues for growth
preparing them to meet future challenges. and intermediate pathways to raise
awareness of AI principles, ethics, risks and
Enabling future skills governance. We have also developed specific We aim to provide our colleagues with
We have adapted our skills development courses tailored for our senior leadership the opportunity to develop critical skills
platforms and learning resources, to help population that focus on understanding AI while creating a pipeline of talent to
prepare our workforce for future challenges and exploring its use cases for business and support our strategic ambitions. It is
and enable skills building at scale. In 2024, decision making. essential that we promote effective
we: leadership and foster an environment
Skilling the transition to net zero that inspires our colleagues to grow. In
– increased the number of active users and
Our Sustainability Academy continues to 2024, our focus has been on:
participation in learning programmes via our
support our net zero ambitions and strategy.
learning experience Degreed. This aims to As the Academy has evolved, we have – Our Digital Acceleration Programme,
address skills gaps through internal and increased our focus on building capabilities which aims to create dynamic working
external learning content and courses, beyond foundational skills, specifically methods and simplify our technology
enabling colleagues to share, collaborate targeting priority groups that support both our landscape. This will enable us to work
and learn individually or in groups through customers and our operations in the faster and smarter, enhancing our
structured learning pathways; transition to net zero. In 2024, our key focus ability to develop better products and
– unlocked over 250,000 hours of skills has been on: services for our customers while
development through our Talent embracing innovative technologies;
– providing on-demand learning tailored to
Marketplace. To date more than 46,000 – Our ‘CARE’ programme, which
the specific roles, regions, and client bases
colleagues have created a profile helping embodies the principles of being
of colleagues involved in supporting
them match their interest in developing connected, accountable, responsive
customers through the transition;
specific skills or career goals with on-the- and empathic. It outlines the
job projects and networking; – facilitating external certifications and behaviours that reflect these values,
– accelerated the use of digital badging to qualifications, as needed, to deepen guiding our colleagues in delivering
acknowledge skill-building achievements. colleagues’ expertise in areas such as exceptional service to our customers.
We have launched over 150 badges and Sustainability Climate Risk through The programme has also been
issued over 12,000 badging credentials providers like GARP and Fitch; integrated into our customer
associated with priority skills such as – delivering a three-month Sustainability experience objectives, with progress
sustainability, AI and data analytics; and Leadership Programme in collaboration tracked through our Customer
with Imperial College London and our own Centricity Index, which is included in
– enabled our colleagues to learn via a range Sustainability Centre of Excellence experts our 2024 Snapshot survey.
of channels, reflected in an increase of total
training hours by our colleagues to 6.2 for over 200 colleagues; and – The Managing Director Leadership
million hours. – offering net zero learning opportunities to Programme, which was expanded in
the Board and 100 of our most senior 2024. It combines immersive in-
Maintaining our risk management culture leaders. person sessions on leadership with
Our Risk Academy delivers and deploys
virtual deep dives on key issues and
comprehensive learning opportunities for all We have leveraged our internal experts from all-hands strategy sessions, alongside
employees, including foundational training in the Sustainability Centre of Excellence to an enterprise risk leaders programme
traditional areas of risk management, such as provide advanced skills training in key and a series focused on doing
financial crime risk, and specialised transition areas, such as power systems and business in key locations. To support
development for senior leaders and those in storage, carbon removal, transition in Asia- our leadership pipeline we have
high-risk roles. The Academy also addresses Pacific, steel and cement industries, road refreshed our development offering
issues like ESG risk, AI and cybersecurity. transport systems, hydrogen and agriculture. for the next layer of leaders to be
delivered in 2025; and
For senior leaders, we have introduced new
programmes centred on Enterprise – Our Emerging Talent proposition,
Leadership through a risk lens. These Training at HSBC supporting HSBC in a future-focused
programmes are designed to support HSBC’s 6.2 million way, supplying the organisation with
strategic priority of sustainable growth by diverse and capable talent pools to
equipping leaders with the skills needed to anticipate and address existing future
navigate an evolving risk environment. We Training hours by our colleagues in 2024. skill shortages.
launched and concluded a new Financial (2023: 5.3 million)
Crime masterclass series for our senior
leader population, focusing on the importance 29.6 hours
of risk management and protecting the bank
from financial crime.
Training hours per FTE in 2024.
Building responsible AI expertise
(2023: 23.9 hours)
As we continue to enhance our AI capabilities
across the organisation, our new AI Academy
helps to support advanced skills development
aligned with HSBC’s AI strategy. This was
launched in response to the growing global
interest in AI and focuses on fostering AI
literacy and promoting responsible AI use
throughout the bank.
70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Building customer inclusion and resilience
Our approach to customer inclusion and resilience
We believe that financial services, when seen that over 10% of goals have already been launched the Accessibility Hub, a multi-award
accessible and fair, can reduce inequality and achieved showing how this capability is helping winning accessibility awareness e-learning
help more people access opportunities. We support customers to build financial resilience. content, promoting digital accessibility to the
play an active role in opening up a world of general public, attracting circa 150,000 views
Well+, our flagship health and wellness-based
opportunity for customers and communities, as of September 2024. Also since launch,
reward programme on our HSBC HK mobile
by supporting their financial well-being, and more than 1,000 individuals across 140
banking app had another successful year with
removing barriers to accessing financial companies globally have participated in our
over 267,000 new customers in this year alone.
services. specialised digital accessibility Training 1000
More than 400,000 customers are now
Programme.
Access to products and services engaged, earning points by taking part in
We provide innovative solutions to help activities aimed at improving their holistic Supporting customers extends beyond our
improve customer access to products and health covering physical, mental and financial digital channels and we recognise that not all
services. For those in need of additional well-being. disabilities are visible. We rolled out our
support due to social or financial Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Lanyard Scheme
vulnerabilities or for those customers who do Communities to two additional markets this year – Singapore
In the UK we continued to support the
not qualify for a standard account, the UK and and the UAE – expanding it beyond the UK,
development of children and young people's
Hong Kong offer a No-cost Account with no Hong Kong, the Channel Islands and Australia.
financial capability, including those with special
minimum balance and no account opening The lanyard indicates that an individual may
education needs, through our Money Heroes
fees, to help with basic banking needs. need a little more help, support or time.
Programme – winner of the 2024 Third Sector
In the UK, we continue to offer our Business Charity Partnership Award (supported In 2024 two UK branches, Loughborough and
groundbreaking ‘No Fixed Address’ service, by Young Enterprise). In addition, we launched Sheffield, received awards for their accessible
working in partnership with housing and a new partnership with Girlguiding UK in and inclusive branch design. We are proud to
homelessness charity Shelter UK, providing November 2024, introducing the Money Skills be recognised by the Financial Times Diversity
access to financial services to help rebuild lives – ‘I’m Money Confident’ badge. in Finance Awards, the Construction Industry
and increase financial resilience. Since its launch Council and the Business Disability Forum for
For schools, colleges and youth groups we
in November 2019, this service has supported our work to improve accessibility, equity and
offer the ‘Smart Money’ programme, where
over 7,000 individuals, with over 1,400 of these inclusion in UK financial services.
training is delivered by HSBC colleagues to
in 2024 alone.
help improve financial capability and We continue to introduce accessibility features
employability. In 2024, we trained over 1,000 and designs (e.g. a curved notch and braille
Making banking accessible
colleagues, and working with our dedicated dots) to our card products across the globe to
Number of no-cost accounts held for
Financial Education Team, over 280,000 support people with visual impairments,
customers, in the UK and Hong Kong, who do
children and young people were engaged in learning difficulties, and colour blindness. In
not qualify for a standard account or who
the programme across the UK. 2024, we introduced accessibility features in
might need additional support due to social or
India, Philippines and Indonesia resulting in a
financial vulnerability. In Hong Kong we launched a face-to-face
total of 20 markets where those features are
training programme for teenagers with special
now available.
2024 674,439 education needs on how to make healthy
financial choices and build essential financial For the second year HSBC sponsored and
2023 718,306 skills for day-to-day living. hosted the annual AbilityNet’s Techshare Pro
Conference, Europe's largest event for the
2022 716,957 Creating an inclusive banking experience accessibility and disability inclusion
We endeavour to ensure that our banking
community, at our Group Head Office in
The reduction in no-cost accounts between 2023 products and services are designed to be London. Over 1,600 individuals attended the
and 2024 is due to bulk closure of inactive accounts accessible for customers experiencing either
event (in person or online) globally.
in the UK. temporary or permanent challenges, such as
disability, impairment or a major life event. In Supporting women
Supporting financial knowledge and Hong Kong we introduced a simplified mobile UK CMB launched a Women’s Business
education banking app designed to improve digital Growth Initiative Programme to support
We continue to invest in financial education inclusion for seniors, offering a more women in scaling their businesses and
content and tools across different channels to accessible and intuitive user experience. The provide access to funding, making £250m
help customers, colleagues and communities app features an enhanced interface with easy- available for lending, education and
be confident users of financial services, for to-understand buttons, increased use of networking opportunities. The aim of the
example by offering programmes focused on visuals, and streamlined access to essential support is to help narrow the credit gap for
improving resilience and basic money banking services. As the first initiative of its women-led businesses, which is estimated to
management skills. kind among Hong Kong banks, the app has be valued at $1.7tn globally.
been successful in engaging over 663,000
Customers In Mexico and Uruguay, our Mujeres Al
unique users since its launch in October 2022.
Since 2020, we received over 8.8 million Mundo programme helps to address gender
unique visitors to our global digital financial We are committed to improving accessibility gaps by providing businesswomen access to
education content, which helps customers across our digital channels and continuously funding, education and networking. In 2024
expand their financial capabilities through our review our browser-based websites and we provided over $190m in sustainable
personal financial management tools. mobile banking services against the Web financing to support women-owned
Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 AA enterprises in both countries. We also won
HSBC UK further enhanced capabilities that
standards. We promote digital accessibility by the 2024 Financial Alliance for Women’s
help customers to establish healthy savings
offering educational resource. In 2024 we ‘Outstanding Contributor’ award for enabling
habits through the launch of ‘Savings Goals’.
full financial access for women and unlocking
Customers have used this mobile banking
huge value in the Female Economy.
feature, since launch in April 2024, to set up
over 125,000 goals, with ‘Rainy Day’ as one of
the most popular categories. We have also
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 71
ESG
review
ESG review | Social
Engaging with our communities
Helping to build a more inclusive and resilient society
We have a long-standing commitment to We also work with our charity partners to Charitable giving in 2024 (%)
support the communities in which we help strengthen the resilience of
operate. We aim to empower people and communities where we operate. Initiatives
launched in 2024 included:
communities to develop the skills and
knowledge needed to thrive in the future.
– ‘Saving for Good’, in partnership with INJAZ
Through the global reach of our charitable Al Arab, which teaches financial literacy
partnerships we bring together diverse fundamentals to 2,386 low-income workers
people, ideas and perspectives that help us and the large migrant worker population in
open up opportunities and build a more the MENA region.
inclusive world. – A new financial literacy curriculum in Hong
Kong that aims to strengthen the financial
Building community and future skills
management knowledge of elderly learners
We work with charity partners to initiate
and provide a better understanding of
programmes that help people and Social, including Future Skills: 29%
communities respond to opportunities and fintech applications and awareness of Environment, including the Climate
online fraud. Solutions Partnership: 40%
challenges as global economies transition
Local Priorities: 21%
towards a low-carbon future. In 2024, these – We responded to disaster relief appeals to
Disaster relief and other giving: 10%
included: support efforts in Bangladesh, Central
Europe, Mexico, the Middle East, Spain,
– Continuing a partnership with the British Taiwan, Thailand, the USA and Vietnam.
Council in Brazil, Mexico, India, Indonesia Total cash giving towards charitable
and Vietnam, and in Australia, India and Community engagement and programmes
Malaysia with The King’s Trust Group, to volunteering $94.7m
We offer paid volunteering days, and
empower young, marginalised people with
encourage our people to offer their time,
the skills needed to excel in the green
skills and knowledge to causes within their
economy.
communities. In 2024, our colleagues gave
– In India, HSBC collaborated with two over 254,000 hours to community activities Hours volunteered during work time
charities to help enhance sustainability in during work hours. Examples of volunteering >254,000
the handloom and apparel sectors, efforts in 2024 included:
benefiting 10,000 weavers. Our initiatives
focused on adopting energy-efficient – around 260 employees supported
practices, reducing water pollution, Waterkeeper, a US-based environmental
promoting natural fibre products, and non-profit, with 700 hours volunteered
People projected to be reached through
increasing the use of natural dyes. across 16 events in the country; and
our social and future skills programme
– HSBC Continental Europe collaborated with – more than 200 employees acted as >928,000
Junior Achievement Europe to launch the mentors for marginalised youth in support
Climate Resilience Programme, which aims of the Strive and Rise Programme in Hong
to provide educational opportunities related Kong.
to innovations in climate resilience for
young people in France, Italy and Malta.
Resilient Community Environment Initiative helps to
build bio-diverse Beijing Palace Museum
Established in October 2023, the HSBC Philanthropy Foundation Beijing aims to build
inclusive and resilient communities by focusing on the development of children, support for
disabled elderly people, promoting employability and livelihoods, and building a resilient eco-
environment in communities.
In 2024, the Foundation’s ‘HSBC Resilient Community Environment Initiative’ was extended
to include the Palace Museum in Beijing’s Forbidden City. Altogether 2,243 square metres of
green space and a 118-square-metre pond in the Museum’s Cining Garden were renovated
and populated with diverse local species to form a healthy and resilient ecosystem. Visitors
to the Forbidden City have benefited from the enhanced scenery since the second half of
2024.
72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Governance
Acting responsibly
We remain committed to high standards of governance. We work
alongside our regulators and recognise our contribution to building
healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance
Our relationship feedback so we know where we need to We strive to meet our responsibilities to
We act on our responsibility to run our improve, and take steps to do this. Our society, including through being transparent
business in a way that upholds high customer satisfaction performance improved in our approach to paying taxes. We also seek
standards of corporate governance. in many markets in which we operate, to ensure we respect human rights in our
although we still have work to do to improve workplace and our supply chains, and
Customer experience is at the heart of how
our rank position against competitors. continually work to improve our compliance
we operate. It is imperative that we treat our
management capabilities.
customers well, that we listen, and that we We are committed to working with our
act to resolve complaints quickly and fairly. regulators to manage the safety of the For further details of our corporate governance,
We measure customer satisfaction through financial system, adhering to the spirit and see our corporate governance report on page
net promoter scores across each of our global the letter of the rules and regulations 236.
businesses, listen carefully to customer governing our industry.
In this section
Setting high How ESG is governed We expect that our approach to ESG governance is likely to continue to Page 74
standards of develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and
governance stakeholder expectations.
Human rights Our respect for human rights We have continued to develop our understanding of our salient human Page 75
rights issues and associated risk management.
Customer Customer satisfaction While we are positioned among the top three banks in 58% of our key Page 77
experience markets within WPB and CMB, we recognise the need to improve our
customer experience further to enhance our competitive ranking.
How we listen We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and manage Page 78
complaints.
Integrity, conduct Safeguarding the We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and reduce its Page 80
and fairness financial system impact on our organisation, customers and the communities that we
serve.
Whistleblowing Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our Page 80
colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.
A responsible approach to We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which we Page 81
tax operate.
Conduct: Our product Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on the Page 82
responsibilities impact we have on our customers and the financial markets in which we
operate.
Our approach with We require suppliers to meet our third-party risk compliance standards Page 82
our suppliers and assess them to identify any financial stability concerns.
Safeguarding data Data privacy We are committed to protecting the data we process, in accordance with Page 83
the laws and regulations of the markets in which we operate.
Cybersecurity We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, detect Page 84
and mitigate cyber-threats.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 73
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
Setting high standards of governance TCFD
How ESG is governed
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer Risk Management Meeting and the Group
strategy, overseeing executive management and the chief risk officers of our PRA- Risk Committee, with scheduled updates
in developing the approach, execution and regulated businesses are the senior provided, as well as detailed reviews of
associated reporting. Progress against our managers responsible for climate financial material matters, such as climate-related
ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board risks under the UK Senior Managers Regime. stress-testing exercises.
discussion and review of key topics, such as Climate risks are considered in the Group
updates on sustainability infrastructure
finance and employee sentiment. The Board
is regularly provided with specific updates on
ESG matters, including the sustainability How HSBC’s climate
execution programme, human rights and strategy is cascaded
workforce engagement. Board members
Opportunities Risks
receive ESG-related training as part of their
induction and ongoing development, and
seek out further opportunities to build their Board level governance
skills and experience in this area. For further
details of Board members’ ESG skills and
experience, see page 237. For further details
Group Board Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee
of their induction and training in 2024, see
page 250.
Specialist Board governance
In October 2024, we enhanced our ESG
governance with the establishment of a new
Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG’) of the Sustainability Working Group
HSBC Holdings Board, with an initial duration Provides guidance on the Group-wide medium- and longer-term sustainability strategy,
of 12 months. The SWG is comprised of five including our progress towards our net zero ambitions, taking into account key factors such
non-executive Directors, along with as risk appetite, commerciality, capability and data. The group will also oversee progress
against the strategy, including financing and supporting clients’ transitions. The group will
attendance by other executives. At the
provide guidance on target setting, policy review, financing and investing.
executive level, the governance activity was
streamlined with the removal of the Chair: Independent non-executive Director - Geraldine Buckingham
Sustainability Execution Committee, with its
activity managed within the project team. We
expect that our approach to ESG governance
is likely to continue to develop, in line with Management level governance
our evolving approach to ESG matters and
stakeholder expectations.
ESG Committee Group Risk Management Meeting
The diagram on the right provides an Has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, Oversees the enterprise-wide
material commitments and external management of all risks, including
illustration of our ESG governance process,
disclosure. Oversees and monitors updates relating to the Group’s
including how the Board’s strategy on climate
progress against ESG strategy, climate risk profile and risk appetite,
is cascaded and implemented throughout the policies, plans, targets, commitments top and emerging climate risks, and
organisation. It identifies examples of forums and execution processes. Reports to key climate initiatives.
that manage both climate-related the SWG and Board on progress on
opportunities and risks, along with their the commitments, deliverables and Chair: Group Chief Risk and
Compliance Officer
responsibilities and the responsible chair. The targets under the sustainability
execution programme.
structure of the process is similar for the
escalation of problems, with issues either Co-Chairs: Group CEO and Group
resolved in a given forum or raised to the Chief Sustainability Officer
appropriate level of governance with
appropriate scope and authority.
Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG matters, Regional, global business and group infrastructure
the governance activities are managed
Examples of ESG-related management governance
through a combination of specialist
The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.
governance infrastructure and regular
meetings and committees, where Sustainable Execution Group Reputational Risk Human Rights
appropriate. These include the Group Programme Committee Steering Committee
Oversees the global Provides recommendations Oversees the Group’s
Disclosure and Controls Committee and delivery of climate and advice on significant evolving approach to
Group Audit Committee, which provide strategy through 10 reputational risk matters human rights and
oversight for the scope and content of ESG modules. with impact across the provides enhanced
Group. governance.
disclosures, and the Group People Chair: Global Head of
Committee, which provides oversight support Sustainability Chair: Group Chief Risk Chair: Group Chief Risk
Transformation and Compliance Officer and Compliance Officer
for the Group’s approach to performance
management.
For some areas, such as climate where our
approach is more advanced, dedicated
governance activities exist to support the
wide range of activities.
74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Human rights
Our respect for human rights
As set out in our Human Rights Statement, Our salient human rights issues
we recognise the role of business in Illustration of HSBC Group’s inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.
respecting human rights. Our approach is
guided by the UN Guiding Principles on HSBC activities
Business and Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and
Provider of products
the OECD Guidelines for Multinational and services
Enterprises on Responsible Business
Conduct. Personal Business
Inherent human rights risks Employer Buyer customers customers Investor
Our salient human rights issues
We continue to develop our understanding of Right to Freedom from forced labour u u u
our salient human rights issues. These are decent Just and favourable conditions of work u u u u
the human rights at risk of the most severe work Right to health and safety at work u u u u
negative impact through our business Right to equality and freedom from discrimination u u u u u
activities and relationships. Right to privacy u u u
An extensive review of our salient human Cultural and land rights u u u
rights issues conducted in 2022 identified five Right to dignity and justice u u u u u
human rights risks inherent to HSBC’s
business globally, and five types of activity
through which such risks might arise. These We continued to develop our in-house We regularly review our sustainability risk
are represented in the adjacent table. capability on human rights with the launch of policies and policy implementation as we
further online resources for all staff and apply our policies in practice.
In 2023, building on this assessment, we
bespoke human rights training for key
provided practical guidance and training, colleagues, including those managing For further details, see our sustainability risk
where relevant, to our colleagues across the policies at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
relationships with suppliers and business
Group on how to identify and manage human responsible-business/managing-risk/
customers, and those with responsibility for
rights risk. sustainability-risk.
overseeing risk management processes.
In 2024, we focused on our approach to Financial crime controls
For further details of the actions taken to respect
human rights risk management relating to the Our financial crime risk framework also helps
the right to decent work, see our 2024 Annual
goods and services we buy from third parties Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at to mitigate the risk of being associated with
and in respect of our business customers. www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and- adverse human rights impacts, by helping to
We issued human rights due diligence good responsible-business/modern-slavery-act. identify and assess the financial crime risk
practice guidance tailored to procurement and For further details of the actions taken to respect associated with our customers, employees
corresponding high-level guidance for staff the right to equality and freedom from and third parties.
who manage our relationships with our discrimination, see ’Our approach to inclusion’
business customers. on page 64. For further details of how we fight financial
crime, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
Managing risks to human rights Sustainability risk policies responsible-business/fighting-financial-crime.
In 2024, we continued the process of Some of our business customers operate in
adapting our risk management procedures to sectors in which the risk of adverse human Other principles
reflect what we learned from the work on rights impact is considered greater. Our HSBC’s Principles for the Ethical Use of Data
salient human rights issues and began sustainability risk policies consider human and Artificial Intelligence include how we
embedding the related guidance documents rights issues such as forced labour, harmful seek to respect the right to privacy while
described above. or exploitative child labour, workers’ rights making use of these technologies.
and land rights.
We developed a human rights due diligence For further details see www.hsbc.com/-/files/
operating procedure for procurement globally. Through our membership of international hsbc/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/
The procedure describes the due diligence certification schemes, such as the Forestry pdfs/240715-hsbc-principles-for-the-ethical-use-
process undertaken to identify suppliers Stewardship Council, the Roundtable on of-data-and-ai.pdf?download=1.
where the risk of adverse human rights Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator
impact is considered higher and the process Principles, we recognise standards aimed at
to be followed to review and mitigate the respecting human rights.
risk. We built on the human rights supplier
audit pilots undertaken in 2023 in our Asia-
Pacific and Latin America regions with an
expanded programme of human rights audits
in 11 countries across Asia-Pacific, Latin
America, the Middle East and North Africa.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 75
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
Our respect for human rights continued
Supporting change In 2024, HSBC Asset Management joined the Supporting those impacted and those
We continued to participate in industry Investor Initiative on Human Rights Data potentially at risk
forums, including the Thun Group of Banks, (‘II-HRD’), a collaborative engagement We continued to expand our Survivor Bank
which is an informal group that seeks to initiative that aims to improve the depth and programme, which has now supported over
promote understanding of the UNGPs within breadth of corporate human rights data 3,500 (a more than 15% increase since last
the sector, and the UN Global Compact available to investors and the transparency of year) survivors of modern slavery and human
Human Rights Working Group. human rights assessment criteria. This trafficking in the UK.
initiative seeks to address the industry-wide
HSBC has been a member of the Mekong Our Wealth and Personal Banking team
challenges commonly cited, including lack of
Club since 2016. We are a participant in their continues to deliver training to raise
transparent ESG ratings methodologies by
financial services working group, and we use awareness of modern slavery, enabling
commercial data providers and insufficient
their informative typological toolkits, employees to spot signs of abuse and
inclusion of human rights data.
infographics, and other multimedia resources escalate their concerns through established
covering current and emerging issues. Our For HSBC Asset Management’s Stewardship channels. In addition, our customer-facing
compliance teams regularly collaborate and Plan, see: www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/ employees globally are trained to identify and
engage with the Mekong Club in designing en/institutional-investor/about-us/responsible- support vulnerable customers as part of their
investing/-/media/files/attachments/uk/policies/
Group-wide knowledge sharing and training induction training.
stewardship-plan-uk.pdf.
sessions.
For further details of our work to support
Investments vulnerable communities, see page 71.
HSBC Asset Management acknowledges the
important role that business plays in Effectiveness
respecting human rights. If mismanaged or The table below includes some indicative
left unaddressed, human rights violations metrics we use to measure year-on-year
may materialise as business risks, negatively improvement to our human rights processes.
impacting investee companies’ operations,
supply chain or brand. These may in turn
present risk both to client investments and
reputation.
Measuring effectiveness
HSBC Asset Management engages with
companies prioritised for purposeful Metric 2024 2023
engagement under its Stewardship Plan on Contracted suppliers who either confirmed adherence to the code of
core themes material to investee companies, conduct or provided their own alternative that was accepted by our 96.7% 95%
including human rights. Engagements may be Global Procurement function
on a one-on-one basis, or collaboratively with
Employees who have received training on one or more aspects of human
other investors. In 2024, it has developed rights 11,884 8,176
engagement guidelines, highlighting its
expectations of good practice for companies,
where human rights may be a material issue. For further inclusion metrics, see page 64 in this ESG review.
Further details can be found in its
Stewardship Plan. The Global Voting
Guidelines provide an overview of its
approach to exercising its shareholder rights
in respect of ESG issues, including human
rights.
76 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Customer experience
We remain committed to improving to help us understand our strengths and the six key markets across WPB and CMB1 in line
customers’ experiences. In 2024, we areas we need to focus on. We were ranked with 2023.
gathered feedback from over one million among the top three banks or improved our
customers across our three global businesses ranking against our competitors in 58% of our
Customer satisfaction
Listening to drive improvement How we fared After an improved rank position in 2023, our
We have continued to embed our feedback In WPB, we were ranked among the top overall performance in the UK has stabilised
system so we can better listen, learn and act three banks against our competitors in Hong in 2024. Even though we sit outside of the
on customer feedback. We use the net Kong and mainland China. In Hong Kong, we top 3 in business banking, we are still ranked
promoter score (‘NPS’) and customer remained first overall against our competitors, in the top 3 among mid-market enterprise and
satisfaction to provide a consistent measure and improved our NPS score. This was driven large corporates in the UK. We remain
of our performance. NPS is measured by by improved scores across all customer committed to improving our NPS
subtracting the percentage of ‘detractors’ segments. performance across markets, with action
from the percentage of ‘promoters’. plans developed centrally and locally.
Our NPS rank improved in the UK and
‘Detractors’ are customers who provide a
Singapore. This was largely driven by In GBM, we have one of the highest
score of 0 to 6, and ‘promoters’ are
improved scores among our affluent satisfaction scores against our international
customers who provide a score of 9 to 10 to
customers. In Mexico our rank remained competitors. We were ranked in the top three
the question: ‘On a scale on 0 to 10, how
stable, and in India our rank declined, largely banks globally, with high satisfaction scores
likely is it that you would recommend HSBC
driven by our personal banking customers. based on our digital capabilities.
to a friend or colleague’.
In our private bank, our global NPS increased
We run studies that allow us to benchmark
ourselves against other banks. We try to to 48 points, compared with 42 points in Number of markets in top three or
make it as easy as possible for customers to 2023. All the existing markets included in the improving rank1,2
programme increased their scores from 2023
give us feedback, leveraging our use of digital 2024
and we have included India and UAE for the
real-time surveys to capture insight. By
WPB 4 out of 6
first time this year.
sharing this and other feedback with our
CMB 3 out of 6
front-line teams, and allowing them to
In CMB, we were ranked among the top
respond directly to customers, we are
three banks against our competitors in three
improving how we address issues and realise 1 The six markets comprise: the UK, Hong Kong,
of our six key markets. We ranked first in Mexico, mainland China, India and Singapore.
opportunities.
Hong Kong and as a top three bank in Rank positions are provided using data gathered
Singapore and India. In mainland China, we through third-party research agencies.
We continue to run dedicated global forums 2 We benchmark our NPS against our key
ranked outside the top three but ranked first
to provide oversight of our retail and business competitors to create a rank position in each
among international banks. In Mexico, we
customers’ experiences and promote market. This table is based on the number of
continuous improvement. This helps ensure have dropped from 3rd to 4th position due to markets where we are in the top three or have an
we use feedback in all aspects of how we run improved competitor performance in improved rank from the previous year.
business banking.
our business, and prioritise initiatives that
matter most to our customers.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, we have continued to focus on leverage data to improve our engagements adoption of customer digital capabilities to
developing our products and services, and with customers and are investing in improve fulfilment turnaround times. We
enhancing our digital capabilities to improve technology to drive process efficiencies, have also increased the resilience of our
customer experience. reduce query volumes and drive automation. digital channels and further reduced customer
Our new Trade Solutions platform (‘HTS’) lets fraud risk. These actions are helping to build
Wealth and Personal Banking us quickly deploy new capabilities (like greater digital trust with our customers and
We continue to redesign our international
TradePay) across multiple markets. It helps thereby improving customer experience.
products and services to make it quicker and
provide a consistent user experience and
easier to bank internationally. This year we enables easy connectivity to other platform Global Banking and Markets
have improved the way our customers make We continued our efforts to support our
ecosystems.
international payments. Customers can send clients in their sustainability and transition
funds directly to mobile wallets from their In sustainability we continue to build an end- journey by maintaining our Top 5 book-runner
banking app, with customers now able to to-end customer journey through launching position globally in green, sustainable and
send international payments with just the new propositions that incentivise and reward social bonds, and by extending the
recipients’ name alongside their phone customers for improving their ESG sustainability-focused product and solutions
number or email address. performance, such as the HSBC Buildings range beyond the labelled products suite. We
Sustainability Assessment Tool in the UK and have refined our priority and core coverage
Commercial Banking Sustainability Improvement Loan. In our model, including piloting a range of priority
Global Payments Solutions (‘GPS’)
Customer Channels division, we have client squads to drive specific client goals.
implemented a new globally aligned client
deployed AI and personalisation solutions to We continue to invest in our coverage
service model focused on delivering an
improve proactive engagement and the enablement strategy, including thought
enhanced front-to-back client experience. We
speed of query resolution. We have increased leadership and transaction banking solutions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 77
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
How we listen
To improve how we serve our customers, we
must be open to feedback and acknowledge How we handle complaints
when things go wrong. We continue to adapt
at pace to provide support for customers Our principles Our actions
facing new challenges, new ways of working
Making it easy Customers can complain through the channel that best suits them. We provide a
and those that require enhanced care needs. for customers point of contact along with clear information on next steps and timescales.
to complain
We aim to be open and consistent in how we
track, record and manage complaints, Acknowledging All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise empathy to
complaints acknowledge our customers’ issues. Complaints are escalated if they cannot be
although as we serve a wide range of
resolved at first point of contact.
customers – from personal banking and
wealth customers to large corporates, Keeping the We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout the complaint
institutions and governments – we tailor our customer up to resolution process through their preferred channel.
date
approach in each of our global businesses. As
the table on the right demonstrates, we have Ensuring fair We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and ensure the right
a consistent set of principles that enable us resolution outcome for our customers.
to remain customer-focused throughout the Providing We provide customers with information on their rights and the appeal process if
complaints process. available rights they are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaint.
Undertaking Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and address any
For further details of complaints volumes by
root cause systemic issues and to inform process improvements.
geography, see our ESG Data Pack at analysis
www.hsbc.com/esg.
Wealth and Personal Banking
In 2024, we received approximately 887,000 In Mexico, there was a 5.3% fall in the
complaints from customers in eight priority volume of total complaints in 2024 compared WPB complaint volumes1
markets, and the ratio of complaints per 1,000 with 2023, with unrecognised debit card (per 1,000 customers per month)
customers per month in these markets charges down by 9% despite an increase in
decreased from 2.2 to 2.0. We had a reduction transaction volumes. This was achieved 2024 2023
in complaints in our top three markets (the UK, through targeted actions, including improving Total2 2.0 2.2
Hong Kong and Mexico), which comprise 86% fraud processes and the introduction of UK3 q 1.0 1.1
of complaints globally. enhancements to the way customers receive Hong Kong3 q 0.7 0.9
purchase authorisations.
In the UK, complaints fell 9%. During 2024, Mexico3 q 5.0 5.2
our two key priorities continued to be In our private bank, we received 647
complaints prevention, and improving the complaints, an increase of 140 compared
1 A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction
quality of resolution of the complaints we with 2023. This was largely due to the
about WPB’s activities, products or services
received. We made good progress in both inclusion of complaint data for the private
where a response or resolution is explicitly, or
areas, driven by targeted intervention in banking operation in India, which received implicitly, expected.
priority areas and ongoing regular oversight. 128 complaints in 2024. Complaint data for 2 Priority markets in 2024 included: the UK, Hong
This has included identifying prominent this business was reported in WPB figures in Kong (excluding Hang Seng), Mexico, mainland
complaint themes – such as telephony 2023. Banking products and service issues China, India, UAE, Singapore and Australia,
customer experience, transaction disputes and represented the largest volume of complaints selected based on complaints volume, customer
base and strategic importance among other
international payment processing – and overall, a high proportion of which were
factors. The 2023 total has been revised from 2.3
allocating them to individual executives as attributable to issues with payment
to 2.2 due to a change in the composition of these
accountable ‘owners’ to remedy the root processing and credit cards. Overall, the eight priority markets.
cause. private bank resolved 646 complaints. 3 The UK, Hong Kong and Mexico make up 86%
of total complaints.
The decrease in complaints in Hong Kong was
primarily driven by improvements in
capabilities that make banking with HSBC
easier for customers. A deeper customer-
centric culture, regular reviews, root cause
analysis of customer feedback and greater
collaboration across business lines to address
emerging customer pain points, also
contributed to the fall in complaints.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, we continued to improve our capabilities and tools across the business to enhance the customer experience globally. By consistently
measuring customer experience, we actively listen, learn and take action based on what our customers share with us. Additionally, we introduced
a customer experience behavioural framework across the bank, aligned with HSBC’s core values. This framework supports our colleagues in
meeting minimum service standards and prioritising customer experience in their daily routines. These efforts enable us to identify opportunities
to continue to improve our customer experience and systematically track and measure our progress.
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
ESG review | Governance
Integrity, conduct and fairness
Safeguarding the financial system
We have continued our efforts to combat These new technologies should enhance our
financial crime and reduce its impact on our ability to respond effectively to unusual
organisation, customers and the communities activity and be more granular in our risk
that we serve. Financial crime includes fraud, assessments.
bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions
and export control violations and evasion, Our anti-bribery and corruption policy
Our global financial crime policy requires that
money laundering, terrorist financing and
all activity must be: conducted without intent
proliferation financing.
to bribe or corrupt; reasonable and
We manage financial crime risk because it is transparent; considered to be neither lavish
the right thing to do to protect our customers, nor disproportionate to the professional
shareholders, staff, the communities in which relationship; appropriately documented with
we operate, as well as the integrity of the business rationale; and authorised at an
financial system on which we all rely. We have appropriate level of seniority. Our global
a financial crime risk management framework financial crime policy requires that we identify
that is applicable across all global businesses and mitigate the risk of our employees,
The scale of our work
and functions, and in all countries and territories customers and third parties committing
in which we operate. The financial crime risk bribery or corruption. Among other controls, Each month in 2024 we monitored
framework, which is overseen by the Board, is we use risk assessments, due diligence and approximately 900 million transactions
supported by our financial crime policy that is ongoing monitoring following a risk-based for signs of financial crime. We
designed to enable adherence to applicable approach, to identify and help mitigate the performed daily screening of
laws and regulations globally. Annual global risk that our customers are involved in, or use approximately 121 million customer
mandatory training is provided to all colleagues, HSBC’s products or services, to commit records for sanctions exposure. In 2024,
with additional targeted training tailored to bribery or corruption. In 2024, two former we filed over 113,000 suspicious activity
certain individuals. We carry out regular risk employees of an HSBC subsidiary in China reports to law enforcement and
assessments to identify where we need to were convicted of bribery-related offences regulatory authorities where we
respond to evolving financial crime threats, as and each received a fine and suspended identified potential financial crime.
well as to monitor and test our financial crime sentence. The HSBC subsidiary in China self-
risk management programme. reported this matter to the police and was not
99%
a subject of the police investigation or
We continue to invest in new technology; we
charges.
are enhancing our fraud monitoring capability
and our trade screening controls, and Total percentage of permanent and non-
investing in the application of machine permanent employees who received financial
learning to improve the accuracy and crime training, including on anti-bribery and
timeliness of our detection capabilities. corruption.
Whistleblowing
We want colleagues and stakeholders to We continue to actively promote our full For further details of the role of the Group Audit
have confidence in speaking up when they range of speak-up channels to colleagues to Committee in relation to whistleblowing,
observe unlawful or unethical behaviour. We help ensure their concerns are handled including updates received in 2024 on
offer a range of speak-up channels to listen to through the most effective route. In 2024, operational effectiveness, see page 267.
the concerns of individuals and have a zero 13% fewer concerns were raised through
tolerance policy for acts of retaliation. HSBC Confidential compared with 2023. Of HSBC Confidential concerns raised in
the concerns investigated through the HSBC 2024:
Listening through whistleblowing Confidential channel in 2024, 66% related to 1,527
channels individual behaviour and personal conduct,
Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC
21% to security and fraud risks, 12% to
Confidential, is one of our speak-up channels,
compliance risks and less than 1% to other (2023: 1,746)
which allows colleagues and other
categories.
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially
Substantiation rate of concerns
and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to The Group Audit Committee has oversight of
investigated through HSBC Confidential
local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements, and
in 2024:
Confidential concerns are raised through an the Chair of the Group Audit Committee acts
35%
independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines as HSBC’s Whistleblowers’ Champion with
and a web portal in multiple languages. We responsibility for ensuring and overseeing the
also provide and monitor an external email integrity, independence and effectiveness of
(2023: 41%)
address for concerns about accounting, the Group’s policies and procedures.
internal financial controls or auditing matters
Regulatory Compliance sets the
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). Concerns
whistleblowing policy and procedures, and
are investigated proportionately and
provides the Group Audit Committee with
independently, with action taken where
periodic updates on their effectiveness.
appropriate. This can include disciplinary
Specialist teams and investigation functions
action, such as dismissal and adjustments to
own whistleblowing controls, with monitoring
variable pay and performance ratings, or
in place to determine control effectiveness.
operational actions including changes to
policies and procedures.
80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
A responsible approach to tax
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all – We seek to ensure that our entities active Our tax contributions
jurisdictions in which we operate, and to in nil or low tax jurisdictions have clear The Group effective tax rate for the year of
minimise the likelihood of customers using business rationale for why they are based 22.6% was higher than in the previous year
our products and services to evade or in these locations and appropriate (2023: 19.1%). The effective tax rate for the
inappropriately avoid tax. We also abide by transparency over their activities. year increased by 4.8% due to the non-
international protocols that affect our deductible loss in respect of the sale of our
– We seek to have open and transparent
organisation. Our approach to tax and business in Argentina, and decreased by
relationships with all tax authorities. Given
governance processes is designed to achieve 3.6% due to the non-taxable gain on the
the size and complexity of our organisation,
these goals. disposal of HSBC Canada. Further details are which operates across 58 jurisdictions, a
provided on page 380.
Through adoption of the Group’s risk number of areas of differing interpretation
management framework, we seek to ensure or disputes with tax authorities exist at any Tax paid in 2024 is higher than in 2023 mainly
that we do not adopt inappropriately tax- point in time. We cooperate with the because the Hong Kong Inland Revenue
motivated transactions or products, and that relevant local tax authorities to mutually Department did not issue HSBC’s corporation
tax planning is scrutinised and supported by agree and resolve these in a timely manner. tax assessments for 2023 until January 2024,
genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no With respect to our customers’ taxes, we are at which time they were paid. The equivalent
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. guided by the following principles: assessments for 2024 were received and
paid in December 2024.
With respect to our own taxes, we are guided – We have made considerable investments
by the following principles: to support external tax transparency The UK bank levy charge for 2024 of $249m
initiatives and reduce the risk of banking was lower than the charge of $339m in 2023,
– We are committed to applying both the
services being used to facilitate customer as the charge for 2023 was increased by
letter and spirit of the law. This includes
tax evasion. Initiatives include the US adjustments arising upon filing prior year
adherence to a variety of measures arising
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the returns.
from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit
OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of
Shifting initiative including the ‘Pillar Two’ As highlighted below, in addition to paying
Financial Account Information (‘Common
global minimum tax rules that apply to the $9.2bn (2023: $6.8bn) of our own tax
Reporting Standard’), and the UK legislation
Group from 2024. These rules seek to liabilities during 2024, we collected taxes of
on the corporate criminal offence of failing
ensure that the Group pays tax at a $10.1bn (2023: $10.8bn) on behalf of
to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction in governments around the world. A more
which it operates. We have identified 14 – We implement processes that aim to detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes
jurisdictions that may have an effective tax ensure that inappropriately tax-motivated paid in 2024 is provided in the ESG Data
rate below 15% in 2024. We continually products and services are not provided to Pack.
monitor the number of active subsidiaries our customers.
within each jurisdiction as part of our
ongoing entity rationalisation programme.
Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region
Tax on profits $6,080m (2023: $3,685m) Europe $2,780m (2023: $2,945m) Europe $4,214m (2023: $4,714m)
Withholding taxes $667m (2023: $432m) Asia-Pacific $5,020m (2023: $2,488m) Asia-Pacific $3,223m (2023: $3,226m)
Employer taxes $1,003m (2023: $1,052m) Middle East, North Africa Middle East, North Africa
Bank levy $135m (2023: $57m) and Türkiye $421m (2023: $296m) and Türkiye $118m (2023: $77m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,098m (2023: $1,298m) North America $291m (2023: $389m) North America $1,025m (2023: $1,119m)
Other duties and levies $229m1 (2023: $249m) Latin America $700m (2023: $655m) Latin America $1,483m (2023: $1,680m)
1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $76m (2023: $91m).
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 81
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
Conduct: Our product responsibilities
Our conduct approach guides us to do the Our approach includes: Financial promotion
right thing and to focus on the impact we Our policies help to ensure that in the sale of
– designing products to meet identified
have for our customers and the financial products and services, we use marketing and
customer needs;
markets in which we operate. It is embedded product materials that support customer
into the way we design, approve, market and – managing products through governance understanding and fair customer outcomes.
manage products and services, with a focus processes, helping to ensure they meet This includes providing information on
on five clear outcomes: customers’ needs and deliver a fair products and services that is fair, clear and
exchange of value; not misleading. We also have controls in
– We understand our customers’ needs.
place to help ensure our cross-border
– periodically reviewing products to help
– We provide products and services that offer marketing complies with relevant regulatory
ensure they remain relevant and perform in
a fair exchange of value. requirements.
line with expectations we have set; and
– We service customers’ ongoing needs and
– improving, or withdrawing from sale, products
put it right if we make a mistake.
which do not meet our customers’ needs or
Product governance
– We act with integrity in the financial no longer meet our high standards.
Our product management policy covers
markets we operate in.
Meeting our customers’ needs the entire lifecycle of the product. This
– We operate resiliently and securely to avoid Our policies and procedures set standards to helps ensure that our products meet our
harm to customers and markets. help ensure that we consider and meet requirements before we sell them and
customer needs. These include: allows continued risk-based oversight of
We train all our colleagues on our approach to
product performance against the
customer and market conduct, helping to – enabling customers to understand the key
intended customer outcomes.
ensure our conduct outcomes are part of features of products and services;
everything we do.
When we decide to withdraw a product
– enabling customers to make informed
from sale, we aim to consider the
Designing products and services decisions before purchasing a product or
implications for our existing customers
Our approach to product development is set service; and
and agree actions to help them achieve a
out in our policies and provides a clear basis
– ensuring processes are in place for the fair outcome where appropriate.
on which informed decisions can be made.
provision of advice to customers.
Our policies require that products must be fit-
for-purpose throughout their existence, They help us provide the right outcomes for
meeting regulatory requirements and customers, including those with enhanced
associated conduct outcomes. care needs. This enables us to support
customers who are more vulnerable to
external impacts.
Our approach with our suppliers
We maintain global standards and procedures – We have started developing a biodiversity Supplier code of conduct
for the onboarding and use of third-party strategy that aims to integrate biodiversity Our supplier code of conduct (‘the code’) was
suppliers. We require suppliers to meet our considerations into our procurement refreshed in 2024, setting out our ambitions
third-party risk compliance standards and practices and define a clear set of and areas of focus on the environment,
assess them to identify any financial stability requirements for our suppliers. diversity and human rights, and outlines the
concerns. minimum standards we expect of our
– Since its launch in 2023, the Supplier
suppliers on these issues. We continue to
Sustainable procurement Diversity Portal is now live in a number of formalise adherence to the code with clauses
Supporting and engaging with our supply jurisdictions. Further expansion is planned in our supplier contracts, which support the
chain is vital to the development of our for 2025 to reach a wider demographic of right to audit and act if a breach is discovered.
sustainable procurement processes. In 2024: diverse-owned suppliers (at least 51% At the end of 2024, 96.7% of approximately
owned, managed or controlled by a
10,200 contracted suppliers had either
– We continued gathering carbon emission historically and locally under-represented
confirmed adherence to the code or provided
data from our suppliers through CDP group). For further details, see
their own alternative that was accepted by
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
our Global Procurement function.
introduced a new data collection method to responsible-business/working-with-suppliers.
simplify and improve our supplier outreach For further details of the number of suppliers in
– To increase engagement with diverse-
for scope 3 data collection. each geographical region, see the ESG Data
owned suppliers, we introduced a Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
– We began implementing decarbonisation development programme. The programme
plans for our three highest emitting is designed to empower diverse-owned
procurement categories: technology; real suppliers to effectively engage with large
estate; and professional services. We corporations, including HSBC, and supports
engaged suppliers on their emissions our ambition to further diversify our supply
disclosure plans and carbon reduction chain, to represent the communities that we
targets. We outlined what we expect of our operate in.
suppliers on these aspects and explored
joint opportunities.
– We hosted a Supply Chain Decarbonisation
Day with senior managers at HSBC and
suppliers to facilitate collaboration and
discuss innovative decarbonisation solutions
with some of our largest suppliers.
82 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Safeguarding data
Data privacy
We are committed to protecting the data we As part of our three lines of defence model,
process, in accordance with the laws and our Global Internal Audit function provides
regulations of the markets in which we independent assurance as to whether our
operate. data privacy risk management approaches
and processes are designed and operating
Our approach rests on having the right talent,
effectively. In addition, we have established
technology, systems, controls, policies and
data privacy governance structures and
processes to ensure appropriate
continue to embed accountability across all
management of privacy risk. Our Group-wide
businesses and functions.
data risk policy and principles provide a
consistent global approach to managing data We continue to implement industry practices
privacy risk, and must be applied by all our for data privacy and security. Our privacy
global businesses and functions. Our privacy teams work closely with our data protection
principles are available at www.hsbc.com/ officers, industry bodies and research
who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/ institutions to drive the design,
managing-risk/operational-risk. implementation and monitoring of privacy
Data Privacy Day
solutions. We conduct regular reviews and
We conduct regular employee training and
privacy risk assessments and continue to In February 2024, we held a global online
awareness sessions on data privacy and
develop solutions to strengthen our data event for our colleagues to mark
security issues throughout the year. This
privacy controls. International Data Privacy Day. The event
includes mandatory training that is updated
was hosted by our Global Head of Data
regularly for all our global colleagues, with We have procedures to articulate the actions
Legal, in collaboration with the
additional training sessions where needed to needed to deal with data privacy
International Association of Privacy
keep up to speed with new developments. considerations. These include notifying
Professionals.
Where relevant, we encourage our data regulators, customers or other data subjects,
privacy employees to obtain external as required under applicable privacy laws and The discussion focused on key
accreditation. regulations, in the event of a reportable developments in the data privacy
incident occurring. landscape for 2024 and beyond, including
We provide transparency to our customers
the impact of digital entropy and rapidly
and stakeholders on how we collect, use and
Intellectual property rights practices evolving AI-related advancements. This
manage their personal data, and their
We have a Group intellectual property risk was followed by a Q&A with the
associated rights. Where relevant, we work
policy, supported by controls and guidance, to audience to encourage further dialogue.
with third parties to help ensure adequate
manage risk relating to intellectual property.
protections are provided, in line with our data
This is to help ensure that commercially and
risk policy and as required under applicable
strategically valuable intellectual property is
data privacy laws. We offer a broad range of
identified and protected appropriately,
channels in the markets where we operate,
including by applying to register trademarks
through which customers and stakeholders
and patents and enforcing our intellectual
can raise concerns about the privacy of their
property rights against unauthorised use by
data.
third parties. Our intellectual property
framework also helps us avoid infringement
Our dedicated privacy teams report to senior
of third-party intellectual property rights,
management on data privacy risks and
supporting our consistent and effective
issues, and provide oversight for global data
management of intellectual property risk in
privacy programmes. We review data privacy
line with our risk appetite.
regularly at multiple governance forums,
including at Board level, to help ensure there
is appropriate oversight by senior executives.
Data privacy laws and regulations continue to
evolve globally. We continually monitor the
regulatory environment to ensure we respond
appropriately to any changes.
Responsible AI
Artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and other emerging technologies provide the opportunity to process
and analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies
offer significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for
the financial services industry and society as a whole. We have a set of principles to help
ensure we consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC’s Principles for the
Ethical Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at www.hsbc.com/ai.
We continue to develop and enhance our approach to, and oversight of, AI, taking into
consideration the fast-evolving regulatory landscape, market developments and best practice.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 83
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
Cybersecurity
The threat of a cyber incident remains a of the organisation. This includes but is not
concern for our organisation, as it does across limited to defined information security
the financial sector and other industries. As responsibilities for employees, contractors
cyber-threats continue to evolve, failure to and third parties, as well as standard
protect our operations may result in disruption procedures for cyber incident identification,
for our customers and our business, cause investigation, mitigation and reporting. We
financial loss or loss of sensitive data, and can operate a three lines of defence model,
have a negative impact on our customers’ and aligned to the enterprise risk management
our own reputation, among other risks. framework, to help oversight and challenge of
our cybersecurity capabilities and priorities.
We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical
Within the first line of defence, risk owners
events and changes to the cyber-threat
within global business and functions are
landscape and take proactive measures with
accountable for identifying and managing
the aim of reducing any impact on our
cyber risk. They work with cybersecurity
customers.
control owners to apply risk treatment in line
Prevent, detect and mitigate with our risk appetite. Our controls are Boosting gender
designed to be executed in line with our
We invest in business and technical controls to
policies and are reviewed and challenged by representation in
help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber
our risk stewards representing the second
threats. Our cybersecurity controls follow a cybersecurity
line of defence. They are independently
’defence in depth’ approach, leveraging
multiple security layers, and recognising the assured by the Global Internal Audit function, To help address barriers to opportunity,
complexity of our environment. Our ability to the third line of defence. HSBC Cybersecurity has been working to
detect and respond to attacks through round- increase the representation of women in
The assessment and management of our
the-clock security operations centre emerging talent via a variety of initiatives
cybersecurity risk is led and coordinated by a
capabilities is intended to help reduce the across 2024. These include:
Global Chief Information Security Officer
impact of attacks.
(‘CISO’). Our Global CISO has extensive – Sponsoring the CyberFirst Girls
Our cyber intelligence and threat analysis team experience in financial services, security and Competition for the second
proactively collects and analyses internal and resilience as well as strategy, governance, consecutive year, aimed at inspiring
external cyber information to continuously risk management and regulatory compliance. girls interested in technology to pursue
evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent The Global CISO is supported by regional and a career in cybersecurity.
attack types and their potential outcomes. We business-level CISOs. In the event of – Providing cybersecurity work-
actively participate in the broader cyber incidents, the Global CISO and relevant shadowing opportunities to
intelligence community, including by sharing supporting CISOs are informed and are undergraduates who are part of the
technical expertise in investigations, alongside engaged in alignment with our cybersecurity UK-based Women in Technology
others in the financial services industry and incident response protocols. programme.
government agencies around the world. – Cybersecurity colleagues have hosted
Key performance indicators, control
a range of events with university
effectiveness and other matters related to
In 2024, we continued our programme of students in Poland, Mexico, mainland
cybersecurity, including significant cyber
continual improvement to further strengthen China, India and the UK.
incidents, are presented on a regular basis to
our cyber defences and enhance our
various management risk and control
cybersecurity capabilities to help reduce the
committees including to Board committees,
likelihood and impact of unauthorised access,
the Group Risk Management Meeting and We host an annual Cyber Awareness Month
security vulnerabilities being exploited, data
across global businesses, functions and for all colleagues, covering topics such as
leakage, third-party security exposure and
regions. This is done to help ensure ongoing online safety at home, social media safety,
advanced malware. One key area of focus is
awareness and management of our safe hybrid working, and cyber incidents and
the increasing use of AI, which could be used
cybersecurity position. response. Our dedicated cybersecurity
to facilitate sophisticated cyber-attacks. We
training and awareness team also provides a
are enhancing governance processes to
Our cybersecurity capabilities are periodically wide range of education and guidance to both
manage potential cybersecurity risks, along
assessed against standards issued by the customers and our colleagues about how to
with accelerating the potential this
National Institute of Standards and Technology spot and prevent online fraud.
technology brings.
and by independent third parties, and we
proactively collaborate with regulators to
We work with third parties, including suppliers,
participate in regular testing activities. In
financial infrastructure bodies and other non-
addition, HSBC engages external independent
traditional third parties, in an effort to help
third parties to support our penetration and
reduce the threat of cyber-attacks impacting
threat-led penetration testing.
our business services.
Cyber training and awareness
We have a third-party security risk
We understand the important role our people
management process in place to assess,
play in protecting against cybersecurity
identify and manage the risks associated with
threats. Our aim is to equip every colleague
cybersecurity threats with supplier and other
with the appropriate tools and behaviours they
third-party relationships. The process includes
need to keep our organisation and customers’
risk-based cybersecurity due diligence reviews
data safe. We provide cybersecurity training
that assess third parties’ cybersecurity
and awareness to all our people, ranging from
programmes against our standards and
our top executives to IT developers to front-
requirements.
line branch staff around the world, and we
Policy and governance deliver targeted training to staff that are
We have a robust suite of cybersecurity identified as having elevated cyber risk
policies, procedures, and key controls to help exposure.
with the effective oversight and management
84 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Risk review
Our risk management framework
The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of the risk management framework, including governance, structure, risk
management tools and our culture, which together help align employee behaviour with risk appetite.
Key components of our risk management framework
HSBC values and risk culture
The Board approves the Group’s risk appetite, plans and performance
Non-executive risk governance targets. It sets the ‘tone from the top’ and is advised by the Group Risk
Committee (see page 251).
Risk governance
Our executive risk governance structure is responsible for the enterprise-
Executive risk governance wide management of all risks, including key policies and frameworks for the
management of risk within the Group (see pages 128 and 137).
Our ‘three lines of defence’ model defines roles and responsibilities for risk
Roles and
Three lines of defence model management. An independent Group Risk and Compliance function helps
responsibilities
ensure the necessary balance in risk/return decisions (see page 128).
Risk appetite
Enterprise-wide risk management tools The Group has processes in place to identify, assess, monitor, manage and
report risks to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite and to
Processes and tools Active risk management: identification/assessment,
anticipate, prevent, respond to, and recover from, significant operational
monitoring, management and reporting
disruptions.
Operational resilience
Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the controls
Policies and procedures
required to manage our risks.
Operational and resilience risk management defines minimum standards
Internal controls Control activities
and processes for managing operational risks and internal controls.
The Group has systems and processes that support the identification,
Systems and infrastructure
capture and exchange of information to support risk management activities.
Risk governance
The Board has ultimate supervisory responsibility for the effective Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated to senior
management of risk and approves our risk appetite. managers with individual accountability for decision making. All our
people have a role to play in risk management. These roles are
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, supported by members
defined using the three lines of defence model, which takes into
of the Group Risk Management Meeting, holds executive
account our business and functional structures, including regulatory
accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment and
compliance and financial crime, as described in the following
management of the risk environment and the effectiveness of the risk
commentary, ‘Our responsibilities’.
management framework.
We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help enable
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is also responsible for
appropriate oversight and accountability of risk, which facilitates
the oversight of reputational risk, with the support of the Group
reporting and escalation to the Group Risk Management Meeting.
Reputational Risk Committee. The Group Reputational Risk
This structure is summarised in the following table.
Committee considers matters arising from customers, transactions
and third parties that either present a serious potential reputational
risk to the Group or merit a Group-led decision to help enable a
consistent risk management approach across the regions, global
businesses and global functions. Further details can be found under
the ‘Reputational risk’ section of www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-
and-responsible-business/managing-risk.
Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance
Authority Membership Responsibilities include:
Group Risk Management Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer – Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-delegated
Meeting Group Chief Legal Officer risk management authority
Group CEO – Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
Group CFO
– Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk impacts
Group Head of Financial Crime and Group
and taking appropriate action
Money Laundering Reporting Officer
All other Group Executive Committee – Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action
members – Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and conduct
Group Risk and Compliance Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer – Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in providing strategic
Executive Committee Chief risk and compliance officers of direction for the Group Risk and Compliance function, setting priorities and providing
HSBC’s global businesses oversight
Regional chief risk and compliance – Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk and
officers and chief risk officers compliance across the Group
Heads of Global Risk and Compliance
sub-functions
128 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance (continued)
Authority Membership Responsibilities include:
Global business/regional risk Global business/regional chief risk and – Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-delegated
management meetings compliance officers and chief risk officers risk management authority
Global business/regional chief executive – Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment
officers
– Implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
Global business/regional chief financial
officers – Monitoring all categories of risk and overseeing appropriate mitigating actions
Global business/regional heads of global – Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls
functions
The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 249.
Treasury risks are the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee and the Group Risk Committee. Global Treasury actively manages these risks, supported
by the Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen by Treasury Risk Management and the Group Risk
Management Meeting. Further details on treasury risk management are set out on page 200.
Our responsibilities
All our people are responsible for identifying and managing risk within Stress testing and recovery planning
the scope of their roles. Roles are defined using the three lines of
Our stress testing programme assesses our capital and liquidity
defence model, which takes into account our business and functional
strength through an examination of our resilience to external shocks,
structures as described below.
and forms part of our risk management and capital and liquidity
Three lines of defence planning. As well as undertaking regulatory-driven stress tests, we
conduct our own internal stress tests to understand the nature and
To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use an
level of material risks, quantify the impact of such risks and develop
activity-based three lines of defence model. This model delineates
plausible mitigating actions. The outcome of a stress test provides
management accountabilities and responsibilities for risk
management with key insights into the impact of severely adverse
management and the control environment.
events on the Group and provides an indication to regulators of the
Group’s resilience to shocks and financial stability.
The model underpins our approach to risk management by clarifying
responsibility and encouraging collaboration, as well as enabling
Internal stress tests
effective coordination of risk and control activities. The three lines of
defence are summarised below: Our internal capital assessment uses a range of stress scenarios that
explore risks identified by management. They include potential
– The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible adverse macroeconomic, geopolitical, climate and operational risk
for identifying, recording, reporting and managing these risks in events, as well as other potential events that are specific to HSBC.
line with risk appetite, including that the right controls and
assessments are in place to mitigate them. The selection of stress scenarios is based upon the output of our
identified top and emerging risks and our risk appetite processes.
– The second line of defence challenges the first line of defence on
Stress testing analysis helps management understand the nature and
effective risk management, and provides advice, guidance and
extent of vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed. Using this
assurance of the first line of defence to help ensure it is managing
information, management decides whether risks can or should be
risk effectively.
mitigated through management actions or, if they were to crystallise,
– The third line of defence is our Global Internal Audit function, be absorbed through capital and liquidity. This in turn informs
which provides independent assurance as to whether our risk decisions about preferred capital and liquidity levels and allocations.
management approach and processes are designed and operating
effectively. During 2024, we completed a Group-wide internal stress test
alongside testing of the Group’s strategy, otherwise known as the
Group Risk and Compliance function corporate plan, to test and inform our strategy and assumptions. The
stress scenario assessed the impact of two contrasting scenarios
Our Group Risk and Compliance function is responsible for the
envisioning severe macroeconomic conditions over a five-year period.
Group’s risk management framework. This responsibility includes
These scenarios reflected the uncertain inflation and interest rate
establishing global policy, monitoring risk profiles, and identifying and
environment, heightened geopolitical tensions, banking sector
managing forward-looking risk. Group Risk and Compliance is made
challenges and global economic stress.
up of sub-functions covering all risks to our business. Forming part of
the second line of defence, the Group Risk and Compliance function In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major
is independent from the global businesses, including sales and trading subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event-driven scenario
functions. It provides challenge, appropriate oversight and balance in analysis specific to its region. They also participate, as required, in the
risk/return decisions. regulatory stress testing programmes of the jurisdictions in which
they operate, such as stress tests required by the Bank of England
Responsibility for minimising both financial and non-financial risk,
(‘BoE’) in the UK, the Federal Reserve Board (‘FRB’) in the US, and
including regulatory compliance and financial crime, lies with our
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) in Hong Kong.
people. They are required to manage the risks of the business and
operational activities for which they are responsible. We maintain We also conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group level and,
adequate oversight of our risks through our various specialist risk where required, at subsidiary entity level to understand potential
stewards and the collective accountability held by our chief risk and extreme conditions that would make our business model non-viable.
compliance officers. Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and vulnerabilities
we might face, and helps inform early warning triggers, management
We have continued to strengthen the control environment and our
actions and contingency plans designed to mitigate risks.
approach to the management of risk, as set out in our risk
management framework. Our ongoing focus is on helping to enable
more effective oversight and better end-to-end identification and
management of financial and non-financial risks. This is overseen by
the Enterprise Risk Management function, headed by the Global Head
of Enterprise Risk Management.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 129
Risk
review
Risk review
Recovery and resolution plans – We have improved the quality of our strategic change investment
processes and associated control monitoring and are seeking to
Recovery and resolution plans form part of the integral framework
transition to a more agile approach to delivery of complex
safeguarding the Group’s financial stability under severe stress. The
transformation portfolios and initiatives.
Group recovery plan, together with stress testing, helps us identify
credible recovery options that can be implemented under a range of – We continue to enhance our model risk framework in response to
idiosyncratic and market-wide stress scenarios. The aim is to mitigate changes in regulation and external factors. AI and machine learning
the potential shortfall in capital and liquidity pressures. The Group models remain a key focus. Progress has been made in enhancing
continues to develop its recovery and resolution capabilities, including governance activity in this area with particular focus on generative
in relation to the Resolvability Assessment Framework. AI due to the pace of technological change and regulatory and
wider interest in adoption and usage.
Key developments in 2024 – We enhanced our processes, framework and controls to improve
the oversight of our material third parties. We have strengthened
our due diligence and monitoring capabilities, with respect to the
In 2024, we continued to manage risks related to macroeconomic and
financial stability of our third parties to better manage our supply
geopolitical uncertainties and develop risk management capabilities
chain and operational resilience. We will continue to assess and
through the continued enhancement of our risk management
manage our operational resilience.
framework. We also retained our focus on risk transformation and
financial crime and continued to assess the Group’s operational – Through our climate risk programme, we made progress on
resilience capability while prioritising the most significant enterprise embedding climate considerations throughout our organisation,
risks. We made progress with, and continue to develop capabilities to including through risk policy updates. We also developed risk
address key risks. More specifically, we sought to enhance our risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced
management in the following areas: our internal climate scenario analysis. We continue to implement
our climate risk programme to complete our annual materiality
– We are advancing on our comprehensive initiative aimed at
assessment and make changes to our policies, processes and
strengthening our global regulatory reporting processes and
capabilities to better embed climate considerations throughout our
making them more sustainable. This multifaceted programme
organisation.
includes enhancing data, consistency and controls.
– We deployed industry-leading technology and advanced analytics
– We are further strengthening our control environment through the
capabilities into new markets to improve our ability to identify
delivery of a new Global Control Oversight function which aims to
suspicious activities and prevent financial crime. We will continue
help drive a centralised and consistent approach to controls
to evaluate technological solutions to improve our capabilities in
oversight across the first line of defence business and process
the detection and prevention of financial crime.
owners.
– We continued to embed our regulatory management systems
– We continue to maintain a focus on our technology and
focusing on forward-looking analysis, regulatory mapping, and
cybersecurity controls to improve the resilience and security of our
regulatory content for our inventory.
technology services in response to the heightened external threat
environment. – We continued to enhance our frameworks, policies and
governance processes to embed regulatory requirements.
f
130 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Top and emerging risks
We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forward-looking We continue to monitor real estate conditions in mainland China and
view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution of our Hong Kong, where activity remains mixed. Various central
strategy or operations over the medium to long term. government policies have been introduced to support the property
market and wider economy, but meaningful signs of recovery are yet
We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment, as
to be observed, with the exception of the residential real estate
well as review the themes identified across our regions and global
market in Hong Kong, which has seen some improvement in
businesses, for any risks that may require global escalation. We
sentiment and transaction volumes in the fourth quarter of 2024.
update our top and emerging risks as necessary.
In Hong Kong, the high vacancy rate in the commercial real estate
Our current top and emerging risks are as follows.
sector and the elevated interest rate environment have added
downward pressure to the commercial real estate market.
Externally driven Commercial land sales resumed during the latter part of 2024 after a
halt earlier in the year, and the recent reduction in interest rates has
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks provided some liquidity relief to borrowers operating in this sector.
Nevertheless, a sustainable recovery in underlying demand is yet to
Elections and subsequent changes of government during 2024 have materialise, so the pressure on property prices may persist. We
created uncertainty as domestic and foreign policy priorities have continue to closely monitor the risk of further credit deterioration and
shifted. The US in particular is expected to continue to bring about defaults in the portfolio.
changes to economic and foreign policy that will have broad economic
The Israel-Hamas conflict may resurge. While a 42-day ceasefire was
and geopolitical implications.
agreed in January 2025, the durability of the ceasefire remains
Key economic and financial risks are monitored closely. Major uncertain. The regional economic impact of this conflict was relatively
markets, including the US and UK, continued to grow during the limited throughout 2024. The US and UK imposed additional sanctions
second half of 2024, due to expansionary fiscal policies and the on Iran in 2024 in response to Iran’s activities and the increase in
positive impact of monetary easing on domestic demand and tensions between Israel and Iran. Further sanctions may be imposed
investment. Similarly, Hong Kong and mainland China also continued and could increase the risk within our operations. While supply chains
to grow, despite ongoing declines in house prices and weakness in have largely adapted to the Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the
consumer spending. Middle East, the disruption of key supply routes, particularly through
the Red Sea, continues to impact global supply costs. Escalation,
The outlook for 2025 remains uncertain as the new US administration resurgence or other changes in the Russia-Ukraine war and the
intends to enact a significant change in economic and foreign policies conflict in the Middle East could impact economic activity regionally or
that could have an uncertain impact on global growth, inflation and globally for a prolonged period, which in turn could have a material
interest rates. In particular, the prospect of additional US tariffs and adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of
retaliatory actions on trade has started to weigh on economic growth operations, prospects, liquidity, capital position and credit ratings.
forecasts and has raised future inflation expectations. Consequently, HSBC actively monitors and responds to financial sanctions and trade
markets now expect that major central banks will adopt a more restrictions that have been adopted in response to the conflicts.
cautious approach to lowering policy interest rates during the course
of 2025. The sanctions and trade restrictions imposed by the US, the UK, and
the EU, as well as other countries, as a result of the Russia-Ukraine
The prospective impact on individual economies from the imposition war, remain complex, far-reaching and evolving. The US has
of higher US tariffs will depend on the breadth and level of the expanded the reach of its secondary sanctions regime, which includes
increases and the dependence of the relevant countries’ exports on broad discretion to impose severe sanctions on non-US banks that are
US import demand. Emerging markets with higher levels of US dollar- knowingly or even unknowingly engaged in certain transactions or
denominated debt and weaker public finances could be further services directly or indirectly involving Russia’s military-industrial
impacted by higher US interest rates and US dollar strength which base, including certain third-party activities that are difficult to detect
could result in higher repayment costs and refinancing risks and the or beyond HSBC’s control. The imposition of such sanctions against
associated possibility of sovereign rating downgrades. any non-US HSBC entity could result in significant adverse
commercial, operational and reputational consequences for HSBC. In
The country and sector implications of changing global trade policies
response to such sanctions and trade restrictions, as well as asset
remains an area that is closely monitored. The implications for export
flight, Russia has implemented certain countermeasures, including
demand from mainland China and Hong Kong is a key area of
the expropriation of foreign assets.
concern.
Following a strategic review in 2022, HSBC Europe BV (a wholly-
Markets continue to finance high public deficits, but debt
owned subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc) entered into an agreement to
sustainability remains a risk when set against a backdrop of more
sell its wholly-owned subsidiary HSBC Bank Russia (RR) (Limited
uncertain global growth prospects and a higher interest rate
Liability Company), which was completed in May 2024.
environment. Debt levels continue to rise in major markets as
demands grow on government budgets from rising social welfare Global tensions over trade and technology are resulting in divergent
costs, defence and climate transition. We are monitoring the fiscal regulatory standards and compliance regimes, presenting long-term
and market implications of recent government changes, including in strategic challenges for multinational businesses. The relationships
the UK and the US, where election pledges are ambitious relative to between China and several other countries, including the US and the
already stretched fiscal positions. As global yields have increased, UK, remain complex.
government bond prices have become increasingly sensitive to
differences in growth and inflation expectations between markets, as To date, the US, the UK, the EU and other countries have imposed
well as the perception of fiscal and funding risks. A loss of investor various sanctions and trade restrictions on Chinese persons and
confidence could drive a rise in yields, raise funding costs for companies, and there is a continued risk of additional sanctions and
governments and lead to tax increases and expenditure cuts that are trade restrictions or tariffs being imposed by the US and other
negative for growth. For HSBC, the risks of a sharp rise in funding governments in relation to, among other things, alleged human rights
costs in our key markets relate both to the credit and refunding risks abuses, advances in certain sensitive technologies, territorial conflicts,
of our customers, market pricing risks of assets held for sale, and and the illicit trade of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids. Strategic
risks to net interest margins. competition with China has the potential to impact the Group's
operations and global supply chains remain vulnerable to a
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 131
Risk
review
Environmental, social and governance (’ESG’) risk
We are subject to financial and non-financial risks associated with We may face additional risks if we knowingly or unknowingly make
ESG-related matters, such as climate change, nature-related and inaccurate, unclear, misleading, or unsubstantiated claims regarding
human rights issues. These matters can impact us both directly and sustainability to our stakeholders.
indirectly through our business activities and relationships. For details
We may face climate and ESG-related litigation and regulatory
of how we govern ESG, see page 74.
enforcement risks, either directly if stakeholders think that we are not
We may face credit losses if climate-related regulatory, legislative or adequately managing climate and ESG-related risks, or indirectly, if
technological developments impact customers’ business models or if our clients and customers are themselves the subject of litigation,
extreme weather events disrupt or interrupt customers’ operations, potentially resulting in the revaluation of their assets.
resulting in financial difficulty for customers and/or stranded assets,
and impacting their ability to repay their debts. Our customers may Requirements, policy objectives, expectations, views or market and
find that their business models fail to align to a net zero economy or public perceptions and preferences in connection with the transition to a
face disruption to their operations or deterioration to their assets as a net zero economy and ESG-related matters may vary by jurisdiction and
result of extreme weather. stakeholder, particularly in light of the differing perspectives of
stakeholders in different markets, including the UK, the US, the EU and
Trading losses may arise if climate change results in changes to other markets regarding climate impacts and the nature of the
macroeconomic and financial variables that negatively impact our appropriate responses to climate change. We may be subject to
trading book exposures. potentially conflicting approaches to ESG matters in certain jurisdictions,
which may impact our ability to conduct certain business within those
We may also be exposed to liquidity impacts in the form of deposit
jurisdictions or result in additional regulatory compliance, reputational,
outflows due to changes in customer behaviours driven by impacts to
political or litigation risks. For example, our reputation and client
profitability/wealth, or from reputational concerns relating to the
relationships may be damaged as a result of our decision to participate,
progress we make towards our climate-related ambitions and targets.
or not to participate, in certain projects perceived to be associated with
We may face impacts to our real estate portfolios due to changes to causing or exacerbating climate change, as well as any decisions we
the climate, an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme make to continue to conduct or change our activities in response to
weather events and chronic shifts in weather patterns, which could considerations relating to climate change, including the transition to net
impact both property values and the ability of borrowers to afford their zero. These risks may also arise from divergence in the implementation
mortgage payments. This may lead to the reduced availability or of ESG, climate policy and financial regulation in the many regions in
increased cost of insurance, including insurance that protects property which we operate, including initiatives to apply and enforce policy and
pledged as collateral of HSBC mortgages. regulation with extraterritorial effect.
Operational risk may increase if extreme weather events impact We may face financial reporting risk in relation to our climate and ESG
critical operations and premises. disclosures, as data remains of limited quality and consistency, exposing
us to the risk of using incomplete and inaccurate data and models that
We may face regulatory compliance risk resulting from the increasing could result in sub-optimal decision making. Methodologies, data,
pace, breadth and depth of climate-related regulatory expectations, scenarios and industry standards that we have used may evolve over
including on the management of climate risk, and variations in time in line with market practice, regulation or developments in science,
climate-related reporting standards, requiring implementation in short where applicable. Any such developments in methodologies and
timeframes across multiple jurisdictions. scenarios, and changes in the availability, accuracy and verifiability of
data over time and our ability to collect and process such data, exposes
Conduct risk may arise in association with the increasing demand for
us to financial reporting risk in relation to our climate and ESG
‘green’ or ‘sustainable’ products where there are differing and
disclosures. This could result in revisions to our internal measurement
developing standards or taxonomies.
frameworks as well as reported data going forward, including on
We may face reputational risk arising from how we decide to support financed emissions, meaning that such data may not be reconcilable or
our customers in high-emitting sectors in their transition to net zero, comparable year on year. We may also have to re-evaluate our progress
the preferences of different stakeholders in relation to our approach towards our ESG-related ambitions and targets in the future.
to the transition to net zero, and if we make insufficient progress in
We may also be exposed to nature-related risks beyond climate change.
achieving our climate-related ambitions and targets.
These risks may arise when the provision of ecosystem services, such
We may also be exposed to model risk, as the uncertain and evolving as water availability, air quality and soil quality, is compromised, primarily
impacts of climate change as well as data and methodology by the five key drivers of nature loss: changes in land/freshwater/sea-
limitations, present challenges to creating reliable and accurate model use; climate change; pollution of air, water and soil; over-exploitation of
outputs. natural resources; and invasive alien species. They can manifest
themselves in a variety of ways for both HSBC and its customers,
Reputational, regulatory compliance and legal risks may increase as including through macroeconomic, market, credit, reputational,
we make progress towards our ESG-related ambitions and targets, regulatory compliance and legal risks.
with stakeholders likely to place greater focus on our actions, such as
the development of ESG-related policies, our disclosures and Regulation and disclosure requirements in relation to human rights
financing and investment decisions relating to our ESG-related are increasing. Businesses are expected to be transparent about their
ambitions and targets. efforts to identify and respond to the risk of adverse human rights
impacts arising from their business activities and relationships. Failure
We may be exposed to additional risks if we fail to: to manage this risk may negatively impact people and communities,
which in turn may result in reputational, regulatory compliance and
– make sufficient progress towards our ESG-related ambitions and
legal risks for HSBC.
targets;
– set adequate plans to execute those plans or adapt those plans to Mitigating actions
changes in the external environment;
– The Environmental Risk Steering Meeting provides oversight of
– manage the risks associated both with meeting and not meeting environmental risk and the risk of greenwashing. For further
our ESG-related ambitions and targets; and details of the Group’s ESG governance structure, see page 74.
– meet evolving regulatory expectations and requirements on the – Our climate risk programme continues to support the development
management of ESG risks. of our climate risk management capabilities across four key pillars:
governance and risk appetite, risk management, stress testing and
scenario analysis, and disclosures.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 133
Risk
review
Risk review
– We continue to enhance our approach to managing and mitigating Mitigating actions
the risk of greenwashing.
– We continue to seek to manage sanctions and trade restrictions
– Our sustainability risk policies form part of our broader risk through the use of reasonably designed policies, procedures and
management framework and are important mechanisms for controls, which are subject to ongoing testing and enhancements.
managing risks. Our sustainability risk policies focus on mitigating
– We continue to develop our fraud controls and invest in
reputational, credit, legal and other risks related to our customers’
capabilities to fight financial crime through the application of
environmental and social impacts. For further details of our
advanced analytics and AI, while monitoring technological
sustainability risk policies, see page 62.
developments and engaging with third parties.
– We are developing our understanding of nature-related risks in line
– We continue to assess the impact of a rapidly changing payments
with European regulatory expectations.
ecosystem, as well as risks associated with direct and indirect
– In 2024, we focused on our approach to human rights risk exposure to digital assets and currencies, in an effort to maintain
management relating to the goods and services we buy from third appropriate financial crime controls.
parties and in respect of our business customers. For further
– We regularly review our existing policies and control framework so
details of our approach to human rights risk management, see
that developments relating to ESG are considered and the related
page 75.
financial crime risks are mitigated to the extent possible.
– The scope of our financial reporting risk framework includes
– We engage with regulators, policymakers and relevant
oversight of the accuracy and completeness of climate and ESG
international bodies, seeking to address data privacy challenges
disclosures. Our risk appetite statement references our climate
through international standards, guidance and legislation.
and ESG disclosures. Our internal controls incorporate
requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in climate Digitalisation and technological
and ESG disclosures. To support this, we have developed a
framework to guide control implementation over climate and ESG advances risk
disclosures, which includes areas such as process and data
governance, and risk assessment. Developments in technology and changes to regulations are enabling
new entrants to the industry, particularly with respect to payments.
– We continue to engage with our customers, investors and
This challenges us to continue innovating to address evolving
regulators proactively on the management of climate and ESG
customer requirements, drive efficiency and adapt our products to
risks. We also engage with initiatives, including the Climate
attract and retain customers. As a result, we may need to increase
Financial Risk Forum, Task Force on Climate-related Financial
investment in our business to adapt or develop products and services
Disclosures and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) to
to respond to our customers’ evolving needs. We aim to ensure that
help drive best practice for climate risk management.
new digital capabilities do not weaken our resilience or wider risk
For further details of our approach to climate risk management, see ‘Climate management capabilities.
risk’ on page 219.
New technologies such as generative AI, large language models,
Our ESG review can be found on page 41.
blockchain, and quantum computing offer both business opportunities
and potential risks for HSBC. As with the use of all technologies, we
Financial crime risk
aim to maximise their potential while seeking to ensure a robust
Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory scrutiny control environment is in place to help manage the inherent risks.
regarding their ability to detect and prevent financial crime. In 2024,
Mitigating actions
these risks continued to be exacerbated by rising geopolitical tensions
and ongoing macroeconomic factors. These challenges require – We continue to monitor this emerging risk and advances in
managing conflicting laws and approaches to legal and regulatory technology, as well as changes in customer behaviours, to
regimes, and implementing increasingly complex and less predictable understand how these may impact our business.
sanctions and trade restrictions.
– We assess new technologies to help develop appropriate controls
Amid increasing cost of living pressures, we continue to face and maintain resilience.
increasing regulatory expectations with respect to managing internal – We closely monitor and assess financial crime risk and the impact
and external fraud and protecting customers. The accessibility and on payment transparency and wider payment infrastructure.
increasing sophistication of generative AI brings additional financial
crime risks. While there is potential for the technology to support – We conduct risk assessments and have governance in place (for
financial crime detection, there is also a risk that criminals use example on AI and digital assets and currencies) to help enable
generative AI to perpetrate fraud, particularly scams. Group-wide cross-risk focus on areas of emerging technology.
– We make public commitments as to how we engage with new
The digitisation of financial services continues to have an impact on
technology innovation, for example publishing HSBC’s Principles
the payments ecosystem, with an increasing number of new market
for the Ethical Use of Data and AI.
entrants and payment mechanisms, not all of which are subject to the
same level of regulatory scrutiny or regulations as banks. – We continue to make improvements to our related policies and to
Developments around digital assets and currencies have continued at our control framework in order to enhance the end-to-end
pace, with an increasing regulatory and enforcement focus on the management of risks from new technology innovations.
financial crimes linked to these types of assets.
Evolving regulatory environment risk
The intersection of ESG issues and financial crime continues to pose
risks related to potential ‘greenwashing’, human rights issues and We aim to keep abreast of the emerging regulatory compliance and
environmental crime, as our organisation, customers and suppliers conduct risk agenda. Current focus areas include but are not limited
transition to net zero. In addition, climate change itself could heighten to: ESG developments, particularly managing the risk of
risks linked to vulnerable migrant populations in countries where ‘greenwashing’; ensuring good customer outcomes and addressing
financial crime is already more prevalent. customer vulnerabilities; enhancements to regulatory reporting
controls; employee compliance including the use of e-communication
We also continue to face increasing challenges presented by national channels; and developments in legal principles or conduct
data privacy requirements, which may affect our ability to manage requirements (including in relation to the risk of such developments in
financial crime risks across markets. one part of the financial industry being construed as applying to other
parts of the financial industry, which could lead to legal or regulatory
proceedings).
134 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Risk review
management, pricing, capital management, and credit risk Risks associated with workforce
measurement needs.
capability, capacity and
– Additional assurance work is performed by the model risk
governance teams, which act as second lines of defence. The environmental factors with potential
teams test whether controls implemented by model users comply
with model risk policy and if model risk procedures are adequate. impact on growth
– Models using AI or generative AI techniques are reviewed by the Our global businesses and functions in all of our markets are exposed
relevant risk teams and monitored by the business to help ensure to risks associated with workforce capacity challenges, including
that identified risks have adequate oversight and review. A challenges to retain, develop and attract high-performing employees
framework to manage the range of risks that are generated by in key labour markets, the changing skills requirements of our
these advanced techniques and to recognise the multidisciplinary workforce and compliance with employment laws and regulations.
nature of these risks has been developed. Failure to manage these risks may have an impact on the delivery of
our strategic objectives. It could also result in poor customer
Change execution risk
outcomes or a breach of employment laws and regulations, which
The needs of our customers are evolving faster than ever, and the may lead to regulatory sanctions or legal claims.
complexity and pace of strategic, regulatory and technological change
Mitigating actions
require us to improve the way we prioritise resources and deliver
strategic outcomes safely and sustainably. The embedding of – We seek to promote an inclusive workforce and provide health and
structural changes throughout the Group, arising as part of the wellbeing support. We continue to build our speak-up culture
reorganisation of our businesses announced in October 2024, is through active campaigns.
expected to enable the strategy to be executed more efficiently but
– We monitor hiring activities and levels of employee attrition, with
may elevate the level of change execution risk in the near to medium
each business and function putting in place plans to help ensure
term.
they have effective workforce forecasting to meet business
Mitigating actions demands.
– We monitor people risks that could arise due to organisational
– We have strengthened our investment case and prioritisation
restructuring, seeking to ensure that we manage redundancies
processes, while improving the monitoring and oversight of our
sensitively and support impacted employees. We encourage our
change portfolio and overall operating control environment.
people leaders to focus on talent retention at all levels, with an
– The Change Prioritisation and Oversight Committee continues to empathetic mindset and approach, while ensuring the whole
oversee the prioritisation, strategic alignment, and management of proposition of working at HSBC is well understood.
execution risk for strategic change portfolios and initiatives.
– Our Future Skills curriculum aims to provide skills that enable
Additionally, the HSBC Holdings Board provides enhanced
employees and HSBC to be successful in the future.
oversight over the simplification programme, directly supervising
its mobilisation and delivery. – We develop succession plans for key management roles, with
oversight from the Group Executive Committee.
– Change benefits and funding will be aligned to the new Group
organisational structure. Consideration of integrated business and
technology architecture design will be a critical input to our
prioritisation of future change investment.
136 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Our material banking risks
The material risk types associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing operations are described in the following tables:
Description of risks – banking operations
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
Credit risk See page 139
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss Credit risk arises principally from direct Credit risk is:
if a customer or counterparty fails to lending, trade finance and leasing – measured as the amount that could be lost if a customer or counterparty
meet an obligation under a contract. business, but also from other products fails to make repayments;
such as guarantees and derivatives. – monitored using various internal risk management measures and within
limits approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities;
and
– managed through a risk control framework, which outlines clear
and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers; and by
setting limits and appetite across geographical markets, portfolios or
sectors.
Treasury risk See page 200
Treasury risk is the risk of having Treasury risk arises from changes to the Treasury risk is:
insufficient capital, liquidity or funding respective resources and risk profiles – measured through risk appetite and more granular limits, set to provide an
resources to meet financial driven by customer behaviour, early warning of increasing risk, minimum ratios of relevant regulatory
obligations and satisfy regulatory management decisions or the external metrics, and metrics to monitor the key risk drivers impacting treasury
requirements, including the risk of an environment. resources;
adverse impact on earnings or capital – monitored and projected against appetites and by using operating plans
due to structural and transactional based on strategic objectives together with stress and scenario testing; and
foreign exchange exposures and
– managed through control of resources in conjunction with risk profiles,
changes in market interest rates,
strategic objectives and cash flows.
together with pension and insurance
risk.
Market risk See page 216
Market risk is the risk of an adverse Market risk arises from both trading Market risk is:
financial impact on trading activities portfolios and non-trading portfolios. – measured using sensitivities, value at risk and stress testing, giving a
arising from changes in market Market risk for non-trading portfolios is detailed picture of potential gains and losses for a range of market
parameters such as interest rates, discussed in the Treasury risk section on movements and scenarios, as well as tail risks over specified time horizons;
foreign exchange rates, asset prices, page 212. Market risk exposures arising – monitored using value at risk, stress testing and other measures; and
volatilities, correlations and credit from our insurance operations are
– managed using risk limits approved by the Group Risk Management
spreads. discussed on page 234.
Meeting and the risk management meetings in various global businesses.
Climate risk See page 219
Climate risk relates to the financial Climate risk can materialise through: Climate risk is:
and non-financial impacts that may – physical risk, which arises from the – measured using risk metrics and stress testing;
arise as a result of climate change increased frequency and severity of – monitored against risk appetite statements; and
and the move to a net zero economy. weather events;
– managed through adherence to risk appetite thresholds, through specific
– transition risk, which arises from the policies, and through enhancements to processes and development of
process of moving to a net zero tools including the development of product market controls to manage the
economy; risk of greenwashing and the development of portfolio steering capabilities
– net zero alignment risk, which arises to manage our net zero ambitions.
from failing to meet our net zero
ambition or to meet external
expectations related to net zero; and
– the risk of greenwashing, which arises
from the act of knowingly or
unknowingly making inaccurate,
unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated
claims regarding sustainability to
stakeholders.
Resilience risk See page
228
Resilience risk is the risk of sustained Resilience risk arises from failures or Resilience risk is:
and significant business disruption inadequacies in processes, people, – measured using a range of metrics and against our agreed risk appetite;
from execution, delivery, physical systems or external events.
– monitored through oversight of enterprise processes, risks, controls and
security or safety events, causing the
strategic change programmes; and
inability to provide critical services to
our customers, affiliates, and – managed by continual monitoring and thematic reviews.
counterparties.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 137
Risk
review
Credit risk
The principal objectives of our credit risk management are:
Contents
– to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending,
139 Overview and robust risk policies and control frameworks;
139 Credit risk management – to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining,
141 Credit risk in 2024 implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under
142 Summary of credit risk actual and scenario conditions; and
145 Stage 2 decomposition – to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their
146 Assets held for sale costs and their mitigation.
147 Credit exposure
Key risk management processes
148 Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates
161 Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ process
allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including
loan commitments and financial guarantees The IFRS 9 process comprises three main areas: modelling, data and
forward economic guidance; implementation; and governance.
166 Credit quality
170 Wholesale lending Modelling, data and forward economic guidance
184 Personal lending We have established IFRS 9 modelling and data processes in various
195 Supplementary information geographies, which are subject to internal model risk governance
199 HSBC Holdings including independent review of significant model developments.
We have a centralised process for generating unbiased and
Overview independent global economic scenarios. Scenarios are subject to a
process of review and challenge by a dedicated central team and
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty individually for each region. Each quarter, the scenarios and probability
fails to meet an obligation under a contract. Credit risk arises weights are reviewed and checked for consistency with the economic
principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but conjuncture and current economic and financial risks. These are
also from other products such as guarantees and derivatives. subject to final review and approval by senior management in a
forward economic guidance global business impairment committee.
Credit risk management Implementation
A centralised impairment engine performs the expected credit losses
Key developments in 2024 calculation using data, which is subject to a number of validation
checks and enhancements, from a variety of client, finance and risk
There were no material changes to the policies and practices for the systems. Where possible, these checks and processes are performed
management of credit risk in 2024. We continued to apply the in a globally consistent and centralised manner.
requirements of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ within the Credit Risk
Governance
sub-function.
Regional management review forums are established in key sites and
We actively managed the risks related to macroeconomic regions in order to review and approve the impairment results.
uncertainties, including interest rates, inflation, fiscal and monetary Regional management review forums have representatives from
policy, broader geopolitical uncertainties and conflicts. Credit Risk and Finance. The key site and regional approvals are
reported up to the relevant global business impairment committee for
For further details, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 131. final approval of the Group’s ECL for the period. Required members of
Governance and structure the committee are the Wholesale Global Chief Corporate Credit
Officer and Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for Wealth and
We have established Group-wide credit risk management and related Personal Banking Risk, as well as the relevant global business’s Chief
IFRS 9 processes. We continue to assess the impact of economic Financial Officer and the Global Financial Controller.
developments in key markets on specific customers, customer
segments or portfolios. As credit conditions change, we take Concentration of exposure
mitigating actions, including the revision of risk appetites or limits and
(Audited)
tenors, as appropriate. In addition, we continue to evaluate the terms
under which we provide credit facilities within the context of Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or
individual customer requirements, the quality of the relationship, local exposures have comparable economic characteristics, or such
regulatory requirements, market practices and our local market counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same
position. geographical areas or industry sectors so that their collective ability to
meet contractual obligations is similarly affected by changes in
Credit Risk sub-function economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls
and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our
(Audited)
portfolios across industries, countries and global businesses. These
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the Group include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls,
CEO together with the authority to sub-delegate them. The Credit and stress testing.
Risk sub-function in Group Risk and Compliance is responsible for the
key policies and processes for managing credit risk, which include Credit quality of financial instruments
formulating Group credit policies and risk rating frameworks, guiding
(Audited)
the Group’s appetite for credit risk exposures, undertaking
independent reviews and objective assessment of credit risk, and Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based approach
monitoring performance and management of portfolios. under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support the
calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. The
five credit quality classifications encompass a range of granular
internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 139
Risk
review
Risk review
Management judgemental adjustments are reviewed under the progressed to allow an accurate estimate of ECL allowance to be
governance process for IFRS 9 (as detailed in the section ‘Credit risk incorporated into the total reported ECL.
management’ on page 139). Review and challenge focuses on the
‘Management judgemental adjustments’ and ‘Other adjustments’
rationale and quantum of the adjustments with a further review
constitute the total value of adjustments to modelled allowance for
carried out by the second line of defence where significant. For some
ECL. For the wholesale portfolio, defaulted exposures are assessed
management judgemental adjustments, internal frameworks establish
individually and management judgemental adjustments are made only
the conditions under which these adjustments should no longer be
to the performing portfolio.
required and as such are considered as part of the governance
process. This internal governance process allows management
At 31 December 2024, there was a $0.6bn reduction in management
judgemental adjustments to be reviewed regularly and, where
judgemental adjustments compared with 31 December 2023. This
possible, to reduce the reliance on these through model recalibration
was driven by retail due to reductions in economic uncertainty,
or redevelopment, as appropriate.
primarily in the UK and Asia, and model redevelopments which
captured macro-economic risks more effectively.
The drivers of management judgemental adjustments continue to
evolve with the economic environment and as new risks emerge.
Management judgemental adjustments made in estimating the
scenario-weighted reported allowance for ECL at 31 December 2024
In addition to management judgemental adjustments there are also
are set out in the following table.
‘Other adjustments’, which are made to address process limitations
and data/model deficiencies and can also include, where appropriate,
the impact of new models where governance has sufficiently
Management judgemental adjustments to ECL at 31 December 20241
Retail Wholesale2 Total
$bn $bn $bn
Modelled ECL (A)3 2.6 2.0 4.6
Banks, sovereigns, government entities and low-risk counterparties 0.0 0.0
Corporate lending adjustments 0.1 0.1
Inflation related adjustments 0.0 0.0
Other credit judgements 0.0 0.0
Total management judgemental adjustments (B)4 0.0 0.1 0.1
Other adjustments (C)5 (0.0) 0.1 0.1
Final ECL (A + B + C)6 2.6 2.2 4.8
Management judgemental adjustments to ECL at 31 December 20231,7
Retail Wholesale2 Total
$bn $bn $bn
Modelled ECL (A)3 2.6 2.4 5.0
Banks, sovereigns, government entities and low-risk counterparties 0.0 0.0
Corporate lending adjustments 0.1 0.1
Inflation-related adjustments 0.1 0.1
Other credit judgements 0.5 0.5
Total management judgemental adjustments (B)4 0.6 0.1 0.7
Other adjustments (C)5 (0.0) 0.0 0.0
Final ECL (A + B + C)6 3.2 2.5 5.7
1 Management judgemental adjustments presented in the table reflect increases or (decreases) to allowance for ECL, respectively.
2 The wholesale portfolio corresponds to adjustments to the performing portfolio (stage 1 and stage 2).
3 (A) refers to probability-weighted allowance for ECL before any adjustments are applied.
4 (B) refers to adjustments that are applied where management believes allowance for ECL does not sufficiently reflect the credit risk/expected credit losses of
any given portfolio at the reporting date. These can relate to risks or uncertainties that are not reflected in the model and/or to any late-breaking events.
5 (C) refers to adjustments to allowance for ECL made to address process limitations and data/model deficiencies and can also include where appropriate, the
impact of new models where governance has sufficiently progressed to allow an accurate estimate of ECL allowance to be incorporated into the total reported
ECL.
6 As presented within our internal credit risk governance (see page 139).
7 31 December 2023 includes the Canada, Argentina, Armenia and Oman businesses and retail banking operations in France.
Management judgemental adjustments at 31 December 2024 were economic uncertainty, primarily in the UK and Asia, and model
an increase to allowance for ECL of $0.1bn for the wholesale portfolio redevelopments which captured macro-economic risks more
and $0.0bn for the retail portfolio. effectively.
At 31 December 2024, wholesale management judgemental Economic scenarios sensitivity
adjustments were an increase to allowance for ECL of $0.1bn
(31 December 2023: $0.1bn increase). These were mainly to analysis of ECL estimates
corporate exposures to reflect heightened uncertainty in specific
Management considered the sensitivity of the ECL outcome against
sectors and geographies, including offsetting adjustments to the real
the economic forecasts as part of the ECL governance process by
estate sector in mainland China, Hong Kong and the US, and
recalculating the allowance for ECL under each scenario described
adjustments to exposures to the automotive and industrial sectors in
above for selected portfolios, applying a 100% weighting to each
Germany.
scenario in turn. The weighting is reflected in both the determination
At 31 December 2024, retail management judgemental adjustments of a significant increase in credit risk and the measurement of the
to allowance for ECL were $0.0bn (31 December 2023 $0.6bn). The resulting allowances.
reduction in adjustments compared with 31 December 2023 for
inflation-related adjustments was primarily due to the reduction of
inflation related risk in the UK and the sale of the Canadian banking
business. Other credit judgements decreased due to reductions in
156 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
determination of the consolidated capital risk appetite and target Risks to capital and liquidity
ratios, as well as enables the assessment and determination of capital
Outside the stress testing framework, other risks may be identified
requirements by regulators. Subsidiaries prepare ICAAPs in line with
that have the potential to affect our RWAs, capital and/or liquidity
global guidance, while considering their local regulatory regimes to
position. Downside and upside scenarios are assessed against our
determine their own risk appetites and ratios.
management objectives, and mitigating actions are assigned as
HSBC Holdings is the provider of MREL to its subsidiaries, including necessary. We closely monitor future regulatory developments and
equity and non-equity capital. These investments are funded by HSBC continue to evaluate the impact of these upon our capital and liquidity
Holdings’ own equity capital and MREL-eligible debt. MREL includes requirements, particularly those related to the UK’s implementation of
own funds and liabilities that can be written down or converted into the outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel III
capital resources in order to absorb losses or recapitalise a bank in the reforms (‘Basel 3.1‘).
event of its failure. In line with our existing structure and business
Regulatory developments
model, HSBC has three resolution groups – the European Resolution
Group, the Asian Resolution Group and the US Resolution Group. The Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA‘) published the second part
There are some smaller entities that fall outside these resolution of its near-final rules on the UK’s implementation of Basel 3.1 on
groups. 12 September 2024. On 17 January 2025, the PRA revised the
implementation date to 1 January 2027 to allow greater clarity
HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the
regarding implementation in the United States. The Risk Weighted
composition of its capital and its investments in subsidiaries.
Asset (‘RWA‘) output floor is now subject to a three-year transitional
As a matter of long-standing policy, the holding company group provision, ensuring that the date for full implementation remains
retains a substantial holdings capital buffer comprising cash and other 1 January 2030. We continue to assess the impact of Basel 3.1
high-quality liquid assets, which at 31 December 2024 was in excess standards on our capital, including the recent release of more
of $20bn, our target operating level. beneficial PRA near-final rules, developments in the US and
associated implementation challenges (including data provision). We
We aim to ensure that management has oversight of our liquidity and expect that the impact on our CET1 ratio at 1 January 2027 will be a
funding risks at Group and entity level through governance modest benefit.
arrangements, in line with our risk management framework. We
manage liquidity and funding risk at an operating entity level in Regulatory reporting processes and controls
accordance with globally consistent policies, procedures and reporting
We are advancing a comprehensive initiative aimed at strengthening
standards. This ensures that obligations can be met in a timely
our global regulatory reporting processes and making them more
manner, in the jurisdiction where they fall due.
sustainable. This multifaceted programme includes enhancing data,
Operating entities are required to meet internal minimum consistency and controls. This remains a key priority for both HSBC
requirements and any applicable regulatory requirements at all times. management and regulatory authorities.
These requirements are assessed through our internal liquidity While this programme continues, there may be further impacts on
adequacy assessment process (‘ILAAP’), which ensures that some of our regulatory ratios, such as the CET1, LCR and NSFR, as
operating entities have strategies, policies, processes and systems we implement recommended changes and continue to enhance our
for the identification, measurement, management and monitoring of controls across the process.
liquidity risk over an appropriate set of time horizons, including intra-
Stress testing and recovery and resolution
day. The ILAAP informs the setting of risk appetite. It also assesses
the capability to manage liquidity and funding effectively in each major planning
entity. These metrics are set and managed locally but are subject to
The Group uses stress testing to inform management of the capital
global review and challenge to ensure consistency of approach and
and liquidity needed to withstand internal and external shocks,
application of the Group’s policies and controls.
including a global economic downturn or a systems failure. Stress
Planning and performance testing results are also used to inform risk mitigation actions, input
into global business performance through tangible equity allocation,
Capital and RWA plans form part of the annual financial resource plan and recovery and resolution planning, as well as to re-evaluate
that is approved by the Board. Capital and RWA forecasts are business plans where analysis shows capital, liquidity and/or returns
submitted to the Group Executive Committee on a monthly basis, and do not meet their target.
capital and RWAs are monitored and managed against the plan. The
responsibility for global capital allocation principles rests with the In addition to a range of internal stress tests, we are subject to
Group Chief Financial Officer, supported by the Group Capital supervisory stress testing in many jurisdictions. These include the
Management Meeting. This is a specialist forum addressing capital exercises of the Bank of England (‘BoE’), the US Federal Reserve
management, reporting into Holdings ALCO. Board, the European Banking Authority, the European Central Bank
and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. The results of regulatory
Through our internal governance processes, we seek to strengthen stress testing and our internal stress tests are used when assessing
discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions, and to our internal capital and liquidity requirements through the ICAAP and
ensure that returns on investment meet management’s objectives. ILAAP. The outcomes of stress testing exercises carried out by the
The Group allocates financial resources to businesses and entities to PRA and other regulators feed into the setting of regulatory minimum
support the execution of our strategy and to meet their regulatory and ratios and buffers.
economic capital needs. We evaluate and manage business returns
by using a return on average tangible equity measure and a related We maintain recovery plans for the Group and material entities, which
economic profit measure. set out potential options management could take in a range of stress
scenarios that could result in a breach of capital or liquidity buffers.
Funding and liquidity plans also form part of the financial resource
plan that is approved by the Board. The Board-level appetite measures The Group recovery plan sets out the framework and governance
are the liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’) and net stable funding ratio arrangements to support restoring HSBC to a stable and viable
(‘NSFR’), together with an internal liquidity metric, at entity level. In position, and so lowering the probability of failure from either
addition, we use a wider set of measures to manage an appropriate idiosyncratic company-specific stress or systemic market-wide issues.
funding and liquidity profile, including legal entity depositor Our material entities’ recovery plans provide detailed actions that
concentration limits, intra-day liquidity, forward-looking funding management would consider taking in a stress scenario should their
assessments and other key measures. positions deteriorate and threaten to breach risk appetite and
regulatory minimum levels. This is to help ensure that HSBC entities
can stabilise their financial position and recover from financial losses
in a stress environment.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 201
Risk
review
Risk review
Market risk
Key risk management processes
Contents
Monitoring and limiting market risk
216 Overview
exposures
216 Market risk management
217 Market risk in 2024 Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while
217 Trading portfolios maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk appetite.
218 Market risk balance sheet linkages We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures
including sensitivity analysis, VaR and stress testing.
Overview
Sensitivity analysis
Market risk is the risk of an adverse financial impact on trading Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of movements in
activities arising from changes in market parameters such as interest individual market factors on specific instruments or portfolios,
rates, foreign exchange rates, asset prices, volatilities, correlations including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices.
and credit spreads. Market risk arises from both trading portfolios and We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions
non-trading portfolios. within each risk type. Granular sensitivity limits are set for trading
desks with consideration of market liquidity, customer demand and
Trading portfolios comprise positions held for client servicing and capital constraints, among other factors.
market-making, with the intention of short-term resale and/or to
hedge risks resulting from such positions. Value at risk
For further details of market risk in non-trading portfolios, see page 212 of (Audited)
the Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions as
a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified
Market risk management time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use of VaR is
integrated into market risk management and calculated for all trading
Key developments in 2024 positions regardless of how we capitalise them. Where we do not
calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarised in
There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the the ‘Stress testing’ section below.
management of market risk in 2024.
Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that
Governance and structure incorporates the following features:
The following diagram summarises the main business areas where – historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with
trading market risks reside and the market risk measures used to reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest
monitor and limit exposures. rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;
– potential market movements that are calculated with reference to
Risk types Trading risk data from the past two years; and
– Foreign exchange and commodities
– calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a one-day holding
– Interest rates period.
– Credit spreads
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the
– Equities
underlying exposures. The nature of the VaR models means that an
Global business GBM increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VaR
Risk measure Value at risk | Sensitivity | Stress testing without any changes in the underlying positions.
VaR model limitations
The objective of our risk management policies and measurement
techniques is to manage and control market risk exposures to
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used with awareness of its
optimise return on risk while maintaining a market profile consistent
limitations. For example:
with our established risk appetite.
– The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future market
Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the
moves may not encompass all potential market events, particularly
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. These limits are allocated
those that are extreme in nature. As the model is calibrated on the
across business lines and to the Group’s legal entities. Each major
last 500 business days, it does not adjust instantaneously to a
operating entity has an independent market risk management and
change in the market regime.
control sub-function, which is responsible for measuring, monitoring
and reporting market risk exposures against limits on a daily basis. – The use of a one-day holding period for risk management
Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising in purposes of trading books assumes that this short period is
its business and to transfer them either to its local Markets and sufficient to hedge or liquidate all positions.
Securities Services or Markets Treasury unit for management, or to – The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take into
separate books managed under the supervision of the local ALCO. account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence.
The Traded Risk function enforces the controls around trading in
permissible instruments approved for each site as well as changes – VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of
that follow the approval of new products. Traded Risk also restricts business and therefore does not reflect intra-day exposures.
trading in the more complex derivative products to only those offices
with appropriate levels of product expertise and control systems.
216 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Derivative assets and liabilities
We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: to create VaR give rise to a large proportion of the income included in net
risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a
arising from client business, and to manage and hedge our own risks. fair value basis. Adjustments to trading income such as valuation
Most of our derivative exposures arise from sales and trading adjustments are not measured by the trading VaR model.
activities within GBM. The assets and liabilities included in trading
For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments
at fair value, see Note 1.2 on the financial statements.
Climate risk
TCFD
Approach
Contents
We recognise that the physical impacts of climate change and the
219 Overview transition to a net zero economy can create significant financial risks
220 Climate risk management for companies, investors and the financial system. HSBC may be
affected by climate risks either directly or indirectly through our
221 Embedding our climate risk approach
relationships with customers, which could result in both financial and
223 Insights from climate scenario analysis
non-financial impacts.
Our climate risk approach aims to effectively manage the material
Overview
climate risks that could impact our operations, financial performance
and stability, and reputation. It is informed by the evolving
Our climate risk approach identifies two primary drivers of climate
expectations of our regulators.
risk:
We continue to develop our approach and climate risk capabilities
– physical risk, which arises from the increased frequency and
across our businesses, by prioritising sectors, portfolios and
severity of extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and
counterparties with the highest impacts, and recognise that this is a
floods, or chronic gradual shifts in weather patterns or rises in the
long-term iterative process. This includes increasing coverage and
sea level; and
incorporating more mature data, climate analytics, frameworks and
– transition risk, which arises from the process of moving to a net tools, and responding to emerging industry best practice and climate-
zero economy, including changes in government policy and related regulations.
legislation, technology, market demand, and reputational
This also necessitates reflecting on how climate risk continues to
implications triggered by a change in stakeholder expectations,
evolve in the real world, and improving how we embed climate risk
action or inaction.
factors into strategic planning, transactions and decision making
In addition, we have also identified the following thematic issues across our businesses. For example, our mergers and acquisitions
related to climate risk, which are most likely to materialise in the form process considers potential climate and sustainability-related targets,
of reputational, regulatory compliance and litigation risks: net zero transition plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to
HSBC.
– net zero alignment risk, which arises from the risk of HSBC failing
to meet its net zero ambition or failing to meet external Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk
expectations related to net zero; and management framework and three lines of defence model, which
sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks. For further
– the risk of greenwashing, which arises from the act of knowingly
details of the three lines of defence framework, see page 129.
or unknowingly making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or
unsubstantiated claims regarding sustainability to our
stakeholders.
The tables below provide an overview of the climate risk drivers and thematic issues considered within HSBC’s climate risk approach.
Climate risk – risk drivers
Details Potential impacts Time horizons
Physical Acute Increased frequency and severity of weather events causing
disruption to business operations.
– Decreased real estate
Chronic Longer-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g. sustained higher
values or stranded assets.
temperatures, sea level rise, shifting monsoons or chronic heat
waves). – Decreased household
income and wealth. Short term
Transition Policy and legal Mandates on, and regulation of products and services and/or
policy support for low-carbon alternatives. Litigation from parties – Increased costs of legal Medium term
who have suffered loss and damage from climate impacts. and compliance. Long term
– Increased public scrutiny.
Technology Replacement of existing products with lower emissions options.
– Decreased profitability.
End-demand (market) Changing consumer demand from individuals and corporates.
– Lower asset performance.
Reputational Increased scrutiny following a change in stakeholder perceptions
of climate-related action or inaction.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 219
Risk
review
Risk review
Climate risk – thematic issues
Net zero Net zero ambition Failing to set or adapt our net zero ambition and broader business strategy in alignment with key stakeholder
alignment risk risk expectations, latest scientific understanding and commercial objectives.
Net zero Failing to meet our net zero ambition due to taking insufficient or ineffective actions, or due to the actions of clients,
execution risk suppliers and other stakeholders or due to other external factors.
Net zero reporting Failing to report emissions baselines and targets, and performance against these accurately due to data, methodology
risk and model limitations.
Risk of Firm Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims in relation to our sustainability commitments and
greenwashing targets, as well as the reporting of our performance towards them.
Product Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims in relation to products or services offered to clients
that have stated sustainability objectives, characteristics, impacts or features.
Client Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims as a consequence of our relationships with clients or
transactions we undertake with them, where their sustainability commitments or related performance are
misrepresented or are not aligned to our own commitments.
Our annual climate risk materiality assessment helps us to In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our
understand how climate risk may impact HSBC’s risk taxonomy. emerging risk reporting and scenario analysis (for further details, see
The assessment considers short-term (up to 2026), medium-term ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 39).
(2027-2035) and long-term (2036-2050) periods. The table below
provides a summary of how climate risk may impact a subset of
HSBC’s principal risks.
Other financial
and non-
Regulatory financial risk
Climate risk drivers Credit risk Traded risk Reputational risk1 compliance risk1 Resilience risk types
Physical risk u u u u
Transition risk u u u u u u
1 Our climate risk approach identifies thematic issues such as net zero alignment risk and the risk of greenwashing, which are most likely to materialise in the
form of reputational, regulatory compliance and litigation risks.
Climate risk management
Key developments in 2024 The ESG Committee has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, material
commitments and external disclosure. It is co-chaired by the Group
Our climate risk programme continues to support the development of CEO and the Group Chief Sustainability Officer.
our climate risk management capabilities. The following outlines key
The Group Reputational Risk Committee provides recommendations
developments in 2024:
and advice on significant reputational risk matters with impacts
– We have started to enhance our approach to managing net zero across the Group.
alignment risk in our wholesale portfolio, through developing
The Environmental Risk Steering Meeting (formerly the
portfolio steering capabilities and revenue assessments.
Environmental Risk Oversight Forum) provides oversight of
– We enhanced our approach to assessing the impact of climate environmental risk and the risk of greenwashing. Equivalent forums
change on capital, focusing on credit, market and operational risk. have been established at a regional level.
– We enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis, including
The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk
through improvements to input data and models (e.g. for the
Committee receive regular updates on our climate risk profile and the
power and utilities sector). For further details of scenario analysis,
progress of our climate risk programme.
see page 223.
– We enhanced our approach to managing and mitigating the risk of For further details of the Group’s ESG governance structure, see page 74.
greenwashing.
Risk appetite
– We developed climate risk guidelines for relationship managers to
Our climate risk appetite forms part of the Group’s risk appetite
further embed climate risk considerations into credit risk
statement and supports the business in delivering our net zero
assessments.
ambition effectively and sustainably.
While we have made progress, further work remains, including the
Our climate risk appetite statement is approved and overseen by the
need to develop additional metrics and tools to measure our
Board. Climate risk indicators are reported on a quarterly basis for
exposure to climate-related risks.
oversight by the Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk
Governance and structure Committee.
Policies, processes and controls
The Board takes overall supervisory responsibility for our ESG
strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and
approach, execution and associated reporting. controls across many areas of our organisation, and we will continue
to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager
over time.
responsible for the management of climate risk under the UK Senior
Managers Regime, holding overall accountability for the Group’s For further details of how we manage climate risk across our global
climate risk programme. businesses, see page 60.
The Sustainability Working Group, established in 4Q24, oversees and
provides guidance on the Group-wide medium and longer-term
sustainability strategy.
220 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Embedding our climate risk approach
The table below provides further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk types. For further details of
our internal scenario analysis, see ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ on page 223.
Risk type Our approach
Wholesale We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six high transition risk sectors, as shown in the
credit risk below table. As at 31 December 2024, the overall exposure to the six high transition risk sectors was 18% of total gross carrying amount of
wholesale loans and advances. These disclosures cover the whole of the value chain of the sector. The sector classifications are based on
internal HSBC definitions and can be judgemental in nature. We use publicly available data as well as internal data to determine the appropriate
sector. The classification of our clients into sectors is performed with inputs from subject matter experts. The sector classifications are subject
to the remediation of ongoing data quality challenges and continuous improvement of our ongoing processes. The data will continue to be
enhanced and refined in future years.
Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers, including those in higher transition risk sectors, through a transition
engagement questionnaire (‘TEQ’). In 2024, the TEQ was expanded to cover all geographies. The TEQ helps to gather information and assess
our wholesale customers’ business model alignment to a net zero transition and their exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the
responses to the questionnaire to risk-assess our key wholesale customers.
Our credit policies require that relationship managers comment on climate risk factors in credit applications for new money requests and annual
credit reviews. Our credit policies also require manual credit risk rating overrides if climate is deemed to have a material impact on credit risk
under 12 months if not already captured under the original credit risk rating.
Key developments to our framework in 2024 included the expansion of the TEQ, as set out above, and additionally the development of climate
risk guidelines for relationship managers to further embed climate risk considerations into credit risk assessments.
Key challenges for further embedding climate risk into credit risk management relate to the availability of adequate physical risk data to assess
impacts on our wholesale customers.
Wholesale loan exposure to high transition risk sectors at 31 December 2024
Construction,
Contracting & Metals Oil Power
Building and and and Total
Units Automotive Chemicals Materials5 mining gas utilities 2024
Wholesale loan exposure as a proportion of
total wholesale loans and advances1,2,3,4 % 4 2 3 2 3 4 18
1 Percentages shown in the table also include green and other sustainable finance loans, which support the transition to the net zero economy.
The methodology for quantifying our exposure to high transition risk sectors and the transition risk metrics will evolve over time as more data
becomes available and is incorporated in our risk management systems and processes. We are aiming to develop the appropriate systems,
data and processes to provide enhanced disclosures in future years.
2 Counterparties are allocated to the high transition risk sectors via a two-step approach. Firstly, where the main business of a group of
connected counterparties is in a high transition risk sector, all lending to the group is included in one high transition risk sector irrespective of
the sector of each individual obligor within the group. Secondly, where the main business of a group of connected counterparties is not in a
high transition risk sector, only lending to individual obligors in the high transition risk sectors is included. The main business of a group of
connected counterparties is identified by the industry that generates the majority of revenue within a group. Customer revenue data utilised
during this allocation process is the most recent readily available and will not always align to our own reporting period.
3 The six high transition risk sectors make up 18% of total gross carrying amount of wholesale loans and advances to banks and customers of
$596bn. Amounts include assets held for sale.
4 The sectors used to monitor the wholesale corporate lending portfolio set out in the table are different to the scope of sectors we focus on for
financed emissions targets and reporting. The latter focus on the most carbon-emissive sectors, and the parts of the value chain where we
believe the majority of emissions are produced to help reduce double counting. These sectors are set out within 'Financed emissions' section
on page 48.
5 Construction, Contracting & Building Materials has been renamed from Construction & Building Materials. The name has been revised to
clarify that parties who build assets for end clients, investors and landowners, which should be included in this sector for their associated
construction risks.
Retail credit Climate risk may impact retail credit risk through an increase in credit losses on our global retail mortgage portfolio, primarily due to the impact of
risk physical risk. Our current climate assessment, in line with last year’s assessment, indicates that our retail mortgage portfolio remains resilient to
climate risk, with impact severity muted at a portfolio level given that our book has diversified property locations, with insurance coverage being
a key loan covenant. Our retail credit risk mortgage policy requires that every mortgage market conducts an annual review of their climate risk
management framework, to ensure they remain fit for purpose. Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened
physical risk are identified and assessed locally with exposure monitored using risk indicators. A reduction in property value, higher insurance
costs and insurance availability are potential future negative financial impacts for properties with higher physical risk.
UK retail mortgage book
The UK is our largest mortgage market, and as of November 2024, made up 46.7% of our global mortgage portfolio. Our ESG Data Pack
includes our climate risk exposures for this portfolio across regions. The maturity profile of the UK mortgage book shows that the average
remaining contractual term in the UK is 21.8 years. However, with some customers undertaking refinancing options during this term, the
average term of the mortgage can be reduced to between five and eight years. This means our strategic approach to climate risk considers both
present day risk and long-term forward-looking risk, given that customers may choose to remain with us over the lifespan of the loan. Please see
the result of our climate scenario analysis on page 226.
Physical risk
For the UK mortgage book, flood data is sourced from a third-party data provider, and considers the UK only, covering present day risk from tidal,
river and surface water/flash flooding baselined to 2021. A flood risk rating score of 0-100 is provided with 100 being highest risk. Flood risk
scores are based on the average annual loss generated using flood hazard frequency, flood depths and based on the probability of flooding
events occurring. For the UK mortgage book, flood data is available for 93.7% of the mortgage book of which 0.9% is at a very high risk of
flooding, with 2.7% of the book at a high risk of flooding. Geographically, by lending balances, our highest risk exposures are the Greater London
and South-East regions. During 2024 we changed our flood risk classification of very high risk to align to the provider’s flood score bands. The
postcode data used in the regional flood table has also been refined to incorporate a more granular approach. This has helped to aid the regional
allocation and as a result the 2023 data has been restated to reflect this.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 221
Risk
review
Risk review
Risk type Our approach
Retail credit Transition risk
risk We monitor the energy performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties from A (highest efficiency) through to G (least efficient) as
(continued) EPCs are commonly used as an indicator of transition risk in the UK mortgage book. All UK rental properties must have a minimum EPC rating of
E. It is broadly expected that the rental market will need to transition all rented properties to an EPC rating of C by 2030. We track EPC ratings
for both owner occupied (‘OO’) and buy to let (‘BTL’), which are 96.6% of the portfolio and 3.4% of the portfolio by lending value, respectively.
The EPC profile is broadly improving (to higher bands) but is evolving slowly, and the pace is dependent on regulation. Where we do not hold a
current EPC, we have included expired EPCs for 2024. EPCs are a reliable proxy as energy efficiency ratings gradually improve over time.
UK residential mortgages tenor (remaining mortgage term by balance ($m)) as at 31 December 20241
Tenor Remaining mortgage balance
($m)
<1 year 357
1 to 5 years 3,589
>5 years 159,452
Weighted average of remaining mortgage term (years) 21.8
There has been an increase observed across the market in the number of people seeking new mortgages of up to 35 years or more due to rising house
prices, higher interest rates and cost of living challenges although the average life of an HSBC mortgage loan is approximately between five and eight
years due to refinancing. Despite this, our strategic approach to climate risk considers present day and long-term risk given customers may remain on
our book for the whole loan term.
For further details of flood risk and the EPC breakdown of our UK retail mortgage portfolio, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
1 The table includes instances where individual properties have multiple associated accounts and mortgage balances. These are aggregated to a
property level and the longest term remaining is taken as the tenor. UK mortgage balances presented here are not directly reconcilable to
other tables in the document due to differences in the basis of preparation.
Treasury Climate risk may impact Treasury risk through increased regulatory requirements and from changes to customer behaviours, which may result in
risk increased deposit outflows.
As part of our ICAAP, we assess the impact of climate change on capital, focusing on credit risk, market risk and operational risk and perform
sensitivity analysis on our Internal Capital Planning Buffer.
As part of our ILAAP, we assess how climate risk could impact the Group liquidity position. As part of our Internal Climate Scenario Analysis
(‘ICSA’), we have developed an exploratory scenario to understand the impact of a potential greenwashing event on our deposits. For further
details, please see page 224.
In October 2024 we published our Green Financing Framework, in alignment with the International Capital Market Association Green Bond
Principles. This framework promotes transparency, forming part of our sustainability strategy and helping to further our aim of supporting our
clients in transitioning to a net zero future.
Pension risk
Climate risk could result in additional costs within our defined benefit pension plans, due to changes in the pension plans’ investment
performance or through having to meet evolving regulatory requirements.
Our global policies on the oversight of pension investments explicitly reflect climate considerations. Training has been provided to local
management on how to consider ESG risks in pension investments. We also conduct an annual exercise to estimate the exposure of our largest
pension plans to climate risk.
Insurance risk
Climate risk could result in losses on our insurance assets due to changes in macroeconomic parameters.
We develop an annual plan to support the management of climate risk. This plan includes enhancing our stress test modelling capabilities to
assess the solvency resilience of our insurance entities under prescribed climate scenarios.
Traded risk Climate risk may result in trading losses due to increases in market volatility and widening spreads from the macro and microeconomic impacts
of transition and physical risk.
We have implemented climate risk limits in global and regional trading mandates to monitor exposure to climate-sensitive sectors and countries
across different asset classes in the Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS‘) business.
Our market risk policies include specific climate risk control requirements, which ensure that our climate risk limits and utilisations are monitored
in the same way as market and traded credit risk exposures.
We conduct monthly stress testing to understand the vulnerabilities of our trading portfolio to various climate scenarios, which are refined on an
annual basis, with the results reported to global and regional senior management.
Reputational We manage the reputational impact of climate risk through our broader reputational risk framework, supported by our sustainability risk policies
risk and metrics.
Our sustainability risk policies form part of our broader risk management framework and are important mechanisms for managing risks, including
delivering our net zero ambition. Our thermal coal phase-out and energy policies aim to drive down greenhouse gas emissions while supporting
a just transition.
Our global network of sustainability risk managers provides local policy guidance to relationship managers for the oversight of policy compliance,
and in support of implementation across our wholesale banking activities. For further details of our sustainability risk policies, see page 61.
We have developed risk appetite metrics to monitor our performance against our financed emissions targets. For further details of our targets,
see page 52.
Regulatory Regulatory Compliance is responsible for the oversight and management of climate-related risks that could cause breaches of our regulatory
compliance duties to customers and inappropriate market conduct. We have updated our policies to incorporate considerations for ESG and climate risks,
risk particularly in relation to new and ongoing product management, sales outcomes, and product marketing.
To support our key policies, we have also enhanced the underlying control frameworks and processes. This includes the integration of
greenwashing risk and controls considerations in the design of new products and changes to them, as well as in relation to marketing materials.
From a product sales perspective, we have established key control principles, encompassing the sales journey design, training and competence,
supervision, sales quality, and governance.
We operate an ESG and climate risk working group tasked with tracking and monitoring the integration of ESG and climate risk stewardship
across our operations. This group also monitors regulatory and legislative developments related to the ESG and climate agenda.
222 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Risk type Our approach
Resilience Resilience risks may potentially crystallise through physical climate risk impacts to our buildings supporting service provision, or through physical
risk and/or transition disruption to our third-party supply chain relationships.
We have developed metrics to assess how physical risk may impact our critical properties and to monitor progress against our own operations’
net zero ambitions.
Our resilience risk policies are subject to continuous improvement to remain relevant to evolving climate risks.
Model risk Model risk in the ESG context refers to the uncertainties and complexities inherent in the modelling of the financial impact translation of climate-
related changes and scenarios.
Climate risk models are used for climate scenario analysis, risk management, and emissions reporting among other use cases. Climate risk
modelling is at a nascent stage, with challenges – including limitations in data availability, consistency and quality – shared across the industry.
We have developed model risk procedures that set out the minimum control requirements for identifying, measuring and managing model risk
for climate-related models. All the identified climate-related models are subject to HSBC’s model lifecycle controls and policy.
Financial Climate risk impacts financial reporting risk through increased reporting requirements.
reporting The scope of financial reporting risk includes oversight of the accuracy and completeness of ESG and climate reporting. Our risk appetite
risk statement states that HSBC has no appetite for material errors in ESG disclosures in our key markets, balanced with the evolving requirements
and data availability.
In addition, our internal controls incorporate requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in ESG and climate reporting. To support this,
a framework is used to provide guidance on control implementation over ESG and climate reporting and disclosures, which includes areas such
as process and data governance, and risk assessment.
Challenges
Key challenges include: – industry-wide data gaps on customer emissions and transition plan
and methodology gaps, which limit our ability to assess transition
– the diverse range of internal and external data sources and data
risks accurately; and
structures needed for climate-related reporting, which introduces
data accuracy and reliability risks; – limitations in our management of net zero alignment risk due to
known and unknown factors, including the limited accuracy and
– data limitations on customer assets and supply chains, and
reliability of data, emerging methodologies, and the need to
methodology gaps, which hinder our ability to assess physical
develop new tools to better inform decision making.
risks accurately;
Insights from climate scenario analysis
Climate scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our From a financial and capital planning perspective, we use climate
potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under a range of scenario analysis to support the Group’s internal capital adequacy
climate scenarios. It is one of the key tools used to support the assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to understand the amount of capital
evaluation of portfolios in line with our net zero ambition. the Group should hold to meet identified climate risks, including
integration of climate impacts into the Group’s internal stress testing
The scenarios developed for climate scenario analysis are designed to
exercises. In addition, it informs strategic planning by providing
examine HSBC’s financial performance and capital resilience across a
insights on the size and timing of financial impacts, and IFRS 9 loss
wide range of potential climate outcomes. They are sufficiently
provisioning to ensure climate risks are adequately provisioned for in
diverse to enable HSBC’s key physical and transition risk
our balance sheet, such as expected credit losses (‘ECL’).
vulnerabilities to be explored. For further details about these risks,
see ‘Overview under Climate risk’ on page 219. Climate scenario analysis also supports portfolio steering frameworks
set up to help shape our Global Businesses strategy to meet net zero
The analysis supports our approach to supporting our clients in the
ambitions. Portfolio steering has been developed to enable the Group
transition to net zero through assessing, where available, client level
to manage sector portfolios in line with its net zero by 2050 ambition,
financial and credit risk metrics, and identifying where further analysis
while managing risks and capturing commercial opportunities. This
and climate risk focus is required.
enables HSBC to manage financed emissions within our appetite at
portfolio level.
From a risk management perspective, it enhances our understanding
of the various transition and global warming pathways that may
Climate scenario analysis supports the Group to assess the impact of
unfold and their plausibility, and informs how we manage implications
our net zero ambitions on our revenue and profitability to help
to credit risk and revenues.
strengthen our understanding of business model risk, and supports
building the organisation’s awareness of climate change risk,
To meet our global regulatory needs, we produced several climate
informing our climate risk appetite.
stress tests for regulators around the world, including the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’). We continue to enhance our climate
Our climate scenarios
scenario analysis exercises so that we can have a more
comprehensive understanding of climate headwinds, risks and
Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate
opportunities to support our strategic planning, actions and risk
and were designed to assess the impact on our balance sheet across
management.
three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from
2027 to 2035; and long term from 2036 to 2050.
Use of climate scenario outputs to
Building on prior years, the 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise
support how we assess our climate
benefited from new scenarios, including: the introduction of a new
resilience Below 2 Degrees scenario that is aligned with the Paris Agreement
goal of limiting global warming to below 2 degrees by the end of the
As we navigate the transition to net zero, climate scenario analysis is century; and a bespoke near-term Severe Climate Stress scenario;
used to support core banking processes such as client-facing and from updated climate scenario assumptions, which include
activities, finance activities and risk management. increased sector and geographical granularity for all scenarios.
The 2024 climate scenarios range from a combination of highest
physical risk to highest transition risk as follows:
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 223
Risk
review
Risk review
– Downside Physical Risk scenario: with significant global warming – Below 2 Degrees scenario: a Paris Agreement-aligned scenario
and physical risk events, assumes climate action is limited to where net zero is achieved, but beyond the 2050 scenario horizon,
currently implemented governmental policies, new as it assumes an orderly and gradual rise in the stringency of
decarbonisation policies fail to get introduced and global warming climate policies over time.
continues.
– Delayed Transition Risk scenario: in which action is delayed until
– Severe Climate Stress scenario: a near term disorderly climate 2030 but is then stringent and rapid enough to meet net zero by
action, triggered by unprecedented global weather events that 2050, accentuating disorderly transition risks.
lead to a short, sharp economic recession. In this scenario,
We have chosen these scenarios to provide a holistic view that
extreme physical events pivot the public view on climate and the
supplements the Group’s current and future strategic thinking. The
transition to net zero accelerates. This extreme stress scenario is
2024 climate scenarios are underpinned by well-established industry
used to test HSBC’s capital resilience to extreme and very unlikely
bodies such as the Network for Greening Finance Phase IV, the
events, combining downside climate and macroeconomic risks
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) and International
with a horizon ending in 2030.
Energy Agency (‘IEA’), which are further enriched for additional
– Current Commitments scenario: assumes a slower-than-required granularity, ensuring consistency with industry-recognised work and
transition to a net zero economy, reflective of the current pace of reflecting the latest climate policy and economic outlook.
transition, which assumes that climate action is limited to current
governmental committed policies, including already implemented
actions. This scenario helps us determine the actions we need to
take to reach our net zero ambition while operating in a world that
is not on a net zero by 2050 pathway.
Characteristics of our scenarios
+Physical Risk Transition Risk+
Scenarios
Downside Severe Climate Current Delayed
Below 2 Degrees
Physical Risk Stress Commitments Transition Risk
Rise in global
Scenario
temperatures by 2100 (vs 4.2°C N/A 2.4˚c 1.7˚c 1.6˚c
outcomes
pre-industrial levels)
End of horizon 2050 2030 2050 2050 2050
Underlying Implemented Rapid & disorderly All currently pledged Gradually rising Rapid & disorderly
Global climate actions
assumptions policies only transition policies stringency of policies transition
based on Assumed pace of
global technology change and Slow change Accelerated progress Limited progress Moderate change Accelerates from
averages adoption 2030
Assumed socioeconomic
Very high Very high Moderate High Very high
impact
Assumed carbon price 2030 2050 2030 2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050
($/tCO 2 ) 9 8 326 30 78 46 136 30 558
Scenario risk Climate Physical p Higher p Higher u Moderate q Lower q Lower
characteristics risk Transition q Lower p Higher u Moderate p Higher p Higher
Group outputs and our methodology
Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential For our retail mortgage portfolio, our analysis focused on key regions
climate pathways may impact the resilience of our customers and our and physical risk factors, including property locations, perils and
portfolios. insurance coverage.
Our models continue to incorporate a range of climate-specific The internal climate scenario analysis exercise showed that losses
metrics that could potentially impact our customers, including are influenced by their exposure to a variety of climate risks under
expected production volumes, revenue, costs and capital different climate scenarios.
expenditure.
When assessing our long-term scenarios, climate-related losses are
We assess how these metrics interplay with economic factors, such expected to remain minimal in the short term and likely to increase in
as carbon prices, which represent the cost effects of climate-related the medium and longer time horizon, driven by the transition to a net
policies that aim to discourage carbon-emitting activities and zero economy and greater physical risk impacts.
encourage low-carbon solutions. The expected result of higher carbon
Under the defined climate scenarios, transition risk impacts are
prices is a reduction in emissions as high-emission activities become
predominantly driven by credit risk losses and are expected to create
uneconomical.
a drag on the Group’s profitability across all scenarios. In the Below 2
We analyse how climate risks impact principal risk types within our Degrees scenario, we expect to see an increase in projected credit
organisation, including credit and traded risks, non-financial risks and losses that materialise in the medium term if early action to transition
pension risk. While the following sections focus primarily on credit to net zero is taken. Credit losses are projected to increase in the
risk, we also set out how we continue to enhance and embed medium to long term if the transition to net zero is delayed, which
impacts from traded risk, pension risk and non-financial risks. was underlined within the Delayed Transition scenario, where climate
action begins later and is therefore expected to be more rapid and
For our wholesale lending portfolio, the scope of our 2024 analysis disruptive for our customers who will have less time to restructure
prioritised high-emitting sectors, and we focused on delving deeper their business models and reduce their carbon emissions.
into a selection of high transition risk sectors. We have enhanced our
climate models for the power and utilities and automotive sectors, The risks and opportunities will need to be carefully balanced, and by
while regional deep dives focused on select high risk and material building a more climate-resilient balance sheet, we can reduce
sectors. The financial metrics used in our models included credit impairment risks and improve longer-term stability.
rating and client cashflow impacts to derive ECLs and risk-weighted Increased lending opportunities exist during an accelerated transition
assets (‘RWAs’), emissions and balance sheet impacts. period such as those expected in the Below 2 Degrees, Delayed
224 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Transition Risk and Severe Climate Stress scenarios, noting that relatively lower projected climate-related losses on a consistent basis,
these scenarios also experience the risk of heightened impairments which is highly dependent on the assumption of continued
in the latter stages of their time horizons. government support and commitment to the execution of their
complex transition plans.
Modelling limitations
In the case of the Severe Climate Stress scenario, we observed that
We continue to look for ways of enhancing our methodology to
impacts would be more severe and focused than other climate
improve the effectiveness of our climate scenario analysis by
scenarios in the short- to medium-term. These impacts were driven
incorporating lessons learnt from previous exercises and feedback
by the underlying severity of the scenario, particularly due to the
from key stakeholders, including regulators. There are industry-wide
sharp increase in stricter climate policies and therefore carbon prices
limitations, particularly on data availability, although our models are
that adversely affect the debt servicing capabilities of companies, and
designed to produce outputs that can support our assessment of the
acute extreme weather events.
level of our climate resilience.
We have the opportunity to ease potential negative impacts as
Climate scenario analysis requires considerable amounts of data and
transition risks increase, by supporting our customers to diversify into
we are continuing to enhance coverage of our exposures. Where data
more renewable and greener revenue streams and invest in
is only available for a subset of our counterparties, we extrapolate the
emission-reducing technologies.
results observed where available to the wider population or dataset.
We do not capture the second order impacts of climate risk
Impact on wholesale lending portfolios
exposures within our modelling approach, such as impacts on our
counterparties from their supply chains. ECL increase 1, 2
Climate Scenarios
For a broad overview of the models that we use for our climate scenario Exposure
analysis, as well as graphs that show how global carbon prices and carbon Wholesale at default Current
emissions will differ under our climate scenarios, see our ESG Data Pack at sectors (EAD)3 Commit
www.hsbc.com/esg.
2023
ments Below 2 Degrees
How climate change is impacting our Peak 4 Short Medium Long
term term term
wholesale lending portfolio Conglomerates and n
industrials
The 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise was designed to Chemicals n
examine the climate risks and vulnerabilities of corporate
Construction,
counterparties across high transition risk sectors under climate contracting and n
scenarios of varying severity. Specifically, we measured the modelled building materials
effect on our projected ECL change over the short-, medium- and Power and utilities n
long-term horizons under each scenario. This was compared to a
Oil and gas n
counterfactual scenario that excludes climate change impacts to
isolate the climate only changes in ECL. Automotive n
Land transport and
Counterparty specific analysis was conducted for those corporates n
logistics
where transition risk is elevated either from an overall sectoral
Agriculture & soft
perspective or in response to specific jurisdictional policies, which commodities n
require HSBC to respond to regulatory requirements. This analysis
Metals and mining n
was conducted to generate more granular counterparty-specific
insights relative to previous exercises. Aviation n
Marine n
The impact on our wholesale portfolios is demonstrated by the table
below, which shows the size of exposures by sector in 2024 and the 1 Increase in cumulative ECL compared with counterfactual over short-,
cumulative change in ECL compared with a counterfactual scenario medium- and long-term time horizons, expressed as a multiple.
2 Values in the key represent the multiplier of increase in ECL, i.e. <1.1
(expressed as a multiple). The size of our exposure in each sector is
equates to less than 10% increase over the counterfactual (or equivalent
represented by our exposure at default (‘EAD’) relative to one
proxy which is most representative of baseline for the sector).
another. 3 The size of the bubbles is a visual representation of the portfolios, in terms
of EAD, relative to one another.
Under the Current Commitments scenario, our modelled outputs
4 The peak multiplier reflects the maximum increase in ECL for the Current
predict that ECL will not be more than 25% higher than the Commitments scenario over the forecasted scenario time horizon.
counterfactual scenario for any of the assessed sectors. The highest
impacts are seen in the chemicals, construction and building Lower Higher
materials, power and utilities and agriculture and soft commodities Impact <1.1x <1.25x <1.5x <1.75x <2.25x <2.75x Impact
sectors. Greater climate risks would crystallise in the Below 2
Degrees scenario with its gradually increasing transition to net zero,
How climate change is impacting our
driven by pockets of customers in higher-emitting sectors that are
continuously exposed to larger climate-related losses. retail mortgage portfolio
The analysis shows credit risk losses continue to be driven by As part of our 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise, we completed
counterparties in certain high transition risk sectors where the a detailed climate risk assessment for the UK, US, Singapore and
Group’s largest exposures are concentrated, such as construction Malaysia. In our 2023 exercise we also assessed Hong Kong,
and building materials, chemicals, and power and utilities sectors. In Australia and mainland China. Our coverage represented 91% of the
these sectors we have counterparties, such as steel or cement balances in our global retail mortgage portfolio, across the two
manufacturers who have high emissions in their processes and in exercises. For our Hong Kong portfolio, we completed a short- and
their downstream or upstream value chains, who may also long-term scenario analysis exercise during late 2023 and early 2024
experience cost pressures due to carbon-tax pass-through rates. at the request of the HKMA.
Furthermore, harder to abate sectors contain a high proportion of
customers without climate transition plans. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal
losses to materialise when considering the Current Commitments
We have continued to incorporate information from our customers’ scenario. Although the severity of climate perils is expected to
transition plans to consider how our clients and their sectors will be worsen over time, our overall losses remain low under a severe
impacted. For the oil and gas sector, we see counterparties having Downside Physical Risk scenario.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 225
Risk
review
Risk review
In 2024, we continued to develop our approach to assess impacts The table below outlines the flood depths that the properties would
from severe acute physical risk events with an exploratory new near- be exposed to under different climate scenarios.
term Severe Climate Stress scenario.
Exposure to flooding (%)1
Within all scenarios, loss impacts are assessed by considering
borrowers’ ability and willingness to service their debts, including Climate Scenarios
customers’ affordability incorporating increased debt servicing costs Baseline flood
and the impact on property valuation. risk
Flood 1-in-100 year Current Downside
When quantifying impacts from climate events, insurance availability depth event2, 3 Commitments Physical Risk
is a key mitigation of loss. Our scenario analysis methodology was Markets (metres) 2024 2050 2050
enriched further in 2024 by enhancing insurance availability and 0 92.1 91.5 91.6
assumptions related to insurance premium costs. This approach has 0-0.5 7.8 8.3 5.2
UK
been benchmarked with the insurance industry, based on a 0.5-1.5 0.1 0.2 2.8
calculation of average annualised loss. >1.5 0 0 0.4
0 67.9 64.0 64.0
When assessing impacts from climate risk, we note that there are
Hong 0-0.5 16.9 17.0 15.5
several limitations as mentioned previously. Specifically for our retail Kong4 0.5-1.5 15.1 18.9 20.4
mortgage portfolio, these limitations include:
>1.5 0.1 0.1 0.1
– Lack of historical experience and limited benchmark data,
1 Severe flood events include river and surface flooding and coastal
especially around loss quantification, there is strong reliance on
inundation. The table compares 2050 snapshots under the Current
external peril models and vulnerability assumptions.
Commitments and Downside Physical Risk scenarios with a baseline view
– Accuracy of peril projection data relies upon the exact coordinates in 2024. We do expect to see changes to our flood depth distributions as
of a property. The geocoding process can lead to inaccurate climate risk data is refreshed.
2 Baseline flood risk is the flood risk for a 1-in-100 year event, based on
results for some properties where address data is incomplete or in
current peril data.
regions where geocoding services are less accurate.
3 2024 relates to the year in which the assessment was conducted. The
– Additionally, a key assumption in quantifying the impacts from baseline data is based on the mortgage portfolio as at 31 December 2023
and 2022, for the UK and Hong Kong respectively.
perils is the level of resilience a particular building archetype has,
4 In 2022, 94% of properties in Hong Kong (where HSBC provides
for example age of construction, material or relevant building
mortgages) are apartments located on the second floor or above. For
standards. This information is often limited, and assumptions are properties located in areas exposed to flooding, direct damages would be
made. mitigated against, with only common ground floor areas potentially
impacted.
Projected peril risk
Perils are assessed that are material to each region and where we Through our climate scenario analysis, we recognise acute impacts
have the external peril data available. are more severe than long-term chronic impacts. We observed this
when assessing the outputs under the Severe Climate Stress
Flooding has the potential to be the peril having the largest impact on scenario, which focuses on prescribed physical risk events rather
our portfolio. When assessing the risk in the portfolio we assess both than recognising the probabilistic nature of these perils, which are
the inherent and residual risks. An inherent view considers property considered very unlikely by 2030. Overall, our retail mortgage
location, whereas the residual risk incorporates the resilience a portfolio remains resilient to climate risk and impact severity is muted
particular building has to the peril impacts. The inherent flood risk is at portfolio levels as our book has diversified property locations with
shown below, and outlines the percentage of properties and their insurance coverage being a key loan covenant.
corresponding flood depths predicted in a 1-in-100 year event.
How climate change is impacting our
In 2024, we provided further granularity in our flood risk table by
reporting the proportion of properties that we would expect to be at commercial real estate portfolios
no risk of flooding during a 1-in-100 year severity flood event. In the
In our climate scenario analysis exercise, we assess our commercial
2024 exercise under the Baseline flood risk 1-in-100 year event for
real estate (‘CRE’) customers’ vulnerability to various perils, including
the UK, 92.1% of properties have no forecasted flood risk (2023:
flooding and cyclonic wind exposures. Our CRE portfolio is globally
92.4%), as such c.8% of properties are situated in areas that could be
diversified with larger concentrations in Hong Kong, the UK, France
exposed to varying severities of flooding, however there are often
and the US. In our 2024 exercise we carried out a detailed
mitigating factors, such as the floor level of a building, that reduce
assessment of our UK portfolio. In addition, we performed a bespoke
risk.
assessment of our Hong Kong portfolio via the HKMA climate
scenario analysis exercise.
Geographical location is a key determinant in our exposure to
potential physical risk events, which can lead to higher ECLs due to
the cost of repairing damage as well as the longer-term impacts on
property valuations. These can lead to higher defaults and
consequential losses in areas where physical risk events are gradually
increasing in frequency and severity.
226 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The table below shows the proportion of our CRE portfolio exposed Overall, and in line with our assessment in prior years, our analysis
to specific physical perils in our key markets. shows our commercial real estate portfolio remains resilient to
climate risk. Under our Below 2 Degrees scenario, impact severity is
Exposure to peril (%)1 muted at the portfolio level as our counterparties have diversified
property portfolios with insurance coverage being a key loan
Exposure
covenant. Under the Downside Physical Risk scenario, the impacts
at default Surface
(EAD)2 Coastal Cyclone water Riverine Forest were observed to be heightened due to significant global weather
Market 2023 inundation wind3 flooding flooding Fires events. We also observed impacts in the Severe Climate Stress
scenario are more significant, which were driven by coastal
Hong n inundation and flooding events.
1 100 12 10 2
Kong
Our CRE modelling is subject to similar limitations as our retail
n mortgage climate models in regard to lack of historical data, reliance
17 0 9 8 0
UK on exact building co-ordinates and information on building resilience.
1 Proportion of our CRE portfolio exposed to specific physical perils in the How we assess climate risk impacts
Downside Physical Risk scenario as at 2050.
2 The size of the bubbles is a visual representation of the portfolios, in terms on other risk types
of EAD, relative to one another.
3 Assumes all properties are impacted by some damage due to extreme We use climate scenario analysis to assess the impacts on other
wind, but the intensity of impact is very insignificant and highly muted in
risks including traded risk, sovereign credit risk, pension risk and non-
some regions, represented by (~0%) exposure to this peril.
financial risks.
As assessed through our internal climate scenario analysis exercise,
In 2024 for traded risk, we explored the potential fair value impacts of
impacts on our UK portfolio are largely driven by chronic physical risk,
climate risks on our trading and banking portfolios across multiple
related mainly to coastal and tidal river flooding due to a rise in sea
scenarios, covering physical and transition risk climate drivers, and
level. The UK analysis explored acute weather events, such as
capturing short and long-term impacts. The analysis considered all
extreme rainfall accompanied with storm winds that may lead to
relevant asset classes including interest rates, exchange rates, credit
further property damage and business disruption.
and equities, with market shocks capturing the impact of abrupt
increases in carbon prices or physical risk perils resulting in structural
We assessed the impacts on transition risk for the UK portfolio,
economic impacts that affect the productivity of high-risk sectors at a
mainly focused on the impact of retrofitting costs on property
country level.
valuations due to meet minimum energy performance certificate
(‘EPC’) requirements for properties having low energy efficiency.
For sovereign credit risk we continued to assess the impacts of
climate risks on sovereign debt under the different climate scenarios.
Sensitivity analysis has been conducted on EPC upgrade costs that
would be higher in a faster transition scenario due to the accelerated For pension risk we modelled balance sheet and income statement
pace of upgrades. In the Below 2 Degrees scenario, we assume
projections for the main defined benefit pension plans. This year’s
actions where non-domestic properties are required to achieve an
exercise focused on assessing the impact of a severe physical risk
EPC rating of B by 2040. To meet these minimum standards,
shock using the Severe Climate Stress scenario.
counterparties in our portfolio would potentially need to retrofit their
properties or risk having stranded assets with a material valuation For non-financial risk we assessed the potential impacts of a
haircut. misstatement in our ESG and climate-related reporting and
disclosures. For regulatory compliance risk, we assessed the
The table below demonstrates the impact on our CRE portfolio for potential impacts of greenwashing in the manufacturing and
specific markets, including the three biggest markets – Hong Kong, marketing of ESG funds and in the marketing of sustainability-linked
the UK and the US. This shows the increase in cumulative ECL over bonds. For resilience risk, we assessed the potential impacts on our
different time horizons, under each scenario, compared with a critical real estate from climate change, including temperature
counterfactual scenario (expressed as a multiple). extremes, drought, water stress, wildfire, tropical cyclones and
flooding.
Impact on our commercial real estate portfolio
Understanding the resilience of our
ECL increase 1,2
Climate Scenarios Short-term Medium-term Long-term properties
Below 2 Degrees
Climate change poses a physical risk to the buildings that we occupy,
Downside Physical Risk
potentially impacting our operational resilience. This includes our
offices, retail branches and data centres, both in terms of loss and
Lower Higher
<1.1x <1.25x <1.5x <1.75x <2.25x <2.75x damage, and business interruption.
Impact Impact
We measure the impacts of climate and weather events on our
1 Increase in cumulative ECL compared with counterfactual over short,
buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current and scenario-
medium and long-term time horizons, expressed as a multiple.
2 Values in the key represent the multiplier of increase in ECL, i.e. <1.1 modelled forecast data. In 2024, there were 40 major storms that had
equates to less than 10% increase over the counterfactual which excludes a minor impact on three of our buildings.
climate change impacts.
We use stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on our owned
Geographically, our most significant exposure is in Hong Kong, which or leased premises. Our 2024 scenario stress test analysed how nine
was assessed in a bespoke exercise. This region has material climate change-related hazards – comprising coastal flooding, fluvial
physical risk exposure to wind and flooding due to strong tropical flooding, pluvial flooding, soil movement due to drought, temperature
cyclones. However, in the HKMA exercise, a large proportion of CRE extremes, water stress, wildfires, landslides and tropical cyclones –
exposures were not materially impacted, with less than 0.5% of could impact 2,719 of our properties.
properties suffering from damage greater than 3% of their asset
values per year. The properties are protected from cyclonic winds and The 2024 test modelled climate change with the Intergovernmental
flooding due to high building standards, high elevation, and protection Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) Taking the Highway scenario
from coastal defences in this region, such as rainstorm impacts being (SSP5-8.5), which projects that the rise in global temperatures will
muted due to the positive impact of new drainage tunnels and tanks likely exceed 4°C by 2100. It also modelled a less severe IPCC Middle
in the city. of the Road scenario (SSP2-4.5), which projects that global warming
will likely be limited to 2°C.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 227
Risk
review
Risk review
Key findings from the Taking the Highway scenario included that by Conclusion to insights from climate
2050, 15 of our 2,719 properties will have a high potential for impact
due to climate change, with insurance-related losses estimated to be scenario analysis
in excess of 10% of the insured value of the buildings.
Climate scenario analysis is an evolving process and there are data
A key finding from the Middle of the Road scenario showed that the and modelling limitations due to the information and expertise
total number of buildings at risk reduced from 15 to 9. The available in the current market. Physical risk modelling is nascent and
highlighted facilities are still at risk from the same perils of extreme currently we are only able to model direct climate peril impacts on
temperature and water stress by 2050. real estate. Limited considerations are made to the pricing
implications of new green products and clients that are likely to
This forward-looking data along with historical data helps inform real emerge over the time horizon.
estate planning. We will continue to enhance our understanding of
how extreme weather events impact our buildings portfolio as We will continue to enhance the use of climate scenario analysis in
climate risk assessment tools improve and evolve. We buy insurance our business decision making, supporting our climate resilience. We
for property damage and business interruption and consider have started to explore the impacts on our portfolio from a nature risk
insurance as a loss-mitigation strategy depending on its availability perspective and expect the model and capabilities to evolve over
and price. time.
We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and
global engineering standards and will continue to assess historical
claims data to help ensure our building selection and design
standards address the potential impacts of climate change.
Resilience risk
Overview
Resilience risk is the risk of sustained and significant business We view resilience risk across nine sub-risk types related to:
disruption from execution, delivery, physical security or safety events, technology and cybersecurity risk; third-party risk; transaction
causing the inability to provide critical services to our customers, processing risk; business interruption and incident risk; data risk;
affiliates and counterparties. Resilience risk arises from failures or change execution risk; building unavailability risk; protective security
inadequacies in processes, people, systems or external events. risk and workplace safety.
Resilience risk management Risk appetite and key escalations for resilience risk are reported to
the Non-Financial Risk Management Board, chaired by the Group
Key developments in 2024 Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, with an escalation path to the
Group Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee.
During the year, we conducted several initiatives to keep pace with
geopolitical, regulatory and technology changes, and strengthened Key risk management processes
the management of resilience risk.
We operate processes to support our resilience according to our Risk
– We continued to recognise that our customers were impacted by Management Framework. Our operational resilience is our ability to
service disruptions, responded to these urgently and aimed to anticipate, prevent, adapt, respond to, recover, and learn from internal
recover with minimum delay. We continued to initiate post- or external disruption, continuing to provide Important Business
incident review processes to prevent recurrence. Where we Services to customers and clients, while minimising impact on the
identify that investment is required to further enhance the Group’s wider financial system when disruption occurs. This is achieved via
operational resilience capabilities, findings are fed into the Group’s day-to-day oversight and periodic and ongoing assurance, such as
financial planning, helping to ensure we continue to meet the deep dive reviews and controls testing, which may result in
expectations of our customers and our regulators. challenges being raised to our businesses and group governance by
our risk stewards. We have invested to improve response and
– We continued to monitor markets affected by the Russia-Ukraine
recovery strategies for our important business services and Important
war and the conflict in the Middle East, as well as other
Group business services to meet regulatory and customer
geopolitical events, for any potential impact they may have on our
expectations.
colleagues and operations.
Business operations continuity
– We provided analysis and easy-to-access risk and control
information and metrics to enable management to focus on non-
We continue to monitor the Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the
financial risks in their decision making and appetite setting.
Middle East, and remain ready to take measures to ensure business
– We further strengthened our non-financial risk governance and continuity in affected markets should the situations require. There
senior leadership. have been no related significant disruptions to our services, although
We prioritise our efforts on material risks and areas undergoing businesses and functions in nearby markets continually review their
strategic growth, aligning our location strategy to this need. We also plans and responses to minimise any potential impacts.
remotely provide oversight and stewardship, including support of
chief risk officers, in territories where we have no physical presence.
Governance and structure
The Enterprise Risk Management target operating model provides a
globally consistent view across resilience risks, strengthening our risk
management oversight while operating effectively as part of a
simplified non-financial risk structure.
228 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Regulatory compliance risk
Overview
Regulatory Compliance risk is the risk associated with breaching our Governance and structure
duty to clients and other counterparties, inappropriate market conduct
The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance reports to the Group Chief
(including unauthorised trading) and breaching related financial
Risk and Compliance Officer. Regulatory Compliance and Financial
services regulatory standards. Regulatory Compliance risk arises from
Crime Compliance teams work together and with relevant
the failure to observe relevant laws, codes, rules and regulations and
stakeholders to achieve good conduct outcomes, and provide
can manifest itself in poor market or customer outcomes and lead to
enterprise-wide support on the Compliance risk agenda in close
fines, penalties and reputational damage to our business. We aim to
collaboration with colleagues from the Group Risk and Compliance
keep abreast of developments in legal principles or conduct
function.
requirements (including in relation to the risk of such developments in
one part of the financial industry being construed as applying to other Key risk management processes
parts of the financial industry, which could lead to legal or regulatory
proceedings). The Global Regulatory Compliance capability is responsible for setting
global policies, standards and risk appetite to guide the Group’s
Regulatory compliance risk
management of Regulatory Compliance risk. It also devises the
required frameworks, support processes and tooling to protect
management
against Regulatory Compliance risks. The Group capability provides
Key developments in 2024 oversight, review and challenge to the global market, regional and
local line of business teams to help them identify, assess and
Regulatory horizon scanning and mapping capabilities continue to mitigate Regulatory Compliance risks, where required. The Group’s
evolve with a focus on enhanced connectivity to Risk management Regulatory Compliance risk policies are regularly reviewed. Global
systems to support better traceability of regulatory obligations. policies and procedures require the identification and escalation of
any actual or potential regulatory breaches.
We have enhanced our processes, framework, and governance
Relevant events and issues are escalated to the Group’s Non-
capabilities to improve the controls and oversight of Consumer Duty
Financial Risk Management Board, the Group Risk Management
outcomes in the UK. Work is underway to transition from event-
Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, as appropriate. The Group
driven technology to incorporate Cloud and analytics capability to
Head of Regulatory Compliance attends the Risk and Compliance
enhance our oversight abilities in areas such as surveillance.
Executive Committee, the Group Risk Management Meeting and the
Group Risk Committee.
Financial crime risk
Overview
Financial crime risk is the risk that HSBC’s products and services will Governance and structure
be exploited for criminal activity. This includes fraud, bribery and
corruption, tax evasion, sanctions and export control violations and The structure of the Financial Crime function remained substantively
evasion, money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation unchanged in 2024. The Group Head of Financial Crime and Group
financing. Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day banking Money Laundering Reporting Officer continues to report to the Group
operations involving customers, third parties and employees. Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, while the Group Risk Committee
retains oversight of matters relating to financial crime.
Financial crime risk management
Key risk management processes
Key developments in 2024
We will not tolerate knowingly conducting business with individuals
We regularly review the effectiveness of our financial crime risk or entities believed to be engaged in criminal activity. We require
management framework, which includes continued consideration of everybody in HSBC to play their role in maintaining effective systems
the complex and dynamic nature of sanctions compliance and export and controls to prevent and detect financial crime. Where we believe
control risk. We continued to respond to the financial sanctions and we have identified suspected criminal activity or vulnerabilities in our
trade restrictions that have been imposed on Russia, including control framework, we will take appropriate mitigating action.
methods used to limit sanctions evasion.
We manage financial crime risk because it is the right thing to do to
We continued to make progress with several key financial crime risk protect our customers, shareholders, staff, the communities in which
management initiatives, including: we operate, as well as the integrity of the financial system on which
we all rely. We operate in a highly regulated industry in which these
– deployment of our intelligence-led, dynamic risk assessment
same policy goals are codified in law and regulation.
capability for customer account monitoring in additional entities
and global businesses; We are committed to complying with the laws and regulations of all
– deployment of a next generation capability to increase our the markets in which we operate and apply a consistently high
monitoring coverage on correspondent banking activity in financial crime standard globally.
additional markets;
We continued to invest in enhancing our operational control
– enhancing our fraud controls and continuing to invest in, and
capabilities and technology solutions to deter and detect criminal
monitor, technological developments; and
activity. We further strengthened our financial crime risk taxonomy
– enhancements in response to the rapidly evolving and complex and control libraries and our monitoring capabilities through
global payments landscape and refinement of our digital assets technology deployments. We developed more targeted metrics, and
and currencies strategy. continued to seek to enhance our governance and reporting.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 229
Risk
review
Risk review
We are committed to working in partnership with the wider industry Action Task Force. We did this by contributing to the development of
and the public sector in managing financial crime risk. In 2024, our responses to consultation papers focused on how financial crime risk
focus remained on measures to improve the overall effectiveness of management frameworks can deliver more effective outcomes in
the global financial crime framework and promote the risk-based detecting and deterring criminal activity. In addition, we participated
approach. in a number of public events related to the promotion of risk-based
supervision, payment transparency, fraud risk management and
Through our work with industry bodies, such as the Wolfsberg Group,
financial inclusion, as well as tackling forestry crimes, wildlife
we provided input into legislative and regulatory reform activities and
trafficking and human trafficking.
supported the efforts of the global standard setter, the Financial
Model risk
Overview
Model risk is the risk of the potential for adverse consequences from Governance and structure
model errors or the inappropriate use of modelled outputs to inform
business decisions. Model risk governance committees at the Group, business and
functional levels provide oversight of model risk. The committees
Model risk arises in both financial and non-financial contexts
include senior leaders from the global businesses and the Group Risk
whenever business decision making includes reliance on models.
and Compliance function, and focus on model-related concerns and
Key developments in 2024 are supported by key model risk metrics. We also have Model Risk
Committees in our geographical regions focused on local delivery and
In 2024, we continued to make improvements in our Model Risk requirements. The Group-level Model Risk Committee is chaired by
Management (‘MRM’) processes amid regulatory changes in MRM the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and the heads of key
requirements. businesses participate in these meetings.
Initiatives during the year included:
Key risk management processes
– updating our MRM Framework to meet the requirements of the
We use a variety of modelling approaches, including regression,
PRA’s SS1/23 with a programme of work in progress to
simulation, sampling, machine learning and judgemental scorecards
implement these changes across the model landscape;
for a range of business applications. These activities include
– completing a review of model tiering across the organisation customer selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction
assessing the materiality and complexity of all models and monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting. Global
assigning a new tier which will drive the level of oversight required responsibility for managing model risk is delegated from the Board to
at model level; the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, who authorises the
– introducing a new framework to govern and manage the risks Group Model Risk Committee. This committee regularly reviews our
associated with Deterministic Quantitative Methods, which are model risk management policies and procedures, and requires the
complex and material calculators that although not technically first line of defence to demonstrate comprehensive and effective
models still present similar risks; controls based on a library of model risk controls provided by Model
– following feedback from the PRA and other regulators on a Risk Management. Model Risk Management also reports on model
number of our model submissions for internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) risk to senior management and the Group Risk Committee on a
models, we are delivering a programme of work to redevelop regular basis through the use of the risk map, risk appetite metrics
several IRB models for wholesale credit; and top and emerging risks.
– enhancing our framework for the independent validation of models We regularly review the effectiveness of these processes, including
accounting for new generative AI techniques becoming more the model risk committee structure, to help ensure appropriate
widely used; and understanding and ownership of model risk is embedded in the
businesses and functions.
– working closely with businesses and functions in developing a
governance framework to manage the range of risks these AI and
Machine Learning (‘ML’) techniques can introduce.
230 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Insurance manufacturing
operations risk
practices relating to the risk management of insurance contracts,
Contents
which did not change materially over 2024. During the year, there
was continued market volatility observed across interest rates, equity
231 Overview
and credit markets and foreign exchange rates. This was
231 Insurance manufacturing operations risk management predominantly driven by geopolitical factors and wider inflationary
232 Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2024 concerns. Other areas of focus were the ongoing integration of the
232 Measurement insurance business that was acquired through AXA Singapore in 2022
233 Key risk types into the Group’s risk management framework, development of
processes and systems within the reinsurance entity established in
233 – Market risk
Bermuda, and controls supporting IFRS 17.
234 – Credit risk
234 – Liquidity risk As mentioned, the insurance business in Argentina was sold during
235 – Insurance underwriting risk 2024, with the sale completing on 6 December 2024. Following
HSBC’s announcement on 20 December 2024 of the signing of a
memorandum of understanding for the planned sale of its French
Overview insurance business, the balance sheet of the French business has
been reported as held for sale at 31 December 2024. Further details
The key risks for our insurance manufacturing operations are market are provided on page 411.
risk, in particular interest rate and equity, credit risk and insurance
underwriting risk. These have a direct impact on the financial results Governance and structure
and capital positions of the insurance operations.
(Audited)
HSBC’s insurance business
Insurance manufacturing risks are managed to a defined risk appetite,
which is aligned to the Group’s risk appetite and risk management
We sell insurance products through a range of channels including our framework, including its three lines of defence model. For details of
branches, insurance sales forces, direct channels and third-party
the Group’s governance framework, see page 128. The Global
distributors. The majority of sales are through an integrated
Insurance Risk Management Meeting oversees the control
bancassurance model that provides insurance products principally for
framework globally and is accountable to the WPB Risk Management
customers with whom we have a banking relationship, although the
Meeting on risk matters relating to the insurance business.
proportion of sales through other sources such as independent
financial advisers, tied agents and digital platforms is increasing. The monitoring of the risks within our insurance operations is carried
out by Insurance Risk teams. The Group’s risk stewardship functions
For the insurance products we manufacture, the majority of sales are
support the Insurance Risk teams in their respective areas of
savings, universal life and protection contracts.
expertise.
We choose to manufacture these insurance products in HSBC
Stress and scenario testing
subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk
appetite. Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and
(Audited)
rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping part
of the underwriting profit and investment income within the Group. Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management framework
for the insurance business. We participate in local and Group-wide
Our life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries operate in eight regulatory stress tests, as well as internally developed stress and
markets, which are Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, mainland China, scenario tests, including Group internal stress test exercises.
France, UK, Malta and Mexico. This excludes Argentina where the
sale of the insurance business was completed on 6 December 2024. The results of these stress tests and the adequacy of management
In addition, we have: an interest in a life insurance manufacturing action plans to mitigate these risks are considered in the Group’s
associate in India; a captive insurance entity in Bermuda that insures ICAAP and the entities’ regulatory Own Risk and Solvency
the non-financial risks of the wider Group; and a reinsurance entity in Assessments, which are produced by all material entities.
Bermuda.
Key risk management processes
Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale to be an
Market risk
effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a small number of
(Audited)
leading external insurance companies in order to provide insurance
products to our customers. These arrangements are generally All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk
structured with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a mandates and limits that specify the investment instruments in which
combination of commissions, fees and a share of profits. We they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market
distribute insurance products in all of our geographical regions. risk that they may retain. They manage market risk by using some or
all of the techniques listed below, among others, depending on the
This section focuses only on the risks relating to the insurance nature of the contracts written.
products we manufacture.
– We are able to adjust bonus rates to manage the liabilities to
Insurance manufacturing operations policyholders for products with participating features. The effect is
that a significant proportion of the market risk is borne by the
risk management
policyholder.
Key developments in 2024 – We use asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are
structured to support projected liability cash flows. The Group
The insurance manufacturing subsidiaries follow the Group’s risk manages its assets using an approach that considers asset quality,
management framework. In addition, there are specific policies and diversification, cash flow matching, liquidity, volatility and target
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 231
Risk
review
Corporate
governance
report
HSBC continues to enhance its corporate 237 The Board
governance practices and procedures to 242 Senior management
support the Board’s commitment to high 245 How we are governed
251 Board matters considered and workforce
standards of corporate governance.
engagement
257 Board and committee effectiveness,
The corporate governance report contains the
performance and accountability
Report of the Directors and gives details of our
259 Board committees
Board of Directors, senior management, and 279 Directors’ remuneration report
Board committees. It outlines key aspects of 318 Share capital and other related governance
disclosures
our approach to corporate governance,
323 Internal control
including internal control. 325 Employees
327 Statement of compliance
It also includes the Directors’ remuneration
report, which explains our policies on
remuneration and their application.
We have a comprehensive range of policies and systems
in place designed to help ensure that the Group is well
managed, with effective oversight and control.
London, UK, 2019. HSBC Lion, 8 Canada Square.
236 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The Board
The Board, which seeks to promote the Group’s long-term success,
deliver sustainable value to shareholders and promote a culture
of openness and debate, comprises diverse, high-calibre members
who have experience in our global markets.
Chairman and executive Directors
Sir Mark E Tucker (67) Georges Elhedery (50) Manveen Kaur
Group CEO (known as Pam Kaur) (61)
Appointed to the Board: January 2023 Group CFO
Group Chairman Appointed to the Board: January 2025
Appointed to the Board: September 2017 Skills and experience: Georges has over 25 years
Group Chairman since: October 2017 of experience in the banking industry across Skills and experience: Pam has extensive global
Europe, the Middle East and Asia, and has held a banking experience, gained over an almost 40-year
Skills and experience: With over 40 years of number of executive roles at a regional, global career with a number of global financial institutions.
experience in financial services in Asia, the US, the business and functional level. She has performed many senior roles in audit,
UK, and Africa, including 30 years based in Hong business, compliance, finance and risk
Kong, Mark has a deep understanding of the Career: Georges was appointed Group CEO from management.
industry and the markets in which we operate. 2 September 2024. He most recently served as
Group CFO between January 2023 and September Career: Pam was appointed Group CFO on
Career: Mark is also non-executive Group Chairman 2024. Georges joined HSBC in 2005 with extensive 1 January 2025. Prior to this, she served as Group
of the Discovery Group of South Africa. Mark was trading experience in London, Paris and Tokyo. He Chief Risk Officer from January 2020 and assumed
previously Group Chief Executive and President of has since held a number of senior leadership roles, responsibility for Compliance in June 2021. She
AIA Group Limited (‘AIA’). Prior to that, he was including Head of Global Banking and Markets, served as Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer
Group Chief Executive of Prudential plc. Mark Middle East and North Africa; Chief Executive until December 2024. Prior to joining HSBC in April
previously served on the Court of the Bank of Officer for HSBC, Middle East, North Africa and 2013 as Group Head of Internal Audit, Pam held
England. He has also served on the Board of the Türkiye; Global Head of Markets; and co-Chief several senior positions including Global Head of
Goldman Sachs Group. Executive Officer, Global Banking and Markets Group Audit for Deutsche Bank; Chief Financial
based in London. Officer and Chief Operating Officer of the
External appointments: Restructuring and Risk Division for Royal Bank of
– Non-executive Group Chairman of Discovery External appointments: Scotland Group plc; Group Head of Compliance and
Group of South Africa – Member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, Anti-Money Laundering for Lloyds TSB; and Chief
– Supporting Chair of Chapter Zero International Advisory Panel Compliance Officer for Citigroup International.
– Member of the Asia Business Council – Independent non-executive Director of
– Member of the Hong Kong Chief Executive’s Sustainable Markets Initiative Limited External appointments:
Council of Advisers – Member of the Financial Services Task Force of – Non-executive Director of The Hongkong and
– Member of the Investment Council of the the Sustainable Markets Initiative Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
Supreme National Investment Committee of the – Member of the Advisory Board of The China – Independent non-executive Director of abrdn plc
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Children Development Fund
– Chairman of the Multinational Chairmen’s Group – Principal Member of The Glasgow Financial
– Director, Peterson Institute for International Alliance for Net Zero .
Economics
– Director, Institute of International Finance
– Trustee, Asia Society Global Board of Trustees
– Member of the China National Financial
Regulatory Administration International Advisory
Council (NFRA IAC)
– International Adviser, Hong Kong Academy of
Finance - International Council of Advisers
– Member of the Advisory Board of the Asia Global
Institute Board committee membership key
– International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council Committee Chair
to the Mayor of Beijing (IBLAC Beijing) – Advisor
Group Audit Committee
to the Mayor
– International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council Group Risk Committee
to the Mayor of Shanghai (IBLAC Shanghai) –
Group Remuneration Committee
Advisor to the Mayor
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
Group Technology and Operations Committee
For full biographical details of our Board
members, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-
people/board-of-directors.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 237
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Independent non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham (47) Rachel Duan (54) Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (64)
Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive
Director Director Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2022 Appointed to the Board: September Appointed to the Board: September
2021 2021
Skills and experience: Geraldine is
an experienced executive within the Skills and experience: Rachel is an Skills and experience: Carolyn has
global financial services industry, with experienced business leader with significant experience across the
significant leadership experience in exceptional international experience in media, government and finance
Asia. the US, Japan, mainland China and sectors, and a deep understanding of
Hong Kong. the macroeconomic, regulatory and
Career: Geraldine is the former Chair political environment.
and Head of Asia-Pacific at BlackRock, Career: Rachel spent 24 years at
where she was responsible for all General Electric (‘GE’), where she Career: An economist by training,
business activities across Hong Kong, held positions including Senior Vice Carolyn has served as a partner at
mainland China, Japan, Australia, President of GE, and President and McKinsey & Company, a member of
Singapore, India and Korea. After Chief Executive Officer of GE’s Global the UK prime minister John Major’s
stepping down from this role, she Markets where she was responsible Number 10 Policy Unit, and as
acted as senior adviser to the for driving GE’s growth in Asia-Pacific, Director-General of the Confederation
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, of British Industry, and held senior
of BlackRock. She earlier served as Russia and the Commonwealth of executive positions at the BBC and
BlackRock’s Global Head of Corporate Independent States. She also ITV plc. She has extensive board
Strategy, and previously was a partner previously served as President and experience, having previously served
within McKinsey & Company’s Chief Executive Officer of GE as non-executive Director of Lloyds
financial services practice. Advanced Materials China and then of Banking Group plc, The Vitec Group
Asia-Pacific; President and CEO of GE plc, Capita plc and BAE Systems plc.
External appointments: Healthcare China; and President and She has also served as a non-
– Independent non-executive Director CEO of GE China. She has previously executive Director of the UK
of Brunswick Group Partnership Ltd served as a non-executive Director of Competition and Markets Authority
– Independent non-executive Director AXA S.A. and the Financial Services Authority.
of H.R.L. Morrison & Co Limited
– Member of the Advisory Board of External appointments: External appointments:
ClimateWorks Centre Australia – Independent non-executive Director – Senior Independent non-executive
– Member of the Advisory Board of of Sanofi S.A. Director of Tesco plc
the McKinsey Health Institute – Independent non-executive Director – Chair of Royal Mencap Society
of the Adecco Group AG
– Independent non-executive Director
of Kering S.A.
238 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Brendan Nelson (75) Swee Lian Teo (65) Aileen Taylor (52)
Group Chief People &
Governance Officer
Independent non-executive Independent non-executive
Appointed: October 2024
Director Director
Appointed to the Board: September Appointed to the Board: October 2023 Skills and experience: Aileen is
2023 a solicitor with significant risk,
Skills and experience: Swee Lian
governance and regulatory
Skills and experience: Brendan brings extensive experience within experience across the banking
brings UK and international financial the international financial services
industry. She is a member of the
and auditing expertise, and significant industry, having previously spent over
European Corporate Governance
experience in auditing and as audit 27 years with the Monetary Authority
Council and the GC100.
committee chair of UK-listed of Singapore (‘MAS‘).
companies. Career: Prior to joining HSBC,
Career: During Swee Lian’s time at
Aileen spent 19 years at the
Career: Brendan spent over 25 years the MAS, she worked in foreign Royal Bank of Scotland Group,
as a partner at KPMG LLP, served on reserves management, financial
holding various legal, risk and
the board from 2000 and as Vice sector development, strategic
compliance roles. She was
Chairman from 2006, until his planning and financial supervision,
appointed Group Secretary in
retirement in 2010. Internationally, he before she became the Deputy
2010 and subsequently Chief
held various senior positions including Managing Director for Financial
Governance Officer and Board
Global Chairman of the financial Supervision. She retired from the
Counsel. Aileen started her HSBC
services practice. Subsequently, MAS in 2015 after serving as Special
career as Group Company
Brendan joined the boards of bp plc Advisor, focused on MAS’s role in the
Secretary and Chief Governance
and NatWest Group plc where he also international regulatory framework, in
Officer in 2019 and has been
served as Chairman of both the Managing Director’s office. Swee
leading connectivity between
companies’ audit committees. Lian previously served as a non-
Board and Executive for over five
executive Director on the boards of
years. Her role was expanded to
During his career, Brendan was AIA Group Limited, Singapore
Group Chief Human Resources
President of the Institute of Chartered Telecommunications Limited and the
and Governance Officer in
Accountants of Scotland, a member Dubai Financial Services Authority.
October 2024 and then became
of the Financial Reporting Review
Group Chief People &
Panel and a member of the Financial External appointments:
Governance Officer. Aileen has
Services Authority's Practitioner – Chair of CapitaLand Integrated
held various industry positions
Panel. As current Chairman of the Commercial Trust Management
such as a member of the
Board of BP Pension Trustees Ltd, Limited
Financial Conduct Authority's
Brendan has received training in ESG – Director of Clifford Capital Pte Ltd
Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
considerations for investment – Director of Clifford Capital Holdings
decisions and helped set an ambition Pte Ltd
to be net zero in terms of greenhouse
gas emissions from investments by
2050.
External appointments:
– Non-executive Director of HSBC UK
Bank plc
– Chairman of BP Pension Trustees
Ltd
Former Directors who served during the year
David Nish
David Nish retired from the Board on 3 May 2024
Sir Noel Quinn
Sir Noel Quinn retired from the Board on 2 September 2024
For full biographical details of our Board members, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 241
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board and senior management diversity
We value difference
We believe that a diverse and inclusive Board, reflective of the communities we serve, is a
critical component of effective decision-making and of developing a sustainable and
successful business for HSBC.
This section outlines the key inclusion metrics for Board members and executive management as at 31 December 2024. The metrics as at 1 January
2025 have also been included to reflect changes to the Board and senior management that took effect from 1 January 2025.
Gender and ethnic representation
In accordance with the requirements of UK Listing Rule 6.6.6 (10) the tables below outline the current gender and ethnic representation of the
HSBC Holdings Board and executive management reflecting data gathered through self-identification.
Gender Identity
As at 31 December 2024 As at 1 January 2025
Executive Executive
Board members management2 Board members management3
Number of Number of
senior senior
Number % positions1 Number % Number % positions1 Number %
Male 6 46 3 15 79 6 43 2 10 77
Female 7 54 1 4 21 8 57 2 3 23
Other — — — — — — — — — —
Not specified/prefer not to say — — — — — — — — — —
Ethnic Background
As at 31 December 2024 As at 1 January 2025
Executive Executive
Board members management2 Board members management3
Number of Number of
senior senior
Number % positions1 Number % Number % positions1 Number %
White British or other White (including
minority-White groups) 8 62 3 13 69 8 57 2 9 69
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups — — — — — — — — — —
Asian/Asian British 3 23 — 4 21 4 29 1 3 23
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British — — — — — — — — — —
Other ethnic groups 2 15 1 1 5 2 14 1 1 8
Not specified/prefer not to say — — — 1 5 — — — — —
1 Senior positions on the Board comprise the Group Chairman, Group CEO, Group CFO and Senior Independent non-executive Director.
2 Executive management comprises the Group Executive Committee members and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
3 Executive management comprises the Group Operating Committee members and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
Skills and experience
Banking 11
As it is essential to the effective governance of the Group, and the
Finance 9
Board’s oversight and challenge of management, the Board ensures
that collectively and individually, the Board possess the necessary
Risk 9
skills, knowledge, expertise and experience.
Customer 7
The summary provides an overview of the skills and experiences held
by the non-executive Directors on the Board. This is based on the
Digital technology 4
current skills matrix, which is reviewed annually by the Nomination &
Corporate Governance Committee to ensure that the Board has the CSR1/ESG 4
skills and experience required to effectively discharge its duties and to
support succession planning discussions. The skills and experiences Direct Asia market experience 6
of the newly appointed non-executive Directors are also included in
the summary. Global business experience 9
1 Corporate Social Responsibility ('CSR')
244 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
How we are governed
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance. The A schedule of matters reserved to the Board is set out within its
Group has in place a comprehensive range of policies and procedures, terms of reference, which are available on our website at
which are reviewed on a regular basis, designed to help ensure that www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors/board-
the Group’s end-to-end governance is well managed, with effective responsibilities. The Board’s powers are subject to relevant laws,
oversight and controls. regulations and HSBC’s articles of association.
Governance highlights 2024 The role of the independent non-executive Directors is to support the
development of strategy, oversee risk, hold management to account
and ensure the executive Directors are discharging their
Appointment of new Group Appointment of new Group CFO
responsibilities properly, while creating the right culture to encourage
CEO
constructive challenge. Further details on the independence of the
Read more on pages 22 and 259 Read more on pages 22, and 259 Board can be found on page 321. Non-executive Directors also review
to 262 to 262 the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and
objectives. The Group Chairman meets with the non-executive
Governance simplification Oversight of organisational Directors without the executive Directors in attendance after Board
changes meetings and otherwise, as necessary.
Read more on pages 22 and 249 Read more on pages 22 to 23 The roles of Group Chairman and Group CEO are held by two
different individuals. There is a clear division of responsibilities
Establishment of new Board Establishment of Group between the leadership of the Board by the Group Chairman, and the
Sustainability Working Group Technology and Operations executive responsibility for day-to-day management of HSBC’s
Committee business undertaken by the Group CEO.
Read more on pages 23, 74 and Read more on pages 249 and The majority of Board members are independent non-executive
249 276 to 278 Directors. As at 31 December 2024, the Board comprised the Group
Chairman, 11 non-executive Directors, and one executive Director
Active stakeholder engagement Revised Directors’ who is the Group CEO. From 1 January 2025, the newly appointed
Remuneration Policy Group CFO will be an executive Director.
Read more on pages 20 to 23 Read more from page 279 For further details of Board members’ career backgrounds, skills, experience
and external appointments, see their biographies on page 237, and for a
breakdown of the diversity and skills of the Board and senior management,
see page 244.
Board and executive governance
Operation of the Board
The Board, led by the Group Chairman, is responsible for, among The Board is ordinarily scheduled to meet nine times a year. In 2024,
other matters: the Board held 10 meetings. For further details on attendance at
those meetings, see page 246. The Board agenda is agreed by the
– promoting the Group’s long-term success and delivering Group Chairman, working with both the Group CEO and the Group
sustainable value to shareholders; Company Secretary. For further information, see ’Board matters
– establishing and approving the Group’s strategy and objectives, considered’ on page 251.
and monitoring the alignment of the Group’s purpose, strategy and
The Group Chief People & Governance Officer (who is also the duly
values with the desired culture and standards;
appointed Group Company Secretary), the Group Chief Risk and
– setting the Group’s risk appetite and monitoring the Group’s risk Compliance Officer and the Group Chief Legal Officer were regular
profile; attendees at Board meetings during 2024. The non-executive
– approving and monitoring capital and financial resource plans for Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
achieving strategic objectives, including material transactions; Limited was also a regular attendee at Board meetings. The chief
executive officers of the three global businesses often attended
– considering and approving the Group’s technology and
Board strategy discussions, and other senior executives attended
environmental, social and governance strategies;
Board meetings for specific items as and when requested by the
– reviewing the effectiveness of stakeholder engagement Board.
mechanisms, including engagement with the workforce;
In addition, as agreed by the Board, the Board Oversight Sub-Group is
– approving the appointment and remuneration of Directors,
called on an ad hoc basis where necessary. Such meetings are an
including Board roles;
informal mechanism for a smaller group of Board members and
– reviewing the Group’s overall corporate governance arrangements; management to discuss emerging issues and upcoming Board
and matters.
– providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a
framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risks to
be assessed and managed.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 245
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board roles, responsibilities and meeting attendance
The table below sets out the Board members’ respective roles, responsibilities and attendance at Board meetings and the AGM in 2024. For a
full description of key Board members’ responsibilities, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people.
Board
attendance in
Roles 20241 Responsibilities
Group Chairman – Provides effective leadership of the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance practices.
Sir Mark E Tucker2,4 11/11 – Leads the Board in providing strong strategic oversight and setting the Board’s agenda, culture and values.
– Leads the Board in challenging management’s thinking and proposals, and fosters open and constructive debate
among Directors.
– Maintains internal and external relationships with key stakeholders, and communicates investors’ views to the
Board.
– Organises periodic monitoring and evaluation, including externally facilitated evaluation, of the performance of the
Board, its committees and individual Directors.
– Leads on succession planning for the Board and its committees, ensuring appointments reflect diverse cultures,
skills and experiences.
Executive Director – Leads and directs the fulfilment of the Group’s purpose and strategy, in alignment with the desired culture and
Group CEO values as set by the Board.
Sir Noel Quinn4,6 7/7 – Leads the senior executive committee with responsibility for the day-to-day leadership and management of the
Georges Elhedery4,6,7 4/4 Group, in accordance with the authority delegated to him from the Board.
– Maintains effective relationships with key internal and external stakeholders including the Group Chairman, the
Board, customers, regulators, governments and investors.
– Maintains accountability for the Group’s compliance with applicable laws, codes, rules and regulations, good
market practice and HSBC’s own standards, value and policies.
Executive Director – Supports the Group CEO in developing and implementing the Group strategy, and recommends the annual budget
Group CFO and long-term strategic and financial resource plan.
Georges Elhedery4,6,7 7/7 – Leads the Finance function and is responsible for effective financial and regulatory reporting, including the
Jonathan Bingham7 4/4 effectiveness of the processes and controls, to ensure the financial control framework is robust and fit for
purpose.
– Maintains relationships with key stakeholders including shareholders.
Non-executive Director – Supports the Group Chairman, acting as intermediary for non-executive Directors when necessary.
Senior Independent – Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman, supporting the clear division of
Director responsibility between the Group Chairman and the Group CEO.
David Nish3,4,,5 5/5 – Listens to shareholders’ views if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels.
Ann Godbehere3,4,5 11/11
Non-executive Directors – Develop and approve the Group strategy.
Geraldine Buckingham3,4 11/11 – Challenge and oversee the performance of management in achieving agreed corporate goals and objectives.
Rachel Duan3,4,8 10/11 – Approve the Group’s risk appetite and review risk profile and performance.
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn3,4 11/11 – Contribute to the assessment and monitoring of culture.
James Forese3,4 11/11 – Maintain internal and external relationships with the Group’s key stakeholders.
Steven Guggenheimer3,4 11/11
-
Dr José Antonio Meade 11/11
Kuribreña3,4
Kalpana Morparia3,4 11/11
Eileen Murray3,4,8 10/11
Brendan Nelson3,4 11/11
Swee Lian Teo3,4 11/11
Group Chief People & – Maintains strong and consistent governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
Governance Officer – Supports the Group Chairman in ensuring effective functioning of the Board and its committees, and transparent
(duly appointed Group engagement between senior management and non-executive Directors.
Company Secretary) – Facilitates induction and professional development of non-executive Directors.
Aileen Taylor – Advises and supports the Board and management in ensuring effective end-to-end governance and decision
making across the Group.
1 The total number of meetings comprises nine scheduled meetings, one ad hoc meeting and the AGM.
2 The non-executive Group Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
3 Independent non-executive Director. All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent. There are no relationships or circumstances that are
likely to affect any individual non-executive Director’s objective judgement. All non-executive Directors have confirmed their independence during the year.
4 Attended the AGM on 3 May 2024. Kalpana Morparia attended virtually.
5 David Nish retired from the Board with effect from 3 May 2024 and was succeeded as the Board’s senior independent non-executive Director on that date by
Ann Godbehere.
6 Sir Noel Quinn retired from the Board with effect from 2 September 2024 and was succeeded as Group CEO on that date by Georges Elhedery.
7 Georges Elhedery stepped down from his role as Group CFO with effect from 2 September 2024 and Jonathan Bingham was appointed interim Group CFO on
that date. Jonathan Bingham was not appointed as an executive Director. From 1 January 2025, Pam Kaur was appointed as an executive Director and assumed
the role of Group CFO.
8 Due to prior commitments, Eileen Murray was unable to attend the Board meeting in September 2024 and Rachel Duan was unable to attend the ad hoc Board
meeting held in October 2024.
246 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Relationship between the Board and Subsidiary governance
senior management
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate
governance throughout the Group. All subsidiary boards and their
The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and
respective businesses are required to have in place effective
implementation of strategy to the Group CEO. During the year, the
governance arrangements with regard to the businesses’ nature, size,
incumbent Group CEO was supported in his management of the
location and the sectors in which they operate.
Group by recommendations and advice from the Group Executive
Committee (’GEC’), an executive forum comprising members of The subsidiary accountability
senior management that included chief executive officers of the
global businesses and regions, as well as functional heads. With framework
effect from 1 January 2025, the Group CEO is supported in his role by
the Group Operating Committee (‘Group OpCo’) in place of the GEC. The subsidiary accountability framework aims to balance appropriate
The Group CEO reports to the Board on Group OpCo meetings' governance oversight by the Group with each subsidiary’s local legal
outcomes and other executive matters of note relevant for the Board. and regulatory requirements. The framework supports the Group in
For further details of the senior management team, see page 242. promoting effective governance arrangements across its subsidiaries
by:
All Directors are encouraged to have contact with management at all
levels and have full access to management information as may be – setting out high-level principles to enhance communications and
required. Visits to local business operations and meetings with local connectivity; and
management are arranged for the non-executive Directors, alongside – ensuring a shared and consistent understanding of the Group’s
the executive Directors, when they attend Board meetings in different strategic objectives, culture and values.
locations, and when travelling for other reasons. Senior management
often attend Directors’ engagements and receive updates from the The subsidiary accountability framework also focuses on ensuring that
workforce engagement non-executive Director, José Meade. For each subsidiary is led by an effective board with an appropriate
further details, see ’The Board's engagement with the workforce’ on balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge, having regard
page 254. to the nature of the subsidiary’s business and local legal and
regulatory requirements. Board composition of the Group’s
Executive governance subsidiaries is kept under review as part of succession planning. The
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee reviews the
Throughout 2024, the GEC promoted the culture, as led and overseen
succession plans of principal subsidiaries, and principal subsidiaries
by the Board, across the organisation by demonstrating the right tone
review the succession plans for their own subsidiaries, as appropriate.
from the top. The GEC modelled our values through their everyday
behaviours, fostering a culture that delivered against our purpose of The framework is subject to periodic review by the Board and/or the
opening up a world of opportunity. At its meetings, the GEC Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and updated as
dedicated time to reflect on how they had demonstrated our purpose required to ensure it is aligned to regulatory requirements and best
and values in the day-to-day course of business. practices. A comprehensive internal review of the framework was
undertaken in 2024 with the outputs reported to the Nomination &
The GEC’s operating rhythm helped to facilitate end-to-end
Corporate Governance Committee. A number of improvements were
governance between senior leadership and the Board. The operating
made to the framework to provide greater clarity and additional
rhythm had the following three pillars:
guidance for subsidiaries.
– regular check-in meetings to review and discuss current and
The role of principal subsidiaries
emerging trends and issues;
– a monthly meeting to review the performance of each of the Certain subsidiaries are designated formally by the Board as principal
global businesses in principal geographies and legal entities, subsidiaries. In addition to their obligations under their respective local
supported by strategic key performance indicators; and laws and regulations, principal subsidiaries – supported by regional
company secretaries – perform a critical role in ensuring effective and
– a strategy- and governance-focused meeting, held in advance of
high standards of governance across the Group and in overseeing the each Board meeting.
implementation of the subsidiary accountability framework in the
Separate committees have been established to provide specialist regions for which they are responsible.
oversight for matters delegated to the Group CEO and senior
Representatives from principal subsidiaries attend the Board and its
management. For further details of these committees, see page 249.
committee meetings for relevant topics, including when the Board
To further support our senior management, we have dedicated holds meetings outside of the UK. Chairs of principal subsidiaries’ risk
company secretaries and corporate governance officers who support and audit committees are invited to attend relevant Group Risk
and advise legal entities, global businesses and global functions on Committee and Group Audit Committee meetings. Attendance and
our corporate governance practices. These roles serve to strengthen participation at these meetings enhances subsidiary directors’
the consistency and effectiveness of our end-to-end governance understanding of the challenges facing the Group and helps to identify
arrangements, and support connectivity and information sharing. common challenges and facilitates the sharing of lessons learned.
Such committee participation supplements the regular reports,
From 1 January 2025 the GEC has been replaced by the Group certifications and escalations from principal subsidiaries’ boards and
Operating Committee (‘Group OpCo’), whose key focus has been their respective committees to the Board and relevant committee(s)
establishing clear lines of accountability and enabling the Group to of the Board.
execute our strategy at pace.
The Group Chairman interacts regularly with the chairs of the principal
The Group OpCo serves as the leading executive decision-making subsidiaries, including through the Chairman’s Forum. The Chairman’s
committee and supports the Group CEO in discharging his Forum comprises the chairs of each of the principal subsidiaries, the
responsibilities for the management and delivery of Group strategy. Group’s senior independent non-executive Director, the chairs of the
Group’s audit, risk and remuneration committees, and where relevant,
In support of the ambition to simplify HSBC, the Nomination &
the Group CEO, other non-executive Directors and members of
Corporate Governance Committee endorsed a new Group
executive management, advisers and/or external experts.
Governance Framework and Operating Rhythm, which will be
implemented throughout the organisation in 2025.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 247
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
In 2024, the Chairman’s Forum covered topics such as strategic Subsidiary director development
business considerations, geopolitical issues and economic outlook,
shareholder engagements, Group-wide connectivity of non-executive The Group is dedicated to supporting the continuing professional
Directors, key regulatory themes, employee engagement and financial development of its subsidiary directors. A global non-executive
performance. director update was held in September 2024, which was attended by
subsidiary non-executive directors from across the Group. Updates
The Group Remuneration Committee Chair hosted dedicated forums were provided by the Group Chairman and Group CEO, along with
with the chairs of principal subsidiaries to share key priorities for 2024 presentations on net zero transition, digital acceleration, AI and
and the future. These sessions provided an opportunity for review and geopolitics.
input on proposed pay outcomes and allocation, before approval by
the Group Remuneration Committee. The Bank Director Programme (launched in 2022), is designed to
prepare HSBC executives and senior managers to assume roles as
The principal subsidiaries are: internal non-executive directors on our subsidiary boards. The
programme covers six modules: governance and the role of a bank
Principal subsidiary Oversight responsibility director; finance, capital and liquidity management; risk and
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Asia-Pacific regulation; strategy, leadership and culture; ESG and managing
Corporation Limited stakeholders; and technology and operations. The programme was
HSBC Bank plc Europe and Bermuda (excluding delivered for a second time in 2024 to a cohort of 26 participants
UK ring-fenced activities) selected from across the Group. Many of those colleagues who have
HSBC UK Bank plc UK ring-fenced bank and its completed the programme have already taken up positions as internal
subsidiaries non-executive directors on Group subsidiary boards.
HSBC Middle East Holdings BV Middle East, North Africa and
Türkiye During 2024 we launched our inaugural Bank Chair Programme with a
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. US group of subsidiary board and committee chairs from across our
regions. The programme represents a significant investment in
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) Mexico and Latin America
Limited subsidiary director development and is sponsored by the Group
Chairman together with the Group Chief People & Governance
Officer. It is a unique and forward-looking initiative, focused on
developing our ‘chairs of the future‘ and equipping them to lead ‘best-
in-class’ subsidiary boards and committees at HSBC. Part one of the
programme was delivered in November 2024 and comprised three
modules covering: the challenges faced by board and committee
chairs; the evolving role of the chair; and navigating regulatory
priorities.
248 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Board and Group executive committees and working groups
The Board delegates oversight of certain audit, risk, remuneration, The structure below sets out the current committees and working
nomination, technology and governance matters to its committees, groups at the Board and Group Executive level as at 31 December
which are each chaired by a non-executive Director. Only the Group 2024. The key changes in the year include:
Chairman and the independent non-executive Directors are members
The Board Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG‘) was established,
of Board committees. Members of the senior management team
with effect from October 2024, to enhance the Board’s oversight of
attend Board committee meetings, as appropriate. Details of the
sustainability matters. For more information on the role and function
responsibilities and work carried out by each of the Board committees
of this working group please refer to ‘Board decision-making and
can be found in the respective committee reports starting on page
engagement with stakeholders‘ on page 23.
259.
On 25 January 2024, the Board approved that the Technology
The Chairman’s Committee is an ad hoc committee, which provides
Working Group be demised and, in its place, established the creation
the Board with the opportunity to consider time-critical matters
of the Group Technology Committee (‘GTC’), effective from March
between scheduled Board meetings. All Board members are invited
2024. The GTC was delegated responsibility to oversee the Group’s
to attend Chairman’s Committee meetings.
technology strategy and its alignment with the wider global strategy
In addition to the Board committees, bespoke working groups have of the Group. In December 2024, the remit of the GTC (renamed the
been established as an informal mechanism for smaller groups of Group Technology and Operations Committee (‘GTOC‘)) was
Board members and senior management to meet to discuss extended to cover oversight of global operations.
emerging issues and upcoming Board matters, as appropriate.
The Board also approved a proposal from the Group CEO to combine
The GEC established a number of committees to support the senior the Group‘s executive level ESG Committee and Sustainability
management during 2024 in their running of the business and provide Execution Committee, with effect from October 2024. For more
specialist oversight for matters delegated to them, including capital information on this Committee please refer to ‘Board matters
and liquidity, risk management, disclosure and financial reporting, considered on page 251‘.
restructuring and investment considerations, transformation
In addition, the Board approved that the GEC of 18 members be
oversight, ESG matters and talent and development. These
simplified and replaced by a new Group Operating Committee
committees also help fulfil their responsibilities under the Senior
comprised of 12 members, with effect from 1 January 2025
Managers and Certification Regime.
(www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/senior-management).
Board
Chair: Sir Mark Tucker
Nomination & Informal
Group Group Technology
Chairman’s Corporate Group Audit Group Risk Governance
Remuneration and Operations
Committee Governance Committee Committee
Committee Committee
Committee
Board Oversight
Chair: Sir Mark Chair: Sir Mark Chair: Brendan Chair: James Chair: Dame Sub-Group
Chair: Eileen Murray
Tucker Tucker Nelson Forese Carolyn Fairbairn Chair: Sir Mark
Tucker
Sustainability
Working Group
See page 259 See page 263 See page 271 See page 279 See page 2
76 Chair: Geraldine
Buckingham
Group Executive Committee
Chair: Georges Elhedery1
Change Environmental,
Acquisitions and Group Disclosure Group Risk Holdings Asset
Group People Prioritisation and Social and
Disposals and Controls Management and Liabilities
Committee Oversight Governance
Committee Committee Meeting Committee
Committee Committee
Co-Chairs:
Chair: Georges Chair: Jonathan Chair: Aileen Chair: Jonathan Chair: Jonathan Jonathan Bingham
Chair: Pam Kaur3
Elhedery Bingham2 Taylor Bingham2 Bingham2 and Celine
Herweijer4
1 With effect from 2 September 2024, the role of Chair changed from Sir Noel Quinn to Georges Elhedery and with effect from 1 January 2025 the GEC was
replaced by the Group Operating Committee and committees reporting into it are under review.
2 Pam Kaur appointed as Chair with effect from 1 January 2025.
3 Richard Blackburn appointed as Chair with effect from 1 January 2025.
4 With effect from 2 September 2024, Jonathan Bingham succeeded Georges Elhedery as Co-Chair and Pam Kaur appointed as sole Chair with effect from
1 January 2025.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 249
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board induction and training
The Board recognises the importance of induction and training for its Following this training, both Georges Elhedery and Pam Kaur
Directors. The Group Chief People & Governance Officer works with confirmed their understanding of their obligations as directors of a
the Group Chairman to ensure that, on appointment, new Directors listed issuer pursuant to Rule 3.09D of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
are provided with tailored and comprehensive induction programmes
The approach to training is agreed annually, with key topics agreed for
appropriate to their individual experiences and needs, including the
2024 including cybersecurity, media interaction and the UK’s Senior
process for managing conflicts. To ensure Directors’ contribution to
Manager and Certification Regime. Training sessions were facilitated
the Board remains informed and relevant, all Board members receive
by both internal subject matter experts and by external presenters.
appropriate training, both individually and collectively, throughout their
time served on the Board.
Directors were also issued with training modules, which mirrored the
mandatory training undertaken by employees. During 2024, this
The Group Chief People & Governance Officer also helps to arrange
training covered topics including risk management, sustainability,
and deliver the induction programme for new Board members,
health and safety, well-being, cyber-security, financial crime, and
through formal briefings and introductory sessions with other Board
conduct.
members, senior management, legal counsel, auditors, tax advisers
and regulators, as appropriate. Topics covered in the induction
Non-executive Directors also discussed individual development areas
programme include but are not limited to: purpose and values; culture
with the Group Chairman as part of their ongoing performance
and leadership; governance and stakeholder management; Directors’
discussions regarding their contributions on the Board. The Group
legal and regulatory duties; recovery and resolution planning; anti-
Chief People & Governance Officer makes appropriate arrangements
money laundering and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings;
for any additional training needs identified using internal resources, or
and strategy.
otherwise, at HSBC’s expense.
The induction process is often initiated before appointment to allow
Members of Board committees receive relevant training as
each new Board member to contribute meaningfully from
appropriate. Further details on any specific training commissioned by
appointment. The structure of the induction supports good
Board committees can be found in the respective committee reports
information flows within the Board and its committees, as well as
from page 259 onward. Directors may take independent professional
between senior management and non-executive Directors, providing
advice at HSBC’s expense.
a clear understanding of our culture and way of operating.
Board Directors who serve on principal subsidiary boards receive
Prior to his appointment as Group CEO becoming effective, Georges
training that is pertinent to circumstances and context relevant to
Elhedery received relevant training and legal advice from a firm of
those boards. Opportunities exist for the principal subsidiaries'
solicitors on 15 August 2024. Prior to her appointment as Group CFO,
committee chairs to share their understanding of specific areas with
Pam Kaur received relevant training and legal advice from a firm of
the Directors as part of the Chairman’s Forum. For further details, see
solicitors on 11 December 2024.
’The role of principal subsidiaries’ on page 247.
Directors’ induction and ongoing development in 2024
Corporate
governance, ESG Board global
Strategy and Risk and and other mandatory
Director Induction business briefings2 control3 reporting matters4 training5
Geraldine Buckingham u u u u u
Rachel Duan u u u u u
Georges Elhedery1 u u u u u
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn u u u u u
James Forese u u u u u
Ann Godbehere u u u u u
Steven Guggenheimer u u u u u
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña u u u u u
Kalpana Morparia u u u u u
Eileen Murray u u u u u
Brendan Nelson u u u u u
Swee Lian Teo u u u u u
Sir Mark Tucker u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
1 As part of the transition from Group CFO to Group CEO, Georges Elhedery completed an induction and development plan.
2 Directors participated in business strategy, market development and business briefings, which are global, regional and/or market-specific. Examples of specific
sessions held in 2024 included: ’Technology and the future of artificial intelligence’, ’WPB customer-centricity improvement plan’, and ’Investor sentiments’.
3 Directors received risk and control training and briefings. Examples of specific sessions held in 2024 included: ’Cybersecurity’ and ’The UK’s Senior Manager
Certification Regime’.
4 Directors received training on the UK’s Senior Managers’ and Certification Regime as well as development updates at Board meetings on: ’Board stakeholder
engagement and management’ and ESG matters including regulatory changes. Directors received additional training through their attendance at forums such as
the Chairman’s Forum, Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum and the Global Non-Executive Director Update.
5 Training modules, issued to all Directors, mirrored training undertaken by employees. This included: risk management, sustainability, health and safety, well-
being, cybersecurity, financial crime and conduct and values, personal conflicts of interest, data quality, privacy and security and AI and our changing world.
250 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Board matters considered
During 2024, the Board remained focused on HSBC’s strategic direction and delivery, and overseeing Group performance. It considered
performance against financial and other strategic objectives, key business challenges, emerging risks, sustainability and governance, business
development, investor relations and the Group’s relationships with its stakeholders. The end-to-end governance framework facilitated discussion
on strategy and performance by each of the global businesses and across the principal geographical areas, which enabled the Board to support
executive management with its delivery of the Group’s strategy. The Board considers the impacts of its decision making on the Group’s
stakeholders and examples of how the Board has taken principal strategic decisions.
Board matters considered in 2024
Meetings at which topics were discussed1
Main topic Sub-topic Jan Feb Mar May Jun Jul Sep Oct Nov Dec
Strategy Group strategy u u u u u u u u u u
Regional strategy/global business strategy u u u u u u u u u u
Environmental, social and governance strategies u u u u u u u u u u
Business and financial Region/global business u u u u u u u u u u
performance Financial performance u u u u u u u u u u
Financial Results and accounts1 u u u u u u u u u u
Dividends u u u u u u u u u u
Group financial resource planning u u u u u u u u u u
Risk Risk update u u u u u u u u u u
Risk appetite u u u u u u u u u u
Capital and liquidity adequacy u u u u u u u u u u
Regulatory Regulatory and legal matters2 u u u u u u u u u u
Regulatory matters with regulators in attendance3 u u u u u u u u u u
External External insights4 u u u u u u u u u u
Technology Strategic and operational u u u u u u u u u u
People and culture Purpose, values and engagement u u u u u u u u u u
Governance Policies, terms of reference and delegations of
u u u u u u u u u u
authority
Board/committee effectiveness u u u u u u u u u u
Appointments and conflicts of interest u u u u u u u u u u
Stakeholder/workforce engagement u u u u u u u u u u
AGM and resolutions u u u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
1 No Board meetings were held during April and August 2024. An ad hoc board meeting was held in October 2024.
2 Includes recovery and resolution planning, modern slavery and human trafficking, UK regulatory activities, and listing authority renewals.
3 Meetings attended by members of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
4 Includes presentations and/or talks from external parties, for example government officials or regulators.
Key areas of focus
The Board’s key areas of focus in 2024 are set out by theme below. Environmental, social and governance
Strategy and business performance In October 2020, we announced our ambition to become a net zero
bank by 2050. We believe supporting our customers’ transition
The Group remains focused on building a sustainable platform for
benefits their businesses and helps generate long-term financial
growth by increasing returns for investors, enhancing customer
returns for our shareholders.
service, and creating capacity for future investment. In 2024, the
Board reviewed progress within the Group’s global businesses and The Board has overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing
regions against its agreed strategy. At each Board meeting, the Board executive management in developing the approach, execution, and
discussed the Group’s strategic performance and opportunities to associated reporting. To support senior leadership in the delivery of
track strategic execution and delivery. the ESG strategy, with effect from October 2024, the Board
established a new sustainability working group, the SWG, comprised
There was a continued focus in 2024 to build upon efforts to re-shape
of five non-executive Directors. This working group engages with
the Group to align with areas of strength in key markets. Disposals
executive management on sustainability matters and provides
such as those completed in Canada and Argentina, and in progress in
oversight and guidance in relation to the Group’s sustainability
Germany, allow for a renewed focus on businesses that more closely
activities. The SWG was actively involved in the consideration of our
align with the Group’s strategic aims, and support resource allocation
approach to net zero transition, covered in more detail within our ESG
to provide the strongest competitive advantage to ultimately benefit
overview on page 15.
the wider Group and its customers.
During the year, the Board also oversaw the rationalisation of the ESG
Upon his appointment, the new Group CEO has been driving a more
Committee and Sustainability Execution Committee into a single
dynamic organisational structure, to set the Group up to accelerate
governance body (named the ESG Committee). These Board and
delivery of its strategic objectives and drive the next phase of its
executive level governance forums support senior management in the
growth and development. Together, the executive team and the
operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability strategy, through the
Board work to ensure that strategic decisions taken capitalise on
oversight of the sustainability execution programme. For further
opportunities that will work to drive profitability for shareholders and
details see page 74. In 2024, the Board oversaw the implementation
efficiencies with a more streamlined Group structure.
of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and detailed
updates including: review and approval of the net zero transition plan;
deep dives on the sustainability execution programme; and updates
on human rights.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 251
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Financial decisions The Board also reviewed and monitored the implications of
geopolitical and macroeconomic developments during the year, both
The Board and its dedicated committees approved key financial directly and by way of updates from the Group Risk Committee, and
decisions throughout the year, including the Annual Report and received regular updates on the Group’s risk profile, including in
Accounts 2023, the Interim Report 2024 and the first quarter and the relation to financial crime risk.
third quarter Earnings Releases. In January 2024, the Board approved
the 2024 financial resource plan. The Board monitored the Group’s Technology
performance against the approved plan, as well as the plans of each
Throughout the year, the Board received updates on technology and
of the global businesses. The Board also approved the renewal of the
innovation from the Group Chief Operating Officer and Group Chief
various debt issuance programmes.
Information Officer. These included regular updates on the
As previously communicated, we established and achieved a target programme established to simplify the Group’s technology
dividend payout ratio of 50% of earnings per ordinary share (’EPS’) for infrastructure, enhance system resilience, and accelerate digital
2023 and 2024, excluding the special dividend. EPS for this purpose transformation across the bank, following recommendations from the
excludes material notable items and related impacts. Material notable third-party review of technology strategy conducted in 2023.
items in 2023 and 2024 included the sale of our businesses in Canada
The Technology Governance Working Group was demised on
and Argentina, the sale of our retail banking operations in France, the
1 March 2024, and the Group Technology Committee (‘GTC‘) became
gain following the acquisition of SVB UK and the impairment of our
effective from the same date. Since its establishment, the GTC has
investment in BoCom. We also exclude HSBC Bank Canada‘s
supported the Board in overseeing execution of the technology
financial results from the 30 June 2022 net asset reference date until
strategy with a focus on areas where technology is fundamental to
completion on 29 March 2024, as the gain on sale was recognised
strategic delivery including technology architecture, innovation, data
through a combination of the consolidation of HSBC Bank Canada‘s
and cybersecurity. In December 2024, the remit of the GTC (renamed
results in the Group‘s results since this date, and the remaining gain
the Group Technology and Operations Committee (‘GTOC‘)) was
on sale recognised at completion, inclusive of the recycling of related
extended to cover oversight of global operations, reflecting changes
reserves and fair value gains on related hedges. The Board has
to the Group’s organisational structure and in recognition of the
adopted a dividend policy designed to provide sustainable cash
importance of operations to delivery of the Group’s strategy. The
dividends, while retaining the flexibility to invest and grow the
Board received regular updates from the Chair of GTOC during the
business in the future, supplemented by additional shareholder
year. For further details of matters considered at GTOC, refer to the
distributions, if appropriate. The Board has established a target
Group Technology and Operations Committee Report on page 276.
dividend payout ratio of 50% for 2025, subject to meeting capital
requirements. In addition to dividend payments, HSBC announced a
People and culture
share buy-back of up to $2bn on 22 February 2024 and further share
buy-backs of up to $3bn on 7 May 2024, 1 August 2024 and
The Board is responsible for setting and monitoring the desired
30 October 2024, bringing the total announced during 2024 to $11bn.
culture of the Group and dedicates time to people and culture related
On 21 February 2024, an interim dividend of $0.31 per share for the matters at Board and Committee meetings and in its engagements
2023 full-year was announced, followed by a special dividend of $0.21 with management and the wider workforce.
per share on 30 April 2024 and interim dividends of $0.10 each
Each scheduled Board meeting begins with a ’culture moment’,
announced on 30 April 2024, 31 July 2024 and 29 October 2024. For
which helps to ensure that the right cultural tone is set from the top
further details of dividend payments, see page 439.
and establishes the right cultural context for Board discussion. To help
Risk, regulatory and legal raise its awareness of employee and other stakeholder perspectives,
Board meetings and dedicated reports feature insights into
considerations behaviours within the Group, which demonstrate alignment to its
purpose and values. Board papers highlight relevant stakeholder
The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, promotes a strong considerations, including in connection with its workforce. The Board
risk governance culture that shapes the Group’s risk appetite and also gains valuable cultural insights through its many personal
supports the maintenance of a strong risk management framework, interactions with the workforce and other stakeholders. For further
giving consideration to the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and details see ‘Directors’ engagements with key stakeholders in 2024’
management of risks, including emerging risks. on page 20.
The Board considered the Group’s approach to risk including its Additionally, the Board receives cultural insights from the all-
regulatory obligations. A number of key frameworks, control employee Snapshot survey and broader reporting, which provides key
documents, core processes and legal responsibilities were also data indicators, including on peoples' behaviours, sentiment and
reviewed and approved as required by the Board and/or its relevant business outcomes. Following her appointment as Group Chief
committees. These included: People & Governance Officer, Aileen Taylor has also introduced a new
people and governance report that will be presented to the Board on a
– the Group’s risk appetite framework and risk appetite statement;
regular basis to help ensure that they have sight over such matters
– the individual liquidity adequacy assessment process; within the Group.
– the individual capital adequacy assessment process;
The governance structure supporting the Board further facilitates
– the Group’s obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and effective oversight of key people and culture matters. Through the
approval of the Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement; work of the Group Audit Committee, the Board monitors the nature of
risk and control culture across the Group and sees the impact of its
– the Group Recovery Plan;
policies and practices and how they are embedded, through reports
– the efficacy of Model Risk Management (’MRM’) activities within on matters such as whistleblowing, code of conduct breaches and
the Bank; investigations (for further information see the Group Audit Committee
– the Group’s risk data aggregation and risk reporting framework report on page 263).
aligned to the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 239
The Directors also learn about people and culture matters by way of
Principles;
presentations at the Chairman’s Forum. The principal subsidiary chairs
– the Group’s PRA Operational Resilience self-assessment report on their respective approaches to workforce engagement as
regulatory submission; well as what they have learned from such engagements and other
cultural insights.
– the internal controls framework; and
– the revised matters reserved to the Board and terms of reference
for the Board committees.
252 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Each of the non-executive Directors is aligned to one or more of our The Board and senior management continued to support further
Group Employee Resource Groups (’ERGs’): Ability, Balance, improvements to various governance initiatives to encourage
Embrace, Generations, Nurture and Pride. Attending ERG events simplification and promote effective decision making in the business.
provides Directors with opportunities to hear directly from employees Guidance and training for Board and committee paper templates
on matters of cultural importance to the Group. Board engagement remained a focus in 2024 for global businesses and functions. In
with management and the wider workforce continued to remain a particular, a training session sponsored by the Group Chairman and
strong area of attention, particularly with the ongoing activities carried the Group CEO took place to ensure that standards remained
out by the dedicated workforce engagement non-executive Director consistent and accurate across the Group. Additionally, the Group-
and in respect of the changes to the Group’s leadership. For further wide delegations of authority framework was reviewed and approved
details of the work carried out by the workforce engagement non- by the Board and its relevant subsidiaries in February 2024. This
executive Director, see page 254. decision was key to driving efficiencies in the execution of contracts
and documents by directors and senior management.
Governance
The Board, supported by the Nomination & Corporate Governance
During the year, the Board continued to oversee the overall Committee, reviews the skills and experience of the Directors on an
governance of the Group. There are processes in place to ensure that ongoing basis. This ensures that the composition of the Board and its
the Board and its Committees receive timely and relevant information Committees comprise the necessary skills, diversity, experience and
pertaining to Group governance matters and that this information is competencies to discharge their responsibilities effectively. For
duly considered at the appropriate level. The Board allocated time at further details of the review and changes to the Board, see the
its scheduled meetings for Group governance matters and, during the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee report on page 259.
year, these included regular reports on the activities of its For further details of diversity of the Board, see page 244.
Committees, reviews of Directors’ conflicts of interest, the review
and approval of delegations of authority for specific Treasury matters
and review of the broader Group Delegated Authority Framework, and
oversight of the Board’s annual effectiveness review.
The Board has due regard to its oversight of Group governance,
including compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and
the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code and the duties of
directors under the Companies Act 2006, when taking decisions. For
examples of Board decision making, see ’Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 253
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
The Board’s engagement with the workforce
The Board is committed to engaging with the Group’s workforce,
96 7,000+
which takes place in a variety of ways across many forums, including
small-scale exchange sessions and larger town halls. These
interactions allow the Board to have meaningful engagement with Virtual/physical sessions Number of employees engaged
colleagues and gain insights from the workforce which inform Board attended by non-executive physically/virtually
discussion and decision-making. These engagements also provide Directors
colleagues with the opportunity to share ideas and feedback on topics
that are important to them with the Board directly.
9 55
It is the responsibility of all Directors to engage with colleagues, and
the Board’s dedicated workforce engagement non-executive Director,
José Meade, leads on the delivery of such engagements. The Board Countries where in-person Virtual/physical sessions attended by
recognises that a dedicated non-executive director, that champions engagement took place and workforce engagement non-
workforce engagement, presents an inclusive opportunity to help many more virtually executive Director
ensure that the employee voice is being considered and accounted
for in Board decision-making. For further examples of how members 4,600+
of the Board have engaged with a variety of our stakeholders outside
of the workforce engagement programme please see ‘Board decision
making and engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20. Number of employees engaged virtually/physically by workforce
engagement non-executive Director
The Board’s workforce engagement programme
In early 2024, the Board agreed a workforce engagement programme When designing the programme at the start of 2024, it took into
designed to ensure that Directors were afforded various opportunities account the Group’s key strategic areas of focus in place at the time
to interact with colleagues across the Group. A non-exhaustive extract and thereby worked to complement the Board’s priorities and agenda
of the 2024 programme can be seen below. In structuring the for 2024. Structuring the programme in this way meant that when the
programme, two mechanisms were used through which the Board Board travelled for Board meetings to different regions, in-person
engaged with the workforce. First, targeted events for Board engagements were arranged as part of the Board timetabling, which
members during Board travel or as individual Director location were highly valued by colleagues and Board members alike. A key
allowed, and second, Board members joined pre-existing Group component of the 2024 programme was visits to GSCs in locations
employee events scheduled throughout the year. This approach that were convenient to scheduled Board travel. Further engagement
allowed the Board to meet a diverse group of colleagues and events, town halls and meetings with the workforce were scheduled
participate in a broad range of different engagements. Engagement throughout the year either in person, where individual Director
events were held in three broad formats; in-person events, larger- location allowed, or virtually.
scale events, including town halls; and virtual events.
Visits to Global Services Centres (‘GSCs’) took on a variety of formats,
mixing exchange sessions with floor walks, networking lunches and
town halls. Engagements across all formats were designed to
promote open dialogue and two-way discussions between the
attending Directors and colleagues.
Board’s Workforce Engagement: 2024 Extract
January February March May June September October December
Colleague Representation Black Leaders Strategy & GB&M Floor Tour of Risk & Engagement US key talent &
Engagement & Inclusion Action and Performance & walk Compliance with respective Market
Lunch & Floor exchange Advisory Female Talent floor and Employee Securities
Walks session Council Engagement exchange with Resource Services team
(’BLAAC’) colleagues Groups (’ERG’) exchange
Audience ERG Members Leaders in the BLAAC Senior and GB&M MENAT ERG Global US colleagues
and talent US market members female UK- colleagues colleagues Leads
across a range based talent
of grades and
businesses
Location Shanghai New York Virtual London Singapore Dubai Virtual New York
254 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The outputs and key themes arising from all engagements formed the executives and other Group subsidiary chairs was maintained and
bases of José Meade’s regular reports to the Board and facilitated helped management to respond appropriately and in a timely manner
Board discussions and decision-making. Further to José Meade’s to colleagues and their feedback. In addition, this allowed for José
commitment to attend the Group Executive Committee (’GEC’) and Meade to capture feedback from executives on workforce
the Chairman’s Forum, by so doing this year he continued to help engagement and take their suggestions into consideration going
facilitate discussions on key themes, issues, employee sentiment, forward. In his role, José Meade will continue to engage in these and
and other outcomes from the 2024 workforce engagements. His other relevant forums during 2025.
participation helped to ensure that good dialogue with senior
Workforce engagement non-executive Director activities during 2024
Key themes arose throughout the year such as, inclusion in the respective ERGs to discuss the ERGs’ strategy for the year and
workplace, engagement with HSBC top talent, and Group Strategy. upcoming priorities. Directors will also take part in other ERG events
The themes guided conversations between colleagues and Board where possible, and every effort is made to facilitate local ERG
members and helped to shape the 2024 workforce engagement members meeting their aligned Director during planned Board travel.
programme to ensure that it developed events that were reflective of
Set out below is a selection of workforce engagement events that
these key topics.
were held in 2024 across multiple regions, attended by José Meade
Non-executive Director sponsorship of our Global Employee Resource and other members of the Board where the occasion permitted.
Groups (’ERGs’) continued during 2024. Each Director is aligned to a
Global ERG and during the course of 2024 has met with their
China
– Directors completed a floor walk to meet with teams from
across the Wealth and Private Banking business line, as well
as the Pinnacle team.
– Directors learnt about the financial planning journey of an
HSBC customer, the role colleagues play and the digital
capabilities available.
– Connected with various ERG representatives and colleagues
across functions to informally discuss and share
experiences.
New York
– Attended the ‘HSBC Latin-Americans in NYC Day’ with key
speakers including macro strategists and featuring external
speakers on the Mexican economic outlook.
– Met with a small group of leaders in HSBC to discuss
inclusion and culture in the US market and consider any
more progress needed.
Representation & Inclusion Exchange session
London
New York, February
– An engagement session was held with colleagues where
views were sought on how colleagues interpreted and
understood Group strategy and its practical application.
– An event was held to promote female talent in the UK.
Discussions held included the change of Group senior
leadership, what it meant to individuals and teams, and the
opportunities for female promotion.
Hong Kong
– Participated in several sessions that allowed for Directors to
meet and network with Executive Leadership Programme
colleagues.
Singapore
– Several sessions were held that were designed to promote
ERG engagement. Directors participated in sessions
including a Pride Panel as well as Ability, Sustainability and
Balance Exchanges, to ensure HSBC is inclusive and
supportive. Pride Panel
Singapore, June
Dubai
– Participated in a varied schedule of workforce engagement
events including a discussion with regional Embrace ERG
members and networking with senior talent.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 255
Corporate
governance
Board and committee
effectiveness, performance and
accountability
Actions following the 2023 2024 Board and committee
Performance Review performance review process
As disclosed in last year’s report, the 2023 Board review concluded Performance reviews are an important part of the effective
that the Board was performing well as an engaged, global governance governance and operation of the Board and its committees. In 2024,
body. The review highlighted, amongst other things, strong Board the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee invited
performance in areas including Stakeholder Accountability, Board Independent Board Evaluation (‘IBE’) to conduct a follow-up review to
Culture, Relationship with Senior Management, and Board Resources the 2023 external performance review. IBE is an independent external
and Support, and identified some minor areas where further service provider with no other connection with the Group or any
enhancement to the Board’s operating practices may be beneficial. individual Directors.
During 2024, the Board successfully implemented the actions agreed A comprehensive brief was provided to IBE to ensure focus on
to address the findings from the 2023 review. This included the priority areas relevant to the Board and committees, IBE were also
establishment of the Group Technology Committee (‘GTC‘) to provide asked to provide an independent view as to whether the actions
oversight of technology-related matters across the Group. The GTC’s taken following the 2023 review had appropriately addressed the
remit was later expanded to include responsibility for Operations, and findings of that review.
as a result was renamed as the Group Technology and Operations
The review took the form of detailed 1-2-1 interviews with members
Committee (‘GTOC’). Further details of the work of the GTC/GTOC
of the Board and select members of management and advisers. IBE
can be found on pages 276 to 278.
also attended and observed the Board and committee meetings in
In addition, the Board approved a revised set of Key Performance December 2024, and were provided with relevant meeting materials
Indicators, ensuring that the Board can effectively oversee the for review in advance.
performance of the business, and receive insights into execution,
Initial observations were shared with the Board in December 2024,
trends, and emerging areas of risk. These are kept under regular
following which a report was compiled by IBE based on the views
review.
supplied by those interviewed as well as IBE’s observations as part of
Other actions have resulted in changes to the Board’s operating the review process. The process and findings set out in this report
practices, including through greater training on effective Board were shared and agreed with the Group Chairman, committee chairs
reporting and enhanced stakeholder engagement plans to ensure the and IBE.
Board has the opportunity for regular engagement with the full
spectrum of key stakeholder groups.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 257
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Findings and recommendations
Overall, the review concluded that the Board and its committees senior leadership team and executive governance framework would
continued to operate effectively, with the 2023 report findings having require ongoing strong and open communication between the Board
been appropriately addressed and a few minor areas identified for and the new Group Operating Committee. The new committee
further improvement. Positive feedback and practices were structure, in particular the establishment of the Group Technology and
highlighted in relation to succession planning for the Board and senior Operations Committee and the launch of the Sustainability Working
management, with the pace and robustness of the Group CEO Group, have enhanced Board oversight and support to management
selection process considered to be particularly strong. Key strengths in these areas of critical strategic importance. Further, it was
highlighted included the efficient, inclusive and transparent acknowledged that work continues to ensure the quality and insight
communication with the wider Board, and regulators through the of reporting to the Board, with concise reports that focus on the most
duration of the process. The good practices would be leveraged for material and emerging risks.
future senior succession practices, with the importance of a sufficient
IBE presented its report to the December 2024 Board meeting, and
handover period being noted.
was present for the Board’s discussion, led by the Group Chairman,
The report from IBE also confirmed that the culture of the Board on the findings identified through IBE’s review. Actions arising from
continues to be regarded as a key strength. The major organisational the Board and committee review will be monitored by the Board over
and leadership changes that took place during 2024 further the coming months. Further details on the findings specific to each
demonstrated the flexibility of the Board governance and operating committee can be found within the respective committee reports
rhythm, and its commitment in response to the needs of the Group later in this section.
and its stakeholders. It was acknowledged that the refresh of the
258 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Nomination & Corporate
Governance Committee
“We have full confidence in Georges and the new senior leadership team. They have the
skills, experience and track record necessary to deliver the next exciting phase of the
Group’s development and growth.“
Sir Mark E Tucker
Chair
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
Membership Key responsibilities
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
Meeting attendance
Member since in 20241 – overseeing succession planning and leading the process for
Sir Mark Tucker (Chair) Oct 2017 9/9 identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the
Geraldine Buckingham May 2022 9/9 Board and its committees;
Rachel Duan Sep 2021 9/9 – overseeing succession planning and development of senior
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn Sep 2021 8/9 leadership;
James Forese May 2020 9/9 – overseeing and monitoring the corporate governance framework
Ann Godbehere Sep 2023 9/9 of the Company and its subsidiaries; and
Steven Guggenheimer May 2020 9/9 – ensuring that the corporate governance framework is consistent
José Antonio Meade Apr 2019 9/9 with relevant standards and best practices.
Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia Mar 2023 9/9
Eileen Murray2 Jul 2020 8/9
Brendan Nelson Sep 2023 9/9
David Nish3 Apr 2018 3/3
Swee Lian Teo Oct 2023 9/9
1 In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, various sub-groups of
the Committee were established during the year to oversee the
succession process for the Group CEO and other senior leadership
changes.
2 Due to personal reasons, Eileen Murray was unable to attend the
Committee meeting in September 2024.
3 David Nish retired from the Board on 3 May 2024.
I am pleased to present the Nomination & Corporate Governance Group OpCo. We have full confidence in Georges and the new senior
Committee report, which provides an overview of the Committee’s leadership team. They have the skills, experience and track record
activities during 2024. necessary to deliver the next exciting phase of the Group’s
development and growth.
Succession planning was central to the Committee’s agenda during
the year. The main area of focus was the Group CEO succession We were delighted to welcome Pam Kaur to the Board as an
planning, which was triggered by Sir Noel Quinn’s decision to retire as Executive Director, following her appointment as Group CFO. Pam is
Group CEO. The Committee undertook a formal search process, well known to the Board, having served as Group Chief Risk Officer
which built upon the Committee’s long-term work to develop since 2020, and in the expanded role of Group Chief Risk and
potential internal and external succession options for the Group CEO Compliance Officer since 2021, and we look forward to working
role. Additional details on this process, which unanimously concluded closely with her in this new capacity. Georges and Pam formed an
that Georges Elhedery was an outstanding candidate and the right effective partnership in their prior roles, and I am confident that the
person for the role, are set out later in this report. The rigorous and Group and its stakeholders will continue to benefit from this
detailed work undertaken by the Committee over the prior years on relationship in the years ahead. I would also like to thank Jonathan
Group CEO succession enabled us to conduct a thorough, robust and Bingham, for his excellent work and valuable contributions during his
market-leading process, at pace. The process received positive tenure as Interim Group CFO.
feedback from key stakeholders, including from Committee
We have continued to review our governance structure in light of
members, as part of the 2024 Board and Committee performance
evolving business needs to ensure that it remains appropriate in
review.
supporting the delivery of Group strategy and aligned with
The Committee also oversaw and supported the changes made to the stakeholder expectations. During 2024, this led to several changes to
Group’s organisational structure and leadership team. This included our Board and Committee operations, including the establishment of
endorsing the establishment of the new Group Operating Committee the Group Technology Committee and of the Sustainability Working
(‘Group OpCo’), which serves as the leading decision-making Group. We subsequently agreed to expand the remit of the Group
executive committee of the Group. The Committee was fully Technology Committee to include Operations. Going forward, the
supportive of Georges' recommendations for appointments to the
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 259
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Group Technology and Operations Committee will oversee the work needs of the Board and the Group, to determine whether his term
of the new Group CIO and Group COO. should be extended. Pepe has played an important and valuable role,
significantly enhancing the Board’s engagements with all colleagues
Both forums have strengthened our governance oversight in the key
and its understanding of their views. In order to allow him to build on
areas of technology and sustainability, which are two critical elements
this work, as the business embarks on a period of change under new
of our strategy and risk management activity. Additional details on
leadership, the Committee agreed that his appointment should be
these forums can be found on pages 23, and 276.
extended by a year, leading up to the 2026 AGM, subject to his re-
election by shareholders. It is the Board’s strong belief that this
Separately, following the changes to the organisational structure
extension of Pepe’s appointment, given his performance and
announced in October 2024, the Committee considered what further
contributions to the Board in 2024, is in the best interests of the
enhancements to the Group’s governance arrangements were
Group and all of its stakeholders.
necessary. This resulted in two principal changes. Firstly, in order to
strengthen the connectivity between the Group and our most
The Committee will continue to monitor the market throughout 2025
significant subsidiary boards, the Committee recommended that Ann
for potential candidates for appointment to the Board in both the short
Godbehere and Brendan Nelson be appointed as directors of HSBC
and medium-term. This will ensure that the Board has a pipeline of
Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc, respectively. Secondly, the
credible successors with the relevant skills, knowledge, and
Committee approved changes to the Group’s executive governance
experience.
framework and operating rhythm aimed at ensuring enhanced, clearer
lines of accountability and decision-making. Committee composition
The annual Board and Committee performance review is critically As communicated in the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts, the
important for ensuring that our governance practices meet the Board-level Group Technology Committee (’GTC’), chaired by Eileen
highest standards and work effectively. Following the externally Murray, was established on 1 March 2024. In December 2024,
facilitated review in 2023, conducted by IBE, the Committee invited reflecting the changes to the Group COO role and its inclusion in the
them again to conduct a follow-up review in 2024. The objective was newly formed Group OpCo, the Committee approved changes to the
to provide assurance that the recommendations made had been remit of the GTC, adding responsibility for Operations, in addition to
addressed and that the Board and its Committees were working Technology. As a result, the GTC was renamed as the Group
effectively. The findings and agreed actions from the 2024 review can Technology and Operations Committee. Additional information on the
be found from page 257. work undertaken by the Group Technology and Operations
Committee since its formation, along with its priorities for the year
Finally, there were changes to the UK and Hong Kong Corporate
ahead, can be found from page 276.
Governance Codes, which take effect from this year. Whilst our
existing governance practices are aligned with the requirements of As part of the decision to establish the Sustainability Working Group
these revised Codes, the Committee continues to assess possible (’SWG’), it was agreed that Geraldine Buckingham would be
enhancements, monitoring market practices to ensure that we not appointed as its Chair. Additional details on the work undertaken by
only remain compliant, but also meet our objective of having world the SWG can be found on page 23.
class governance.
The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board
Committees, to ensure that it remains appropriate, with consideration
given to the Board diversity and inclusion policy, and to ensure
effective use of the skills and expertise of the Directors. Several
Sir Mark E Tucker changes to the Committees’ composition were agreed during the
Group Chairman year. The Committee will continue to review the Committees’
composition to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Committee governance Board diversity
The Group Chief People & Governance Officer, in her capacity as the The Board recognises the importance of gender, social and ethnic
Group Company Secretary, attended all Committee meetings during diversity, and the benefits that diverse identities and backgrounds
the year. She supported the Group Chairman in ensuring that the bring to Board effectiveness. Representation is a consideration in
Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities. The Group CEO succession plans and appointments at both Board and senior
selectively attended Committee meetings, joining when required. management level, as well as more broadly across the Group. The
Committee also considers representation on Board Committees when
Russell Reynolds Associates (’RRA’) supported the Committee and reviewing their composition.
the management team with Board succession planning and
appointments. RRA also provided support to management on senior At the end of 2024, the Board had 54% female representation, with
management succession, and on development and recruitment. seven female Board members out of a total of 13, which is above the
Representatives from RRA regularly attend meetings during the year year-end 2025 target set by the FTSE Women Leaders Review.
and have no other connection with the Group or members of the Following Pam Kaur’s appointment as an Executive Director on
Board. 1 January 2025, female representation increased to 57%. The Board
now also has two female leaders holding one of the four senior
Board composition and succession positions. These four senior roles, as defined by the FTSE Women
Leaders Review, are Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Senior
The Committee continued to keep the composition of the Board and Independent Director and Chief Financial Officer.
of its Committees under review, with assessments focused on the
skills, knowledge, and experience necessary to oversee, challenge Beyond gender, the Committee remains focused on enhancing the
and support management, in the achievement of the Group’s ethnic heritage diversity of the Board, reflecting the international
strategic and business objectives. nature of our business and HSBC’s Asia heritage.
The Committee has a long-standing policy under which non-executive The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy highlights our commitment
Directors are expected to serve two three-year terms. Any to diversity, while providing specifics on the approach taken to
appointments that extend beyond this are reviewed on an annual achieving our relevant ambitions. Additional details on activities aimed
basis, with consideration given to the future needs of the Board, and at improving representation across senior management and the wider
the performance and contributions of the individual. workforce, together with supporting statistics, can be found on page
64. The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy is available at
José (’Pepe’) Meade, Workforce Engagement non-executive Director, www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors/board-
will complete his second three-year term at the 2025 AGM. As a responsibilities
result, a review was conducted, which took into account the broader
260 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Group CEO succession – Agreement on the regulatory role profile and key selection criteria,
which included key technical, experiential and leadership
Following the announcement on 30 April 2024 that Sir Noel Quinn competencies that were determined to be essential for the
would retire as Group CEO, the Committee oversaw a rigorous formal successful candidate.
search, selection and appointment process to identify the next leader
– The assessment of all internal and external candidates against this
of the Group. A high-level overview of the process is shown in the
role profile and selection criteria, with the support of a leading
graphic below.
external search firm. Candidates also provided a written
The Committee’s focus on Group CEO succession planning since Sir articulation of their strategic vision for the Group, which was
Noel Quinn’s appointment in 2020, supported its objective to followed by the shortlisting of the final candidates.
complete the search at pace and provide clarity on future leadership – Thorough referencing and background checks, which were
to the organisation and our stakeholders. conducted on the final candidates, to provide the Committee with
a deeper understanding of their character and motivations.
The process to select Sir Noel Quinn’s successor was led by the
Group Chairman and the Committee, who were supported by a – The final candidates were interviewed with all non-executive
leading external search partner. Directors. They also presented their strategic vision for the Group
to the Committee and participated in Q&A.
Key steps in the process included:
– Interview feedback, which included non-executive Directors
– The establishment of a committee sub-group, comprising the scoring each candidate against the successful selection profile, as
Group Chairman, Senior Independent non-executive and well as qualitative feedback based on candidate interviews,
Committee Chairs, to oversee the process. Regular updates were presentation and Q&A, which was collated and discussed by the
provided to the broader Committee through weekly update notes Committee.
from the Group Chairman, who also engaged with the Group’s
principal regulators throughout the process.
Presentations to
Establishment of a Agreement of the Candidate interviews
Internal and external Committee on
sub-group of the regulatory role profile with Group Chairman
candidate assessment strategic vision and
Committee and success criteria and NEDs
Q&A
Announcement of Regulatory
Board approval Feedback collated and
appointment of engagement, Decision on preferred
following receipt of discussed by the
Georges Elhedery as application and candidate
regulatory approval Committee
Group CEO interview
Based on the information gathered on the candidates over the past Global Head of Risk Analytics, was appointed as Interim Group Chief
four years, as well as the succession process, the Committee Risk and Compliance Officer with effect from 1 January 2025. An
selected Georges Elhedery as the preferred candidate. update on permanent succession for this position will be provided in
due course.
Georges then participated in the required regulatory interviews with
the PRA and FCA, after which the Committee received confirmation In conjunction with the announcement on the new, simpler
of regulatory approval, and announced Georges’ appointment on organisational structure, designed to unleash the full potential of
Wednesday 17 July 2024. HSBC, the Committee also approved several changes to the senior
leadership team, based on the recommendations of the new Group
The Committee also agreed on a comprehensive induction and
CEO. These included the approval of the new Group OpCo terms of
development plan to best support Georges’ transition to Group CEO.
reference, together with its membership. Members of the Committee
The Committee continues to oversee this plan and receives regular
were closely involved in the assessment and selection process for
updates on progress.
roles on the new Group OpCo, including the roles of CEO of
Corporate and Institutional Banking and Western Markets, and the
Senior executive succession and
split of the previous Group COO’s responsibilities into two new Group
development OpCo roles – those of Group CIO and Group COO.
Jonathan Bingham, Global Financial Controller, was appointed as Committee performance review
Interim Group CFO with effect from 2 September 2024. This interim
The 2024 annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and Board
appointment allowed Georges to focus on his new responsibilities as
Committees, including the Nomination & Corporate Governance
Group CEO, whilst the process to identify a permanent successor
Committee, was conducted externally by IBE.
was conducted. The process to select the permanent Group CFO was
led by the Group CEO, with the support of the Group Chief People & It determined that the Committee continued to perform effectively.
Governance Officer and a leading external search firm. Consistent There were no specific actions identified for the Committee. The
with the approach taken for the selection of Georges Elhedery as review acknowledged the Committee’s role in the Group CEO
Group CEO, internal and external candidates were considered and succession process, which was very well managed, and identified
assessed against the agreed role profile and selection criteria. several good practices that would be applied to future succession
Following the completion of interviews with members of the Board, processes for key roles across the Group. Additional details on the
Pam Kaur was selected to join the Board as an Executive Director and annual review of the Board and Committees’ effectiveness can be
Group CFO. found from page 257.
Following Pam’s selection for the role of Group CFO, Richard
Blackburn, Global Head of Traded and Treasury Risk Management &
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 261
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Subsidiary governance In order to further strengthen connectivity between the Board and the
most significant subsidiary boards, the Committee took relevant steps
In line with the subsidiary accountability framework, the Committee with two of the principal UK regulated entities. It recommended that
continued to oversee the corporate governance and succession Ann Godbehere be appointed to the HSBC Bank plc board and
arrangements across the principal subsidiary portfolio. Additional Brendan Nelson be appointed to the HSBC UK Bank plc board. Given
details on the subsidiary accountability framework are set out on that the Board has benefitted from James Forese’s leadership of the
page 247. HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Board, the Committee is confident
that these appointments will enhance governance arrangements and
Given the improvement in quality of the succession planning updates
connectivity.
over the previous years, the Committee agreed that, for 2024, the
material subsidiary plans no longer required direct oversight. Principal The committee continues to provide support and look for
Subsidiaries continued to oversee plans for their respective opportunities to enhance subsidiary connectivity through non-
subsidiaries, with the Committee retaining the ability to review executive Director events and other engagement forums. The
material subsidiary succession plans, where necessary. Group’s flagship events held in 2024 included the Bank Director
Programme and the Bank Chair Programme. The Group Chairman also
The Committee continued to support and seek opportunities to
hosted an annual Global NED Update, which was attended by over
enhance subsidiary connectivity. That included leveraging the
200 subsidiary non-executive Directors.
Chairman’s Forum and Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum,
which regularly brought together the chairs of the principal
subsidiaries to discuss issues of common interest.
Jan Feb Apr May Jun Jul Sep Sep Dec
Board composition and succession
Board composition, including succession planning and skills matrices u u u u u u u u u
Executive talent and development
Senior executive succession and appointments u u u u u u u u u
Governance
Board and corporate governance developments u u u u u u u u u
Board and committee performance review u u u u u u u u u
Subsidiary governance u u u u u u u u u
Subsidiary appointments u u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
262 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Group Audit Committee
“Given changes in the external operating environment and as a result of the
reorganisation of the Group, the Group Audit Committee will play an important role in
monitoring the impact on the control environment during this period of change.“
Brendan Nelson
Chair
Group Audit Committee
Membership Key responsibilities
Meeting attendance The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
Member since in 20241
– monitoring and assessing the integrity of the financial
Brendan Nelson (Chair) Sept 2023 10/10
statements, formal announcements and regulatory information
Geraldine Buckingham2 Oct 2024 2/2 in relation to the Group’s financial performance, as well as
Rachel Duan3 Apr 2022 9/10 significant accounting judgements;
James Forese3 May 2020 9/10
– reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls;
Ann Godbehere4 Feb 2024 7/7
– reviewing management’s arrangements for compliance with
Eileen Murray5, 6 June 2022 6/8
prudential regulatory financial reporting;
David Nish7 May 2016 4/4
– reviewing the annual financial resource plan, including annual
budget, capital expenditure and business plans;
Notes:
– reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external
1 These included one ad hoc meeting held on 31 January 2024 and a joint
auditor and overseeing its appointment, remuneration and
meeting with the Group Risk Committee (’GRC’), which took place on 18
June 2024. independence;
2 Geraldine Buckingham was appointed as a member of the GAC on – overseeing the Group’s policies, procedures and arrangements
1 October 2024.
for capturing and responding to whistleblower concerns and
3 Rachel Duan and James Forese were unable to join one ad hoc GAC
ensuring they are operating effectively; and
meeting, due to prior commitments.
4 Ann Godbehere joined the GAC on 21 February 2024. – overseeing the work of Global Internal Audit and monitoring and
5 Eileen Murray stepped down from the GAC on 1 October 2024.
assessing the effectiveness, performance, resourcing,
6 Eileen Murray was unable to attend the meeting held on 25 September
independence and standing of the function.
2024 due to personal reasons.
7 David Nish stepped down from the GAC on 3 May 2024 upon his
retirement from the Board.
I am pleased to introduce the Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) report, issues and the related management judgements. These included
my first as GAC Chair. In this report, I have provided an overview of spending significant time on the appropriateness and clarity of the
the key matters and issues considered by the GAC in 2024. I Group’s market guidance, including in relation to returns, costs and
assumed the role of GAC Chair following the publication of the FY23 expected credit losses (‘ECL’). Given the uncertain global
results and Annual Report in February 2024, succeeding David Nish. I macroeconomic environment, the GAC carefully considered its
would like to acknowledge and thank David for his leadership of the disclosures on ECLs, in particular those relating to the Group’s
GAC during his time as Chair. exposure to the mainland China and Hong Kong corporate real estate
sectors.
Internal controls have been a key focus during 2024, and the GAC
assumed responsibility for the oversight of all internal controls - which I have spent time with several of the subsidiary audit committee
was previously limited to those related to financial reporting. We have chairs, building on the important connectivity between the Group and
overseen management’s proposed enhancement of controls, subsidiaries established over the past few years. Regular engagement
including the creation of a new Group Chief Controls Oversight Office with our subsidiary audit chairs will continue to be an important part
function. This will enhance effective operation and monitoring of the of the GAC’s governance practices through 2025 and beyond.
Group’s control environment. This will include the work to support
The GAC also oversaw the External Quality Review of the Global
preparations for the Board's declaration on the effectiveness of
Internal Audit function during the year, which was conducted by
material controls, which will be required from 2026 under the 2024
Deloitte in accordance with the Internal Audit Code. I am pleased to
UK Corporate Governance Code.
report that the function is highly valued across the HSBC Group, and
Given changes in the external operating environment and as a result received a ’Generally Confirms’ rating, which is the highest attainable
of the reorganisation of the Group, the GAC will have an important under the internal audit International Professional Practices
role in monitoring the impact on the control environment during this framework.
period of change. A key element of this continues to be our progress
Finally, I was pleased that the review of the GAC’s performance
in enhancing the control environment regarding the Group’s
concluded that the GAC continued to operate effectively. Further
regulatory reporting obligations. Remediation of errors in regulatory
details on the review, which also considered the performance of the
reporting and achieving a sustainable controls environment over these
Board and the other Board committees, can be found as part of the
returns, remains a priority for the Committee, management and our
'How we are governed' section on page 257.
regulators globally. Further details on progress under this programme
can be found later in this report.
Brendan Nelson
The GAC received regular updates from the Group Chief Financial
Chair of the Group Audit Committee
Officer and Global Financial Controller on key financial reporting
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 263
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Committee governance
The Committee operates under delegated authority from the Board, The Committee Chair continued to engage with various key
and advises the Board on matters concerning the Group’s financial stakeholders, including the UK PRA, to understand their views, key
reporting requirements. The Committee Chair reports on the key themes and areas of focus within the broader financial services sector
matters and discussions at the subsequent Board meeting, and the on matters relevant to the work of the Committee. This included
Board also receives copies of the Committee agendas and minutes. trilateral meetings involving the Group’s external auditor, PwC, and
This supports the Board‘s oversight of the work carried out by the UK PRA.
management, Global Internal Audit and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Members of senior management routinely attended meetings of the
(‘PwC‘), as the Group’s statutory auditor.
GAC. The external auditor attended all meetings.
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has confirmed
The Chair holds regular meetings with management, Global Internal
that each member of the Committee is independent according to the
Audit and PwC, as the external auditor, to discuss relevant items as
criteria of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, and the
they arose during the year outside the formal Committee process.
Committee and individual members continue to possess competence
The Committee also regularly meets with the internal and external
relevant to the banking and broader financial services sector in which
auditors, without management present. Private discussions are also
the Group operates. The Board has determined that Brendan Nelson
held with relevant members of senior management, including the
and Ann Godbehere are the audit committee ‘financial experts’ for the
Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Risk and Compliance
purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent
Officer.
and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK and Hong
Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
Matters considered during 2024
Jan Feb Apr Jun Jul Sep Oct Dec
Reporting
Financial reporting matters including:
– review of financial statements, ensuring that disclosures are fair, balanced and understandable
– significant accounting judgements u u u u u u u u
– going concern assumptions and viability statement
– supplementary regulatory information
Review of the Group's annual financial resource plan u u u u u u u u
ESG and climate reporting u u u u u u u u
Regulatory reporting-related matters including:
– oversight of the Group's engagement with PRA-requested skilled person reviews
– reports from the principal subsidiaries on progress and learnings in relation to their local
u u u u u u u u
remediation efforts
– adequacy of resources across Finance and other SME teams to deliver the Group-wide
remediation programme
Certificates from principal subsidiary audit committees u u u u u u u u
Control environment
Control enhancement programmes u u u u u u u u
Group transformation u u u u u u u u
Review of deficiencies and effectiveness of internal financial controls u u u u u u u u
Internal audit
Reports from Global Internal Audit u u u u u u u u
Audit plan updates, independence and effectiveness u u u u u u u u
External audit
Reports from external audit, including external audit plan u u u u u u u u
Appointment, remuneration, non-audit services and effectiveness u u u u u u u u
Compliance
Accounting standards and critical accounting policies u u u u u u u u
Corporate governance codes and listing rules u u u u u u u u
Whistleblowing
Whistleblowing arrangements and effectiveness u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
264 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Financial, sustainability and climate reporting Fair, balanced and understandable
The GAC is responsible for reviewing the Group’s financial reporting Following review and challenge of the disclosures, the Committee
during the year, including the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts,
Report, quarterly earnings releases, analyst presentations and Pillar 3 taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable. These
disclosures. provided the shareholders with the necessary information to assess
the Group’s position and performance, business model, strategy and
Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported
risks facing the business.
by the executive-level ESG Committee, provided close oversight of
the disclosure risks in relation to sustainability and climate reporting, The Committee reviewed the draft Annual Report and Accounts 2024
amid rising stakeholder expectations. The work will continue and results announcements to provide feedback and challenge to
throughout 2025 in partnership with the Sustainability Working Group. management. It was supported by the work of the Group Disclosure
and Controls Committee, which also reviewed and assessed the
As part of its review, the GAC:
Annual Report and Accounts 2024 and investor communications.
– challenged and evaluated management’s application of critical
This work enabled the GAC to discharge its responsibilities and
accounting policies and material areas in which significant
support the Board in making the statement required under the UK and
accounting judgements were applied;
Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
– reviewed and challenged management’s judgements and
Internal controls
disclosures in relation to impairment reviews of HSBC’s
investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited, performed During the year, the Board approved changes to the scope of the
using a value-in-use methodology; GAC’s responsibilities in relation to internal controls. These changes
– gave particular regard to the analysis and measurement of IFRS 9 saw the GAC assume responsibility for oversight of the effectiveness
ECL, including the key judgements and management adjustments of all internal controls. This reflected the GAC’s experience in
made in relation to the forward economic guidance, underlying overseeing internal controls over financial reporting, and the
economic scenarios and reasonableness of the weightings, as well responsibility that will apply from the 2026 financial year to make a
as modelling and adjustments; declaration on the effectiveness of material controls under the 2024
UK Corporate Governance Code.
– focused on preparation for disclosures to ensure these were
consistent, appropriate and could be validated under the relevant Regular updates and confirmations are provided to the GAC on the
financial and governance reporting requirements; action management takes to remediate any failings or weaknesses
identified through the operation of the Group’s framework of internal
– tracked and monitored delivery against the external audit plan; and
financial controls. This is supplemented by reviews of these controls
– provided advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the by the second line of defence and internal audit, and the external
long-term viability statement. auditors, who provided additional comfort to the Committee on the
effectiveness of these controls. These reviews confirmed that there
We also received independent third-party limited standalone
were no material weaknesses as at the year-end.
assurance on the Group’s climate reporting. Further details can be
found in ’Assurance relating to ESG data’ on page 44. These updates included the Group’s work on compliance with section
404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Based on this work, the GAC
In conjunction with the GRC, the GAC considered the current position
recommended that the Board support its assessment of the internal
of the Group, along with the emerging and principal risks, and carried
controls over financial reporting.
out a robust assessment of the Group’s prospects. This assessment
informed the GAC’s recommendation to the Board on the Group’s The GAC continued to focus on controls over the Group's Insurance
long-term viability. The GAC also undertook a detailed review before business following the implementation of the IFRS 17 ‘Insurance
recommending to the Board that the Group continues to adopt the Contracts‘ accounting standards. The GAC welcomed management's
going concern basis in preparing the annual and interim financial progress in improving the control environment during 2024. However,
statements. Further details can be found on page 40. there remains further work to ensure that the Insurance business
embeds the control standards expected on a consistent basis across
Following the October 2024 announcement in relation to the Group's
all markets.
organisation structure, the GAC oversaw management proposals
regarding the external disclosure requirements following the For further details of how the Board reviewed the effectiveness of key
reorganisation of the Group around four core business. The GAC aspects of internal control, see page 323.
reviewed the financial resource plan, prior to approval by the Board,
Regulatory reporting
which helped to support the revised guidance, including in relation to
the expected benefits from the reorganisation and simplification of Regulatory reporting has been a key priority for the Committee over
the Group, which were communicated to the market as part of the recent years and will continue to be a priority for 2025. The
FY24 results. In relation to the expected benefits specifically, the GAC Committee is focused on monitoring the programme of work to
considered the independent validation report provided by a third party, address the quality and reliability of regulatory reporting to meet
and which provided additional comfort on the appropriateness of regulatory expectations.
management's proposed guidance.
Management provided updates on the status of ongoing HSBC-
The GAC will complete a thorough review of the pro-forma historical specific external reviews, and discussed the issues and themes
financial performance for 2023 and 2024, based on the new identified from the increased assurance work and focus on regulatory
organisational structure, prior to their communication to the market reporting. The GAC also discussed root cause themes, remediation of
next month. known issues and new issues identified through the increased
assurance work. The Committee challenged management on
Financial planning
remediation plans, to assess whether there was a sustainable
The GAC reviewed and debated the robustness of the financial plan reduction in issues and that dependencies with other key
for the financial years 2025 to 2029. The GAC considered the risks programmes were well understood.
and challenges, and ensured that the process to develop the financial
Further details can be found in the ‘Principal activities and significant issues
resource plan was robust and that the assumptions driving the
considered during 2024’ table on page 268.
financial performance of the Group were appropriate and subject to
appropriate challenge.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 265
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Adequacy of resources Committee and the External Audit: Minimum Standard (’the
Standard’), where relevant, were met during 2024.
The Committee is responsible, under the Hong Kong Listing Rules, to
annually assess the adequacy of resources of the accounting, internal The GAC reviewed the PwC external audit approach, including the
audit, financial reporting and ESG performance and reporting materiality, risk assessment and scope of the audit. PwC highlighted
functions. It also monitored the legal and regulatory environment the changes being made to its approach to enhance the quality and
relevant to its responsibilities. effectiveness of the audit. PwC’s plan supports its, and the GAC’s,
focus on audit quality through standardisation, centralisation and the
The Committee determined that each of the functions provided
use of technology.
thorough information with regards to people capacity and capability
and endorsed the annual update to the Board. Following commitments made as part of the audit tender process
conducted in 2022, specifically in relation to plans for greater
In recognition that the enhancement of the Group’s regulatory reporting
utilisation of digital solutions on the HSBC audit, the Committee
processes and controls was a priority for both the Committee and the
received a demonstration of how PwC were leveraging digital audit
Group’s regulators, the GAC also considered the adequacy of regulatory
tooling as part of the audit of the Group’s accounts. PwC continue to
reporting resources as part of the year-end activities.
look for opportunities to further leverage technology to enhance the
Connectivity with principal subsidiary audit efficiency, robustness and quality of the Group statutory audit.
committees Effectiveness of external audit process
The Committee recognises the importance of strong connectivity and The GAC assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the Group’s external
alignment with principal subsidiary audit committees. The auditor, using a questionnaire that focused on the overall audit
mechanisms to support this are well established and continued to process, its effectiveness and the quality of output.
operate effectively during the year.
In addition, the GAC Chair, certain principal subsidiary audit chairs and
This included information sharing and targeted collaboration between members of the Group Executive Committee met with the Senior
audit committee chairs and management to ensure there was Audit Partner to discuss findings from the questionnaire and provide
appropriate focus on the local implementation of programmes. During in-depth feedback on the interaction with the PwC audit team.
2024 this included a particular focus on regulatory reporting, with the
Key strengths identified through the review included strong
subsidiary audit committee chairs, chief executive officers and chief
independent challenge, the knowledge of the audit team and the
financial officers of the Europe, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and
good understanding of the Group‘s businesses and associated risks
Americas regions attending Committee meetings to update on
that were demonstrated through the course of the audit. The review
progress, share local challenges, and areas of focus with the
also identified some areas for improvement, including with regards to
Committee.
communication and coordination with management, and planning.
In addition to the Chair‘s regular meetings with the audit chairs of the
The GAC receives regular updates from PwC and management on
Group’s UK, European, US, Middle Eastern and Asian principal
performance across the audit quality indicators, which provides wider
subsidiaries, and their attendance at GAC meetings for relevant items,
visibility of ongoing and emerging issues.
they provided quarterly reports on their local audit committee activity.
This included updates on internal control, and financial and regulatory There were no breaches of the policy on hiring employees or former
reporting matters that are significant from a local or enterprise-wide employees of the external auditor during the year. The lead audit
perspective. In addition, the Committee received escalations from partner attends all Committee meetings and the GAC Chair maintains
subsidiary boards for information and action, as appropriate. The regular contact with the senior audit partner and his team throughout
connectivity between the Group and subsidiary audit committees is the year.
supplemented by attendance at committee meetings by the Group
and subsidiary audit committee chairs. During the year, the Committee considered the impact of the fine and
six-month suspension on PwC’s China Firm upon PwC UK‘s ability to
On a half-year basis, principal subsidiary audit committees provided act as auditor for the Group. The GAC received assurance from PwC’s
certifications to the Committee that regarded the preparation of their Global Leadership Team that the issues leading to the sanctions did
financial statements, adherence to Group policies and escalation of not impact the Group, and that PwC were taking appropriate steps to
any issues that required the attention of the Committee. These prevent reoccurrence. The GAC will continue to monitor until the
certifications also included information regarding the governance, completion of the suspension, which is due to expire during March
review and assurance activities undertaken by principal subsidiary 2025.
audit committees in relation to prudential regulatory reporting.
Independence and objectivity
External auditor
The Committee assessed any potential threats to independence that
The GAC has the primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship were self-identified or reported by PwC. Based on the reporting
with the Group’s external auditor, PwC. received, PwC are deemed to be independent and PwC, in
accordance with professional ethical standards and applicable rules
PwC completed its tenth audit, providing robust challenge to
and regulations, provided the GAC with written confirmation of its
management and sound independent advice to the Committee on
independence for the duration of 2024.
specific financial reporting judgements, sustainability reporting and
the overall control environment. The senior audit partner is Matthew The Committee confirms it has complied with the provisions of The
Falconer, who assumed the role as part of the regular rotation of audit Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation
partners in support of the independence of PwC for the 2024 financial (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit
year. The Committee reviewed the external auditor’s approach and Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the financial statements.
strategy for the annual audit and received regular updates on the
audit, including observations on the control environment. Following the Committee‘s recommendation to reappoint PwC as the
auditor, shareholders passed the associated resolution at the 2024
Key audit matters discussed with PwC are set out in its report on AGM. At the same time, shareholders authorised the Committee to
page 331. The Committee reviewed, and concluded that, all determine PwC‘s audit fee for the financial year ended 31 December
requirements of the Financial Reporting Council's (‘FRC’) Audit 2024, which was approved by the Committee at its July 2024
meeting.
266 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Non-audit services greatest areas of risk. The independence of Global Internal Audit from
day-to-day line management responsibility is fundamental to its ability
The Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and monitoring
to deliver objective audit coverage of all parts of the Group. Global
the appropriateness of the provision of non-audit services by the
Internal Audit is free from interference by any element in the
external auditor. It also applies the Group’s policy on the award of
organisation, including on matters of audit selection, scope,
non-audit services to the external auditor. The non-audit services are
procedures, frequency, timing, or internal audit report content. The
carried out in accordance with the external auditor independence
Group Head of Internal Audit reports to, and meets frequently with,
policy to ensure that services do not create a conflict of interest. All
the Chair of the GAC.
non-audit services are either approved by the GAC Chair, or by Group
Finance when acting within delegated limits and criteria set by the In addition, in 2024, there was continued heightened interaction
GAC. between Global Internal Audit Senior Management and the members
of the GAC, aimed at increasing knowledge and awareness of the
The non-audit services carried out by PwC included 16 engagements
audit universe and existing and emerging risks identified by Global
approved during the year where the fees were over $100,000 but less
Internal Audit. Global Internal Audit adheres to The Institute of Internal
than $1m. Group Finance, to whom the GAC has delegated authority
Auditors' mandatory guidance.
for non-audit services below $1m, considered that it was in the best
interests of the Group to use PwC for these services because they Consistent with previous years, the 2025 audit planning process
were: includes assessing the inherent risks and strength of the control
environment across the audit entities representing the Group. Results
– audit-related assurance services, with the work closely related to
of this assessment are combined with a top-down analysis of risk
work performed in the audit and in some instances required by
themes by risk category to ensure that themes identified are
local regulators to be performed by the external auditor; or
addressed in the annual plan. Audit coverage is achieved using a
– other assurance services that involve obtaining appropriate audit combination of business and functional audits of processes and
evidence to express a conclusion designed to enhance the degree controls, risk management frameworks and major change initiatives,
of confidence of the intended users other than the responsible as well as regulatory audits, investigations and special reviews. In
party about the subject matter information, including attestation addition to the ongoing importance of regulatory-focused work, key
reports on internal controls of a service organisation primarily risk theme categories for 2025 audit coverage remain as: strategy,
prepared for and used by third-party end users. governance and culture; financial crime, conduct and compliance;
financial resilience; and operational resilience. A quarterly continuous
There were no engagements during the year where the fees monitoring assessment of key risk themes will form the basis of
exceeded $1m, above which GAC approval would be required. thematic reporting and plan updates and will ultimately drive the 2026
planning process.
2024 2023
Auditors‘ remuneration $m $m Global Internal Audit has made updates to the audit universe and risk
assessment to reflect the Group reorganisation. As a result, audits
Total fees payable 146.6 155.9
have been added to the 2025 Annual Audit Plan, and audits have been
of which fees for non-audit services 43.8 46.1
Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees1 43.0% 42.0% refocused, to reflect the risks arising from the Group reorganisation.
In addition to the Group reorganisation, Global Internal Audit’s new or
1 The calculation is on a simple ratio and is not based on FRC guidance on non-
audit fees ratio thresholds. heightened areas of coverage for 2025 are: Group strategy; significant
change initiatives including regulatory change; material regulatory
Whistleblowing and speak-up culture obligations; compliance; anti-money laundering and sanctions;
conduct, internal and external fraud; credit risk management; financial
An important part of HSBC’s values is speaking up when something
forecasting; regulatory reporting; enterprise wide risk management,
does not feel right. HSBC remains committed to ensuring colleagues
operational resilience; Financial Reporting Council Corporate
have confidence to speak up and acting when they do. A wide variety
Governance reporting on material controls; model risk management;
of channels are provided for colleagues to raise concerns, including
data management; technology resilience and cybersecurity; and
the Group’s whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential (see page 80
incident and escalation management. In addition, Global Internal Audit
for further information).
will continue its programme of culture audits to assess the extent that
The Board has delegated responsibility to the GAC to oversee the behaviours reflect HSBC’s purpose, ambition, strategy and values.
effectiveness of HSBC’s whistleblowing procedures. The Chair of the The annual audit plan and material plan updates made in response to
GAC is a Group Senior Manager (’SMF7’), and has a prescribed changes in the Group’s structure and risk profile are approved by the
responsibility as the Whistleblowers’ Champion to ensure integrity of GAC.
HSBC’s policy and procedure on whistleblowing and protecting those
The results of audit work, together with an assessment of the Group’s
who report concerns. As part of his responsibility, the GAC Chair
overall governance, risk management and control framework and
reports to the Board on the GAC’s oversight of whistleblowing as part
processes are reported to the GAC, GRC and local audit and risk
of his regular reporting updates.
committees, as appropriate. This reporting highlights key themes
The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance regularly updates the GAC identified through audit activity, and the output from continuous
on whistleblowing effectiveness, including controls assessments and monitoring. This includes business and regulatory developments and an
internal audit findings. In 2024, the GAC has been briefed on actions independent view of emerging and horizon risk, together with details of
to improve the timeliness of HSBC Confidential investigations against audit coverage and any required changes to the annual audit plan. Based
internal standards. The Committee is also briefed on culture and on regular internal audit reporting to the GAC, private sessions with the
conduct risks from whistleblowing cases and actions taken. In 2024, Group Head of Internal Audit, the Global Professional Practices annual
the GAC Chair also met with the Group Head of Regulatory assessment and quarterly quality assurance updates, the GAC is
Compliance for briefings on significant whistleblowing matters. satisfied with the effectiveness of the Global Internal Audit function
and the appropriateness of its resources. In December 2024, Global
Global Internal Audit Internal Audit’s External Quality Assessment Review was reported to
the GAC, which concluded that Global Internal Audit is a well-
The primary role of the Global Internal Audit function is to help the
respected, independent provider of assurance which is highly valued
Board and Management to strengthen the organisation’s ability to
across the Group and that Global Internal Audit generally conforms
create, protect and sustain value. Global Internal Audit does this by
with the 2017 International Professional Practices framework (’IPPF’),
providing independent, risk based and objective assurance on the
which includes the IIA Standards and Code of Ethics. ’Generally
design and operating effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk
Conforms’ is the highest rating attainable and means the function is
management and control framework and processes, prioritising the
compliant with the requirements of the Standards in all material
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 267
Corporate
governance
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Significant Investment in an associate – Bank of – The GAC reviewed and challenged management’s judgements and disclosures in
accounting Communications Co., Limited relation to impairment reviews of HSBC’s investment in BoCom, performed using a
judgements During the year, management performed impairment value-in-use methodology.
reviews of HSBC’s investment in Bank of – The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of key assumptions such as projected
Communications Co., Ltd (‘BoCom’). This included future cash flows, with particular focus on the potential impacts of the publicly
assessment as to whether there is indication of announced policies aimed at promoting growth and economic development in China
further impairment, or that previously recognised during the fourth quarter of 2024.
impairment may no longer exist or may have – The GAC considered the consistency of judgements with prior period impairment
decreased. The impairment reviews are complex and reviews, reflecting available details as at 31 December 2024 as to how these
require significant judgements, such as the policies may be enacted.
appropriateness of projected future cash flows,
discount rate, and regulatory capital assumptions.
Interest rate management – The GAC received regular management updates on hedging strategy, including the
During 2024, management proposed a framework for repositioning of structural interest rate hedges.
the disposal of selected hold-to-collect-and-sell – The Committee reviewed controls on, and financial outcomes of, disposals of hold-
securities to improve risk management of hold-to- to-collect-and-sell securities.
collect-and-sell positions and to stabilise and protect
net interest income over the medium term.
Impairment of goodwill and non-financial assets – The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s approach and methodology
During the year, management tested for impairment used for the impairment testing of goodwill and non-financial assets, with a key
goodwill and non-financial assets including additional focus on the projected cash flows included in the forecasts and discount rates used.
consideration for the future impacts resulting from the – The GAC also challenged management’s key judgements and considered the
announced organisational restructure. Key reasonableness of the outcomes against business forecasts and strategic objectives
judgements in this area relate to long-term growth of HSBC.
rates, discount rates and projected future cash flows
to include for each cash-generating unit tested, both
in terms of compliance with the accounting standards
and reasonableness of the forecasts.
Legal proceedings and regulatory matters – The Committee reviewed reports from management on legal proceedings and
Management has used judgement in relation to the regulatory matters, and challenged related accounting judgements and disclosures.
recognition and measurement of provisions, as well
as the existence of contingent liabilities for legal and
regulatory matters.
Tax-related judgements – The Committee considered the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Committee
HSBC has recognised deferred tax assets to the also considered management’s judgements relating to tax positions in respect of
extent that they are recoverable through expected which the appropriate tax treatment is uncertain, open to interpretation or has been
future taxable profits. Significant judgement continues challenged by the tax authority.
to be exercised in assessing the probability and
sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals of
existing taxable temporary differences and expected
outcomes relating to uncertain tax treatments.
Long-term viability and going concern statement – In accordance with the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes, the
The GAC has considered a wide range of information Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal and emerging risks of the
relating to present and future projections of Group and parent company. The GAC considered the statement to be made by the
profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and Directors and concluded that the Group and parent company will be able to continue
capital resources. These considerations include in operation and meet liabilities as they fall due, and that it is appropriate that the
stressed scenarios and the implications of: long-term viability statement covers a period of three years.
– geopolitical tensions including the ongoing Russia-
Ukraine and Middle East conflicts, US-China
tensions and the consequential impacts on the
supply chains globally;
– macroeconomic risks including inflationary risks,
mainland China and Hong Kong real estate sector
risks and economic policy uncertainty following
election outcomes globally; and
– climate risk, operational resilience, and other top
and emerging risks, and the related impact on
profitability, capital and liquidity.
Impact of acquisitions and disposals – The Committee reviewed management’s judgements related to the completion of
HSBC engaged in a number of business acquisitions the sale of the Group's banking business in Canada and of HSBC Argentina, as well
and disposals, notably in Canada, Germany, South as the planned sales of the German private bank business and the business in South
Africa, Argentina, Armenia and Russia. Judgement Africa, such as the timing of classification as held-for-sale and the remeasurement of
was involved in determining the timing of recognition assets.
of assets held-for-sale, gains or losses, and the
measurement of assets and liabilities on acquisition or
disposal.
Financial and Environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) – The Committee considered ESG disclosures for the Annual Report and Accounts
regulatory reporting 2024 in detail, to ensure these were fair and balanced, and were also transparent on
reporting The Committee considered management’s efforts to the challenges faced and aligned with the Group’s progress in the embedding of
enhance ESG disclosures and associated verification sustainable and climate-related policies across the business. In addition, the
and assurance activities, with a specific focus on the committee reviewed the narrative relating to our net zero ambitions and targets and
net zero transition plan and climate-related disclosures the planned annual net zero transition plan review.
made in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 269
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Regulatory reporting – The Committee reflected on the continued focus on the quality and reliability of
The GAC monitored progress by management in regulatory reporting by the PRA and other regulators globally.
delivering a sustainable control environment for – The Committee oversaw management’s execution against the agreed remediation
regulatory reporting across the Group. plans, and challenged management on the approach and timeframes to deliver
accurate reporting submissions to the Group’s global regulators. Discussions
included a focus on shared dependencies across various Group-wide programmes,
for example and in particular, data.
Control Sustainable control environment – The Committee received regular updates on the control environment, and broader
environment The GAC oversaw the effectiveness of the internal change framework, to review the impact on financial reporting and tax risk within
control environment of the Group, including with the Group, with regular updates provided on IFRS 17 and Basel 3.1.
regards to the requirements of US Sarbanes-Oxley – In these updates the Committee monitored the assessment of the financial
Act. reporting risk, tax risk and progress made on remediation of US Sarbanes-Oxley Act
significant deficiencies. This oversight helped the Committee to understand the
During the year, the remit of the GAC with regards to progress being made by management to set out strategic actions to remediate
internal control was extended beyond financial identified issues and uplift the control environment to enable a sustainable reduction
reporting controls to include oversight of all internal in risk.
controls. – Management’s updates were supplemented by further focus and assurance work
from Global Internal Audit, including audits of significant programmes of activity
during 2024.
– The Committee oversaw the work to support the Group’s oversight of internal
controls, including the establishment and scope of responsibilities of the new Group
Controls Oversight Office.
Regulatory Basel 3.1 Reform – The Committee received updates on the progress and impact of the Basel 3.1
change The GAC considered the implementation of the Basel programme on the Group, including following the publication by the PRA on
3.1 Reform and the impact on the capital 12 September 2024 of the second near-final policy statement and rules covering
requirements and RWA assurance. This was their implementation.
considered in the context of the strategy and – Management discussed the delayed implementation dates, ongoing uncertainty
structure of the balance sheet. over the final definition of the rules by regulators, and the work undertaken to
mitigate delivery risks given the concentration of delivery during 2024 & 1H25. The
discussion highlighted the dependencies of the Basel 3.1 programme with data,
models and subject matter resources.
– The Committee reviewed the ongoing management of risks, issues and
dependencies and challenged management to prioritise deliverables across each
jurisdiction in line with regulatory timelines. The Committee discussions focused on
ensuring, in each case, that the Group complied with the applicable minimum
standards under the regulation.
Committee performance review
In 2024, the annual review of the performance of the Board meeting in 2025 to provide additional, dedicated time for discussion,
committees, including the GAC, was conducted externally by IBE. On given the range and complexity of topics under the Committee’s
the basis of the review, directors concluded that the GAC continued remit. The review highlighted the continued importance of strong
to operate effectively. interaction between the GAC, GRC, and GTOC agendas, via the
Committee Chairs, and this will continue to be an area of focus in
Positive feedback was noted on the refreshed Committee
2025.
composition, in particular the change of Committee leadership and
the new practices and focus introduced, including on the control Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee
environment. The Committee will consider scheduling an extra effectiveness can be found on page 257.
270 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
I am proud to have led the GRC this year and am pleased at the The participation of our senior business leaders, including the Group
effective execution of its duties. I am confident the Committee CEO who attended five scheduled GRC meetings in 2024, and the
remains well placed to discharge its responsibilities and provide chief executive officers of the three global businesses reaffirmed the
valuable advice to the Board in 2025 and the future. ownership of, and accountability for, risks in the first line of defence.
Outside of formal meetings, the Chair meets regularly with the Group
Committee governance Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and, where appropriate, members
of senior management, to discuss priorities and track progress on key
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group CFO, Group actions. The Chair also meets regularly with the GRC Secretary to
Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief Information Officer, Group Chief ensure the GRC addresses its governance responsibilities. A
People & Governance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer and Group summary of coverage is set out in the ’Matters considered during
Head of Internal Audit are standing attendees at GRC meetings. The 2024’ table.
Chair and members of the GRC also hold private meetings with the
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the Group Head of Strategy
and Corporate Development, the Group Head of Internal Audit and the
external auditor, PwC, following scheduled GRC meetings.
Matters considered during 2024
Jan2 Feb Mar2 May Jun Jul Sep Dec
Holistic enterprise risk monitoring including
Group risk profile1 u u u u u u u u
Risk framework and policies u u u u u u u u
Treasury and traded risk u u u u u u u u
Wholesale/retail credit risk u u u u u u u u
Financial reporting risk u u u u u u u u
Resilience risk (including IT and operational risk) u u u u u u u u
Financial crime risk u u u u u u u u
People and conduct risk u u u u u u u u
Regulatory compliance risk u u u u u u u u
Legal risk u u u u u u u u
Model risk u u u u u u u u
Climate risk u u u u u u u u
Strategic risk u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
1 The GRC receives updates on all risk types through the Group risk profile, which is presented to all regular meetings.
2 The January and March meetings are ad hoc meetings with a reduced agenda.
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Activities outside formal meetings These interactions furthered the GRC’s understanding of the risk profile
of the principal subsidiaries, leading to more comprehensive review and
The GRC held a number of meetings outside its regular schedule to
challenge by the GRC.
facilitate deeper and more effective oversight of the risks impacting
the Group. Areas covered included ICAAP and ILAAP preparations, Collaborative oversight by the GRC, GAC,
interest rate risk in the banking book, operational resilience and model
Group Technology and Operations Committee
risk management, as well as briefings on the Resolvability
Assessment Framework and the Group Risk Appetite Framework. (’GTOC’) and Group Remuneration Committee
Further details of these sessions are included in the ’Principal
(’RemCo’)
activities and significant issues considered during 2024’ table starting
on page 273. The GRC worked closely with the GAC and the GTOC to address any
areas of significant overlap, and to oversee risk and controls more
Connectivity with principal subsidiary risk
comprehensively through inter-committee communications and joint
committees meetings.
During 2024, the GRC continued to actively engage with principal The GRC and the GAC convened on one occasion to consider a range
subsidiary risk committees through the scheduled participation of of issues, including changes being made to how each committee
principal subsidiary risk committee chairs at relevant GRC meetings, and manages and oversees internal controls.
through regular connectivity meetings with the principal subsidiary risk
committee chairs. These meetings are also attended by the Group Chief The GRC and GTOC worked closely to ensure appropriate alignment
Risk and Compliance Officer. This participation and connectivity in the review, discussion, challenge and conclusions on topics
promoted the sharing of information and best practices between the including risk and control issues relating to digital assets and
GRC and principal subsidiary risk committees, as well as encouraging currencies, the Group's data strategy, artificial intelligence and
director relationships. Principal subsidiary risk committee chairs were cybersecurity. This ensured that the committees benefited from each
invited to attend a joint meeting between the GRC and the GAC in order other’s expertise and challenge.
that a consistent message on changes to committee responsibilities
Coordination between the GRC, GAC and the GTOC is supported by
with regards to internal controls was received.
cross-membership. The GRC Chair attends the GAC, the GTOC Chair
The GRC has also received certifications from the principal subsidiary attends the GRC, and the GAC Chair attends both the GTOC and
risk committees, confirming that management had been challenged on GRC, strengthening connectivity and the flow of information between
the quality of the information provided, the committees had reviewed the committees.
the actions proposed by management to address any emerging issues
and that risk management and internal control systems had been
operating effectively.
272 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The GRC and Group RemCo work collaboratively to consider risk adjustment to the variable pay pool as part of the Group reward process, given
the integral nature of risk management to the Group’s performance culture. This year, the committee has also considered improvements to the
Risk and Reward framework.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024
Risk areas Key issues Conclusions and actions
Holistic Macroeconomic, geopolitical and other emerging – The GRC closely monitored geopolitical and macroeconomic risks that could impact
enterprise risk risks have the potential to present significant the Group’s strategy, business performance or operations. These risks were
monitoring, challenges to revenue growth, operational resilience exacerbated by ongoing conflict between Russia-Ukraine, the Israel-Hamas conflict
including Group and our commitment to serve customers and local and rising political tensions between the US and China. The resulting sanctions risk
risk profile markets. from these events has required significant focus and oversight by the Committee.
While market sentiment and economic growth had been more positive than forecast,
the real estate sector continued to experience pressure, particularly in mainland
China and Hong Kong.
– The GRC continued to track top and emerging risks, our risk appetite and other
management information metrics, as well as other early warning measures to
understand sensitivities and the likelihood of the potential impact to our operations,
customers and stakeholders. The GRC provided oversight and challenge of a robust
book of strategic management actions to respond to potential downside scenarios.
– The GRC requested reports on the risk profile of key business areas in local
geographies and invited principal subsidiary chairs and relevant management to
attend and participate in discussions.
Risk framework Effective risk management policies, frameworks, – The Group has a risk appetite statement to define risk appetite and tolerance
and policies appetites and thresholds, and oversight of these, are thresholds, which forms the basis of the risk management procedures for the first
essential for HSBC to safely, consistently and and second lines of defence, the Group’s capacity and capabilities to support
sustainably support customers, manage risk and customers, and the achievement of strategic goals. The GRC maintained oversight of
deliver strategic aims. the Group’s risk appetite framework, reviewing changes to the Group’s risk appetite
statements and recommending these to the Board for approval. This year's update to
the risk appetite statement was focused on providing essential coverage of the key
risks facing the Group and setting thresholds that reflected its desired risk profile for
these risks. A review of the Group risk appetite framework was also undertaken to
assess the dimensions of the framework and consider principles and approaches to
support effective and consistent appetite setting for the Group’s broader business
strategy. Areas of proposed improvement included: expanding assessments against
appetite to an evaluation-based risk appetite that considers the entire risk profile; and
enhancing Board-level overall statements to explicitly define the Group’s targeted
appetite and the risks outside of appetite or tolerance, as well as qualitative context.
– The GRC met with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the Global Head
of Enterprise Risk Management individually to ensure clarity and understanding of
the changes being proposed, and how the improved design would support better
outcomes for the Group. The framework has been validated by Oliver Wyman and
brings the risk appetite framework into line with industry peers.
– The GRC also reviewed and approved proposed annual updates to HSBC’s Risk
Management Framework, providing a standardised, Group-wide approach to the
identification, treatment and reporting of risk.
Treasury risk It is essential that capital and liquidity risk is – The Group proactively tracks and maintains safeguarding of its capital and liquidity
monitored effectively, and the Group takes active positions. It performs internal and regulatory stress tests to measure resilience and
steps to maintain its capital and liquidity positions. performance against a range of stress scenarios, and to challenge the strategic
Regular stress testing is undertaken to ascertain the management actions that could be applied against anticipated stress events and
Group’s operation when under stress. Developing headwinds.
action plans and guardrails to cover scenarios of – The GRC conducted its annual review and challenge of the Group’s ICAAP and ILAAP,
recovery or resolution at a subsidiary or Group level and provided its recommendation to the Board for approval. The GRC continued to
is an essential part of HSBC’s prudential monitor Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (’IRRBB’) sensitivity, structural hedging
management. strategy and the ongoing activities to develop the Group’s capabilities for internal
reporting and enhanced external disclosures. An education session on IRRBB was held
in April to provide the Committee with the Group’s latest position, context around the
regulatory feedback and an overview of the different components of IRRBB.
– The GRC reviewed the Group’s ongoing activities to identify, manage and mitigate
treasury, capital and liquidity risks, including early warning indicators, sensitivity
analysis, capital and liquidity reporting and adequacy.
– In relation to stress testing exercises, the GRC reviewed the Group Recovery Plan
stress scenarios in March and September. The GRC also considered the Group-wide
internal stress test, scenarios and outputs, which contribute to the Group’s
commitment to regularly test the resilience of the balance sheet and profit and loss
under multiple scenarios of varying severity. An internal climate scenario analysis was
undertaken, with results presented in February 2024.
– As part of its regulatory obligations, the Group is required to show how its recovery
and resolution strategies could be executed effectively and identify any risks to
successful implementation. The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s progress in
maintaining and developing its capabilities under the Bank of England’s requirements
for resolvability. The GRC has been regularly updated on the Group’s implementation
of the PRA’s Trading Activity Wind Down requirements in preparation for the March
2025 deadline, which will require the Group to have implemented a set of capabilities
that will allow the execution of a full or partial wind down of its trading activities in an
orderly fashion. In March 2024, the GRC reviewed the Resolvability Assessment
Framework public disclosure and made a recommendation to the Board for approval. In
June 2024, management presented the 2024 Group Recovery Plan ahead of its
submission to the PRA in June. The plan was also recommended to the Board for
approval. The Chairs of the GRC and the GAC both received comprehensive briefings
prior to the presentation of both submissions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 273
Corporate
governance
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Risk areas Key issues Conclusions and actions
People and People are central to everything HSBC does – The GRC considered people risk issues with a focus on capacity, capability, culture and
conduct risk and it is essential to manage the risk of not conduct. It also considered remuneration risks, and strategies to retain talent and acquire new
having the right people with the right skills, capabilities in key areas, with a particular focus on approaches to maintain low attrition rates.
and to ensure staff always have the – The GRC now considers an Annual Conduct Update, further to the implementation of the
customer’s interest at the forefront. Purpose Led Conduct Framework in 2023.
Monitoring of conduct outcomes is integral to – The GRC and Group RemCo met in September to consider improvements to the Risk and
ensuring the needs of our customers are Reward framework. The proposed changes support better understanding of the risk factors
adequately met. used to drive performance assessments and how judgements made align to the application
of the Risk Modifier.
– The GRC met in November to review the Group’s risk and reward alignment framework to
promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and FCA remuneration rules
and expectations.
Regulatory As a result of operating in multiple – The GRC and its members actively engage with regulators and act on feedback. The
compliance risk jurisdictions globally, HSBC is exposed to risks Committee closely monitors the progress of regulatory remediation activities, with support
associated with inappropriate market conduct from the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer as well as principal subsidiary risk
or breaching related financial services committee chairs. Throughout the year, the GRC had oversight over reports providing
regulatory standards or expectations. feedback from regulators, including a summary of regulatory deliverables to ensure HSBC
remains in line with regulatory standards and expectations.
– The GRC also considered the 'Statement of Compliance' exercise, which is an assessment of
Significant Regulatory Matters undertaken for principal subsidiary CEOs, providing an opinion
as to how well managed these are and where gaps may exist. Further to a pilot undertaken in
Mexico, this approach is now being rolled out across all principal subsidiaries.
Legal risk HSBC is exposed to the risk of financial loss, – The GRC oversees and receives regular updates on key legal developments and material legal
legal or regulatory action resulting from issues from the Group Chief Legal Officer. The updates also cover material litigation and
contractual risk, dispute management risk, regulatory enforcement matters and an overview of the legal risk profile of HSBC.
breach of competition law or intellectual
property risk.
Climate risk Environmental, social and governance risks – The GRC remained focused on climate risk and greenwashing risk. The GRC received reports
present significant risks to organisations both on climate risk management and sustainability risk policies, while maintaining oversight of
in terms of their own operations and how they delivery plans and risk appetite breaches to help ensure that the Group continues to develop
engage with stakeholders and communities. and maintains robust climate risk management capabilities. Reputation risk considerations
have also formed part of these discussions.
– The GRC approved the 2024 internal climate scenario analysis in February 2024. The
outcomes will be used to respond to multiple regional regulatory climate exercises as well as
meeting regulatory expectations on incorporating climate change within the Group’s strategic
plans and ICAAP.
Committee performance review Focus of future activities
2024/2025 The GRC’s focus for 2025 will include the following activities:
In 2024 the annual review of the performance of the Board – to continue to monitor the effective delivery of risk transformation
Committees, including the GRC, was conducted externally by IBE. On programmes and to seek assurance that the enhanced capabilities
the basis of the review, Directors concluded that the GRC continued have been fully embedded into the business;
to operate effectively.
– to support the continued enhancement of the Group's risk appetite
Areas for enhancement were identified, including the need for: and risk management frameworks further to the improvements
continued focus on paper quality and content to increase focus on the made in 2024, particularly in light of continued geopolitical and
most significant enterprise and emerging risks; ongoing refinement of macroeconomic headwinds;
the GRC agenda to streamline and enable greater attention to – to continue to assess the Group's operational resilience capability
strategic risk areas; continued additional educational and ‘deep dive’ and to track the completion of the programme of work required by
sessions outside of the formal schedule of meetings to allow for the PRA rules coming into effect in March 2025;
greater debate, insights and learnings, coupled with other
– to continue to support and challenge the remediation activities
mechanisms to guide the scheduled Committee discussions; ongoing
identified to enhance Model Risk Management capabilities in line
work with Management to ensure effective and timely follow up to
with SS 1/23;
Committee challenge. The collaboration across the GRC, GAC and
GTOC agendas, via the Committee Chairs, will continue in 2025. – to continue to oversee treasury risk to strengthen our capital and
liquidity management capabilities;
The outcomes of the performance review have been reported to the
Board, and the GRC will track the progress in implementing – to continue the oversight of recovery and resolution planning
recommendations during 2025. activities to assess our capabilities if such a situation arises, with
particular focus on our Trading Activity Wind Down obligations;
Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee
– to monitor delivery against our climate ambitions and the
effectiveness can be found on page 257.
development of appropriate data and model management tools
and capabilities; and
– to continue to oversee financial crime risk and the strengthening of
the financial crime control framework, including proactive
management by the business.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 275
Corporate
governance
Committee governance
The GTOC operates under delegated authority from the Board and Chief Information Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief
advises the Board on matters concerning the Group’s technology and Risk and Compliance Officer, and Group Head of Internal Audit, as
operations strategies and related matters. The GTOC Chair reports on required.
the key matters and discussions at the subsequent Board meeting,
The GTOC Chair meets regularly with the Group Chief Information
and the Board also has access to the GTOC papers and receives
Officer and Group Chief Operating Officer and other members of
copies of meeting agendas and minutes.
senior management, to discuss priorities and track progress on key
The Group Chief Information Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, actions. The Chair also meets regularly with the GTOC Secretary to
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Global Head of Enterprise ensure the GTOC addresses its governance responsibilities. A
Risk Management, Group CFO, Group Head of Internal Audit, and the summary of coverage is set out in the ’Matters considered during
external auditor are standing attendees at GTOC meetings. The Chair 2024’ table.
and members of the GTOC also hold private meetings with the Group
Matters considered during 2024
Mar May Jun Jul Sep Nov Dec
Technology u u u u u u u
Investment and transformation u u u u u u u
Resilience u u u u u u u
Innovation u u u u u u u
Cybersecurity u u u u u u u
Data u u u u u u u
Resource and capability u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Engagement outside formal meetings Collaborative oversight by the GTOC, GRC
The GTOC Chair held several meetings outside its regular schedule to and GAC
facilitate deeper and more effective oversight of all key topics under
The GTOC worked closely with the GRC and the GAC to address any
its remit. The Chair regularly met with key stakeholders, including
areas of significant overlap, and to oversee technology more
executives, programme sponsors, second and third line of defence,
comprehensively through inter-committee communications.
and independent third parties.
The committees worked closely to ensure appropriate alignment in
On 16 October 2024, KPMG held an education session on Third Party
the review, discussion, challenge, and conclusions on topics including
Management for the HSBC Holdings Board covering industry insights,
technology, cybersecurity, data and innovation. This ensured that the
trends, and the regulatory landscape. Further details of this and
committees benefited from each other’s expertise and challenge.
similar sessions are included in the ’Principal activities and significant
issues considered during 2024’ table starting on page 277. On 16 September 2024, members of the Group Technology, Group
Risk and Group Remuneration Committees met to consider proposed
Connectivity with principal subsidiaries
changes to HSBC’s risk and reward alignment framework and to
Board members representing the four principal subsidiaries (UK, Asia, promote accountability for technology deliverables.
Europe and the US) are invited to attend the GTOC. As described
Coordination between the GTOC, GRC and the GAC is supported by
above, two additional ‘GTOC - Principal Subsidiaries’ meetings were
cross-membership. The GTOC Chair attends the GRC, the GRC Chair
held covering Operational Resilience (resiliency challenges, regulatory
attends the GAC, and the GAC Chair attends both the GTOC and
requirements and action plans to address resilience issues).
GRC, strengthening connectivity and the flow of information between
the committees.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024
Area of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Technology There is Group-wide focus to – The GTOC regularly reviewed and challenged updates in relation to the technology strategy and the
strategy implement the technology strategy. programmes in place to deliver. The committee oversaw and requested more granularity on
This requires clarity and alignment of timelines, the prioritisation approach, key risks, dependencies and challenges.
priorities and collaboration across – Additionally, the GTOC challenged that focus, funding and resource was being applied to enable the
businesses, functions, and markets to execution timelines to be met and requested assurances from Risk and Global Internal Audit on the
deliver the most critical initiatives. robustness of the approach and progress being made.
Technology The Board and Board Committees rely – The GTOC provided detailed feedback and insights on work to refine Board level metrics to ensure
strategy: on quality management information, strong governance and accountability across technology, cybersecurity and data. Discussions
management KPIs and metrics to effectively included the calibration of quantifiable triggers and tolerance levels.
information and oversee the areas under their remit.
KPIs
Investment and A number of significant programmes – The GTOC challenged management on the quality of business cases and provided inputs to the
transformation with material technology components enhanced investment case framework, which has been refined to require:
have been subject to replanning and/ – articulation of risks and dependencies to ensure that these are well understood by
or did not deliver the benefits management, and appropriately considered;
expected. – detailed insights on the opportunity and peer insights; and
– accurate and informed cost estimations.
Investment and Payments is a significant proposition – The GTOC provided oversight of the Global Payments Solutions strategy, including the risk profile,
transformation: for HSBC and is subject to an ongoing effectiveness of the control environment, investment and expected benefits, and alignment of the
Global Payments investment programme. current technology stack to the desired target state architecture.
Solutions
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 277
Corporate
governance
Directors’ remuneration report
“Our new remuneration policy will support the delivery of our strategy and materially
strengthen the alignment between performance, pay and shareholder interests.“
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
Chair
Group Remuneration Committee
Membership1 Key responsibilities
Member Meeting attendance The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
since in 2024
– making recommendations to the Board, for approval by
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (Chair) Sep 2021 9/9
shareholders, on the Group’s remuneration policy;
Geraldine Buckingham Jun 2022 9/9
– setting the overarching principles, parameters and governance
Rachel Duan Sep 2021 9/9
framework of the Group’s remuneration policy;
Ann Godbehere Sep 2023 9/9
José Antonio Meade May 2021 9/9 – approving the remuneration of executive Directors and other senior
Kuribreña Group employees; and
Kalpana Jaisingh Morparia2 Oct 2024 2/2 – regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the remuneration policy of
Eileen Murray May 2023 9/9 the Group and its subsidiaries in the context of strategy, culture,
conduct and effective risk management.
1 All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors
of HSBC Holdings plc.
2 Kalpana Jaisingh Morparia joined the Committee on 1 October 2024.
All disclosures in the Directors’ remuneration report are unaudited unless otherwise stated. Disclosures marked as audited should be
considered audited in the context of financial statements taken as a whole.
Dear shareholders, Context for the review and overall remuneration structure
In 2014, as a result of European legislation (CRD IV), the Prudential
I am delighted to present our 2024 Directors’ remuneration report on
Regulation Authority (’PRA’) and Financial Conduct Authority (’FCA’)
behalf of the members of the Group Remuneration Committee (the
introduced a 2:1 cap on the ratio between variable and fixed pay for
’Committee’). I would like to thank Geraldine Buckingham for her
material risk takers (’MRTs’). In response to this change, in line with
valued contribution and to welcome Kalpana Morparia.
other global banks operating in Europe, we introduced Fixed Pay
I also thank you, our shareholders, for your support of our Allowances (’FPAs’) so that HSBC could balance being competitive on
remuneration resolutions at the 2024 Annual General Meeting a total compensation basis and complying with the remuneration
(’AGM’). Our implementation of the current Directors’ remuneration rules.
policy and our resolution to provide the Committee with discretion to
For our executive Directors, we converted part of their variable pay
set an appropriate variable to fixed pay ratio received respectively
opportunity (annual incentive of 300% of salary and long-term
over 97% and 99% of votes cast in favour.
incentive of 600% of salary) into new FPAs at an effective discount of
The most significant item on the Committee's agenda this year was 50% to reflect the greater certainty of fixed pay. The change
the review of the Directors’ remuneration policy. The changes and materially weakened the link between performance and pay and
supporting rationale are set out over the following pages. We present reduced the maximum total remuneration opportunity from
the formal policy for shareholder approval before describing the key £13,125,000 to £10,725,000 for the Group CEO and from £7,350,000
remuneration decisions for our executive Directors for 2024, our to £6,000,000 for the Group CFO. The total opportunity has remained
approach to wider workforce reward and Committee governance. largely unchanged over the last decade, despite subsequent changes
Further information and disclosure is provided at the end of the report to the Directors’ remuneration policy and changes in incumbents and
to meet our reporting obligations in the UK and Hong Kong. scope of the Group CFO role.
2025 executive Director remuneration policy Over several years, the Committee has expressed concerns that the
2:1 cap was having a material impact on the competitiveness of the
Commencing in 2023, the Committee undertook a detailed review of executive Director remuneration opportunity at HSBC versus
the executive Directors’ remuneration policy to ensure it remains international peers.
appropriate given the size and complexity of the Group, the talent
market in which we compete and regulatory and best practice Now that the 2:1 variable to fixed pay ratio has been removed by UK
developments. regulators, the Committee feels it is the right time to return to a
remuneration structure with a higher proportion of variable pay linked
We extensively engaged with major shareholders, representing 65% to performance that is more closely aligned to the experience of our
of those who voted at the 2024 AGM, and proxy advisory bodies. shareholders. This will also help address compression between the
Shareholders were supportive of the proposals and understood the total compensation of our executive Directors and some of our Group
rationale for change. We received valuable feedback on our Operating Committee roles.
disclosure, which we have covered within this report. Our discussions
focused on the need for stretching performance targets, and some We have received strong support from shareholders for our existing
individual shareholders had feedback on specific performance policy over many years, which we discussed in our recent
measures. The Committee carefully considered all feedback received, engagement. In determining the new policy, the Committee
which has directly influenced final proposals. considered several different incentive structures, recognising the
diversity in approach among our global peers. This included more
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 279
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
– Reduce the weighting for PBT to 10% and remove Asia RoTE to Changes in non-executive Director fees
reduce overlap with Group RoTE and simplify the scorecard. This The Board, excluding non-executive Directors, has reviewed the fees
change retains financial measures at 60% of the scorecard, which payable to non-executive Directors in the context of changes to the
the Committee believes appropriately balances investor views organisational structure. Following this review, it was considered that
with regulatory expectations for a balanced scorecard. the fees payable for chairing or being a member of a Board
– Maintain customer Net Promoter Score as a strategic measure to Committee (excluding the Nomination & Corporate Governance
reflect our ambition to be a top-three bank for customer Committee) should be increased to recognise the responsibilities and
satisfaction and/or improve customer satisfaction rank. material additional time commitment associated with such a role.
– Include people and culture measures that support us in Giving due consideration to the highly regulated and complex industry
strengthening our inclusive culture of high-performance. in which HSBC operates, it was agreed to align the additional fee for
chairing a Board Committee at £150,000 per annum (i.e., in line with
For the 2025–2027 LTI, we will: the current fee for chairing the Group Risk Committee). The increase
in the fee for chairing a Board Committee will be phased over two
– Retain Group RoTE, relative total shareholder return (’TSR’) and
years, with an increase to £125,000 per annum for 2025, and a further
environment measures.
increase to £150,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2026.
– Increase the weighting of RoTE to 40%, reflecting that the delivery
The Board also agreed increases to the additional fee for being a
of a strong stable return on tangible equity is a core measure of
member of a Board Committee, and for the role of designated non-
the sustainable returns expected by our investors.
executive Director for workforce engagement to £50,000 per annum.
– Increase the weighting of relative TSR to 40% as it is a key These increases reflect the additional activity being undertaken during
measure of shareholder returns, a material relative measure used this period of organisational and cultural change. No other changes
by our peers and in line with investor expectations. are proposed to non-executive Director fees for 2025.
– Reduce the weighting of the environment measure from 25% to
Performance in 2024
20% following feedback from our shareholders on the metrics and
targets used given the higher LTI opportunity, recognising that Financial performance
financed emissions targets remain difficult to include at this time. Our financial performance in 2024 demonstrates that our strategy is
This ensures a greater proportion of the scorecard is aligned to working and is delivering strong returns for our shareholders.
value creation while supporting our ESG ambitions.
We delivered a reported profit before tax of $32.3bn, up $2.0bn
We will not use financed emission targets for the 2025-2027 LTI
compared with 2023. This increase included a $1.0bn net favourable
awards given current challenges in methodology and the timeliness
impact from notable items, which in 2024 included gains and losses
and frequency of reporting, which was generally accepted by the
relating to our disposals in Canada and Argentina. Constant currency
investors we spoke to. The Committee will keep this under review for
profit before tax excluding notable items increased by $1.4bn to
future performance cycles.
$34.1bn.
Group RoTE is the only measure used in both our annual incentive
Reported revenue of $65.9bn was stable compared to 2023, despite a
and LTI scorecards, reflecting our focus on delivering sustainable
net adverse movement in gains and losses on our strategic
returns and a strong preference for the measure by most
transactions. This reflected higher customer activity in our Wealth
shareholders. This ensures we incentivise capital productivity for the
products in WPB and in Equities and Securities Financing in GBM.
current year whilst supporting our external commitment to deliver
sustainable returns and mid-teens RoTE over the medium-term. 2024 costs on a target basis grew by around 5% in line with our
targeted growth.
We will continue to utilise a risk modifier and operate a judgement-
based approach to adjustments for all risk and compliance matters, Our RoTE for 2024 was 14.6%, compared with 14.6% in 2023.
aligned to shareholder feedback and the expectations of our Excluding notable items, RoTE was 16.0%.
regulators. The Committee considers the application of the risk
modifier each year and has applied it in three instances for our The Board approved a fourth quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share,
executive Directors since its introduction in 2021. bringing the total dividend announced for 2024 to $0.87 per share.
This includes the special dividend of $0.21 per share that was paid in
When setting performance targets, we consider our internal financial June following the completion of the sale of HSBC Bank Canada.
planning and strategy process, our strategic guidance and analyst Furthermore, in respect of 2024 we announced three share buy-backs
consensus where available such that minimum, target, and maximum worth a total of $9bn, and today we have announced a further share
performance levels are set with stretch. This was a key focus of buy-back of up to $2bn.
investors in our consultation, who recognised that our recent LTI
targets have been set to deliver maximum payouts only for Strategic performance
outperformance. The Committee remains committed to ensuring We continue to make good progress in reshaping the Group. In 2024,
there is sufficient stretch in our targets in future years, which is we completed the sales of our retail banking operations in France, our
demonstrated in the maximum RoTE target for the 2025-2027 LTI and banking business in Canada, and our businesses in Argentina, Russia
illustrated below. and Armenia. We acquired SilkRoad Property Partners Group in
Singapore and Citi’s retail wealth management portfolio in mainland
LTI Group RoTE performance range versus external guidance China. We announced divestments in our private banking business in
Germany and our business in South Africa, as well as the planned sale
Mid-teens of our life insurance business in France. In October 2024, we
2025-2027 LTI announced a simplified organisational structure to accelerate delivery
14.0% 16.0% 18.0% against our strategic priorities.
2024-2026 LTI We continue to strengthen our scale positions in Hong Kong and the
14.0% 16.0% 17.0% UK and drive strong profit generation in these businesses. We remain
2023-2025 LTI 12%+ focused on our goal to become a digital-first bank and have continued
to see growth in customer adoption of our digital services across all
13.0% 14.3% 15.5%
our businesses, which is reflected in our Net Promoter Scores.
External guidance Minimum to Target Target to Maximum
Over 88% of colleagues participated in our 2024 Snapshot survey
where our employee engagement index rose a further three
percentage points to reach an all-time high of 80%, six percentage
points above the global financial services benchmark.
282 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Committee discretion The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration
payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they
The Committee welcomes the recent consultation announced by the
are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the
PRA and FCA to review the UK remuneration rules to improve the
payment were agreed:
overall competitiveness of UK capital markets. The proposals cover a
wide range of areas, including the application of deferral and retention – before the policy above or any previous policy came into effect;
periods, which are directly applicable to our policy design.
– at a time where a previous policy, approved by shareholders, was
Aligned to the key principles used by the Committee to set the policy, in place provided the payment is in line with the terms of that
the Committee feel it is important that it retains discretion to amend policy; or
the structure and terms of awards in the event of regulatory change
– at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the
to ensure the policy continues to meet the expectations of our
Group and the payment was not in consideration for the individual
regulators and it remains competitive versus peers.
becoming a Director of the Group.
Where discretion is exercised by the Committee, changes will always
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying
be made in line with the key principles used to determine the policy.
awards of variable remuneration. This means making payments in line
We will engage with major shareholders ahead of making any material
with the terms that were agreed at the time the award was granted.
change, and clearly disclose any changes and their rationale in our
Annual Report and Accounts. Choice of performance measures and targets
One area discussed with shareholders as part of our engagement was The performance measures selected for the annual incentive and LTI
how the Committee would exercise their discretion on the length and awards will be set on an annual basis by the Committee, taking into
amount of deferral in the event of regulatory change. account the Group’s strategic priorities and any feedback received
from our shareholders. The following table sets out the performance
The Committee believe that deferral mechanisms and the
measures we currently consider for inclusion in our scorecards. The
requirements to deliver a substantial portion of variable remuneration
Committee retains the discretion to choose other measures that are
in shares are critical policy design elements to ensure ongoing
appropriate for achieving our strategic priorities and meeting any
alignment between reward and the interests of our shareholders.
regulatory expectations, taking into account the views of our
We have therefore included in the policy a commitment to ensure shareholders.
that the weighted average time horizon of the deferral period for LTI
Our objective when setting targets is to balance stretch and
awards is at least five years, in line with UK Corporate Governance
achievability so they act as an effective incentive whilst recognising
requirements.
outperformance.
In addition to the specific areas of discretion expressly set out in the
Financial targets are set on a reported basis excluding notable items.
policy table, the incentive plans include a number of operational areas
This means items occurring outside the normal course of business
of discretion available to the Committee, including:
and which are generally not expected to repeat, are excluded, and
– the right to grant awards in the form of conditional share awards or assessed performance is not impacted by one-offs. Performance
options (including nil-cost options); targets are set taking into account a number of factors, including the
targets set in our financial resource plan, our strategic priorities,
– the right to amend a performance condition in accordance with its
shareholder expectations, the economic environment and risk
terms, or if anything happens that causes the Committee to
appetite. Non-financial targets are set based on progress versus prior
consider it appropriate to do so;
year actuals, external commitments and market benchmarks.
– the right to settle the award in cash, based on the relevant share
Minimum targets are set considering prior year(s) performance and
price, or shares as appropriate; and
downside risks to the financial resource plan. Maximum targets
– the right to adjust the award on a variation of share capital or other include a stretch above plan, considering upside opportunities.
corporate event that affects the current or future value of the
award, or alternatively, the right to vest the award early in such The overall range is reviewed, taking into account external
circumstances. commitments and analyst consensus, where available. As a result,
the final target ranges are not formulaically driven or always
symmetrically spread around the plan.
Performance measures
Measures and Example measures for
modifier/underpin Example measures for annual incentive scorecard LTI scorecard Rationale
Financial measures – Profit before tax – RoTE Measures are selected to
– RoTE – Total shareholder return incentivise the achievement
of our financial targets as set
– Revenue growth – Underpin to maintain a
out in our strategic priorities
– Volume growth minimum CET1 ratio and financial resource plan.
– Costs
Strategic measures – Customer satisfaction – Reduce carbon Measures are selected to
– Employee engagement emissions support the delivery of our
– Succession planning and inclusion – Sustainable finance strategic priorities.
– Carbon reduction and sustainable finance
Risk and compliance – Sustained delivery of global conduct outcomes – Modifier linked to risk Measures are chosen to
measures, modifier – Effective financial crime risk management and compliance ensure a high level of
and/or underpin performance accountability of risk and
– Effective management of material operational risks
conduct, to promote an
– Risk metrics to identify when business activities are outside of tolerance effective risk management
level for a significant period of time environment and to embed a
– Failures in risk management that have resulted in significant customer robust governance system.
detriment, reputational damage and/or regulatory censure
– CET1 level
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 289
Corporate
governance
Policy on payments for loss of office – executive Directors
The following table sets out the basis on which payments for loss of office may be made. Other than as set out in the table, there are no further
obligations that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office:
Payments for loss of office
Component of remuneration Approach taken
Fixed pay and benefits Executive Directors may be entitled to payments in lieu of:
– notice, which may consist of base salary, cash in lieu of pension allowance, and other contractual benefits, or an amount in
lieu of; and/or
– accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
Payments may be made in instalments or a lump sum, and may be subject to mitigation, and subject to applicable tax and
social security deductions.
Annual incentive and LTI In exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Committee, an executive Director may be eligible for the grant of annual
incentives and/or LTIs under the HSBC Share Plan, taking into account the time worked in the performance year and based
on the individual’s contribution.
Unvested awards All unvested awards will be forfeited when an executive Director ceases employment voluntarily and is not deemed a good
leaver. An executive Director may be considered a good leaver, under the HSBC Share Plan, if their employment ceases in
specified circumstances, which include:
– ill health, injury or disability, as established to the satisfaction of the Committee;
– retirement with the agreement and approval of the Committee;
– the employee’s employer ceasing to be a member of the Group;
– redundancy with the agreement and approval of the Committee; or
– any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
If an executive Director is considered a good leaver, unvested awards will normally continue to vest in line with the applicable
vesting dates, subject to performance conditions, the HSBC share plan rules, and malus and clawback provisions. Unless the
Committee determined otherwise, awards made subject to forward-looking performance conditions, including LTI awards,
will normally be subject to pro-rating for time in employment during the performance period.
In the event of death, unvested awards will vest and be released to the executive Director’s estate as soon as practicable.
In respect of outstanding unvested awards, the Committee may determine that good leaver status is contingent upon the
Committee being satisfied that the executive Director has no current or future intention at the date of leaving HSBC of being
employed by any competitor financial services firm. The Committee determines the list of competitor firms from time to
time, and the length of time for which this restriction applies. If the Committee becomes aware of any evidence to the
contrary before vesting, the award will lapse.
Post-departure benefits Executive Directors can be provided certain benefits for up to a maximum of seven years from date of departure for those
who depart under good leaver provisions under the HSBC Share Plan, in accordance with the terms of the policy. Benefits
may include, but are not limited to, medical coverage, tax return preparation assistance and legal expenses.
Other Where an executive Director has been relocated as part of their employment, the Committee retains the discretion to pay the
repatriation costs. This may include, but is not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities, and any tax
and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits.
Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, an executive Director may also receive retirement gifts.
Legal claims The Committee retains the discretion to make payments (including professional and outplacement fees) in connection with
an executive Director’s cessation of office or employment. This may include payments that are made in good faith in
discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement of
any claim arising in connection with the cessation of that executive Director’s office or employment.
Change of control In the event of a change of control, outstanding awards will be treated in line with the provisions set out in the respective
plan rules.
Other directorships Service contracts
Executive Directors may accept appointments as non-executive The service contracts of executive Directors do not have a fixed term.
Directors of companies that are not part of HSBC if so authorised by The notice periods of executive Directors are set at the discretion of
either the Board or the Nomination & Corporate Governance the Committee, taking into account market practice and governance
Committee. considerations.
When considering a request to accept a non-executive Director Service agreements for each executive Director are available for
appointment, the Board or the Nomination & Corporate Governance inspection at HSBC Holdings’ registered office. Consistent with the
Committee will take into account, among other things, the expected best interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to minimise
time commitment associated with the proposed appointment. termination payments. Executive Directors may be eligible for a
payment in relation to statutory rights.
The time commitment for external appointments is also routinely
reviewed to ensure that it will not compromise the executive Notice period
Director’s commitment to HSBC. Contract date (rolling) (Director and HSBC)
Georges Elhedery 01 January 2023 12 months
Pam Kaur 01 January 2025 12 months
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 291
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Policy alignment with UK Corporate Governance Code
The table below details how the Group Remuneration Committee addresses the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code with
respect to the Directors’ remuneration policy. This covers both the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code applicable in 2024, and the revised
2024 UK Corporate Governance Code applicable from 2025 onwards. Information related to malus and clawback can be found on page 287.
Provision Approach
Clarity – The Committee regularly engages and consults with major shareholders to take into account shareholder
Remuneration arrangements should be transparent feedback and to ensure there is transparency on our policy and its implementation.
and promote effective engagement with – Details of our remuneration practices and our remuneration policy for Directors are published and
shareholders and the workforce. available to all our employees.
Simplicity – Our Directors’ remuneration policy has been designed so that it is easy to understand and transparent,
while complying with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the remuneration
Remuneration structures should avoid complexity
rules of the UK’s PRA and FCA, as well as meeting the expectations of our shareholders. The objective of
and their rationale and operation should be easy to
each remuneration element is explained and the amount paid in respect of each element is clearly set
understand.
out.
Risk – In line with regulatory requirements, our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk
management while supporting our business objectives.
Remuneration structures should identify and
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer attends Committee meetings and updates the Committee
mitigate against reputational and other risks from
on the overall risk profile of the Group. The Committee also seeks inputs from the Group Risk Committee
excessive rewards, as well as behavioural risks that
when making remuneration decisions.
can arise from target-based incentive plans.
– Risk and conduct considerations are taken into account in setting the variable pay pool, from which any
executive Director variable pay is funded.
– Executive Directors' annual incentive and LTI scorecards include a mix of financial and non-financial
measures. Financial measures are subject to a CET1 underpin to ensure CET1 remains within risk
tolerance levels while achieving financial targets. In addition, the overall scorecard outcome is subject to
a risk and compliance modifier.
– The deferred portion of any awards granted to executive Directors is subject to a seven-year deferral
period during which our malus policy can be applied. All variable pay awards that have vested are subject
to our clawback policy for a period of up to seven years from the award date (extending to 10 years
where an investigation is ongoing).
Predictability – The charts set out on page 292 show how the total value of remuneration and its composition vary
under different performance scenarios for executive Directors.
The range of possible values of rewards to individual
Directors and any other limits or discretions should
be identified and explained at the time of approving
the policy.
Proportionality – The annual incentive and LTI scorecards reward achievement of our financial resource plan targets, as
well as long-term financial and shareholder value creation targets.
The link between individual awards, the delivery of
– The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the annual incentive and LTI payout based on the
strategy and the long-term performance of the
outcome of the relevant scorecards, if it considers that the payout determined does not appropriately
Group should be clear and outcomes should not
reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance period.
reward poor performance.
Alignment with culture – In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve a minimum
standard of conduct, which is assessed by reference to HSBC values.
Incentive schemes should drive behaviours
– Annual incentive and LTI scorecards contain non-financial measures linked to our wider social strategy.
consistent with the Group’s purpose, values and
These include measures related to reducing the environmental impact of our operations, improving
strategy.
customer satisfaction and inclusion.
– Our Leadership 360 provides one of several ways for senior employees to ask for feedback about how
they lead to help inform their ongoing development.
Remuneration arrangements for colleagues
Our reward principles and commitments guide our approach to a certain level have a portion of their award deferred over a period
workforce reward and support our focus on being a great place to of three to seven years, or other period as required by regulators.
work. The Committee reviews these principles and commitments to
– LTI awards are considered for senior management, given their
support HSBC’s overall ability to attract, retain, develop and energise
ability to directly influence the Group's long-term performance.
the best people, and who are aligned to HSBC’s values. Full details of
our remuneration framework for colleagues is provided on page 295. The Board gathers views from our colleagues through a number of
Our executive Directors’ remuneration policy aligns with the engagement channels. Our management engages with colleagues,
framework for colleagues as follows: either on a Group-wide basis or in the context of smaller focus
groups, to solicit feedback generally on a wide range of matters,
– Externally sourced market data is used to help guide pay decisions
including pay. Our annual survey on pay seeks the views of all
for colleagues, including executive Directors.
colleagues on their performance and pay outcomes. The Committee
– The base salary increases for executive Directors take into reviews the outcomes of the survey and determines the key
consideration the base salary increases of colleagues across the remuneration priorities for the forthcoming year. Whilst we have not
Group, and relevant market conditions. explicitly sought the views of colleagues on the new policy, many of
our colleagues are also shareholders and therefore have the
– The cash in lieu of pension allowance for executive Directors will not
opportunity to vote on the policy at the 2025 AGM.
exceed the maximum contribution (as a percentage of salary) that can
be made for the majority of colleagues in the relevant jurisdiction. As part of our annual calendar, the Committee Chair also hosts a
– All colleagues are eligible to be considered for an annual incentive forum attended by the chairs of our principal subsidiary boards and
award based on their overall performance assessment, which remuneration committees. This allows the Committee to understand
considers performance against goals and role expectations, and local market factors and feedback gathered from colleagues, within
demonstration of our values-aligned behaviours. The variable pay the regions where we operate, on pay and performance matters. This
for all colleagues, including executive Directors, is funded from a also helps both management and the Committee to determine the
Group variable pay pool that is determined with reference to Group prioritisation of pay budgets, and allows the Committee to ensure that
performance. Colleagues who receive a variable pay award above funding is directed to the areas of need in support of the Group’s
strategic ambitions.
294 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Annual incentive scorecard assessment
(Audited)
Summary assessment
Minimum Maximum Weighting Assessment Sir Noel Quinn Georges Elhedery
(25% payout) (100% payout) Performance (%) (%) Outcome (%) Outcome (%)
Profit before tax ($bn)1 27.1 33.5 34.1 15.0 100.00 15.00 15.00
Target basis operating expenses ($bn)1 32.9 32.3 32.6 15.0 60.09 9.01 9.01
Group RoTE1,2 13.5% 16.5% 16.0% 25.0 87.50 21.88 21.88
Asia RoTE1,2 15.1% 18.1% 18.2% 5.0 100.00 5.00 5.00
Customer satisfaction 15.0 75.00 11.25 11.25
Employee experience 10.0 70.00 7.00 7.00
See following tables for commentary
Wider society 5.0 50.00 2.50 2.50
Personal measures 10.0 6.17 7.15
Total 100.0 77.81 78.79
Scorecard outcome (000) £1,540 £1,677
Risk adjustment (000) £— £—
Annual incentive (000) £1,540 £1,677
1 Excluding notable items.
2 The CET1 capital ratio of 14.9% exceeded the tolerance level in the risk appetite statement as required by the underpin.
Strategic measures for both executive Directors
Measures Weighting Performance achievement Assessment Outcome
Customer Maintain and improve 15.0% – The Committee assessed performance against a scorecard of quantitative 75.00% 11.25%
satisfaction NPS in the UK and targets set at the start of the year, and using NPS data from external providers.
Hong Kong, and in – In Hong Kong we met our NPS targets, and are ranked in first place in both CMB
key growth markets and WPB.
– In HSBC UK, WPB saw a modest improvement in rank by two positions to joint
11th. In CMB, as measured by the Savanta MarketVue Business Banking
Survey, our Mid-Market Enterprise (’MME’) segment has improved its rank to
2nd position at FY24 (FY23: 3rd). Our Large Corporate sector was ranked 3rd for
NPS in the 2024 Coalition Greenwich UK Commercial Study.
– For other key growth markets, in WPB we improved rank in Singapore, but saw
a decline in India and rank remained stable in Mexico and China. In CMB,
Singapore and India rankings are in the Top 3.
– GBM has seen an improvement globally rising from 3rd to 2nd place.
– Overall, the Committee assessed that the NPS targets were met.
Employee Improve diversity and 10.0% – Senior leadership representation for women increased by 0.5 percentage points 70.00% 7.00%
experience inclusion year-on-year to 34.6%, exceeding the target set.
– Senior leadership colleagues with Asian heritage increased by 1.5 percentage
points year-on-year to 39.3%, exceeding target.
– The percentage of Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership roles remained
flat at 3.0%, which was above the minimum set, but behind target.
– The Inclusion index in our employee Snapshot survey remained flat at 78%,
above minimum, but behind target.
Wider Execution of 5.0% – Whilst the Sustainability Execution Programme (’SEP’) is on track with mitigating 50.00% 2.50%
society sustainability actions in place for known risks, the Committee assessment considered that the
commitments pace of progress could have been accelerated with greater management focus.
– The absolute financed emissions for oil & gas and thermal coal mining exceeded
the 2024 goal on the trajectory towards our 2030 reduction target.
Personal measures for the Group CEO and the Group CFO
Personal measures were set at the start of the year and measured by the Committee against agreed targets and key performance indicators.
Group CEO Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Technology 4.67% 75.00% – Progress was made on our technology strategy through mobilisation of 83% value streams with clear
transformation accountability across technology and business leads.
– Future State Architecture (’FSA’), which defines the technology roadmap, was agreed for four areas
(Wholesale Credit & Lending, GPB & Wealth, Global FX and Wholesale Client Services Onboarding and Know
Your Customer) with 97% of FSAs approved providing a better end-state view of our strategic application
estate.
Driving data quality 2.33% 50.00% – The Committee’s assessment balanced strong progress against the targets set at the start of the year, while
remediation noting that data risk is one of the three principal risk areas to have a material impact on the Group in 2024,
and taking into consideration regulatory feedback.
Simplification of 3.0% 50.00% – In 2024, we completed the sales of our retail banking operations in France, and businesses in Canada,
processes and Argentina, Russia and Armenia. We announced divestments in our private banking business in Germany and
organisation our business in South Africa, and announced the planned sale of our France life insurance business. We
acquired SilkRoad Property Partners Group in Singapore and Citi’s retail wealth management portfolio in
mainland China. In October 2024, we announced a simplified organisational structure.
Total 6.17% out of 10.00%
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 297
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Personal measures for the Group CEO and the Group CFO (continued)
Group CFO Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Deliver activities 5.0% 75.00% – The Committee’s assessment considered improved regulatory feedback on recovery and resolution planning
relating to activity, and measurement and management of IRRBB risk.
regulatory priorities – The Integrity of Regulatory Reporting programme continues to remediate against known gaps to deliver
improvements in the quality of regulatory returns, partially meeting the targets set at the start of the year.
– The regulatory excellence programme achieved efficiencies and outcomes broadly in line with the targets and
milestones set, and the Finance on The Cloud programme successfully closed in April 2024.
Enhanced 2.5% 67.86% – Implemented enhanced disclosures covering banking NII, structural hedge and multi-jurisdictional revenue.
disclosures and – Progress against external disclosure commitments for scope 3 emissions of Pillar 3 sections and coal
controls exposures and delivery of other ESG regulatory deliverables including climate risk stress testing and
regulatory reporting.
Drive liquidity and 2.5% 87.50% – Strong capital and liquidity positions with no breaches in risk appetite, meeting the targets set.
capital management
across the Group
Total 7.63% out of 10.00%
Long-term incentive (’LTI’) awards
LTI awards over 2022 to 2024 performance period
(Audited)
Sir Noel Quinn, Georges Elhedery and Ewen Stevenson were each The Committee determined that there were no windfall gains to
granted a 2022–2024 LTI award in February 2022. In line with the consider for this award given the share price at grant (£5.38) was
terms of his departure, Ewen Stevenson is a good leaver and his above the share price at the previous LTI grant (£4.26).
award has been pro-rated for time in employment.
The 2022–2024 LTI award is subject to a risk and compliance
The scorecard delivered an outcome of 75.00%, reflecting strong modifier. The Committee received input from the GRC who assessed
shareholder returns across the performance period. that the performance targets were delivered with appropriate risk
management. On this basis, the Committee considered that no
Based on the performance outcome, 737,504 shares will vest for Sir
adjustment for risk should be made.
Noel Quinn, 167,991 shares will vest for Georges Elhedery and
191,224 shares will vest for Ewen Stevenson. The awards will vest in
five equal annual instalments commencing in March 2025.
Assessment of the 2022–2024 LTI awards
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (weighting)1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) Actual Assessment Outcome
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 (25%) 8.0% 9.5% 11.0% 14.6% 100.0% 25.00%
Capital reallocation to Asia with CET1 capital ratio
underpin3 (25%) 46.0% 48.0% 50.0% 43.7% 0.0% 0.00%
Carbon reduction (own
52.0% 56.0% 60.0% 66.1% 100.0% 12.50%
Transition to net emissions)
zero4 (25%) Sustainable finance and
$285bn $340bn $370bn $394bn 100.0% 12.50%
investment
Straight-line vesting
Relative TSR5 (25%) At median of the between minimum At upper quartile of Above upper 100.0% 25.00%
peer group the peer group quartile
and maximum
Total 75.00%
1 Awards vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set out in this table.
2 Assessed based on RoTE in the 2024 financial year. The CET1 capital ratio of 14.9% exceeded the level required by the underpin.
3 Assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December 2024.
4 Carbon reduction assessed on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2024 using 2019 as the baseline. Sustainable
finance and investment assessed on cumulative financing provided over the performance period.
5 The peer group was: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group,
Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. Credit Suisse Group was removed following its acquisition by UBS Group in June 2023.
298 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
LTI awards over 2025 to 2027 performance period
After taking into account performance for 2024, and subject to The Committee will continue to keep the environment measures and
shareholder approval of the new policy, the Committee intends to weighting under review for future performance cycles.
grant Georges Elhedery an LTI award of £9,000,000 and Pam Kaur an
Performance targets have been set to balance stretch and
LTI award of £5,250,000 (both 600% of base salary). The awards will
achievability so that awards act as an effective incentive for
have a three-year performance period starting on 1 January 2025.
management, and incentivise outperformance against our external
Alongside reviewing the policy, the Committee has undertaken a strategic commitments. The proposed change in remuneration
comprehensive review of the performance measures used for our structure will be supported by target ranges calibrated to reflect the
incentive arrangements to ensure alignment to the Group's priorities increase to the remuneration opportunity.
and balance delivery of financial and strategic performance.
It was recognised by investors in our engagement that our recent LTI
For the 2025-2027 LTI, we will retain Group RoTE, relative TSR and targets have been set to deliver maximum payouts only for
environment measures, reflecting our strategic commitments, and to outperformance compared to consensus and our external strategic
assess relative performance compared with peers. commitments.
We will increase the weighting of RoTE to 40%, reflecting that the For 2025-2027 awards:
delivery of a strong stable return on tangible equity is a core measure
– The maximum target for RoTE reflects stretch above plan and
of the sustainable returns expected by our investors. Group RoTE will
performance forecasts, taking into account the macroeconomic
be assessed excluding notable items in the last year of assessment to
environment. The minimum target for RoTE is aligned to our
mirror our outlook on RoTE which targets a mid-teens return in each
external commitment of mid-teens RoTE over the medium term.
of the three years from 2025 to 2027 excluding notable items.
– The minimum target for relative TSR is set ‘at the median of our
The RoTE measure is subject to a CET1 capital ratio underpin. If the
peer group’, which ensures no payout for below median
CET1 capital ratio at the end of the performance period is below the
performance aligned to investor expectations. The maximum is set
CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the
‘at the upper quartile of our peer group’.
assessment for this measure will be reduced to nil.
– Our emissions reduction targets have been set based on meeting
We will increase the weighting of relative TSR to 40% as it is a key
our forecasts relating to emissions reduction and purchase of
measure of shareholder returns, a material relative measure used by
renewable energy.
our peers and in line with investor expectations. No changes have
been made to our relative TSR peer group, which continues to include – For the sustainable finance and investment measure, we have set
more Asian peers to better reflect our growth and investment focus performance targets to support our ambition announced in 2020 to
following a review in 2023. provide $750bn to $1tn of financing and investment by 2030. We
reflected on sustainable financing forecasts, market demand, and
Following feedback from our shareholders on the metrics used and regulation, as well as higher LTI opportunity in setting the stretch
recognising the increase in LTI opportunity, we have reduced the in the target range.
overall weighting of the environment measure from 25% to 20% to
ensure a greater proportion of the LTI is aligned to value creation The LTI is subject to a risk and compliance modifier, which gives the
while supporting our ESG ambitions. Committee the discretion to ensure performance targets are delivered
with appropriate risk management.
The Committee completed a comprehensive review of the
environment metrics in the LTI and discussed with major Consistent with our approach since 2017, the number of shares to be
shareholders. At this stage, financed emission targets remain difficult awarded will be adjusted to reflect the expected dividend yield of the
to include given challenges in the methodology, timeliness and shares over the vesting period, as awards are not entitled to dividend
frequency of reporting. This was recognised by the investors we equivalents in accordance with regulatory requirements.
spoke to as part of our policy engagement. We therefore decided to To the extent performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the
retain metrics on carbon reduction in our own emissions and three-year performance period, the awards will vest in five equal
sustainable finance and investment, given we cannot currently use annual instalments commencing from around the third anniversary of
financed emissions, which is a material metric in supporting our ESG the grant date. On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of
ambitions. shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and
social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one
year, or such period as required by regulators.
Performance conditions for the 2025–2027 LTI awards
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (weighting)1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout)
RoTE (excluding notable items) with CET1 capital ratio
underpin2 (40%) 14.0% 16.0% 18.0%
Relative TSR3 (40%) At the median of the Straight-line vesting between At the upper quartile of the
peer group minimum and maximum peer group
Carbon reduction (own
71.0% 73.0% 78.0%
emissions)
Environment4 (20%)
Sustainable finance and
$648.0bn $720.0bn $792.0bn
investment
Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account performance against risk and compliance
factors during the performance period.
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE excluding notable items at the end of the performance period, subject to the CET1 capital ratio underpin.
3 The peer group for the 2024 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, J.P. Morgan
Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
4 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2027 using 2019 as the
baseline. The sustainable finance and investment measure will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the performance period starting from
1 January 2020 and ending 31 December 2027.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 299
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Annual incentive measures for 2025
The 2025 annual incentive scorecard measures for our executive Performance targets have been set to reflect the Group’s 2025 plan,
Directors have been set to incentivise the delivery of our strategy and external commitments, scenario testing of upside and downside risks
its execution at pace. in the plan while considering macroeconomic uncertainty, including
the interest rate environment and analyst consensus where available.
Following the Committee’s comprehensive review of the policy and
The performance targets are commercially sensitive, and it would be
its implementation, core measures of PBT, Group RoTE and costs
detrimental to the Group’s interests to disclose them at the start of
have been retained, with each assessed excluding notable items so
the financial year. However, as with the 2025-2027 LTI scorecard, the
that the outcome reflects performance in the control of management.
Committee is mindful that targets must remain suitably stretching to
support the increased remuneration opportunity of the new policy.
We have introduced a measure on fee income growth relative to
balance sheet growth to incentivise growth with less reliance on
Subject to commercial sensitivity, we will disclose the targets in the
capital. To simplify and retain financial measures at 60% of the
2025 Directors’ remuneration report.
scorecard (in order to meet regulatory expectations), we have
reduced the weighting for PBT to 10% and removed the Asia RoTE
measure to reduce overlap with Group RoTE. 2025 annual incentive performance measures Weighting
Financial measures (all measures subject to CET1 capital
The Committee felt it appropriate to have financials weighted at 60% 60.0%
ratio underpin)
to balance alignment with shareholder performance and regulatory
Group RoTE (excluding notable items) 25.0%
expectations, and in line with UK peers.
Profit before tax (excluding notable items) 10.0%
Customer Net Promoter Score (’NPS’) has been retained to reflect our Fee income growth relative to balance sheet growth 10.0%
ambition to be a top-three bank for customer satisfaction and/or Target basis operating expenses (excluding notable items) 15.0%
improve customer satisfaction rank. Strategic measures 30.0%
Customer satisfaction:
15.0%
We have added a measure focused on delivery of benefits from the Improvement in NPS scores/rank
organisational change. Deliver benefits of announced organisational changes 8.0%
People and culture:
Our people and culture measures support our strategy to have an 7.0%
Inclusion and retention of high performers
inclusive culture of high performance. The Committee intends to
assess this by considering our established inclusion index, the Personal measures
– Group CEO: Deliver enterprise-wide foundational priorities
retention of high performers and other relevant indicators.
including regulatory excellence, wealth acceleration and
We have removed the sustainability measure introduced in 2024 to strategic investments, and the Group's technology strategy. 10.0%
– Group CFO: Deliver activities relating to regulatory excellence
reduce duplication with the environment measure in the LTI, which
priorities, Group Sustainability priorities, and robust liquidity
better reflects the time horizon of our sustainability commitments.
and capital management.
Personal measures have been set to ensure meaningful weighting for Subject to risk and compliance modifier
the most critical goals for each executive Director. The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to
revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account
The Committee will continue to retain discretion to adjust the performance against risk and compliance factors during the
performance period.
formulaic outcomes of scorecards, taking into account factors such as
Group profits, wider business performance and stakeholder
experience, to ensure executive reward is aligned with underlying
Group performance and the broader stakeholder experience.
The weightings and performance measures for the 2025 annual
incentive scorecard for executive Directors are opposite.
300 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Our approach to workforce reward
Our goal is to deliver a unique and exceptional experience to energise – We introduced 'Target Variable Pay' to over 150,000 colleagues in 46
colleagues to perform at their best. This is critical to strengthening our markets, helping improve clarity and transparency on how we make
ability to attract, retain and motivate the people we need in competitive pay decisions and the impact of Group, business and individual
markets where employee expectations continue to evolve. performance on variable pay.
Our workforce reward principles and commitments guide our – We continued to improve our wellbeing offering by enhancing
approach and support our focus on being a great place to work. country Employee Assistance Programmes, increasing the number
of mental health champions to expand the network's global reach,
– We will reward our colleagues responsibly through fixed pay developing new financial wellbeing support and running global
security and protection through core benefits, a competitive total activity challenges to improve employees' physical wellbeing.
compensation opportunity, pay equity, and a more inclusive and
sustainable benefits proposition over time. The Committee tracks various metrics to assess how we are doing and
prioritise action plans. Our approach overall is working and has positively
– We will recognise colleagues' success through our performance
contributed to employee engagement, which has risen to a record high
routines, including feedback and recognition, pay for performance,
of 80% in our employee Snapshot survey. Additional metrics
and all employee share ownership opportunities.
highlighting some of our areas of focus in 2024 are outlined below.
– We will support our colleagues to grow through our proposition
Our approach to workforce reward forms part of our broader
beyond pay, with a focus on future skills and development, support
employee value proposition and helps us retain and engage the
for well-being, and flexibility.
leaders and people we need to execute our strategy. We will continue
In 2024, we made several changes to improve colleague experience and to track and measure progress against key metrics at a Group, global
unlock our performance edge: business and market level and use these insights to inform what
improvements we can make. In 2025, we will continue to embed our
– We introduced new performance routines to over 200,000 performance and pay changes, protect well-being and flexibility, and
colleagues in 58 markets, so colleagues know what is expected of reinvest in colleagues' skills development.
them, how they are doing and how they can improve. This is
achieved by discussing performance more frequently through the
year, regularly exchanging feedback and simplifying year-end
performance assessment to focus less on ratings and more on a
dialogue between managers and colleagues.
We will reward Living wage Fixed pay Pay fairness
you responsibly
Global living wage
3.6% 5
percentage
employer p
(2023: 4.4%) points
Following our accreditation as a global increase to fixed pay for 2025, targeted at increase in the number of colleagues who
living wage employer in 2024, we have colleagues that need it most, such as say they are paid fairly for what they do,
continued to work with the Fair Wage those in high inflation markets. compared with the 2021 year-end pay
Network which provides an independent review.
source of wage levels. HSBC has
achieved accreditation as a global living
wage employer in 2025 and will
continue to review all wages against
local living wage benchmarks.
We will recognise Feedback Recognition
your success 81% 42% 1.5m
(2023: 81% ) p (2023: 1.4m) p
of colleagues say they receive feedback average monthly increase in colleagues recognitions by employees of their peers
to help them improve performance. receiving feedback compared to 2023. for demonstrating role model behaviours
that are linked to our values, up 7% on
2023.
We will support Mental health Financial wellbeing Career
you to grow #1 65% 71%
(2023: #1) (2023: 60%) p (2023: 71%)
in the Global CCLA Corporate Mental of colleagues say they know where to find Our Career Index is six percentage points
Health Benchmark for the third year financial wellbeing support, an increase of higher than the financial services
running. five percentage points compared to 2023. benchmark.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 301
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Committee governance
The Group Chairman, Chair of the Group Risk Committee, Group A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference can be found on our
CEO, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief People website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors/
and Governance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer, Global Head of board-committees and further information on stakeholder
Remuneration Governance and Regulatory Accountabilities engagement for setting the remuneration policy is set out from
(Committee Secretary), and Group Head of Performance and Reward page 285.
routinely and selectively attend Committee meetings.
The Committee Secretary regularly met with the Chair to ensure the
No Director is present at Committee meetings when their own Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities, to consider input
remuneration is discussed. from stakeholders when finalising meeting agendas and track
progress on actions and priorities. A summary of coverage is set out
The Chair regularly engaged with the Committee’s key stakeholders,
in the ’Matters considered during 2024’ table below.
including senior management, independent advisors, investors, proxy
advisors and regulators to listen to numerous perspectives to help
inform the broader decision-making of the Committee.
Matters considered during 2024
Feb1 Feb1 Jun2 Jun Jul Sep2 Sep Oct2 Dec
Remuneration framework and governance
Group variable pay, workforce performance and pay matters and insights u u u u u u u u u
Directors’ remuneration policy design u u u u u u u u u
Executive Director remuneration policy implementation, scorecards and pay proposals u u u u u u u u u
Remuneration for other senior executives of the Group u u u u u u u u u
Directors’ remuneration report u u u u u u u u u
Regulatory, risk and governance
Material risk and audit events, and performance and remuneration impacts for individuals involved u u u u u u u u u
Regulatory updates, including identification of Material Risk Takers u u u u u u u u u
Governance matters u u u u u u u u u
Matters from principal subsidiary committees u u u u u u u u u
u Matter considered u Matter not considered
1 There were two meetings held during February.
2 The June, September and October meetings were ad hoc with reduced agenda.
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Activities outside formal meetings The Committee received certifications from the principal subsidiary
remuneration committees, confirming that the relevant committee
In addition to its regular schedule, the Committee convened three ad
had discharged its obligations overseeing the implementation and
hoc meetings to facilitate oversight of key topics under its remit in
operation of HSBC’s Group Remuneration Framework and escalated
support of strategic priorities and initiatives during 2024.
all relevant concerns to the Committee. A regular report is presented
The Committee keeps abreast of regulatory and investor to the Committee highlighting significant remuneration matters from
developments and periodically undertakes training to explore key the Group’s subsidiaries.
topics in more detail. A comprehensive induction session was held
Collaborative oversight by the GRC, GAC and
with Kalpana Morparia in October 2024 to introduce her to the work
of the Committee. GTOC
Connectivity with principal subsidiary The Committee worked closely with, and received feedback and input
from, the GRC and GAC on the alignment of remuneration with risk
remuneration committees appetite, conduct and compliance-related matters, including risk
The Chair hosted the biannual Remuneration Committee Chairs adjustment considerations for Group variable pay and the application
Forum in October and November 2024, bringing together Committee of the risk modifier in respect of senior employees.
members and Chairs of the principal subsidiary remuneration
The Chair met with the Chair of the GRC, GAC and GTOC to consider
committees. The forum provided the opportunity for members to
the Group’s risk and reward alignment framework, which is designed
discuss key priorities and challenges in relation to people,
to promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and
performance and pay matters across the Group. The focus in October
FCA remuneration rules and expectations. During the year, the Chair
was progress on Committee priorities for the year including the
of the Committee hosted a joint session with the GRC and GTOC to
development of a new executive Director policy, progress on
consider improvements to the risk and reward framework, more
delivering the employee value proposition commitments and to
details of which can be found on page 304.
receive regional feedback on key considerations for the 2024 pay
review. In November, the forum focused on the preliminary Group
variable pay for 2024, and allocation by business, function and region
and the 2025 fixed pay budgets.
302 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Additional remuneration disclosures
This section provides further information in relation to executive Director and wider workforce remuneration as required by the UK, Hong Kong,
and Pillar 3 remuneration disclosure requirements. For the purpose of the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures, executive Directors and non-
executive Directors are considered to be members of the management body. Members of the Group Executive Committee other than the
executive Directors are considered as senior management.
Link between risk, performance and reward
Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk management to support our business objectives and the delivery of our strategy.
We set out below the key features of our framework, which enable us to align between risk, performance and reward, subject to compliance
with local laws and regulations:
Framework
elements Application
Variable pay – Group variable pay is expected to reflect Group performance, based on a range of financial and non-financial factors. We use a structured
payout ratio range, that varies the payout ratio with profits before tax, and a countercyclical funding methodology, with both a floor and a
ceiling, with the payout ratio generally reducing as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality. The floor recognises that even in challenging
times, remaining competitive is important. The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance it is not always necessary to continue to
increase variable pay, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance.
– The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include:
– Group and business unit financial performance, considering contextual factors driving performance, and capital requirements;
– current and future risks, taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite, financial resourcing plan and global conduct
outcomes; and
– fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress, which are automatically included in the Committee’s definition of profit for
determining the pool.
– In the event that the Group was unable to distribute dividends to shareholders for reasons such as capital adequacy, then the Group may
determine that as a year of weak performance. In such a year, the Group may withhold some, or all, variable pay for employees including
unvested share awards, using the metrics outlined above as a basis for that determination.
Individual – Assessment of individual performance is made with reference to clear and relevant financial and non-financial goals. Goals for senior
performance management take into account appropriate measures linked to sustainability risks, such as: reduction in carbon footprint; facilitating financing
to help clients with their transition to net zero; employee inclusion; and risk and compliance measures, subject to local legal requirements.
– A mandatory global risk and compliance goal is included for all other employees. Subject to any legal/regulatory requirements, all employees
receive an overall performance assessment supported by an assessment against the minimum values-aligned behaviours and conduct
standards expected of all colleagues and performance on their goals. This ensures that performance is assessed not only on what is achieved
but also on how it is achieved.
Control – Group policy is for control functions staff to report into their respective function. Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles are made
function staff by the global function head.
– The performance and reward of individuals in control functions, including risk and compliance colleagues, are assessed according to a balanced
scorecard of goals specific to the functional role they undertake.
– Their remuneration is determined independent of the performance of the business areas they oversee.
– Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
– The Committee is responsible for approving remuneration for the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Group Head of Internal Audit.
Variable pay – Variable pay awards may be adjusted upwards or downwards to reflect positive or negative conduct in adherence with the Code of Conduct.
adjustments Downward adjustments can be made in circumstances including:
and conduct – detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute;
recognition – involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause significant harm
to HSBC; and
– non-compliance with the values-aligned behaviours and other mandatory requirements or policies.
– Rewarding positive conduct can be through use of our global recognition platform, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to variable pay awards.
Malus – Malus can be applied to unvested deferred awards (up to 100% of awards) granted in prior years in circumstances including:
– detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
– past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
– restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
– improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback – Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 (and awards granted to non-MRTs on or after
1 January 2022) for a period of seven years, extended to 10 years for employees in PRA and FCA designated senior management functions in
the event of ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Clawback may be applied in circumstances including:
– participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
– failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
– reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract of
employment; and
– a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk-management standards, policies and
procedures.
– Clawback can also be applied to vested or paid awards granted to designated Executive Officers as defined by the US Securities and Exchange
Commission (’SEC’) for a period of three years in the event of an accounting restatement due to material non-compliance with any financial
reporting requirement under the US securities laws.
Sales – We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans, unless aligned with local market practice and with appropriate safeguards to avoid
incentives incentivising inappropriate sales behaviours.
Identification – We identify individuals as MRTs based on qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the PRA’s and FCA’s remuneration rules. Our
of MRTs identification process is underpinned by the following key principles:
– MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank (consolidated) and HSBC UK Bank level.
– MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as required by the regulations.
– When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers a colleague’s role within its matrix management structure. The global business and function that
an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
– We also identify additional MRTs based on our own internal criteria, which include compensation thresholds and individuals in certain roles and
grades who otherwise would not be identified as MRTs under the remuneration rules.
304 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Comparison of Directors’ and employees’ pay
The following table compares the changes in each Director’s base based on time served by them on the Board and the relevant Board
salary, taxable benefits and annual incentive between 2020 and 2024 committees and any additional responsibilities taken on by the non-
with the percentage change in each of those elements of pay for UK- executive Director during each year. The value of benefits received by
based employees of HSBC Group Management Services Limited, the the non-executive Directors reflect the taxable expense
employing entity of the executive Directors. reimbursements claimed, and the associated gross-up tax, in relation
to attending the Board meetings in each year. Page 313 provides the
The non-executive Director fees were increased in 2024. The year-on-
underlying single total figure of remuneration for non-executive
year percentage change in fees noted in the table below is primarily
Directors used to calculate these figures.
driven by any pro-rated fees received by the non-executive Director
Annual percentage change in remuneration
Base salary/fees Benefits Annual incentive
Director/employees 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
Executive Directors
Sir Noel Quinn1,2,3 (31.6) 0.5 3.2 1.7 151.7 (47.8) 6.7 25.3 (48.9) 353.7 (23.7) (6.7) 36.1 99.0 20.2
Georges Elhedery4 26.7 — — — — 866.0 — — — — 30.3 — — — —
Non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham5 10.7 57.4 — — — (40.0) — — — — — — — — —
Rachel Duan6,7 4.5 8.4 235.8 — — — (100.0) — — — — — — — —
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn7,8 4.7 5.3 231.1 — — — (100.0) — — — — — — — —
James Forese9 5.5 10.2 20.5 257.5 — 300.0 — — — — — — — — —
Ann Godbehere10 472.1 — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Steven Guggenheimer11 (1.9) 0.8 4.8 86.6 — 300.0 (90.0) — — — — — — — —
José Antonio Meade
Kuribreña12 3.7 0.8 8.5 10.4 28.7 75.0 (71.4) — (100.0) 100.0 — — — — —
Kalpana Morparia13 45.9 — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Eileen Murray14,15 14.1 10.7 (1.5) 121.7 — (100.0) — — — — — — — — —
Brendan Nelson16 306.2 — — — — 216.7 — — — — — — — — —
David Nish17 (66.8) 0.4 (1.0) 0.4 108.7 57.9 (13.6) 120.0 25.0 (50.0) — — — — —
Swee Lian Teo18 402.0 — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Sir Mark Tucker — — — — — 184.3 (54.9) 242.4 (36.5) (77.5) — — — — —
Employee group19 3.3 5.0 3.1 1.0 2.0 4.1 5.7 7.0 1.3 2.3 2.4 11.7 3.7 25.2 (20.0)
1 Sir Noel Quinn succeeded John Flint as interim Group CEO with effect from 5 August 2019 and was appointed permanently into the role on 17 March 2020. The
annual percentage change in 2020 for Sir Noel Quinn is based on remuneration reported in his 2019 single total figure of remuneration (for the period 5 August
2019 to 31 December 2019) and his 2020 single total figure of remuneration (for the period 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020). Based on his annualised 2019
compensation as an executive Director, his percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive was 2.1%, 85.2% and -50.9%, respectively for 2020.
2 Sir Noel Quinn voluntarily waived the cash portion of his 2020 annual incentive. The year-on-year percentage change between 2020 and 2021 would be -1%
without this cash waiver.
3 Sir Noel Quinn stepped down as Group CEO and as an executive Director of the Board with effect from 2 September 2024. The annual percentage change in
2024 for Sir Noel Quinn is based on remuneration reported in his 2024 single total figure of remuneration (for the period 1 January 2024 to 1 September 2024).
Based on his annualised 2024 compensation as an executive Director, his percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive was 3.0%, -22.4% and
14.1% respectively for 2024.
4 Georges Elhedery succeeded Ewen Stevenson as Group CFO with effect from 1 January 2023, and succeeded Sir Noel Quinn as Group CEO with effect from
2 September 2024. The annual percentage change in 2024 for Georges Elhedery is based on remuneration reported in his 2024 single total figure of
remuneration, which reflects compensation as both Group CFO and Group CEO during 2024.
5 Geraldine Buckingham stepped down as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024 and was appointed as a member of the Group Audit
Committee and Chair of the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
6 Rachel Duan was appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 1 June 2022.
7 Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn did not receive taxable benefits in 2023, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
8 Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was appointed as Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee effective 29 April 2022.
9 James Forese was appointed as non-executive Chair of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc in 2021. He was appointed as a member of the Sustainability Working
Group on 1 October 2024.
10 Ann Godbehere was appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024 and as a member of the Sustainability Working Group on 1
October 2024. She was also appointed as Senior Independent Director on 3 May 2024.
11 Steven Guggenheimer joined the Board on 1 May 2020. He stepped down as a Co-Chair of the Technology Governance Working Group on 1 March 2024 and
was appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024.
12 José Antonio Meade Kuribreña did not receive taxable benefits in 2021, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
13 Kalpana Morparia joined the Board on 1 March 2023. She was appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and Group
Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2024. Kalpana Morparia stepped down as a member of Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024.
14 Eileen Murray was appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 1 June 2022. She stepped down as the Co-Chair of the Technology Governance
Working Group Committee and was appointed as the Chair of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024. Eileen Murray stepped down as a member of
the Group Audit Committee and was appointed as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024.
15 Eileen Murray did not receive taxable benefits in 2024, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
16 Brendan Nelson was appointed as Chair of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024. He was appointed as a member of the Group Technology
Committee on 1 March 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
17 David Nish retired from the Board effective 3 May 2024.
18 Swee Lian Teo was appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
19 Employee group consists of individuals employed by HSBC Group Management Services Ltd, the employing entity of the executive Directors, as no individuals
are employed directly by HSBC Holdings.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 307
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Scheme interests awarded during 2024
(Audited)
The table below sets out the scheme interests granted to executive Directors during 2024 in respect of the 2023 performance year, as
disclosed in the 2023 Directors’ remuneration report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year. The below
table includes details of immediate shares and fixed pay allowances in compliance with Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of
Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
Scheme awards in 2024
(Audited)
Face Percentage
value receivable for Number of End of
Type of interest Basis on which awarded minimum shares performance
awarded award made Date of award £000 performance awarded period
Sir Noel Quinn LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary 26 February 2024 5,822 25 974,853 31 December 2026
Immediate shares2 % of base salary 26 February 2024 1,009 N/A 168,955 31 December 2023
8 May 2024 300 N/A 42,146 N/A
Fixed pay allowance3 N/A 15 August 2024 300 N/A 46,219 N/A
5 November 2024 300 N/A 41,846 N/A
Georges Elhedery LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary 26 February 2024 3,399 25 569,177 31 December 2026
Immediate shares2 % of base salary 26 February 2024 643 N/A 107,752 31 December 2023
8 May 2024 192 N/A 26,899 N/A
Fixed pay allowance3 N/A 15 August 2024 192 N/A 29,498 N/A
5 November 2024 299 N/A 41,720 N/A
1 In accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 320% of base salary for Sir Noel
Quinn and 320% of base salary for Georges Elhedery. The number of shares to be granted was determined by taking HSBC’s closing share price of £5.972 taken
on 23 February 2024, and applying a discount based on HSBC’s expected dividend yield of 6.25% per annum for the vesting period (£4.385). The fair value of the
awards was £2.028 based on IFRS 2 accounting standards. LTI awards are conditional share awards subject to a three-year forward-looking performance period
and vest in five equal annual instalments, between the third and seventh anniversary of the award date, subject to performance achieved. Awards are subject to
clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award and are not eligible for dividend equivalents.
2 Immediate share awards are granted based on the previous years’ performance as part of the annual incentive and are not subject to forward-looking
performance conditions. On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period. The face values of the immediate share awards have been computed
using HSBC’s closing share price of £5.972 taken on 23 February 2024. The fair value of the awards was £5.957 based on IFRS 2 accounting standards. Awards
are subject to clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award.
3 Fixed pay allowance awards are granted in instalments in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, and are not
subject to forward-looking performance conditions. Individual tax liabilities were satisfied in cash, therefore the face value awarded represents the net of tax
value of the shares and the number of shares awarded reflects the net of tax number of shares. The fixed pay allowance awards have been computed using
HSBC’s closing share price of £7.126 taken on 7 May 2024, £6.498 taken on 14 August 2024 and £7.177 taken on 4 November 2024. The fair values of these
awards are based on IFRS 2 accounting standards and are £7.208, £6.558 and £7.224 respectively. These awards vest immediately and are subject to a retention
period and released annually on pro-rata basis over five years, starting in March 2025.
Performance conditions for the 2024–2026 LTI awards
(Audited)
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (weighting)1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout)
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 (37.5%) 14.0% 16.0% 17.0%
Carbon reduction
66.0% 70.0% 74.0%
Environment and sustainability3 (own emissions)
(25%) Sustainable finance and
$539.0bn $641.0bn $693.0bn
investment
Relative TSR4 (37.5%) At median of the Straight-line vesting between At upper quartile of
peer group minimum and maximum peer group
Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account performance against risk and compliance
factors during the performance period.
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period, subject to the CET1 capital ratio underpin.
3 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2026 using 2019 as the
baseline. The sustainable finance and investment measure will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending 31 December 2026.
4 The peer group for the 2024–2026 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings,
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
308 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Non-executive Directors
(Audited)
The following table shows the total fees and benefits of non-executive Directors for 2024, together with comparative figures for 2023.
Fees and benefits
(Audited) Fees1 Benefits2 Total
(£000) 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Geraldine Buckingham3 270 244 3 5 273 249
Rachel Duan 255 244 3 — 258 244
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn 292 279 5 — 297 279
James Forese4 801 759 4 1 805 760
Ann Godbehere5 389 68 — — 389 68
Steven Guggenheimer6 259 264 4 1 263 265
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña 253 244 7 4 260 248
Kalpana Morparia7 248 170 1 — 249 170
Eileen Murray8 331 290 — 3 331 293
Brendan Nelson9 329 81 38 12 367 93
David Nish10 159 479 30 19 189 498
Swee Lian Teo11 256 51 — — 256 51
Sir Mark Tucker 1,500 1,500 145 51 1,645 1,551
Total (£000) 5,343 4,673 240 96 5,583 4,769
Total ($000) 6,828 5,972 307 123 7,135 6,095
1 Fees are in line with the Directors’ remuneration policy. There was a 5% increase in fees for Director fees, Group Risk Committee Member, Group Audit
Committee Chair and Member, Remuneration Committee Chair and Member, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Member and Group Technology
Committee Chair and Member).
2 Benefits include taxable expenses such as accommodation, travel and subsistence relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC Holdings’
registered offices. Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant.
3 Stepped down as a member of the Group Risk Committee and joined the Group Audit Committee as member on 1 October 2024. Appointed as Chair of the
Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
4 Appointed as a member of the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024. Includes fee of £430,000 (2023: £443,000) in relation to his role as Chair of
HSBC North America Holdings, Inc.
5 Appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024. Appointed as Senior
Independent Director on 3 May 2024.
6 Stepped down as a member of the Technology Governance Working Group on 1 March 2024. Appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on
1 March 2024.
7 Appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024. Stepped down as a member of Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024 and
joined the Group Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2024.
8 Stepped down as the Co-Chair of the Technology Governance Working Group Committee on 1 March 2024 and as the member of the Group Audit Committee
on 1 October 2024. Appointed as the Chair of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 1 October
2024.
9 Appointed as Chair of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024. Appointed as member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and
Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
10 Retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2024 AGM on 3 May 2024.
11 Appointed as member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 313
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Non-executive Directors’ interests in shares
(Audited)
The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in Non-executive Directors are expected to meet the shareholding
2024, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at guidelines of 15,000 shares within five years of the date of their
31 December 2024, or date of cessation as a Director if earlier, are appointment. All non-executive Directors who had been appointed for
set out below. There have been no changes in the shareholdings of five years or more at 31 December 2024 met the guidelines.
the non-executive Directors from 31 December 2024 to the date of
this report.
Shares
Shareholding
guidelines (number Share interests
of shares) (number of shares)
Geraldine Buckingham 15,000 15,000
Rachel Duan 15,000 15,000
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn 15,000 15,000
James Forese 15,000 115,000
Ann Godbehere 15,000 15,000
Steven Guggenheimer 15,000 15,000
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña 15,000 15,000
Kalpana Morparia 15,000 15,000
Eileen Murray 15,000 75,000
Brendan Nelson 15,000 15,000
David Nish (retired on 3 May 2024) 15,000 50,000
Swee Lian Teo 15,000 15,200
Sir Mark Tucker 15,000 307,352
2025 fees for non-executive Directors
The table below sets out the 2025 fees for non-executive Directors. The fees paid to non-executive Directors who are standing for election or
re-election as members of Board Committees are set out in the table below (these Board Committees’ fees and Board fees are pro-rated for
part year service where relevant).
2025 fees
Position £
Non-executive Group Chairman1 1,500,000
Non-executive Director (base fee) 136,500
Senior Independent Director 200,000
Group Risk Committee Chair 150,000
Member 50,000
Group Audit Committee, Group Remuneration Committee and Group Technology Committee Chair 125,000
Member 50,000
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Chair ––
Member 34,650
Sustainability Working Group Chair 60,000
Member 30,000
Designated workforce engagement non-executive Director 50,000
1 The Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fee in respect of chairing of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
The Board has reviewed the fees payable to non-executive Directors in the context of changes to the organisational structure. Following this
review, the Board considered that the fees payable for chairing or being a member of a Board Committee (excluding the Nomination &
Corporate Governance Committee) should be increased to recognise the responsibilities and additional time commitment associated with such
a role. Overall, giving due consideration to the highly regulated and complex industry in which HSBC operates, the Board agreed to align the
additional fee payable for chairing a Board Committee at £150,000 per annum (i.e., in line with the current fee for chairing the Group Risk
Committee). The increase in the fee for chairing a Board Committee will be phased over two years, with an increase to £125,000 per annum for
2025, and a further increase to £150,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2026.
The Board also agreed increases to the additional fee for being a member of a Board Committee, and for the role of designated non-executive
Director for workforce engagement, which were both increased to £50,000 per annum. These increases reflect the additional activity being
undertaken during this period of organisational and cultural change.
No other changes are proposed to non-executive Director fees for 2025.
314 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares or debentures of HSBC
Holdings and its associated corporations.
Directors’ interests – shares and debentures
At 31 Dec 2024 or date of cessation, if earlier
At 1 Jan 2024, or Jointly
date of Child with
appointment, Beneficial under 18 spouse/ Total
if later owner or spouse other Trustee interests
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Geraldine Buckingham1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Rachel Duan1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Georges Elhedery2 753,467 966,017 966,017
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn 15,000 15,000 15,000
James Forese1 115,000 115,000 115,000
Ann Godbehere1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Steven Guggenheimer1 15,000 15,000 15,000
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Kalpana Morparia1 15,000 15,000 15,000
Eileen Murray1 75,000 75,000 75,000
Brendan Nelson — 15,000 15,000
David Nish (retired on 3 May 2024) 50,000 50,000 50,000
Sir Noel Quinn2 (retired on 2 September 2024) 1,721,465 2,046,949 2,046,949
Swee Lian Teo 15,200 15,200 15,200
Sir Mark Tucker 307,352 307,352 307,352
1 Geraldine Buckingham has an interest in 3,000, Rachel Duan in 3,000, James Forese in 23,000, Ann Godbehere in 3,000, Steven Guggenheimer in 3,000, José
Antonio Meade Kuribreña in 3,000, Kalpana Morparia in 3,000 and Eileen Murray in 15,000 listed American Depositary Shares (’ADS’), which are categorised as
equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
2 Executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK) and the HSBC
Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Scheme interests in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 279. At 31 December 2024, or date of cessation if earlier, the
aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, including interests arising through employee
share plans and the interests above were: Sir Noel Quinn – 5,736,459; and Georges Elhedery – 2,616,836, representing approximately 0.03% and 0.015% of the
shares in issue respectively.
There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the current Directors from 31 December 2024 to the date of this report.
assessment by the Group Chairman and the Nomination & Corporate
UK Listing Rule 6.6.1 and other Governance Committee, are proposed for re-election by shareholders
at each AGM. They typically serve two three-year terms, with any
disclosures
individual’s appointment beyond six years to be for a rolling one-year
term and subject to thorough review and challenge with reference to
The disclosures required by UKLR 6.6.1, and other regulations, are set
the needs of the Board. Where non-executive Directors are appointed
out on the following pages:
beyond six years, an explanation will be provided in the Annual Report
and Accounts.
Content Page references
Long-term incentives 298 Shareholders vote at each AGM on whether to elect and re-elect
Dividends and Dividend waivers 319 individual Directors. All Directors that stood for election and re-
Share buy-back 318 election at the 2024 AGM were elected and re-elected by
Emissions 42 shareholders.
Energy Efficiency 42, 45-46
Joint Company Secretary
Principal activities of HSBC 11, 30, 96-97, 405
Business review and future developments 11-40, 41, 128, 136, 430 Aileen Taylor is the Group Company Secretary and Group Chief
Risk Review 37-39, 128-235 People & Governance Officer.
Engagement with suppliers, customers and
others 20-21 Hannah Ashdown (48) was appointed as Deputy Group Secretary in
December 2021 and for administrative purposes, in October 2022, was
appointed as Joint Company Secretary. She is a Fellow of the Chartered
Board governance Governance Institute UK and Ireland. Hannah has over 20 years’
governance and regulatory experience across multiple sectors including
Appointment and re-election of financial services, asset management, energy, leisure and retail.
Directors Independence
A rigorous selection process is followed for the appointment of Independence is a critical component of good corporate governance,
Directors. Appointments are made on merit and candidates are and a principle that is applied consistently at both the HSBC Holdings
considered against objective criteria, and with regard to the benefits and subsidiary level. The Group Nomination & Corporate Governance
of a diverse Board. Appointments are made in accordance with HSBC Committee has delegated authority from the Board in relation to the
Holdings’ Articles of Association. assessment of the independence of non-executive Directors. In
accordance with the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance
The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director or Codes, the Group Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
secretary, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional officer. The Board has reviewed and confirmed that all non-executive Directors who
may appoint any Director or secretary to hold any employment or have submitted themselves for election and re-election at the AGM
executive office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment. are considered to be independent. This conclusion was reached after
consideration of all relevant circumstances that are likely to impair, or
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term
could appear to impair, independence.
and, subject to continued satisfactory performance based upon an
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 321
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
In line with the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate HSBC Holdings has granted, by way of deed poll, indemnities to the
Governance Code, the Group Nomination & Corporate Governance Directors, including former Directors, against certain liabilities arising
Committee also reviewed and considered the mechanisms in place to in connection with their position as a Director of HSBC Holdings or of
ensure independent views and inputs are available to the Board. any Group company. Directors are indemnified to the maximum
These mechanisms include: extent permitted by law.
– having the appropriate Board and committee structure in place, The indemnities that constitute a ’qualifying third-party indemnity
including rules on the appointment and tenure of non-executive provision’, as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006,
Directors; remained in force for the whole of the financial year (or, in the case of
Directors appointed during 2024, from the date of their appointment).
– facilitating the option of having brokers and external industry
The deed poll is available for inspection at the registered office of
experts in attendance at Board meetings during 2024, as well as
HSBC Holdings.
having representatives from the Group’s key regulators attend
Board meetings in relation to specific regulatory items; Additionally, Directors and pension trustees have the benefit of both
– ensuring non-executive Directors are entitled to obtain Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and pension trustees’ liability
independent professional advice relating to their personal insurance. Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been
responsibilities as a Director at the Group’s expense; granted to the trustees of the Group’s pension schemes, which were
in force for the whole of the financial year and remain in force as at
– having terms of reference for each committee and the Board that
the date of this report.
provide authority to engage independent professional advisers;
and Contracts of significance
– holding annual Board and committee performance reviews, with
During 2024, none of the Directors had a material interest, directly or
feedback sought from members on the quality of, and access to,
indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC company.
independent external advice.
During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in
Conflicts of interest respect of transacting in HSBC securities and, following specific
enquiry, all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with
The Board has an established policy and set of procedures, which are their obligations.
reviewed annually, to ensure that the Board’s management of
Directors’ conflicts of interest is effective. The Board has the power Shareholder engagement and
to authorise conflicts where they arise, in accordance with the
communication
Companies Act 2006 and HSBC Holdings’ Articles of Association.
Details of all Directors’ conflicts of interest are recorded in the The Board is directly accountable to, and gives high priority to
register of conflicts. Upon appointment, new Directors are advised of communicating with, HSBC’s shareholders. Information about HSBC
the policy and procedures for managing conflicts. Directors are and its activities is provided to shareholders in its Interim Reports and
required to notify the Board of any actual or potential conflicts of the Annual Report and Accounts as well as on www.hsbc.com.
interest and to update the Board with any changes to the facts and
circumstances surrounding such conflicts. Directors are requested to The Board seeks to understand investor needs through ongoing
review and confirm their own and their respective closely associated dialogue between members of the Board and institutional investors
persons’ outside interests and appointments twice each year. The throughout the year. For examples of such engagement, see
Board has considered, and authorised (with or without conditions) ’Directors’ engagements with key stakeholders in 2024’ on page 21
where appropriate, potential conflicts as they have arisen during the and the Group Remuneration Committee Chair’s letter on page 279.
year in accordance with its conflicts policy and procedures. All non- During 2024, approximately 612 meetings were held with institutional
executive Directors are subject to re-vetting by the Group’s investors and analysts globally.
compliance team on a triennial basis following appointment. As part
Our shareholder communications policy summarises how we
of this re-vetting process, all conflict checks are refreshed.
communicate with our shareholders, including through financial
Non-executive Director commitments reporting, general shareholder meetings, investor and analyst meetings
and our website. The policy is reviewed annually by the Board, and in
The terms and conditions of the appointments of non-executive 2024 the Board confirmed that it was satisfied with its implementation
Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the and effectiveness. The policy can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-
expectations of them, and the estimated time required to perform are/our-people/board-of-directors/board-responsibilities.
their role. Letters of appointment of each non-executive Director are
available for inspection at the registered office of HSBC Holdings. We also publish our current and past financial results, investor
presentations and shareholder information such as dividend payments
Non-executive Directors serving on the Board and as a member of and shareholder meeting details. Stock exchange announcements are
any committees are expected to serve up to 75 days per annum. The also accessible on our website along with information for fixed
Senior Independent Director is expected to serve an additional 30 income investors. For further details, see www.hsbc.com/investors.
days per annum. Those Directors who also chair a large committee
are expected to commit up to 100 days per annum, with the Group Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of
Risk Committee Chair expected to commit up to 150 days per annum. shareholders. Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their
Any additional time commitment required of non-executive Directors shareholdings and HSBC’s business are welcomed. Any individual or
in connection with Board and committee activities is confirmed to institutional investor can make an enquiry by contacting the investor
them separately. relations team, Group Chairman, Group CEO, Group CFO and Group
Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Our Senior
Board approval is required for any non-executive Director’s external Independent Director is also available to shareholders if they have
commitments, with consideration given to their total time concerns that cannot be resolved or for which the normal channels
commitments, potential conflicts of interest, and regulatory and would not be appropriate. They can be contacted via the Group
investor expectations. Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer at 8 Canada
Square, London E14 5HQ.
Directors’ indemnities
Annual General Meeting
The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings contain a qualifying
third-party indemnity provision, which entitles Directors and other The AGM in 2025 is planned to be held in London, UK at 10:00am on
officers to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against Friday, 2 May 2025. Information on how to vote and participate, both
claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities. in advance and on the day, can be found in the Notice of the 2025
AGM, which will be sent to shareholders on 21 March 2025 and be
322 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
available on www.hsbc.com/agm. A live webcast will be available on Political donations
www.hsbc.com/agm. A recording of the proceedings will be available
on www.hsbc.com/agm shortly after the conclusion of the AGM.
HSBC does not make any political donations or incur political
Shareholders should monitor our website and announcements for any
expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words. We have no
changes to these arrangements. Shareholders may send enquiries to
intention of altering this policy. However, the definitions of political
the Board in writing via Company Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc,
donations, political parties, political organisations and political
8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ or by sending an email to
expenditure used in the UK Companies Act 2006 are very wide. As a
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
result, they may cover routine activities that form part of the normal
business activities of the Group and are an accepted part of engaging
General meetings and resolutions
with stakeholders. To ensure that neither the Group nor any of its
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting subsidiaries inadvertently breaches the UK Companies Act 2006,
other than an AGM, as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. A authority is sought from shareholders at the AGM to make political
valid request to call a general meeting may be made by members donations.
representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings as
HSBC provides administrative support to two political action
carries the right of voting at its general meetings (excluding any paid-
committees (’PACs’) in the US funded by voluntary political
up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general
contributions by eligible employees. We do not control the PACs, and
nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may
all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are
include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is
directed by a voluntary Board Finance Committee, which consists of
intended to be moved at the meeting. At any general meeting
contributing eligible employees. The PACs recorded combined
convened on such request, no business may be transacted except
political donations of $124,450 during 2024 (2023: $110,004).
that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board.
Shareholders may request the Directors to send a resolution to Charitable contributions
shareholders for consideration at an AGM, as provided by the UK
Companies Act 2006. A valid request must be made by
For details of charitable contributions, see page 72.
(i) members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC
Holdings as carries the right of voting at its general meetings
(excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares), or (ii) at least Internal control
100 members who have a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM
in question and hold shares in HSBC Holdings on which there has
been paid up an average sum, per member, of at least £100. The Board is responsible for monitoring the Group’s risk management
and internal control systems, determining the level and type of risks
The request must be received by HSBC Holdings not later than (i) six the Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, and
weeks before the AGM in question; or (ii) if later, the time at which reviewing the effectiveness of these procedures on an annual basis.
the notice of AGM is published.
To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under the
A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must FCA Handbook and the PRA Rulebook, procedures have been
be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may designed to provide reasonable assurance against material
be made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK address, referred to in misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. They are designed to provide
the paragraph above or by sending an email to effective internal control within the Group and accord with the
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. Financial Reporting Council‘s guidance for Directors, issued in 2014,
on risk management, internal control and related financial and
Articles of Association
business reporting. The procedures have been in place throughout the
year and up to 19 February 2025, the date of publication of the Annual
The Articles of Association were last approved at the 2022 AGM. The
Report and Accounts 2024.
Articles of Association can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
our-people/board-of-directors/board-responsibilities. The Board, the GRC and the GAC monitored the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of risk management and internal control during the
Events after the balance sheet date year through regular updates on the operation of the Group's internal
controls, supplemented by reviews of these controls by the second
line of defence and internal audit, and the external auditors. In
For details of events after the balance sheet date, see Note 37 on the
particular, this focused on the Group’s regulatory remediation and
financial statements.
change programmes, and involved working closely with management
to better prioritise and understand where there are key
Change of control interdependencies. These reviews enabled to the Board to perform an
annual review of effectiveness, identifying no material weaknesses as
The Group is not party to any significant agreements that take effect, at the year-end. To support the work of the Board, the GRC and the
alter or terminate following a change of control of the Group. The GAC in discharging their responsibilities in this regard, assurance was
Group does not have agreements with any Director or employee that also provided by executive management confirming that a risk
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment assessment had been undertaken and controls were in place to
resulting from a takeover bid. mitigate the risks arising from the Group’s key activities. Necessary
actions will be taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified
from these activities on an ongoing basis.
Branches
In 2025, continued focus will be placed on the quality and timeliness
The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services of data used to inform management decisions and support oversight
through branches and offices in the UK and overseas. of emerging risks and potential risks arising from new products and
offerings. In preparation for the Board’s forthcoming responsibility
Research and development activities under the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board approved
changes to the scope of the GAC’s responsibilities in relation to
internal controls to extend these to cover all internal controls and,
During the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new
once defined, all material controls including financial, operational,
products and services within the global businesses.
reporting and compliance controls.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 323
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
The key risk management and internal control procedures include the We continue our focus on the quality and timeliness of the data used
following: to inform management decisions, through measures such as early
warning indicators, prudent active risk management of our risk
The HSBC Book appetite, and ensuring regular communication with our Board and
other key stakeholders.
In 2024, the HSBC Book replaced the Global Principles document and
is situated at the top of the HSBC document hierarchy. It underpins Responsibility for risk management
the key principles, policies and procedures that are fundamental to
the Group’s risk management structure. It informs and connects our All employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk within
purpose, ambition, strategy and values, guiding us to make the scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence model.
responsible decisions aligned to our risk culture and risk management This is an activity-based model to delineate management
approach, to do the right thing, and to treat our customers and our accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the
colleagues fairly at all times. control environment. The second line of defence sets the policy and
guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides advice and
Risk management framework guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the first line of defence
(the risk owners) on effective risk management.
The risk management framework supports our HSBC Book. It outlines
the key principles and practices that we employ in managing material The Board delegated authority to the GAC to annually review the
risks. It applies to all categories of risk and supports a consistent independence, autonomy and effectiveness of the Group’s policies
approach in identifying, assessing, managing and reporting the risks and procedures on whistleblowing, including the procedures for the
we accept and incur in our activities. protection of staff who raise concerns of detrimental treatment.
Delegation of authority within limits Strategic plans
set by the Board Strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global functions
and geographical regions within the framework of the Group’s overall
Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group CEO has
strategy. Financial resource plans, informed by detailed analysis of
been delegated authority limits and powers within which to manage the
risk appetite describing the types and quantum of risk that the Group
day-to-day affairs of the Group. A delegation of authority framework is in
is prepared to take in executing its strategy, are prepared and adopted
place providing a Group structure within which the Board and its
by all major Group operating companies and set out the key business
subsidiaries can manage their delegated powers. These delegated
initiatives and the likely financial effects of those initiatives.
authorities can be used for the approval, signing and execution of
specific written agreements and documents such as procurement
contracts. Internal control over financial
The delegation of authority framework is adopted on a legal entity basis reporting
via a board resolution which is reviewed annually. Matters not covered
by the delegation of authority framework can be set out in a separate HSBC is required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-
board resolution, powers of attorney or the relevant Group policy with Oxley Act of 2002 and assess its effectiveness of internal control over
clear systems of control that are appropriate to the business or function. financial reporting at 31 December 2024. In 2014, the GAC endorsed
Authorities to enter into credit and market risk exposures are delegated the adoption of the principles of the Committee of Sponsoring
with limits to line management of Group companies in line with Group Organizations of the Treadway Commission (’COSO’) 2013
policy. Credit and market risks are measured and reported at subsidiary framework for the monitoring of risk management and internal control
company level and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a systems to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Group-wide basis. Oxley Act.
Risk identification and monitoring The primary mechanism through which comfort over risk
management and internal control systems is achieved is through
Systems and procedures are in place to identify, assess, control and annual assessments of the effectiveness of controls to manage risk,
monitor the material risk types facing HSBC as set out in the risk and the reporting of issues on a regular basis through the various risk
management framework. The Group‘s risk measurement and management and risk governance forums, including regular updates
reporting systems are designed to help ensure that material risks are to GAC.
captured with all the attributes necessary to support well-founded
decisions, that those attributes are accurately assessed and that The key risk management and internal control procedures over
information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks to be financial reporting include the following:
successfully managed and mitigated.
Entity level controls
Changes in market conditions/
Entity level controls are a defined suite of internal controls that have a
practices pervasive influence over the entity as a whole and meet the principles
of the COSO framework. They include controls related to the control
Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in environment, such as the Group’s values and ethics, the promotion of
market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which could effective risk management and the overarching governance exercised
expose the Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage. by the Board and its non-executive committees. The design and
operational effectiveness of entity level controls are assessed on an
The Group employs both a top and emerging risks process to provide
ongoing basis. If issues are significant to the Group, they are
forward-looking views of issues with the potential to threaten the
escalated to the GRC and / or the GAC.
execution of our strategy or operations over the medium to long term.
Process level transactional controls
We remain committed to investing in the reliability and resilience of
our IT systems and critical services, including those provided by third Key process level controls that mitigate the risk of financial
parties, that support all parts of our business. We do so to help misstatement are identified, recorded and monitored in accordance
protect our customers, affiliates and counterparties, and to help with the risk framework. This includes the identification and
ensure that we minimise any disruption to services that could result in assessment of relevant control issues against which action plans are
reputational and regulatory consequences. In our approach to defend tracked through to remediation. Further details of HSBC’s approach to
against these threats, we invest in business and technical controls to risk management can be found on page 127.
help us detect, manage and recover from issues, including data loss,
in a timely manner.
324 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financial reporting controls Employees
The Group’s financial reporting process is controlled using
At 31 December 2024, HSBC had a total workforce equivalent to
documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported by
211,000 full-time employees compared with 221,000 at the end of
detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements, issued
2023. Our main centres of employment were India with
to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each reporting
approximately 44,000 employees, the UK with 35,000, mainland
period end. The submission of financial information from each
China with 33,000, Hong Kong with 27,000, and Mexico with 16,000.
reporting entity is supported by a certification by the responsible
financial officer and analytical review procedures at reporting entity Our business spans many cultures, communities and continents. We
and Group levels. aspire to provide a high-performing environment where our
colleagues can fulfil their potential by building their skills and
Group Disclosure and Controls
capabilities while focusing on the development of a diverse and
Committee inclusive culture. We use employee surveys to assess progress and
make changes. We want to provide an open culture, where our
Chaired by the Group CFO, the Group Disclosure and Controls colleagues feel connected and supported to speak up, and where our
Committee supports the discharge of the Group’s obligations under leaders encourage and use feedback. Where we make organisational
relevant legislation and regulation including the UK and Hong Kong changes, we support our colleagues, in particular where there are job
listing rules, the UK Market Abuse Regulation and US Securities and impacts.
Exchange Commission rules. In so doing, the Group Disclosure and
Controls Committee is empowered to determine whether a new
Employee relations
event or circumstance should be disclosed, including the form and
timing of such disclosure, and review certain material disclosures
We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee
made or to be made by the Group. The membership of the Group
representative bodies where we have them. It is our policy to
Disclosure and Controls Committee consists of senior management,
maintain well-developed communications and consultation
including the Group CFO, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer;
programmes with all employee representative bodies. There have
Group Chief Legal Officer; and Group Chief People and Governance
been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes
Officer. The Group’s external auditors are standing attendees, while
during the past five years.
the Group's brokers and external legal counsel are consulted on
relevant matters and attend as required. The integrity of disclosures is We are committed to complying with the applicable employment laws
underpinned by structures and processes within the Global Finance and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including in
and Group Risk and Compliance functions that support rigorous relation to working hours and rest periods. HSBC’s employment
analytical review of financial reporting and the maintenance of proper practices and relations policy provides the framework and controls
accounting records. As required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group through which we seek to uphold that commitment.
CEO and the Group CFO have certified that the Group’s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as at the end of the period
Inclusion
covered by the Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk Our customers, colleagues and communities span many cultures and
management and internal control over financial reporting was continents. We value difference and believe that an inclusive culture
conducted with reference to the COSO 2013 framework. Based on makes us stronger. We are dedicated to building a connected
the assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the year workforce where everyone feels a sense of belonging.
ended 31 December 2024, the Group’s internal control over financial
reporting was effective. We expect all colleagues at HSBC to treat each other with dignity and
respect to ensure an inclusive environment. Our policies make it clear
PwC has audited the effectiveness of HSBC’s internal control over
that we do not tolerate unlawful discrimination, bullying or
financial reporting and has given an unqualified opinion.
harassment on any grounds. We are transparent in sharing our data
through external disclosures and we participate in benchmarking to
Other information included in the measure our progress across the industry.
Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Our approach to inclusion is set out on page 64 alongside our
ambitions and progress.
We include other non-statutory information in the Annual Report and
Accounts to enable a broader perspective of our performance for the For further details of our representation data, pay gap data, and actions, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and the ESG Data
period, including ESG and regulatory capital and liquidity information.
Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg
On page 43 we highlight the challenges we face in our sustainability
and climate reporting alongside the key changes we have made to our Employment of people with a
2024 climate disclosures. Strengthening our global regulatory
reporting processes with an aim to enhance data, consistency, and disability
controls remains a key priority for the Group and regulatory
authorities. See page 201 for further details. The GAC provides We strongly believe in providing equal opportunities for our
oversight to our reporting across these areas, including the disclosure employees. The employment of people with a disability is included in
risks in relation to sustainability and climate reporting, and monitoring this commitment. We are committed to retaining disabled employees
of the programme of work to address the quality and reliability of in the workplace and to providing reasonable adjustments to enable
regulatory reporting. See page 265 for further details. this.
Going concern
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, is satisfied that the
Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue operations for a
period of at least 12 months from the date of this report, and it
therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.
For further details, see page 40.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 325
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Employee development – We completed the annual safety inspection on all of our buildings
globally, to ensure we were meeting our standards and
Employee development energises our colleagues for growth and continuously improving our safety performance.
helps to equip them with the skills they need today whilst also – We maintained measures in our workplaces globally to minimise
preparing them to meet future challenges. We remain committed to the risks from the spread of respiratory disease, including through
delivering a high-quality learning experience by adopting a data-driven the provision of hand sanitiser, improved ventilation and guidance
approach that targets our learning investment to meet the most on good hygiene practices.
critical skill needs.
– We extended the reach of our Workplace Adjustments programme
By leveraging our strategic workforce blueprints, we have focused our to include all colleagues in India, providing tools and
efforts on critical skill shifts, including digitally enabling our frontline technologies which contribute to making work-life manageable for
colleagues and developing the sustainability and wealth expertise of employees with disability (including physical or sensory), long
our relationship managers, providing a variety of learning opportunities term / mental health condition or a neurodiversity, and will
through our Enterprise Skills Academies. continue the expansion of this programme to further Regions.
– We continued to hold health & safety themed awareness campaigns
We have launched our new AI Academy to support advanced skills
and facilitate CPR and first aid training for our colleagues.
development aligned with HSBC’s AI strategy, expanded our 'Doing
Business in India and China' programmes to include Saudi Arabia, and – We continued to provide our guidance and training programme for
increased our focus on building capabilities beyond foundational skills our construction partners, focusing on our key markets globally to
through our Sustainability Academy. In our global Wealth and Personal reduce the likelihood of accidents occurring by helping them
Banking business we have focused our attention on developing understand and deliver industry-leading health and safety
customer centricity and product expertise, and we have created performance. More than 7,200 construction workers received
opportunities for colleagues to develop new skills and collaborate safety passport training across 13 countries.
more broadly through our transition to a value stream delivery model – In 2024, we achieved full implementation of the Eat Well Live Well
as part of our bank wide Digital Acceleration Programme. programme across 100% of catered HSBC sites, driving global
healthy food sales to 32% with over 10% of all dishes sold globally
We remain committed to our global mandatory training to complete
being plant-based. These results were supported by monthly Eat
annually, as it is essential for shaping our culture and maintaining a
Well Live Well events, and virtual teaching kitchens accessible to
focus on critical issues, such as sustainability and financial crime risk.
all employees.
In line with this commitment, we have maintained our focus on senior
– Protection of our colleagues and operations is of critical importance,
leaders by launching new programs centred on Enterprise Risk
and we have effective controls in place to protect our people from
Leadership, which are designed to equip them with the skills
natural disasters (such as storms and earthquakes). In 2024, there
necessary to navigate an evolving risk environment.
were 40 named storms that passed over 3,127 of our buildings,
Effective leadership is essential for empowering our colleagues to resulting in no injuries and only a minor impact on 3 of our buildings.
develop critical skills, fostering a robust talent pipeline, and supporting
our strategic ambitions. To facilitate this, we have introduced the Employee health and safety
Career Academy, which enables our colleagues to explore their 2024 2023 2022
aspirations, and continued to evolve our flagship Enterprise Rate of workplace fatalities per 100,000 employees — — —
Leadership Programs, including uGrow, Accelerating Women’s Number of major injuries to employees1 14 12 7
Leadership, and Accelerating into Leadership. All injury rate per 100,000 employees 91 110 70
Lost days due to work injury 335 594 485
We have also expanded our Managing Director leadership offering,
supported by a Leadership 360 survey, to ensure comprehensive 1 Fractures, dislocation, concussion, loss of consciousness, overnight
development and alignment with our strategic goals. admission to hospital.
Health and safety Remuneration
HSBC’s pay and performance strategy is designed to reward
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working
competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance
environment for everyone. We have adopted global policies,
and attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender,
mandatory procedures, and incident and information reporting
ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance
systems across the organisation that reflect our core values and are
or experience with the Group, while performing their role in the long-
aligned to international standards. Our global health and safety
term interests of our stakeholders.
performance is subject to ongoing monitoring and assurance to
ensure we are compliant with relevant laws and regulations. For further details of the Group’s approach to remuneration, see page
301.
Our chief operating officers have overall responsibility for engendering
a positive health and safety culture and ensuring that global policies, Employee share plans
procedures and systems are put into practice locally. They also have
responsibility for ensuring all local legal requirements are met. Summaries of the share options and share awards granted, exercised/
vested or lapsed during the year and other details required to be
We delivered a range of activities in 2024 to help us understand and disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing
manage our health and safety risks: of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, including
– We achieved the WELL Health and Safety Rating from the detailed summaries of the HSBC share plans, are available on our
International WELL Building Institute at 54 of our global offices as website at www.hsbc.com/investors/results-and-announcements and
a demonstration of our commitment to the provision of safe and on the website of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at
healthy workplaces for our employees, customers and www.hkex.com.hk, or can be obtained upon request from the
stakeholders. Company Secretary, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
– We reinforced our advice and risk assessment and control
Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out on
methodology on working from home for employees adopting a
page 310.
hybrid work style, providing more awareness and best practices on Note 5 on the financial statements gives details of share-based payments,
good ergonomics and well-being. including discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans.
– We delivered health and safety training and awareness to 228,000
of our employees and contractors globally, ensuring roles and
responsibilities were clear and understood.
326 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Statement of compliance
The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both the UK
236 to 328 and the information referred to therein constitutes the and Hong Kong. During 2024, HSBC complied with the provisions and
’Corporate governance report’ and ’Report of the Directors’ of HSBC requirements of both the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance
Holdings for 2024. Further details of the relevant corporate Codes.
governance codes, role profiles and policies can be obtained from the
Under the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code, the audit
websites referenced in the table below. The websites referred to do
committee should be responsible for the oversight of all risk
not form part of this report.
management and internal control systems. During 2024, the Board
Relevant corporate governance codes, role profiles and policies approved changes to the scope of the Group Audit Committee’s
responsibilities in relation to internal controls to extend these to cover
UK Corporate Governance Code www.frc.org.uk oversight of the effectiveness of all internal controls. HSBC’s Group
Hong Kong Corporate www.hkex.com.hk Risk Committee retains oversight of internal controls relating to risk
Governance Code (set out in management and risk management systems and provides input to the
Appendix C1 to the Rules Group Audit Committee on these.
Governing the Listing of
HSBC Holdings has codified obligations for transactions in Group
Securities on the Stock
securities in accordance with the requirements of the UK Market
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of securities on
(’HKEx’))
HKEx. The Group has been granted certain waivers by HKEx from
Descriptions of the roles and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our- strict compliance with the rules that take into account accepted
responsibilities of the: people/board-of-directors/board- practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
responsibilities During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in
– Group Chairman
respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities. Following specific
– Group Chief Executive Officer enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with
their obligations.
– Senior Independent Director
The Group Audit Committee has reviewed and provided assurance to
– Board support the HSBC Holdings Board’s approval and publication of the
Board and senior management www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our- Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
people
Roles and responsibilities of the www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-
Board’s committees people/board-of-directors/board-
committees On behalf of the Board
Board’s policies on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-
Sir Mark E Tucker
people/board-of-directors/board-
– diversity and inclusion Group Chairman
responsibilities
– shareholder communication HSBC Holdings plc
– human rights
Registered number 617987
– remuneration practices and
governance 19 February 2025
Global Internal Audit Charter www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-
and-responsible-business/
governance/internal-control
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 327
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the
Accounts 2024, the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial ‘Report of the Directors: Corporate governance report’ on pages 237
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. to 241 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2024, confirms that, to the
best of their knowledge:
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared – the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
the parent company (‘Company’) and the Group financial statements accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards
in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006,
The company has also prepared financial statements in accordance international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to
with international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. In and IFRS Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the
preparing these financial statements, the Directors have complied assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss of the Group;
with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the and
International Accounting Standards Board (’IFRS Accounting
– the management report represented by the Report of the
Standards’). Under company law, the Directors must not approve the
Directors includes a fair review of the development and
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
performance of the business and the position of the Group,
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group, and of the
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that period. In
that it faces.
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
The Group Audit Committee has responsibility, delegated to it from
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external financial
consistently;
reporting. The Group Audit Committee report on page 263 sets out
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable how the Group Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities.
and prudent;
– state whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting Disclosure of information to auditors
standards, international financial reporting standards adopted
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the
European Union and IFRS Accounting Standards have been In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Directors’ report includes a statement, in the case of each Director in
explained in the financial statements; and office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved, that:
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it – so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit
is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
continue in business.
– they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
On behalf of the Board
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
Annual Report and Accounts 2024 as they appear on the Company’s Sir Mark E Tucker
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Group Chairman
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation HSBC Holdings plc
in other jurisdictions.
Registered number 617987
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2024,
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides 19 February 2025
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s
position and performance, business model and strategy.
328 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Our audit approach
Overview
Audit scope Key audit matters
Our risk assessment and scoping identified six entities (collectively the
Expected credit losses – Loans and advances
‘Significant Components’) for which we obtained audit opinions.
to customers (Group)
We performed full scope audits of four Significant Components: The Hongkong and
Year on year:
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC Holdings plc, HSBC Bank plc and
Consistent
HSBC UK Bank plc.
For two Significant Components, we obtained audit opinions over specific
Impairment of investment in associate – Bank
balances based on either the size or risk profile of those balances: HSBC North
of Communications Co., Ltd ('BoCom') (Group)
America Holdings Inc and HSBC Mexico S.A..
In addition, for a further three components, we performed audit work over centralised Year on year:
functions supporting specific balances. Consistent
Valuation of defined benefit pension
Specific audit procedures in relation to various Group activities, including IT general
obligations (Group)
controls, IT dependencies, forward looking economic scenarios for expected credit
losses (‘ECL’), operating expenses, intangible assets, payroll and consolidation were
Year on year:
performed by the Group team centrally.
Consistent
•••• •• •••
Investments in subsidiaries (parent company)
Year on year:
Consistent
4 2 3
full scope component components with audit components with audit
audits opinions over specific work over centralised
balances functions
Materiality
Overall Group materiality $1.5bn
Based on 5% of profit before tax excluding notable items.
Overall parent company materiality
$1.4bn
Based on 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall
materiality of $2.06bn and was therefore reduced below the
Group materiality.
Performance materiality
Group Parent
$1.1bn $1.1bn
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud)
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit;
and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks or other matters identified by our audit. During our engagement with the GAC we also provided written
and verbal observations on other areas of accounting judgement including the valuation of financial instruments, legal proceedings and
regulatory matters, the impact of acquisitions and disposals, tax-related judgements and the related control considerations arising from our
audit.
The key audit matters below are consistent with last year, although the specific test plans have evolved to take account of developments at
HSBC and in its operating environment. Examples of HSBC specific developments included the change in CEO and the strategic initiatives
subsequently announced. Examples of operating environment changes include macro-economic developments in key markets and government
actions to manage economic conditions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 331
Financial
statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Expected credit losses - Loans and advances to customers (Group)
Background Procedures performed
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024: Refer We assessed the design and effectiveness of governance and
to the Audited credit risk disclosures, Group Audit Committee Report, controls over the estimation of ECL. We observed management's
Note 1.2(d): Financial instruments measured at amortised cost and review and challenge in governance forums for (1) the determination
Note 1.2(i): Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets. of economic scenarios and their probability weightings, and (2) the
assessment of ECL for Retail and Wholesale portfolios.
Determining ECL involves management judgement and is subject to a
high degree of estimation uncertainty. Management makes various We also tested controls over:
assumptions when estimating ECL. We performed a risk assessment
to identify those assumptions with significant levels of management – model validation and monitoring;
judgement and for which variations had the most material impact on – the identification of credit impaired triggers;
ECL.
– the input of critical data into source systems and the flow and
Assumptions were made in determining economic scenarios and their transformation of critical data from source systems to impairment
probability weightings (specifically the central and downside scenarios models; and
given these have the most material impact on ECL) and estimating
– approval of significant individual impairments.
discounted cash flows for significant credit impaired exposures in
relation to the mainland China commercial real estate portfolio. The We involved our economic experts in assessing the significant
level of estimation uncertainty and judgement in these areas has assumptions made in determining the severity and probability
remained elevated during 2024 as a result of continued uncertainties weighting of economic scenarios. These assessments considered the
in the macroeconomic and geopolitical environment and the higher sensitivity of ECL to variations in the severity and probability weighting
interest rate environment, as well as developments in mainland of economic scenarios. We also involved our modelling specialists in
China's commercial real estate sector and economy more broadly. assessing the appropriateness of the significant assumptions and
Macroeconomic conditions vary between territories and industry methodologies used for the ECL models. We independently re-
sectors, requiring judgement in determining the severity and performed the calculations for a sample of those models. In respect of
probability weighting of economic scenarios used in ECL models. the mainland China commercial real estate portfolio, we had oversight
of the audit work performed by our component team in Hong Kong.
The modelling methodologies used to estimate ECL are developed This work included involving business recovery experts in assessing
using historical experience. We assess the impact of limitations in the discounted cash flows for a sample of significant credit impaired
these methodologies when forecasting the extent and timing of exposures. We further considered whether the judgements made in
future customer defaults or when responding to emerging risks, such selecting the significant assumptions would give rise to indicators of
as climate risk. The focus of our assessment of the impact of climate possible management bias.
risk on ECL was to evaluate management’s risk assessment process
for identifying, quantifying and concluding that the impact of climate We evaluated management’s risk assessment in respect of the impact
risk on ECL for the year end was immaterial. of climate change on the ECL provision, including involving our
modelling specialists to evaluate the stress testing and scenario analysis
methodology used and sensitising key assumptions. Finally, we tested
the Audited credit risk disclosures made in the Annual Report.
Overall, we found the ECL on loans and advances to customers to be
reasonable.
Observations discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We reported to the GAC our observations covering governance and controls, the assumptions used and the modelling methodologies
implemented by management in determining ECL, with a significant focus on the uncertain prevailing macroeconomic conditions and
developments in mainland China's commercial real estate sector. Our observations regarded:
– the severity of economic scenarios, and their related probability weightings, across territories;
– significant assumptions used to estimate the discounted cash flow projections for defaulted exposures in relation to the mainland China
commercial real estate portfolio; and
– the disclosures made in relation to ECL.
332 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a
whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in
which they operate.
A focus on risk factors
The risks that HSBC faces are diverse, with the interdependencies between them being numerous and complex. In performing our risk
assessment we engaged with a number of stakeholders to ensure we appropriately understood and considered these risks and their
interrelationships. This included stakeholders within HSBC and our own experts within PwC. This engagement covered external factors across
the geopolitical, macroeconomic, regulatory and accounting landscape, and the impact of climate risk. It also covered the strategy and
transformation-driven internal environment at HSBC, with particular attention to the announced Group reorganisation. The impact of this
reorganisation on financial reporting will primarily be in later reporting periods.
Scoping
The risks of material misstatement can be reduced to an acceptable level by testing the entities that are significant due to their size and those
that drive particular significant risks identified as part of our risk assessment. We continually assessed risks and changed the scope of our audit
where necessary. Our risk assessment and scoping identified certain entities (collectively the 'Significant Components') for which we obtained
audit opinions.
Audit opinions
Full scope over specific
audit opinion balances
HSBC Holdings plc* u
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited** u
HSBC Bank plc** u
HSBC UK Bank plc* u
HSBC North America Holdings Inc** u
HSBC Mexico S.A.* u
* Opinion for the company financial position and performance.
** Opinion for the consolidated financial position and performance.
We instructed other PwC network firms to perform the audits of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC North
America Holdings Inc and HSBC Mexico S.A.. The audits for HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc were performed by PwC teams in the UK,
who themselves then instructed other PwC network firms to perform work in certain areas.
We also performed audit work over centralised functions supporting specific balances in other components. These components are HSBC Global
Services (UK) Limited, HSBC Group Management Services Limited, and HSBC Global Services (HK) Limited. This work was performed by PwC teams
in the UK.
Significant Components audit approach
We instructed the component auditors reporting to us on the Significant Components to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size
of the operations they audited. Certain Significant Component auditors performed their work to a local statutory audit materiality that was a
lower level than our allocated Group materiality.
We designed global audit approaches for the products and services that substantially make up HSBC's global businesses, such as lending,
deposits and derivatives. These approaches were provided to the engagement partners and teams performing audit testing for the Significant
Components.
We were in active dialogue throughout the year with the component auditors of the Significant Components, including directing how they
planned and performed their work. Senior members of our team undertook at least one in-person site visit where a full scope audit was
requested and we had oversight over certain areas of audit work performed. We attended Audit Committee meetings for some of the
Significant Components. We also attended meetings with management for each of these Significant Components at the year end.
In planning and executing our oversight plan, we considered where reliance was placed on PwC network firms to perform a full scope audit.
Given the relative financial significance of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited to the Group, we concluded this
component required a full scope audit. As a result, we placed specific focus on the direction, supervision and review of the work performed by
our teams in Hong Kong and China. The frequency of dialogue with these teams was substantial throughout all stages of our audit, we also;
performed additional site visits with component auditors and management, held workshops in several areas where their work supported the
Group audit and increased the nature and extent of review over the audit work performed by these teams.
Overall coverage Net operating income Total assets
The components where
we performed audit procedures
covered approximately:
72% 82%
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 335
Financial
statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Group-wide audit approach
HSBC has entity level controls that have a pervasive influence across the Group, as well as other global and regional governance and controls
over aspects of financial reporting, such as those operated by the Global Risk function for expected credit losses. A significant amount of IT and
operational processes and controls relevant to financial reporting are undertaken in operations centres run by Digital Business Services ('DBS').
Whilst these operations centres are not separate components, the IT and operational processes and controls are relevant to the financial
information of the Components. Financial reporting processes and controls are also performed centrally in HSBC's Group Finance function and
finance operation centres ('Finance Operations'), including the impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, held for sale
classifications and the consolidation of the Group's results, the preparation of financial statements, and management's oversight controls
relevant to the Group's financial reporting.
Group-wide processes or processes in DBS and Finance Operations are subject to specified audit procedures or an audit over specific financial
statement line items. For these areas, we either performed audit work ourselves, or directed and provided oversight of the audit work
performed by PwC teams in the UK, Poland, China, Malaysia, India, France, Hong Kong and the Philippines. This audit work, together with
analytical review procedures and assessing the outcome of local external audits, also addressed the risk of material misstatement for balances
in entities that were not part of a Significant Component.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the
financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Group Parent Company
Overall materiality $1.5bn $1.4bn
(FY23 $1.6bn) (FY23 $1.5bn)
How we 5% 0.75%
determined it
of profit before tax adjusted for notable items of total assets then capped to 95% of the group materiality.
Rationale for We believe a benchmark based on 5% of profit before tax A benchmark of total assets has been used, as the parent
benchmark applied excluding notable items is an appropriate quantitative indicator of company's primary purpose is to act as a holding parent company
materiality, although certain items could also be material for with investments in the Group's subsidiaries, not to generate
qualitative reasons. This benchmark is consistent with our operating profits and therefore a profit-based measure is not
approach for listed entities. relevant.
Performance $1.1bn $1.1bn
materiality
(FY23 $1.2bn) (FY23 $1.1bn)
How we 75% 75%
determined it
of overall materiality of overall materiality
Level above which $75m $75m
we report to the
Group Audit
Committee
(FY23 $80m) (FY23 $80m)
We agreed we would also report misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
For each Significant Component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The
range of materiality allocated across components was between $0.1bn and $1.4bn.
We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected
misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the nature
and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes.
In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors – the history of misstatements, risk assessment and
aggregation risk and the effectiveness of controls – and concluded that an amount at the upper end of our normal range was appropriate.
336 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The impact of climate risk on our audit
In considering the impact of climate risk on our audit, we:
Made enquiries of management to understand the extent of the potential impact of climate risk on the financial statements and we
remained alert when performing our audit procedures for any indicators of the impact of climate risk.
Evaluated and challenged management's assessment of the impact of climate risk, set out on page 43, which includes the potential
impact on ECL, classification and measurement of financial instruments, goodwill and other intangible assets, and assumptions
used in making the long-term viability statement and going concern assumption.
Read the disclosures in relation to climate risk made in the other information within the Annual Report to ascertain whether the
disclosures are materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge from our audit. Our responsibility over other
information is further described in the Reporting on other information section of our report.
Our procedures did not identify any material incremental adjustments needed to capture climate impacts on the Group and parent company
financial statements.
Our ability to detect irregularities, including fraud, and our response
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities,
outlined below, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of
detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.
Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations
related to breaches of financial crime laws and regulations and regulatory compliance, including regulatory reporting requirements and conduct
of business, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We also
considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and relevant tax
legislation. We evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk
of override of controls) and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries in relation to cost targets,
and management bias in accounting estimates, particularly those related to the valuation of certain financial instruments. The Group
engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in
response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and/or component auditors included:
Review of correspondence with and reports from regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority ('PRA') and Financial
Conduct Authority ('FCA').
Review of reporting to the GAC and the Group Risk Committee in respect of compliance and legal matters.
Enquiry of management and those charged with governance, and review of internal audit reports insofar as they related to the
financial statements.
Obtaining legal confirmations from legal advisors relating to material litigation and compliance matters.
Assessing matters reported on the Group's whistleblowing programmes and the results of management's investigation of such
matters, insofar as they related to the financial statements.
Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to
the determination of the valuation of certain financial instruments, ECL, and the impairment assessment of investment in
subsidiaries.
Obtaining confirmations from third parties to confirm the existence of a sample of transactions and balances.
Identifying and testing journal entries, including those posted with certain descriptions, posted to certain account combinations, or
posted by unexpected users.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance with
laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting
a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate
concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing techniques.
However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We will often seek to
target particular items for testing based on their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to enable us to draw a
conclusion about the population from which the sample is selected.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 337
Financial
statements
Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the viability of the Group and parent company was substantially less in
corporate governance statement relating to the parent company’s scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance considering the directors’ process supporting their statement;
Code specified for our review. Our additional responsibilities with checking that the statement is in alignment with the relevant
respect to the corporate governance statement as other information provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering
are described in the Reporting on other information section of this whether the statement is consistent with the financial statements
report. and our knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent
company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have
concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit, and we governance statement is materially consistent with the financial
have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
– The directors’ confirmation that they have carried out a robust – The directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report,
assessment of the emerging and principal risks; taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and
provides the information necessary for the members to assess
– The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal
the Group’s and parent company's position, performance,
risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and
business model and strategy;
an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;
– The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of
– The directors’ statement in the financial statements about
effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems;
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern
and
basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of
any material uncertainties to the Group’s and parent company’s – The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the GAC.
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report
from the date of approval of the financial statements;
when the directors’ statement relating to the parent company’s
– The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the Group's compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure
and parent company’s prospects, the period this assessment from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing
covers and why the period is appropriate; and Rules for review by the auditors.
– The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable
expectation that the parent company will be able to continue in
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of
its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the Directors for assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) and ISAs will always detect a material
the financial statements misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
As explained more fully in the Directors' responsibility statement, the
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are A further description of our responsibilities for
also responsible for such internal control as they determine is the audit of the financial statements
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are (encompassing our responsibilities under ISAs
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. and our additional responsibilities under ISAs
(UK)) is located on the FRC’s website at
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This
assessing the Group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue
description forms part of our auditors’ report.
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Use of this report
directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
of the financial statements
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 339
Financial
statements
Notes on the financial statements
IFRS 18 ‘Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements’
In April 2024, the IASB issued IFRS 18 ‘Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements’, effective for annual reporting periods beginning
on or after 1 January 2027. The new accounting standard aims to give users of financial statements more transparent and comparable
information about an entity’s financial performance. It will replace IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ but carries over many
requirements from that IFRS Accounting Standard unchanged. In addition, there are three sets of new requirements relating to the structure of
the income statement, management-defined performance measures and the aggregation and disaggregation of financial information.
While IFRS 18 will not change recognition criteria or measurement bases, it may have an impact on presenting information in the financial
statements, in particular the income statement and to a lesser extent the cash flow statement. HSBC are currently assessing impacts and data
readiness before developing a more detailed implementation plan.
(d) Foreign currencies
HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency
bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business. The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency because the US dollar and
currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as
well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, except non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at
historical cost, which are translated using the rate of exchange at the initial transaction date. Exchange differences are included in other
comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying item is recognised. Except for
subsidiaries operating in hyperinflationary economies, in the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of branches,
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into the Group’s presentation currency at
the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, while their results are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the
reporting period. Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange
differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
(e) Presentation of information
Certain disclosures required by IFRS Accounting Standards have been included in the sections marked as (‘Audited’) in the Annual Report and
Accounts 2024 as follows:
– Disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in the ‘Risk
review’ on pages 126 to 235.
– The ‘Own funds disclosure’ is included in the ‘Risk review’ on page 205.
HSBC follows the UK Finance Disclosure Code. The UK Finance Disclosure Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’
disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance agreed in 2010. In line with the principles of the UK
Finance Disclosure Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard
setters, and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
(f) Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions. In view of the inherent
uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items, highlighted as the ‘critical estimates and
judgements’ in section 1.2 below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which management’s
estimates are based. This could result in materially different estimates and judgements from those reached by management for the purposes
of these financial statements. Management’s selection of HSBC’s accounting policies that contain critical estimates and judgements reflects
the materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved.
Management has considered the impact of climate-related risks on HSBC’s financial position and performance. While the effects of climate
change are a source of uncertainty, as at 31 December 2024 management did not consider there to be a material impact on our critical
judgements and estimates from the physical, transition and other climate-related risks in the short to medium term. In particular, management
has considered the known and observable potential impacts of climate-related risks of associated judgements and estimates in our value in use
calculations.
(g) Going concern
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of
information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, liquidity, capital requirements and capital
resources.
These considerations include stressed scenarios that reflect the uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment following uncertain inflation,
rapidly changing interest rates, slower Chinese economic activity, and disrupted supply chains as a result of the Russia-Ukraine war, conflict in
the Middle East and US-China tensions. They also included other top and emerging risks, including climate change, as well as the related
impacts on profitability, capital and liquidity.
1.2Summary of material accounting policies
(a) Consolidation and related policies
Investments in subsidiaries
Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when it holds – directly or indirectly – the necessary voting rights to pass
resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors,
including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct relevant activities, and whether power is held as agent or principal.
354 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Notes on the financial statements
Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill in the next financial year,
but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on forecast profitability
plans approved by the Board and minimum capital levels required to support the business operations of a CGU. The Board challenges and
endorses planning assumptions in light of internal capital allocation decisions necessary to support our strategy, current market conditions and
macroeconomic outlook. For the 1 October 2024 impairment test, cash flow projections until the end of 2029 were considered, in line with our
internal planning horizon. Key assumptions underlying cash flow projections reflect management’s outlook on interest rates and inflation, as
well as business strategy, including the scale of investment in technology and automation. Our cash flow projections include known and
observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model. As required by IFRS
Accounting Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring
initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring
costs.
Discount rate
The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of equity assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a capital asset pricing
model (‘CAPM’) and market implied cost of equity. CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including
the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s
assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. The discount rates for each CGU are refined to reflect the rates of
inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management
supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with the cost of equity rates produced
by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable
in discount rates and asset prices.
Long-term growth rate
The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of
business units making up the CGUs. These growth rates reflect inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates or from which it
derives revenue.
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU
At 1 October 2024, given the extent by which VIU exceeds carrying amount, the HSBC UK WPB CGU was not sensitive to reasonably possible
adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to
assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of
discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.
None of the remaining CGUs are individually significant.
Other intangible assets
Impairment testing
Impairment of other intangible assets is assessed in accordance with our policy explained in Note 1.2(n) by comparing the net carrying amount
of CGUs containing intangible assets with their recoverable amounts. Recoverable amounts are determined by calculating an estimated VIU or
fair value, as appropriate, for each CGU. No significant impairment was recognised during the year.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of other intangible assets in the next
financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in
accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:
– Management’s judgement in estimating future cash flows: We considered past business performance, current market conditions and our
macroeconomic outlook to estimate future earnings. As required by IFRS Accounting Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude
estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to
carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring costs. For some businesses, this means that the
benefit of certain strategic actions may not be included in the impairment assessment, including capital releases. Our cash flow projections
include known and observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model.
– Long-term growth rates: The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective
of the businesses within the Group.
– Discount rates: Rates are based on a combination of CAPM and market-implied calculations considering market data for the businesses and
geographies in which the Group operates. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable in discount rates
and asset prices.
Sensitivity of estimates relating to non-financial assets
As explained in Note 1.2(a), estimates of future cash flows for CGUs are made in the review of goodwill and non-financial assets for
impairment. Non-financial assets include other intangible assets shown above, and owned property, plant and equipment and right-of-use
assets (see Note 22). The most significant sources of estimation uncertainty are in respect of the goodwill balances disclosed above. There are
no non-financial asset balances relating to individual CGUs which involve estimation uncertainty that represents a significant risk of resulting in
a material adjustment to the results and financial position of the Group within the next financial year.
Non-financial assets are widely distributed across CGUs within the legal entities of the Group, including Corporate Centre assets that cannot be
allocated to CGUs and are therefore tested for impairment at consolidated level. The recoverable amounts of other intangible assets, owned
property, plant and equipment, and right-of-use assets cannot be lower than individual asset fair values less costs to dispose, where relevant.
At 31 December 2024 none of the CGUs were sensitive to reasonably possible adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the
recoverable amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in
respect of each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast
and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.
410 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Notes on the financial statements
% of share class % of share class
held by immediate held by immediate
parent company parent company
(or by the Group (or by the Group
Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes Subsidiaries where this varies) Footnotes
HSBC Asset Management (India) Private 99.99 HSBC Electronic Data Processing 100.00 11, 74
Limited 53 (Guangdong) Limited
HSBC Asset Management (Japan) Limited 100.00 54 HSBC Electronic Data Processing (Malaysia) 100.00 75
HSBC Assurances Vie (France) 100.00 (99.99) 5, 55 Sdn Bhd
HSBC Australia Holdings Pty Limited 100.00 6, 56 HSBC Electronic Data Processing 99.99 76
(Philippines), Inc.
HSBC BANK (CHILE) 100.00 57
HSBC Electronic Data Processing India 100.00
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited 100.00 11, 58 Private Limited 77
HSBC Bank (General Partner) Limited 100.00 48 HSBC Electronic Data Processing Lanka 100.00
HSBC Bank (Mauritius) Limited 100.00 59 (Private) Limited 78
HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited 100.00 51 HSBC Electronic Data Service Delivery 100.00
(Egypt) S.A.E 79
HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited 100.00 60
HSBC Equipment Finance (UK) Limited 100.00 14
HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A. 100.00 61 HSBC Equity (UK) Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Ltd. 100.00 62 HSBC EURO Protect 80+ 78.06 55
HSBC Bank A.S. 100.00 63 HSBC Europe B.V. 100.00 12
HSBC Bank Australia Limited 100.00 56 HSBC European Senior Direct Lending Fund 43.00
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 100.00 18 2023 RAIF SICAV-S.A. 91
HSBC Bank Capital Funding (Sterling 1) LP N/A 1, 48 HSBC Executor & Trustee Company (UK) 100.00
HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E 94.54 64 Limited 14
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 100.00 4, 49 HSBC Factoring (France) 100.00 (99.99) 5, 34
HSBC Finance (Netherlands) 100.00 3, 12
HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c. 70.03 65
HSBC Finance Corporation 100.00 25
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 100.00 4, 66 HSBC Finance Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 100.00 67 HSBC Finance Transformation (UK) Limited 100.00 12
Representative Office Morocco SARL (In
HSBC Financial Advisors Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00 2, 51
Liquidation)
HSBC Financial Services (Lebanon) S.A.L 99.83 80
HSBC Bank Pension Trust (UK) Limited 100.00 12 HSBC Financial Technology Venture Capital 100.00 177
HSBC Bank plc 100.00 3, 4, 12 Fund SCSp
HSBC Bank USA, National Association 100.00 4, 68 HSBC FinTech Services (Shanghai) Company N/A 1, 2, 81
Limited
HSBC Branch Nominee (UK) Limited 100.00 14
HSBC Global Asset Management (Bermuda) 100.00 4, 18
HSBC Brasil Holding S.A. 100.00 16 Limited
HSBC Broking Forex (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Asset Management 100.00 (99.99)
HSBC Broking Futures (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 (Deutschland) GmbH 7, 82
HSBC Broking Futures (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Asset Management (France) 100.00 (99.99) 5, 55
HSBC Broking Securities (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 H Ko S n B g C ) L G im lob it a e l d Asset Management (Hong 100.00 83
HSBC Broking Securities (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Asset Management (Malta) 100.00 (70.03) 84
HSBC Broking Services (Asia) Limited 100.00 19 Limited
HSBC Capital (USA), Inc. 100.00 25 HSBC Global Asset Management (México), 100.00 (99.99) 13
HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 1) L.P. N/A 1, 48 S.A. de C.V., Sociedad Operadora de Fondos
HSBC Card Services Inc. 100.00 25 de Inversión, Grupo Financiero HSBC
HSBC Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V., Grupo 100.00 (99.99) HSBC Global Asset Management (Singapore) 100.00 51
Financiero HSBC 13 Limited
HSBC Cayman Limited 100.00 69 HSBC Global Asset Management 100.00 5, 171
(Switzerland) AG
HSBC Cayman Services Limited 100.00 69 HSBC Global Asset Management (Taiwan) 100.00 86
HSBC Client Holdings Nominee (UK) Limited 100.00 12 Limited
HSBC Client Nominee (Jersey) Limited 100.00 2, 70 HSBC Global Asset Management (UK) 100.00
HSBC Climate Tech Venture Capital Fund 87.15 Limited 12
SCSp 177 HSBC Global Asset Management (USA) Inc. 100.00 87
HSBC Columbia Funding, LLC N/A 125 HSBC Global Asset Management Holdings 100.00 88
HSBC Continental Europe 99.99 5, 34 (Bahamas) Limited
HSBC Corporate Advisory (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 100.00 49 HSBC Global Asset Management Limited 100.00 3, 12
HSBC Corporate Finance (Hong Kong) Limited 100.00 19 HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited 100.00 12
HSBC Corporate Secretary (UK) Limited 100.00 3, 12 HSBC Global Custody Proprietary Nominee 100.00 12
(UK) Limited
HSBC Corporate Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. N/A 1, 71 HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Digital Leaders 100.00 27
HSBC Corporate Trustee Company (UK) 100.00 Equity Fund
Limited 12 HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Euro Lower 100.00 27
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited 100.00 56 Carbon Government 10+ Year Bond UCITS
HSBC Custody Services (Guernsey) Limited 100.00 17 ETF
HSBC Daisy Investments (Mauritius) Limited 100.00 72 HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Euro Lower 100.00 27
Carbon Government 1-3 Year Bond UCITS
HSBC Diversified Loan Fund General Partner N/A 1, 73 ETF
Sarl
HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Global Aggregate 100.00 27
HSBC Diversified Loan SCSp-RAIF N/A 73 Bond ESG UCITS ETF
432 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Approach to ESG reporting Our reporting around ESG
We report on ESG matters throughout our Annual Report and
The information set out in the ESG review on pages 41 to 84, taken
Accounts 2024, including the ’ESG overview’ section of the Strategic
together with other information relating to ESG issues included in this
Report (pages 15 to 19), ESG review (pages 41 to 84), and the
Annual Report and Accounts 2024, aims to provide key ESG
‘Climate risk’ and ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ sections of
information and data relevant to our operations for the year ended
the Risk review (pages 219 to 228). In addition, we have other
31 December 2024. The data is compiled for the financial year
supplementary materials, including our ESG Data Pack, which
1 January to 31 December 2024 unless otherwise specified.
provides a more granular breakdown of ESG information.
Measurement techniques and calculations are explained next to data
tables where necessary. There are no significant changes from the
Detailed data Additional reports
previous reporting period in terms of scope, boundary or
measurement of our reporting of ESG matters. Where relevant, ESG Data Pack 2024, UK Pay Gap Report 2024
including SASB Index Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
rationale is provided for any restatement of information or data that
2024 and WEF Index 2024
has been previously published.
2024 Green Bond Report 2024
HSBC UN Sustainable Development Goals Bond
How we decide what to measure
Report 2024
We listen to our stakeholders in a number of different ways, which For further details of our supplementary materials, see our ESG reporting
we set out in more detail within the ‘ESG overview’ on page 16. We centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
use the information they provide us to identify the issues that are reporting-centre.
most important to them and consequently also matter to our own
ESG Guide
business. Our ESG Committee and other relevant governance bodies
regularly discuss the new and existing themes and issues that matter
We comply with the ‘comply or explain’ provisions in the ESG Guide,
to our stakeholders. Our management team then uses this insight,
save for certain items, which we describe in more detail below:
alongside the framework of the ESG Guide (which refers to our
obligations under the Environmental, Social and Governance – A1(b) on relevant laws/regulations relating to air and greenhouse
Reporting Guide contained in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of
the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and on emissions: taking into
Limited), and the UKLR 6.6.6R(8) of the Financial Conduct Authority’s account the nature of our business, we do not believe that there
(‘FCA’) Listing Rules, Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK are relevant laws and regulations in these areas that have
Companies Act 2006, and other applicable laws and regulations to significant impacts on our operations. Nevertheless, we are fully
choose what we measure and publicly report in our ESG review. We compliant with our publication of information regarding scope 1
will continue to develop and refine our reporting and disclosures on and 2 carbon emissions, while we only partially publish
ESG matters in line with feedback received from our investors and information on scope 3 carbon emissions, as the data required for
other stakeholders, and in view of our obligations under the ESG that publication is not yet fully available.
Guide and the FCA’s Listing Rules.
– A1.3 on total hazardous waste produced, A1.4 on total non-
Under the ESG Guide, ’materiality’ is considered to be the threshold hazardous waste produced: Taking into account the nature of our
at which ESG issues become sufficiently important to our investors business, we do not consider hazardous waste to be a material
and other stakeholders that they should be publicly reported. Our issue for our stakeholders. As such, we report only on total waste
approach to materiality also considers disclosure standards and other produced, which includes hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
applicable rules and regulations as part of our materiality assessment – A1.6 on handling hazardous and non-hazardous waste: Taking into
for specific ESG topics and relevant disclosures. account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to be
a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we
Given ongoing developments in the ESG regulatory environment
continue to focus on the reduction and recycling of all waste.
across various jurisdictions in which we operate, combined with the
Building on the success of our previous operational environmental
relative immaturity of processes, systems, data quality and controls,
strategy, we are continuing to seek to identify key opportunities
our focus remains on supporting a globally consistent set of
where we can lessen our wider environmental impact, including
mandatory sustainability standards. We aim to continue to evolve our
waste management. For further details, please see our ESG
reporting to recognise market developments, such as the
review on page 58.
International Sustainability Standards Board (‘ISSB’) or the Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive (‘CSRD’), and support the efforts to – A2.4 on sourcing water issue and water efficiency target: Taking
harmonise the disclosures. In this Annual Report and Accounts 2024, into account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to
we continue to report against the core World Economic Forum be a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we
(‘WEF’), Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability Accounting have implemented measures to further reduce water consumption
Standards Board (‘SASB’) metrics, and will continue to review our through the installation of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or
approach as the regulatory landscape evolves. zero flush sanitary fittings and continue to track our water
consumption.
Consistent with the scope of financial information presented in our
Annual Report and Accounts, the ESG review covers the operations – A2.5 on packaging material, B6(b) on issues related to health and
of HSBC Holdings plc and its subsidiaries. Given the relative safety and labelling relating to products and services provided,
immaturity of ESG-related data and methodologies in general, we are B6.1 on percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to
on a journey towards improving completeness and robustness. recalls for safety and health reasons and B6.4 in recall procedures:
Taking into account the nature of our business, we do not
For further details of our material ESG topics, see ‘Engaging with our consider these to be material issues for our stakeholders.
stakeholders and our material ESG topics’ on page 16.
This is aligned with the materiality reporting principle that is set out in
the ESG Guide. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ for further
information on how we determine what matters are material to our
stakeholders.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 443
Additional
information
Additional information
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
TCFD
As noted on page 18, we have considered our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under both UKLR 6.6.6(8) of the Financial Conduct Authority’s
(‘FCA’) Listing Rules and Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006. We perform an assessment to ascertain the appropriate
level of detail to be included in the climate-related financial disclosures that are set out in our Annual Report and Accounts, as part of
considering what to measure and publicly report. Our assessment takes into account factors such as the level of our exposure to climate-
related risks and opportunities, the scope and objectives of our climate-related strategy, transitional challenges, and the nature, size and
complexity of our business. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ for further information.
We confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with 11 TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures, including its annexes
and supplemental guidance, which we summarise in the table below:
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Governance
a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a))
Process, frequency and – The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the Pages 74
training approach, execution and associated reporting. ESG strategies were considered at eight Board meetings during the and 253
year.
– Board members receive ESG-related training as part of their induction and ongoing development, and seek out further Page 74
opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area.
Sub-committee – The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) considered ESG and climate reporting matters at six meetings during 2024. Page 264
accountability, Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported by the executive-level ESG Committee, provided
processes and close oversight of the disclosure risks in relation to sustainability and climate reporting, amid rising stakeholder
frequency expectations. The work will continue throughout 2025 in partnership with the Sustainability Working Group.
– The Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) remained focused on climate risk and greenwashing risk. The GRC received reports Pages 272
on climate risk management and sustainability risk policies, while maintaining oversight of delivery plans and risk appetite and 275
breaches to help ensure that the Group continues to develop and maintains robust climate risk management capabilities.
Reputation risk considerations have also formed part of these discussions. It considered climate risk at four meetings in
2024.
– The diagram on page 74 provides an illustration of our ESG governance process, including how the Board’s strategy Page 74
on climate is cascaded and implemented throughout the organisation. It identifies examples of forums that manage
both climate-related opportunities and risks, along with their responsibilities and the responsible chair.
Examples of the Board – The Board has overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the approach, Page 251
and relevant Board execution, and associated reporting.
committees taking
– We enhanced our ESG governance with the establishment of a new Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG’) of the HSBC Pages 22
climate into account
Holdings Board. This working group has an initial remit to provide oversight and guidance in relation to the Group’s and 74
sustainability activities, including the targets and timelines set out in the net zero transition plan, key sustainability risk
policies and communication with key stakeholder groups.
– In 2024, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and detailed Page 251
updates including: review and approval of the net zero transition plan; deep dives on the sustainability execution
programme; and updates on human rights.
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a))
Who manages climate- – The Sustainability Working Group, established in 4Q24, oversees and provides guidance on the Group-wide medium Page 220
related risks and and longer-term sustainability strategy. The ESG Committee has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, material
opportunities commitments and external disclosure. It is co-chaired by the Group CEO and the Group Chief Sustainability Officer.
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager responsible for the management of climate risk Page 220
under the UK Senior Managers Regime, holding overall accountability for the Group’s climate risk programme.
How management – The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and implementation of strategy to the Group CEO. During the Page 247
reports to the Board year, the incumbent Group CEO was supported in his management of the Group by recommendations and advice from the
Group Executive Committee (’GEC’), an executive forum comprising members of senior management that include chief
executive officers of the global businesses and regions, as well as functional heads.
– During the year, the Board also oversaw the rationalisation of the ESG Committee and Sustainability Execution Page 251
Committee into a single governance body (named the ESG Committee). These Board and executive level governance
forums support senior management in the operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability strategy, through the oversight
of the sustainability execution programme. For further details see page 74.
Processes used to – The Group Risk Management Meeting oversees the enterprise-wide management of all risks, including updates Page 74
inform management relating to the Group’s climate risk profile and risk appetite, top and emerging climate risks, and key climate initiatives.
Strategy
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term (Companies Act 2006 -
Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (d))
Processes used to – When assessing our long-term scenarios, climate-related losses are expected to remain minimal in the short term and Page 224
determine material likely to increase in the medium and longer time horizon, driven by the transition to a net zero economy and greater
risks and opportunities physical risk impacts.
– Our models continue to incorporate a range of climate-specific metrics that could potentially impact our customers, Page 224
including expected production volumes, revenue, costs and capital expenditure.
Relevant short-, – Our annual climate risk materiality assessment helps us to understand how climate risk may impact HSBC’s risk Page 219
medium-, and long-term taxonomy. The assessment considers short-term (up to 2026), medium-term (2027-2035) and long-term (2036-2050)
time horizons periods.
444 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Transition or physical – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between Page 45
climate-related issues $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data
identified Dictionary 2024 includes a detailed definition of contributing activities.
– For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six Page 221
high transition risk sectors. As at 31 December 2024, the overall exposure to six high transition risk sectors was 18% of
total gross carrying amount of wholesale loans and advances. Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale
customers, including those in higher transition risk sectors, through a transition engagement questionnaire (‘TEQ’). In
2024, the TEQ was expanded to cover all geographies. The TEQ helps to gather information and assess our wholesale
customers’ business model alignment to a net zero transition and their exposure to physical and transition risks.
– The impact on our wholesale portfolios is demonstrated by the table on page 225 which shows the size of exposures by Page 225
sector in 2024 and the cumulative change in ECL compared with a counterfactual scenario (expressed as a multiple).
The size of our exposure in each sector is represented by our exposure at default (‘EAD’) relative to one another.
– The table on page 227 demonstrates the impact on our commercial real estate (‘CRE’) portfolio for specific markets, Page 227
including the three biggest markets – Hong Kong, the UK and the US. This shows the increase in cumulative ECL over
different time horizons, under each scenario, compared with a counterfactual scenario (expressed as a multiple).
– We measure the impacts of climate and weather events on our buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current Page 228
and scenario-modelled forecast data. In 2024, there were 40 major storms that had a minor impact on three of our
buildings.
Risks and – For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six Page 221
opportunities by high transition risk sectors. These are automotive, chemicals, construction, contracting & building materials, metals and
sector and/or mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities.
geography – Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened physical risk are identified and assessed Page 221
locally with exposure monitored using risk indicators. A reduction in property value, higher insurance costs and insurance
availability are potential future negative financial impacts for properties with higher physical risk. Geographically, for the
UK lending balances, our highest flood risk exposures are the Greater London and South-East regions.
– Development of clean power generation is critical to achieving net zero. We supported Abu Dhabi Future Energy Page 46
Company (Masdar) towards its equity commitments on new greenfield projects in renewable energy and energy
efficiency, by acting as joint lead manager and bookrunner in raising $1bn through its second green bond issuance.
– We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between Page 45
$750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Additional detailed information on our sustainable
finance and investment progress can be found in the ESG Data Pack.
Concentrations of – We report our exposure to the six high transition risk sectors in the wholesale portfolio, which are automotive, Page 221
credit exposure to chemicals, construction, contracting & building materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities. For
carbon-related assets details, see the ESG Data Pack.
(supplemental
– We monitor the energy performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties from A (highest efficiency) through Page 221
guidance for banks)
to G (least efficient) as EPCs are commonly used as an indicator of transition risk in the UK mortgage book.
Climate-related risks – Our material exposure to climate risk relates to wholesale and retail client financing activity within our banking portfolio. Page 60
(transition and
– We are also exposed to climate risk in relation to asset ownership by our insurance business and employee pension Page 60
physical) in lending
plans.
and other financial
intermediary business – HSBC Asset Management recognises that climate-related risks may impact the operational and financial performance of Page 60
activities investee companies. The impact of these risks will vary depending on characteristics such as asset class, sector,
(supplemental business model and geography. HSBC Asset Management continues to integrate climate analysis into its actively
guidance for banks) managed product offerings and seeks to assess climate-related risks that could impact investment performance, where
applicable and relevant.
– Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers, including those in higher transition risk sectors, Page 221
through a transition engagement questionnaire (‘TEQ’). In 2024, the TEQ was expanded to cover all geographies. The
TEQ helps to gather information and assess our wholesale customers’ business model alignment to a net zero transition
and their exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the responses to the questionnaire to risk-assess our key
wholesale customers.
– Under the Current Commitments scenario, our modelled outputs predict that ECL will not be more than 25% higher than the Page 225
counterfactual scenario for any of the assessed sectors. The highest impacts are seen in the chemicals, construction and
building materials, power and utilities and agriculture and soft commodities sectors. Greater climate risks would crystallise
in the Below 2 Degrees scenario with its gradually increasing transition to net zero, driven by pockets of customers in higher-
emitting sectors that are continuously exposed to larger climate-related losses.
– The UK is our largest mortgage market, and as of November 2024, made up 46.7% of our global mortgage portfolio. Our Page 221
ESG Data Pack includes our climate risk exposures for this portfolio across regions. The maturity profile of the UK mortgage
book shows that the average remaining contractual term in the UK is 21.8 years. This means our strategic approach to
climate risk considers both present day risk and long-term forward-looking risk, given that customers may choose to remain
with us over the lifespan of the loan. For the UK mortgage book, flood data is available for 93.7% of the mortgage book of
which 0.9% is at a very high risk of flooding, with 2.7% of the book at a high risk of flooding.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 445
Additional
information
Additional information
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning (Companies Act 2006
- Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (e))
Impact on strategy, – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between $750bn Page 42
business, and and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
financial planning
– Climate scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under a range Page 223
of climate scenarios. It is one of the key tools used to support the evaluation of portfolios in line with our net zero ambition.
Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate and were designed to assess the impact on our balance
sheet across three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 2027 to 2035; and long term from 2036 to
2050.
– From a financial and capital planning perspective, we use climate scenario analysis to support the Group’s internal capital Page 223
adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to understand the amount of capital the Group should hold to meet identified
climate risks, including integration of climate impacts into the Group’s internal stress testing exercises.
– We have assessed the impact of climate risk on our balance sheet and have concluded that no incremental adjustments were Page 43
needed to capture climate impacts in our financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024.
– We have used climate scenarios to inform our organisation’s business, strategy and financial planning. In 2024, we
continued to incorporate certain aspects of sustainable finance within our financial planning process.
– We do not fully disclose impacts from climate-related opportunities on financial planning and performance including on
revenue, costs and the balance sheet, quantitative scenario analysis, detailed climate risk exposures for all sectors and
geographies or physical risk metrics. This is due to transitional challenges in relation to data limitations, although nascent
work is ongoing in these areas. We expect these data limitations to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable
data becomes available and technology solutions are implemented.
Impact on products – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between $750bn Page 45
and services and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
– Thermal coal mining: In 2021, absolute on-balance sheet financed emissions decreased by 71% to 1.38 Mt CO 2 e relative Page 56
to the re-baselined 2020 figure. In 2022, the absolute on-balance sheet financed emissions of our portfolio decreased by
69% to 1.44 Mt COe relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure, and they rose by 4% from 2021 to 2022. The reduction
2
from the 2020 re-baselined figure was due to strategic decisions and temporary factors, such as low loan drawdown
levels.
Impact on supply – In 2024 we incorporated an additional supply chain data source to complement data from CDP (formerly the Carbon Page 58
chain and/or value Disclosure Project). We continue to improve the measurement, quality and reporting of our supply chain emissions data to
chain generate insights to drive targeted reduction activities.
– Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our operational emissions and is the area in which we face the most significant Page 58
decarbonisation challenge. Many suppliers are still in the early phase of their decarbonisation journey. We have stepped
up targeted efforts to support decarbonisation across our supply chain.
– We focus on building strategic partnerships that can help to create an enabling environment for mobilising finance, and Page 47
support development and scaling-up of solutions for the net zero transition. In 2024 we donated approximately $9m in
grant funding to help establish a portfolio of partnerships aligned to the strategic focus areas set out in our net zero
transition plan: transitioning industry, catalysing the new economy, and decarbonising trade and supply chains. We are
also supporting initiatives focused on driving progress on cross-cutting issues, such as nature and the just transition.
– As part of its stewardship activities, HSBC Asset Management engages on climate change issues with investee companies Page 60
on a priority list, as defined in its Stewardship Plan.
Impact on adaptation – In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in our energy consumption compared with 2019 (2023: 26.3%). This has been Page 58
and mitigation achieved through optimising the use of our real estate portfolio and carrying out a reduction in our office space and data
activities centres. We continue to optimise our assets to ensure greater efficiency and capitalise on new energy technologies. In 2024
we increased our purchase of electricity from renewable sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This included increasing our
coverage of green tariffs in India and mainland China. Renewable electricity can help unlock our emissions reduction
potential, and we aim to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our own operations by 2030.
– This forward-looking data along with historical data helps inform real estate planning. We will continue to enhance our Page 228
understanding of how extreme weather events impact our buildings portfolio as climate risk assessment tools improve and
evolve. We buy insurance for property damage and business interruption and consider insurance as a loss-mitigation
strategy depending on its availability and price. We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and global
engineering standards and will continue to assess historical claims data to help ensure our building selection and design
standards address the potential impacts of climate change.
Impact on operations – We measure the impacts of climate and weather events on our buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current and Page 228
scenario-modelled forecast data. In 2024, there were 40 major storms that had a minor impact on three of our buildings.
We use stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on our owned or leased premises. Our 2024 scenario stress test
analysed how nine climate change-related hazards – comprising coastal flooding, fluvial flooding, pluvial flooding, soil
movement due to drought, temperature extremes, water stress, wildfires, landslides and tropical cyclones – could impact
2,719 of our properties.
Impact on – Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership with the World Resources Institute, WWF and over 50 local partners, Page 47
investment in continues to support nature-based solutions and energy transition in Asia. Since 2020, $105m in funding has been
research and deployed to our NGO partners. The energy programmes have engaged companies across Asia to help set new standards
development in climate commitments for their industries and mobilised finance to support the uptake of renewables. The nature
programmes supported the Asia Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, focused on promoting sustainable palm oil
production, consumption and trade across Asia, and the Nature-based Solutions Accelerator, which supported projects to
reach investment readiness.
– We are a founding funder of the Just Transition Finance Lab, hosted at the LSE’s Grantham Research Institute, which Page 47
aims to accelerate solutions to achieve progress on climate and wider environmental goals through a people-centred
approach. Since its launch in early 2024, the Lab has produced a range of outputs including: mapping just transition
policies to a set of metrics, exploration of the role investors can play in facilitating a just transition in India, a case study of
the coal-to-clean shift in Chile, and a detailed examination of the financial path to a just transition in the critical minerals
sector.
446 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Impact on acquisitions – Our mergers and acquisitions process considers potential climate and sustainability-related targets, net zero transition Page 219
or divestments plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to HSBC.
Impact on access to – We have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy and financial planning. Our access to
capital capital may be impacted by reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In addition, if we are perceived
to mislead stakeholders on our business activities or if we fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we could
potentially face reputational damage, impacting our revenue-generating ability and our access to capital markets. We
expect to make the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available. To manage these risks we have
integrated climate risk into our existing risk taxonomy, and incorporated it within the risk management framework through
the policies and controls for the existing risks where appropriate.
Transition plan to a low- – In 2020, we set an ambition to become a net zero bank by 2050. Since then, we have taken various actions across our
carbon economy organisation to support implementation as set out in our net zero transition plan. We continue to review both our transition
plan and associated GHG targets to, where possible, ensure they remain consistent with assumptions used in our financial
planning, including related financial approach for the implementation of the transition plan in the medium term (e.g. amount
of capital and other expenditures supporting our decarbonisation strategy). The reference pathways we consider are global
and we do not currently set GHG targets for individual countries or entities; however, we continue to explore the use of
multiple climate-related scenarios to test achievability of the financed emissions targets and own operations ambition.
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario
(Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (f))
Embedding climate into – Climate scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under Page 223
scenario analysis a range of climate scenarios. It is one of the key tools used to support the evaluation of portfolios in line with our net
zero ambition.
– Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate and were designed to assess the impact on our Page 223
balance sheet across three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 2027 to 2035; and long term
from 2036 to 2050.
Key drivers of – The 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise was designed to examine the climate risks and vulnerabilities of corporate Pages 225
performance and how counterparties, across high transition risk sectors under climate scenarios of varying severity. Specifically, we and 226
these have been taken measured the modelled effect on our projected ECL change over the short-, medium- and long-term horizons under
into account each scenario. This was compared to a counterfactual scenario that excludes climate change impacts to isolate the
climate only changes in ECL. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal losses to materialise
when considering the Current Commitments scenario.
– From a financial and capital planning perspective, we use climate scenario analysis to support the Group’s internal Page 223
capital adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to understand the amount of capital the Group should hold to meet
identified climate risks, including integration of climate impacts into the Group’s internal stress testing exercises.
– Climate scenario analysis also informs strategic planning by providing insights on the size and timing of financial Page 223
impacts, and IFRS 9 loss provisioning to ensure climate risks are adequately provisioned for in our balance sheet, such
as expected credit losses (‘ECL’).
Scenarios used and how – Our scenarios are: Downside Physical Risk scenario, Severe Climate Stress scenario, Current Commitments scenario, Page 223
they factored in Below 2 Degrees scenario and Delayed Transition Risk scenario.
government policies
– Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate and were designed to assess the impact on our Page 223
balance sheet across three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 2027 to 2035; and long term
from 2036 to 2050.
– We have chosen these scenarios to provide a holistic view that supplements the Group’s current and future strategic Page 223
thinking. The 2024 climate scenarios are underpinned by well-established industry bodies such as Network for
Greening Finance Phase IV, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) and International Energy Agency
(‘IEA’), which are further enriched for additional granularity, ensuring consistency with industry-recognised work, and
reflecting the latest climate policy and economic outlook.
– The scenarios developed for climate scenario analysis are designed to examine HSBC’s financial performance and Page 223
capital resilience across a wide range of potential climate outcomes. They are sufficiently diverse to enable HSBC’s
key physical and transition risk vulnerabilities to be explored. To meet our global regulatory needs, we produced
several climate stress tests for regulators around the world, including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’).
How our strategies may – The analysis supports our approach to supporting our clients in the transition to net zero through assessing, where Page 223
change and adapt available, client level financial and credit risk metrics, and identifying where further analysis and climate risk focus is
required.
– In our net zero transition plan published in January 2024 we committed to continually calibrate our approach to take Page 42
into consideration the latest scientific methodologies, climate-related policies and developments in the real world
given that our sector portfolios reflect progress in the regional economies where we operate. See page 15 for details.
– Our target-setting approach to date for on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emissions, has been to Page 48
utilise a single reference scenario – IEA’s NZE 2021 – to underpin both energy supply-related sectors (oil and gas;
power and utilities; and thermal coal mining), and our published targets for demand-side sectors in transport (aviation
and automotive) and heavy industry (cement; and iron, steel and aluminium).
– We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk quantitatively, due to transitional
challenges including data limitations and evolving science and methodologies. In 2024, we disclosed the potential
impairment impacts for our wholesale and commercial real estate portfolios in different climate scenarios. We also
disclose our exposure to flooding in our retail mortgage book for specific markets. For our wholesale book, we
disclose potential implications on our expected credit losses for 11 sectors under two scenarios. These are
accompanied with a heat map, illustrating how we expect the potential risks to evolve over time under a variety of
scenarios.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 447
Additional
information
Additional information
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Risk management
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))
Process – The scenarios developed for climate scenario analysis are designed to examine HSBC’s financial performance and Page 223
capital resilience across a wide range of potential climate outcomes. They are sufficiently diverse to enable HSBC’s
key physical and transition risk vulnerabilities to be explored. We continue to enhance our climate scenario analysis
exercises so that we can have a more comprehensive understanding of climate headwinds, risks and opportunities to
support our strategic planning, actions and risk management.
– We continue to review policy implementation as we apply our sustainability risk policies in practice, and our Page 61
operationalisation of such policies continues to be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach when identifying
transactions and clients to which our sustainability risk policies apply and, where relevant, when reporting on relevant
exposures, adopting approaches proportionate to risk and materiality.
Integration into policies – We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and controls across many areas of our organisation, and Page 220
and procedures we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature over time.
Consider climate-related – We provide further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk types, including Page 221
risks in traditional wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk, treasury risk, traded risk, reputational risk, regulatory compliance risk, resilience
banking industry risk risk, model risk, and financial reporting risk.
categories
(supplementary guidance
for banks)
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))
Process and how we – The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee receive regular updates on our climate risk Page 220
make decisions profile and the progress of our climate risk programme.
– The Environmental Risk Steering Meeting (formerly the Environmental Risk Oversight Forum) provides oversight of Page 220
environmental risk and the risk of greenwashing. Equivalent forums have been established at a regional level.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk management
framework (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (c))
How we have aligned – Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of defence model, Page 219
and integrated our which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks.
approach
– We continue to develop our approach and climate risk capabilities across our businesses, by prioritising sectors, Page 219
portfolios and counterparties with the highest impacts, and recognise that this is a long-term iterative process.
– Our annual climate risk materiality assessment helps us to understand how climate risk may impact HSBC’s risk Page 219
taxonomy.
– In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our emerging risk reporting and scenario analysis. Page 219
How we take into – Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of defence model, Page 219
account which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks.
interconnections
– Through our climate risk programme, we have made progress on embedding climate considerations throughout our Page 130
between entities and
organisation. We also developed risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced our internal
functions
climate scenario analysis. We continue to implement our climate risk programme to complete our annual materiality
assessment and make changes to our policies, processes and capabilities to better embed climate considerations
throughout our organisation.
– This includes increasing coverage and incorporating more mature data, climate analytics, frameworks and tools, and Page 219
responding to emerging industry best practice and climate-related regulations. This also necessitates reflecting on
how climate risk continues to evolve in the real world, and improving how we embed climate risk factors into strategic
planning, transactions and decision making across our businesses.
448 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Metrics and targets
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process
(Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (h))
Metrics used to assess – We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six high transition Page 221
the impact of climate- risk sectors. As at 31 December 2024, the overall exposure to the six high transition risk sectors was 18% of total
related risks on our loan gross carrying amount of wholesale loans and advances.
portfolio
– The UK is our largest mortgage market, and as of November 2024, made up 46.7% of our global mortgage portfolio. Page 221
Our ESG Data Pack includes our climate risk exposures for this portfolio across regions. The maturity profile of the UK
mortgage book shows that the average remaining contractual term in the UK is 21.8 years. However, with some
customers undertaking refinancing options during this term, the average term of the mortgage can be reduced to
between five and eight years. For the UK mortgage book, flood data is available for 93.7% of the mortgage book of
which 0.9% is at a very high risk of flooding, with 2.7% of the book at a high risk of flooding. We monitor the energy
performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties from A (highest efficiency) through to G (least efficient)
as EPCs are commonly used as an indicator of transition risk in the UK mortgage book.
– We have started to enhance our approach to managing net zero alignment risk in our wholesale portfolio, through Page 220
developing portfolio steering capabilities and revenue assessments. While we have made progress, further work
remains, including the need to develop additional metrics and tools to measure our exposure to climate-related risks.
Metrics used to assess – Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and facilitated a cumulative $352.5bn of sustainable finance and $41.1bn of Page 45
progress against ESG and sustainable investing, as defined in our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024. This
opportunities included 39% where the use of proceeds was dedicated to green financing, 12% to social financing, and 15% to
other sustainable financing. It also included 24% of sustainability-linked financing and 10% of net new investment
flows managed and distributed on behalf of investors.
– We do not currently fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital deployment or other
business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, including revenue from products and services designed
for a low-carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with our business or strategic planning time horizons.
In relation to sustainable finance revenue and assets, we are disclosing certain elements. We expect the data and
system limitations related to financial planning and performance, and climate-related opportunities metrics to be
addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes available and technology solutions are implemented.
We expect to further enhance this disclosure in the medium term.
Board or senior – To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a number of measures are included in the annual incentive and long-term Page 17
management incentives incentive scorecards of the Group CEO, Group CFO and Group Executives that underpin the ESG metrics in the table
on page 17.
Internal carbon price – We do not currently disclose internal carbon prices due to transitional challenges, such as data challenges. However,
we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance this
disclosure in the medium term.
Metrics used to assess – As part of our 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise, we completed a detailed retail mortgage risk assessment for Page 226
the impact of climate the UK, US, Singapore and Malaysia. In our 2023 exercise we also assessed Hong Kong, Australia and mainland
risk on lending and China. Our coverage represented 91% of the balances in our global retail mortgage portfolio, across the two
financial intermediary exercises. For our Hong Kong portfolio, we completed a short- and long-term scenario analysis exercise during late
business (supplemental 2023 and early 2024 at the request of the HKMA. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal
guidance for banks) losses to materialise when considering the Current Commitments scenario.
– The impact on our wholesale portfolios is demonstrated by the table on page 225 which shows the size of exposures Page 225
by sector in 2024 and the cumulative change in ECL compared with a counterfactual scenario (expressed as a
multiple). The size of our exposure in each sector is represented by our exposure at default (‘EAD’) relative to one
another.
– We do not fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related physical (chronic) and transition (policy and
legal, technology and market) risks on retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and other financial intermediary business
activities (specifically credit exposure, equity and debt holdings, or trading positions, broken down by industry,
geography, credit quality and average tenor). We are aiming to develop the appropriate systems, data and processes to
provide these disclosures in future years. We disclose the exposure to six, high-transition risk wholesale sectors as a
proportion of total wholesale loans and advances and the flood risk exposure and Energy Performance Certificate (‘EPC’)
breakdown for the UK retail mortgage portfolio.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 449
Additional
information
Additional information
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and
414CB 2A (h))
Our own operations – Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our operational emissions and is the area in which we face the most significant Page 58
decarbonisation challenge. Many suppliers are still in the early phase of their decarbonisation journey. We have
stepped up targeted efforts to support decarbonisation across our supply chain.
– We report GHG emissions associated with the energy used in our premises and employees’ business travel and our Page 59
supply chain in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. As more of our suppliers report their emissions, we should be able to
include more accurate data and fewer industry averages in the calculation. We have applied a data quality score to the
sources of data we used to determine counterparty emissions.
Greenhouse gas – Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and ‘facilitated emissions’, which Page 48
emissions for lending we distinguish where necessary in our reporting. Our on-balance sheet financed emissions include emissions related to
and financial on-balance sheet lending, such as project finance and direct lending. Our facilitated emissions include emissions related
intermediary business to financing we help clients to raise through capital markets activities. Our analysis covers financing from Global Banking
(supplemental guidance and Markets, and Commercial Banking.
for banks)
– HSBC Asset Management recognises that climate-related risks may impact the operational and financial performance of Page 60
investee companies. The impact of these risks will vary depending on characteristics such as asset class, sector,
business model and geography. HSBC Asset Management continues to integrate climate analysis into its actively
managed product offerings and seeks to assess climate-related risks that could impact investment performance, where
applicable and relevant.
– We currently disclose partial scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. We currently focus on disclosing only four out of
fifteen categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, including business travel, supply chain and financed
emissions, following our internal materiality assessment. In relation to financed emissions, we publish on-balance
sheet financed emissions for a number of sectors, covering 2.7% of our loans and advances to customers at
31 December 2023, as detailed on page 56. We also publish facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and power and
utilities sectors. Data quality of future disclosures on financed emissions and related risks are reliant on our customers
publicly disclosing their greenhouse gas emissions, targets and plans, and related risks. We recognise the need to
provide early transparency on climate disclosures but balance this with the recognition that existing data and reporting
processes continue to require significant enhancements.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets (Companies Act
2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (g))
Details of targets set – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between Page 45
and whether they are $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
absolute or intensity
– We set interim 2030 financed emissions targets. However, we use different time horizons for climate risk
based
management. For climate risk, we define short term as time periods up to 2026; medium term is between 2027 and
2035; and long term is between 2036 and 2050. For financed emissions we do not plan to set 2026 targets. In 2024,
we disclose interim 2030 financed emissions targets for seven sectors comprising five on-balance sheet and two
combined financed emissions targets, as we outline on page 52. We have set combined on-balance sheet financed
emissions and facilitated emissions targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas; and power and utilities;
and report the combined progress for both sectors. In 2025, we plan to review our targets to consider the latest net
zero-aligned scenarios available. For further details on the restatements and targets and progress of financed
emissions, see ’Our approach to emissions re-baselines and restatements’ and ‘Targets and progress’ on pages 51
and 52 respectively.
– We do not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In relation to capital deployment, since 2015, we have
issued more than $2bn of our own green bonds and structured green bonds with the capital invested into a variety of
green projects, including: green buildings; and renewable energy and clean transportation projects. Following
extensive internal and external review of HSBC’s green issuance framework, we published the updated HSBC Green
Financing Framework in October 2024. This Green Financing Framework forms part of our sustainability strategy and
sets out our approach to allocating amounts equivalent to the net proceeds raised through certain instruments and
transactions against financing for businesses and projects that meet certain eligibility criteria. See the HSBC Green
Financing Framework at www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-income-investors/green-financing-framework for further
information.
– We do not currently disclose an internal carbon pricing target due to transitional challenges, such as developing the
appropriate systems and processes, but we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis
exercise. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available.
– We do not currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk. This is due to transitional challenges,
including the data limitations of physical risk metrics. For retail, we do not use targets to measure and manage
physical risk. In 2024, we continued to use an internally developed global ‘soft trigger’ monitoring and review process
for physical risk exposure where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures markets are actively
considering their balance sheet risk exposure to peril events. We also consider physical and transition risk as an input
for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance our disclosures as our data, quantitative
scenario analysis, risk metrics and physical risk targets evolve, and technology solutions are implemented in the
medium term.
– We have described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and
performance against targets. However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do not consider water
usage to be a material target for our business and, therefore, we have not included a target in this year’s disclosure.
Other key performance – In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in our energy consumption compared with 2019 (2023: 26.3%). Page 58
indicators used
– In 2024 we increased our purchase of electricity from renewable sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This included Page 58
increasing our coverage of green tariffs in India and mainland China. Renewable electricity can help unlock our
emissions reduction potential, and we aim to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our own operations by 2030.
450 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual Report and Accounts 2024 contains certain forward- adverse changes in the funding status of public or private defined
looking statements with respect to HSBC’s financial condition; results benefit pensions; societal shifts in customer financing and
of operations and business, including the strategic priorities; financial, investment needs, including consumer perception as to the
investment and capital targets; and ESG ambitions, targets and continuing availability of credit; exposure to counterparty risk,
commitments described herein. including third parties using us as a conduit for illegal activities
without our knowledge; the discontinuation of certain key Ibors
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about
and the transition of the remaining legacy Ibor contracts to near
HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
risk-free benchmark rates, which continues to expose HSBC to
Words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘targets’, ‘anticipates’,
some financial and non-financial risks; and price competition in the
‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and
market segments we serve;
‘reasonably possible’, or the negative thereof, other variations
thereon or similar expressions are intended to identify forward- – changes in government policy and regulation, including trade and
looking statements. These statements are based on current plans, tariff policies, as well as monetary, interest rate and other policies
information, data, estimates and projections, and therefore undue of central banks and other regulatory authorities in the principal
reliance should not be placed on them. Forward-looking statements markets in which we operate and the consequences thereof
speak only as of the date they are made. HSBC makes no (including, without limitation, actions taken as a result of changes
commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements to in government following national elections in the markets where
reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of the Group operates); initiatives to change the size, scope of
any forward-looking statements. Written and/or oral forward-looking activities and interconnectedness of financial institutions in
statements may also be made in the periodic reports to the US connection with the implementation of stricter regulation of
Securities and Exchange Commission, summary financial statements financial institutions in key markets worldwide; revised capital and
to shareholders, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases liquidity benchmarks, which could serve to deleverage bank
and other written materials, and in oral statements made by HSBC’s balance sheets and lower returns available from the current
directors, officers or employees to third parties, including financial business model and portfolio mix; changes to tax laws and tax
analysts. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and rates applicable to HSBC, including the imposition of levies or
uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a number of factors could taxes designed to change business mix and risk appetite; the
cause actual results to differ, in some instances materially, from practices, pricing or responsibilities of financial institutions serving
those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statement. These their consumer markets; expropriation, nationalisation,
include, but are not limited to: confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign
ownership; the UK’s relationship with the EU, particularly with
– changes in general economic conditions in the markets in which
respect to the potential divergence of UK and EU law on the
we operate, such as new, continuing or deepening recessions,
regulation of financial services; changes in government approach
prolonged inflationary pressures and fluctuations in employment
and regulatory treatment in relation to ESG disclosures and
levels and the creditworthiness of customers beyond those
reporting requirements, and the current lack of a single
factored into consensus forecasts; the Russia-Ukraine war and the
standardised regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors and
conflict in the Middle East and their impact on global economies
markets; changes in UK macroeconomic and fiscal policy, which
and the markets where HSBC operates, which could have a
may result in fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling;
material adverse effect on (among other things) our financial
general changes in government policy (including, without
condition, results of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital
limitation, actions taken as a result of changes in government
position and credit ratings; deviations from the market and
following national elections in the markets where the Group
economic assumptions that form the basis for our ECL
operates) that may significantly influence investor decisions; the
measurements (including, without limitation, as a result of the
costs, effects and outcomes of regulatory reviews, actions or
Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the Middle East, inflationary
litigation, including any additional compliance requirements; and
pressures, commodity price changes, and ongoing developments
the effects of competition in the markets where we operate
in the commercial real estate sector in mainland China); potential
including increased competition from non-bank financial services
changes in HSBC’s dividend policy; changes and volatility in
companies; and
foreign exchange rates and interest rates levels, including the
accounting impact resulting from financial reporting in respect of – factors specific to HSBC, including our success in adequately
hyperinflationary economies; volatility in equity markets; lack of identifying the risks we face, such as the incidence of loan losses
liquidity in wholesale funding or capital markets, which may affect or delinquency, and managing those risks (through account
our ability to meet our obligations under financing facilities or to management, hedging and other techniques); our ability to achieve
fund new loans, investments and businesses; geopolitical our financial, investment, capital and ESG ambitions, targets and
tensions or diplomatic developments producing social instability or commitments (including the positions set forth in our thermal coal
legal uncertainty, such as the Russia-Ukraine war or the conflict in phase-out policy and our energy policy and our targets to reduce
the Middle East (including the resurgence, continuation or our on-balance sheet financed emissions and, where applicable,
escalation thereof) and the related imposition of sanctions and facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected high-emitting
trade restrictions, supply chain restrictions and disruptions, sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve any of the
sustained increases in energy prices and key commodity prices, expected outcomes of our strategic priorities; evolving regulatory
claims of human rights violations, diplomatic tensions between requirements and the development of new technologies, including
China and the US, which may extend to and involve other artificial intelligence, affecting how we manage model risk; model
countries, and developments in Hong Kong and Taiwan, alongside limitations or failure, including, without limitation, the impact that
other potential areas of tension, which may adversely affect HSBC high inflationary pressures and rising interest rates have had on
by creating regulatory, reputational and market risks; the efficacy the performance and usage of financial models, which may require
of government, customer, and HSBC’s actions in managing and us to hold additional capital, incur losses and/or use compensating
mitigating ESG risks, in particular climate risk, nature-related risks controls, such as judgemental post-model adjustments, to address
and human rights risks, and in supporting the global transition to model limitations; changes to the judgements, estimates and
net zero carbon emissions, each of which can impact HSBC both assumptions we base our financial statements on; changes in our
directly and indirectly through our customers and which may result ability to meet the requirements of regulatory stress tests; a
in potential financial and non-financial impacts; illiquidity and reduction in the credit ratings assigned to us or any of our
downward price pressure in national real estate markets; adverse subsidiaries, which could increase the cost or decrease the
changes in central banks’ policies with respect to the provision of availability of our funding and affect our liquidity position and net
liquidity support to financial markets; heightened market concerns interest margin; changes to the reliability and security of our data
over sovereign creditworthiness in over-indebted countries; management, data privacy, information and technology
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 451
Additional
information
Additional information
infrastructure, including threats from cyber-attacks, which may accepted accounting principles. In particular, it is not possible to rely
impact our ability to service clients and may result in financial loss, on historical data as a strong indicator of future trajectories in the
business disruption and/or loss of customer services and data; the case of climate change and its evolution. Outputs of models,
accuracy and effective use of data, including internal management processed data and methodologies are also likely to be affected by
information that may not have been independently verified; underlying data quality, which can be hard to assess and we expect
changes in insurance customer behaviour and insurance claim industry guidance, market practice, and regulations in this field to
rates; our dependence on loan payments and dividends from continue to change. We also face challenges in relation to our ability
subsidiaries to meet our obligations; changes in our reporting to access data on a timely basis, lack of consistency and
frameworks and accounting standards, which have had and may comparability between data that is available and our ability to collect
continue to have a material impact on the way we prepare our and process relevant data. Consequently, the ESG-related forward-
financial statements; our ability to successfully execute planned looking statements and ESG metrics disclosed in the Annual Report
strategic acquisitions and disposals; our success in adequately and Accounts 2024 carry an additional degree of inherent risk and
integrating acquired businesses into our business; our ability to uncertainty.
successfully execute and implement the announced strategic
Due to the unpredictable evolution of climate change and its future
reorganisation of the Group; changes in our ability to manage third-
impact and the uncertainty of future policy and market response to
party, fraud, financial crime and reputational risks inherent in our
ESG-related issues and the effectiveness of any such response,
operations; employee misconduct, which may result in regulatory
HSBC may have to re-evaluate its progress towards its ESG
sanctions and/or reputational or financial harm; changes in skill
ambitions, targets and commitments in the future, update the
requirements, ways of working and talent shortages, which may
methodologies it uses or alter its approach to ESG (including climate)
affect our ability to recruit and retain senior management and an
analysis and may be required to amend, update and recalculate its
inclusive and skilled workforce; and changes in our ability to
ESG disclosures and assessments in the future, as market practice
develop sustainable finance and ESG-related products consistent
and data quality and availability develop.
with the evolving expectations of our regulators, and our capacity
to measure the environmental and social impacts from our
No assurance can be given by or on behalf of HSBC as to the
financing activity (including as a result of data limitations and
likelihood of the achievement or reasonableness of any projections,
changes in methodologies), which may affect our ability to achieve
estimates, forecasts, ambitions, targets, commitments, prospects or
our ESG ambitions, targets and commitments, including our net
returns contained herein. Readers are cautioned that a number of
zero ambition, our targets to reduce on-balance sheet financed
factors, both external and those specific to HSBC, could cause actual
emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in our
achievements, results, performance or other future events or
portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions set
conditions to differ, in some cases materially, from those stated,
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy,
implied and/or reflected in any ESG-related forward-looking statement
and increase the risk of greenwashing. Effective risk management
or metric due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors
depends on, among other things, our ability through stress testing
(including without limitation those referred to below):
and other techniques to prepare for events that cannot be
captured by the statistical models it uses; our success in – Climate change projection risk: this includes, for example, the
addressing operational, legal and regulatory, and litigation evolution of climate change and its impacts, changes in the
challenges; and other risks and uncertainties we identify in ‘Top scientific assessment of climate change impacts, transition
and emerging risks’ on pages 131 to 136. pathways and future risk exposure and limitations of climate
scenario forecasts;
This Annual Report and Accounts 2024 contains a number of images,
graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case studies and – ESG projection risk: ESG metrics are complex and are still subject
credentials which aim to give a high-level overview of certain to development. In addition, the scenarios employed in relation to
elements of our disclosures and to improve accessibility for readers. them, and the models that analyse them have limitations that are
These images, graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case sensitive to key assumptions and parameters, which are
studies and credentials are designed to be read within the context of themselves subject to some uncertainty, and cannot fully capture
the Annual Report and Accounts 2024 as a whole. all of the potential effects of climate, policy and technology-driven
outcomes;
Additional cautionary statement – Changes in the ESG regulatory landscape: this involves changes in
government approach and regulatory treatment in relation to ESG
regarding ESG data, metrics and disclosures and reporting requirements, and the current lack of a
single standardised regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors
forward-looking statements
and markets;
The Annual Report and Accounts 2024 contains a number of forward- – Variation in reporting standards: ESG reporting standards are still
looking statements (as defined above) with respect to HSBC’s ESG developing and are not standardised or comparable across all
ambitions, targets, commitments, climate-related pathways, sectors and markets, new reporting standards in relation to
processes and plans, and the methodologies and scenarios we use, different ESG metrics are still emerging;
or intend to use, to assess our progress in relation to these (‘ESG- – Data availability, accuracy, verifiability and data gaps: our
related forward-looking statements’). disclosures are limited by the availability of high quality data in
some areas and our own ability to timely collect and process such
In preparing the ESG-related information contained in the Annual
data as required. Where data is not available for all sectors or
Report and Accounts 2024, HSBC has made a number of key
consistently year on year, there may be an impact to our data
judgements, estimations and assumptions, and the processes and
quality scores. While we expect our data quality scores to improve
issues involved are complex. We have used ESG (including climate)
over time, as companies continue to expand their disclosures to
data, models and methodologies that we consider, as of the date on
meet growing regulatory and stakeholder expectations, there may
which they were used, to be appropriate and suitable to understand
be unexpected fluctuations within sectors year on year, and/or
and assess climate change risk and its impact, to analyse financed
differences between the data quality scores between sectors. Any
emissions - and operational and supply chain emissions, to set ESG-
such changes in the availability and quality of data over time, or
related targets and to evaluate the classification of sustainable
our ability to collect and process such data, could result in
finance and investments. However, these data, models and
revisions to reported data going forward, including on financed
methodologies are often new, are rapidly evolving and are not of the
emissions, meaning that such data may not be reconcilable or
same standard as those available in the context of other financial
comparable year-on year;
information, nor are they subject to the same or equivalent disclosure
standards, historical reference points, benchmarks or globally
452 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
– Developing methodologies and scenarios: the methodologies and Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of HSBC speak
scenarios HSBC uses to assess financed emissions and set ESG- only as of the date they are made. HSBC expressly disclaims any
related targets may develop over time in line with market practice, obligation to revise or update these ESG forward-looking statements,
regulation and/or developments in science, where applicable. Such other than as expressly required by applicable law.
developments could result in revisions to reported data, including
Written and/or oral ESG-related forward-looking statements may also
on financed emissions or the classification of sustainable finance
be made in our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange
and investments, meaning that data outputs may not be
Commission, summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy
reconcilable or comparable year-on year; and
statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases and
– Risk management capabilities: global actions, including HSBC’s other written materials, and in oral statements made by HSBC’s
own actions, may not be effective in transitioning to net zero and Directors, officers or employees to third parties, including financial
in managing relevant ESG risks, including in particular climate, analysts.
nature-related and human rights risks, each of which can impact
HSBC both directly and indirectly through our customers, and Our data dictionaries and methodologies for preparing the above
which may result in potential financial and non-financial impacts to ESG-related metrics and third-party limited assurance reports can be
HSBC. In particular: found on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.
– we may not be able to achieve our ESG ambitions, targets and
commitments (including with respect to the positions set forth in
our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy, and our Certain defined terms
targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed emissions and,
where applicable, facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ means
high-emitting sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve HSBC Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer
some or all of the expected outcomes of our strategic priorities; to HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this
and document the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the
People’s Republic of China is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’.
– we may not be able to develop sustainable finance and ESG-
related products consistent with the evolving expectations of our When used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total
regulators, and our capacity to measure the environmental and shareholders’ equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC
social impacts from our financing activity may diminish (including Holdings ordinary shares and those preference shares and capital
as a result of data and model limitations and changes in securities issued by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The
methodologies), which may affect our ability to achieve our ESG abbreviations ‘$m’, ‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ represent millions, billions
ambitions, targets and commitments, including our net zero (thousands of millions) and trillions of US dollars, respectively.
ambition, our targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed
emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in our
portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions set
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and energy policy, and
increase the risk of greenwashing.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 453
Additional
information
Additional information
Abbreviations
Currencies CRD IV¹ Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive
£ British pound sterling CRR¹ Customer risk rating
CA$ Canadian dollar CRR II¹ The regulatory requirements of the Capital Requirements
€ Euro Regulation and Directive, the CRR II regulation and the PRA
HK$ Hong Kong dollar Rulebook
MXN Mexican peso CSA Credit support annex
RMB Chinese renminbi CSM Contractual service margin
SGD Singapore dollar CVA¹ Credit valuation adjustment
$ United States dollar D
Abbreviations DECL Disclosures about Expected Credit Losses
1H24 First half of 2024 Deferred shares Awards of deferred shares define the number of HSBC
1Q24 First quarter of 2024 Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will
2Q24 Second quarter of 2024 become entitled, generally between one and seven years
from the date of the award, and normally subject to the
3Q24 Third quarter of 2024
individual remaining in employment
4Q24 Fourth quarter of 2024
DPD Days past due
9M24 Nine months of 2024
DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and
A
investment contracts
ABS¹ Asset-backed security DVA¹ Debit valuation adjustment
ADR American Depositary Receipt E
ADS American Depositary Share
EAD¹ Exposure at default
AGM Annual General Meeting
EBA European Banking Authority
AI Artificial intelligence
EC European Commission
AIBL Average interest-bearing liabilities
ECB European Central Bank
AIEA Average interest-earning assets
ECL Expected credit losses. In the income statement, ECL is
ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee
recorded as a change in expected credit losses and other
AML Anti-money laundering credit impairment charges. In the balance sheet, ECL is
AML DPA Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US recorded as an allowance for financial instruments to which
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012 only the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
ANP Annualised new business premium EEA European Economic Area
ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations Eonia Euro Overnight Index Average
AT1 Additional tier 1 EPC Energy performance certificate
B EPS Earnings per ordinary share
Banking NII Banking net interest income ESG Environmental, social and governance
Basel Basel Committee on Banking Supervision EU European Union
Committee Euribor Euro interbank offered rate
Basel II¹ 2006 Basel Capital Accord EVE Economic value of equity
Basel III¹ Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and F
liquidity rules
FAST-Infra Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable Transition-
Basel 3.1 Outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel Infrastructure
III reforms
FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
BEPS Base Erosion and Profit Shifting FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
BGF Business Growth Fund, an investment firm that provides FFVA Funding fair value adjustment estimation methodology on
growth capital for small and mid-sized businesses in the UK derivative contracts
and Ireland
FPA Fixed pay allowance
BoCom Bank of Communications Co., Limited, one of China’s FRB Federal Reserve Board (US)
largest banks
FRC Financial Reporting Council
BoE Bank of England
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
Bps¹ Basis points. One basis point is equal to one-hundredth of a
FTE Full-time equivalent staff
percentage point
FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange index
BVI British Virgin Islands
FVOCI¹ Fair value through other comprehensive income
C
FX Foreign exchange
CAPM Capital asset pricing model G
CDS¹ Credit default swap
GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles
CEA Commodity Exchange Act (US)
GAC Group Audit Committee
CET1¹ Common equity tier 1
GBM Global Banking and Markets, a global business
CGUs Cash-generating units
GDP Gross domestic product
CIB Corporate and Institutional Banking
GEC Group Executive Committee
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business
GHG Greenhouse Gas
CMC Capital maintenance charge
GMP Guaranteed minimum pension
CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker
GPS Global Payments Solutions, the business formerly known as
COSO 2013 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Global Liquidity and Cash Management
Treadway Commission (US)
GPSP Group Performance Share Plan
Corporate Corporate Centre comprises Central Treasury, our legacy
GRC Group Risk Committee
Centre businesses, interests in our associates and joint ventures,
central stewardship costs and consolidation adjustments
CP¹ Commercial paper
454 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings MENAT Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye
GTS Global Trade Solutions, the business formerly known as MREL Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities
Global Trade and Receivables Finance MRT¹ Material Risk Taker
H MSS Markets and Securities Services, HSBC’s capital markets
and securities services businesses in Global Banking and
Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks
Markets
HKEx The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
N
HKMA Hong Kong Monetary Authority
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs Net operating Net operating income before change in expected credit
Holdings ALCO HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee income losses and other credit impairment charges
Hong Kong Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s NGO Non-governmental organisation
Republic of China NII Net interest income
HQLA High-quality liquid assets NIM Net interest margin
HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings NPS Net promoter score
HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank plc, also known as the non-ring-fenced bank NSFR Net stable funding ratio
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank Middle East Limited NYSE New York Stock Exchange
Middle East O
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank USA, N.A., HSBC’s retail bank in the US OCI Other comprehensive income
USA
OECD Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development
HSBC Canada The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company OTC¹ Over-the-counter
Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada and HSBC
P
Securities Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes
HSBC HSBC Continental Europe PBT Profit before tax
Continental PCAF Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials
Europe PD¹ Probability of default
HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance Performance Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee
company (formerly Household International, Inc.) shares¹ share plans that are subject to corporate performance
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC conditions
HSBC Private HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in Ping An Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the
Bank (Suisse) Switzerland second-largest life insurer in the PRC
HSBC UK HSBC UK Bank plc, also known as the ring-fenced bank POCI Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
HSBC USA The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of PRA Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
HSBC Bank USA) and HSBC Bank USA, consolidated for PRC People’s Republic of China
liquidity purposes Principal plan HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
HSI HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business and
HSSL HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg) long-term investment contracts with DPF
I PwC The member firms of the PwC network, including
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
IAS International Accounting Standards
R
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IBE Independent Board Evaluation RAS Risk appetite statement
Ibor Interbank offered rate Repo¹ Sale and repurchase transaction
ICAAP Internal capital adequacy assessment process Revenue Net operating income before ECL
ICMA International Capital Market Association Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell
IEA International Energy Agency RNIV Risk not in VaR
IFRS Accounting International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the RoE Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Standards International Accounting Standards Board RoTE Return on average tangible equity
ILAAP Internal liquidity adequacy assessment process RWA¹ Risk-weighted asset
IMA Internal model approach S
IMM Internal model method SAB Saudi Awwal Bank
IRB¹ Internal ratings-based SAPS Self-administered pension scheme
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
ISSB International Sustainability Standard Board SBTi Science Based Targets initiative
IVB HSBC Innovation Banking SDG United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
IWPB International Wealth and Premier Banking SEC Securities and Exchange Commission (US)
J ServCo group Separately incorporated group of service companies
JV Joint venture established in response to UK ring-fencing requirements
K Sibor Singapore interbank offered rate
SIC Securities investment conduit
KMP Key Management Personnel
SME Small and medium-sized enterprise
L
Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed
LCR Liquidity coverage ratio by HSBC
LGBTQ+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer. The plus SPE¹ Special purpose entity
sign denotes other non-mainstream groups on the SVB UK Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited, now HSBC Innovation Bank
spectrums of sexual orientation and gender identity Limited
LGD¹ Loss given default
T
Libor London interbank offered rate
TCFD¹ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
Long term For our financial targets, we define long term as five to six
years, commencing 1 January 2025 THBFIX Thai Baht Interest Rate Fixing
TNFD Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
LTI Long-term incentive
TSR¹ Total shareholder return LTV¹ Loan to value
U
M
UAE United Arab Emirates
Mainland China People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong and
Macau UK United Kingdom
Medium term For our financial targets, we define medium term as three
to four years, commencing 1 January 2025
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 455
Additional
information