Opening up a world of opportunity
Our ambition is to be the preferred
international financial partner for our clients.
Our purpose, ambition and values reflect our
strategy and support our focus on execution.
Read more on our values and strategy
on pages 4 and 11.
Contents
Strategic report This Strategic Report was approved by the
Board on 21 February 2024.
1 Performance in 2023 Risk review
2 Highlights Mark E Tucker
4 Who we are 136 Our approach to risk Group Chairman
6 Group Chairman’s statement 140 Top and emerging risks
8 Group Chief Executive’s review 145 Our material banking risks
11 Our strategy A reminder
14 ESG overview Corporate governance report The currency we report in is US dollars.
20 Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders 239 Biographies of Directors and Our approach to ESG reporting
(Section 172(1) statement) senior management We embed our ESG reporting and Task Force
24 Remuneration 262 Board committees on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
25 Financial overview 279 Directors’ remuneration report (‘TCFD’) within our Annual Report and
30 Global businesses Accounts. Our TCFD disclosures are highlighted
37 Risk overview Financial statements with the following symbol: TCFD
40 Long-term viability and going
concern statement 318 Independent auditors’ report Constant currency performance
329 Financial statements We supplement our IFRS Accounting Standards
Environmental, social and 341 Notes on the financial statements figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards
governance (‘ESG’) review measures used by management internally that
Additional information constitute alternative performance measures
42 Our approach to ESG under European Securities and Markets Authority
44 Environmental 435 Shareholder information guidance and non-GAAP financial measures
75 Social 444 Abbreviations defined in and presented in accordance with US
87 Governance Securities and Exchange Commission rules and
regulations. These measures are highlighted with
Financial review the following symbol:
100 Financial summary Further explanation may be found on page 29.
111 Global businesses and
legal entities IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’
130 Reconciliation of alternative From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17
performance measures ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4
‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data
have been restated. For further details of our
adoption of IFRS 17, see page 100.
None of the websites referred to in this
Annual Report and Accounts 2023 for the year
HAAcnS cnB ouC uan l HRts oe 2pld 0oi 2rnt3 gasn dplc C
W
o
e
v
c
e
o
r
n
im
ne
a
c
g
t
e
p
:
e
O
op
p
le
e
,
n
c
in
ap
g
i t
u
a
p
l a
a
n d
w
id
o
e
rl
a
d
s
o
a
f
c r
o
o
p
s
p
s
o
th
r
e
tu
w
n
o
it
r
y
ld.
e
lin
n
k
d e
is
d
p
3
r
1
o v
D
id
e
e
c
d
e
)
m
, a
b
n
e
d
r 2
n
0
o
2
n
3
e
(
o
in
f
c
th
lu
e
d
i
i
n
n
f
g
o r
w
m
h
a
e
t
r
io
e
n
a
By unlocking the true power of our international networks, contained on such websites, are incorporated
we are able to deliver our purpose of opening up a world by reference in this report.
of opportunity.
@HSBC
linkedin.com/company/hsbc
facebook.com/HSBC
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic
report
Performance in 2023
HSBC is one of the world’s leading
international banks.
We have a clear strategy to deliver revenue
and profit growth, enhance customer service
and improve returns to shareholders.
Financial performance
Return on average tangible equity Common equity tier 1 capital ratio
indicators 14.6% 14.8%
Our financial performance indicators (2022: 10.0%) (2022: 14.2%)
demonstrate our continued focus on the
delivery of sustainable returns for our
shareholders and providing a strengthened Profit before tax Dividend per share
platform for growth. They also provide insight $30.3bn $0.61
into the performance that has driven the
outcomes of our financial targets.
(2022: $17.1bn) (2022 dividend per share: $0.32)
Read more on our financial performance in 2023
on pages 2 and 27.
Operating expenses
For an explanation of performance against our
$32.1bn
key Group financial targets, see page 25.
For a reconciliation of our target basis operating
expenses to reported operating expenses, see Target basis operating expenses
page 133.
up 6% to $31.6bn
For our financial targets we define medium term (2022: $32.7bn)
as three to four years and long term as five to six
years, commencing 1 January 2024.
Strategic performance
Net new invested assets Gender diversity
indicators $84bn 34.1%
Our strategy supports our ambition of being Generated in 2023, of which $47bn Women in senior leadership roles.
the preferred international financial partner were in Asia. (2022: 33.3%)
for our clients. (2022: $80bn generated, of which
$59bn were in Asia)
We are committed to building a business
for the long term, developing relationships
Wholesale multi-jurisdictional Sustainable finance and investment
that last. client revenue $294.4bn
61%
Read more on our strategy on pages 11 to 13.
Read more on multi-jurisdictional client revenue Cumulative total provided and facilitated
on page 111. Wholesale client revenue generated by clients since January 2020.
Read more on how we set and define our banking with us across multiple markets. (2022: $210.7bn)
ESG metrics on page 16.
Read more on our definition of sustainable
finance and investment on page 49. Digitally active Commercial
Banking customers
We no longer report the metric ‘Asia as a
percentage of Group tangible equity’. 83%
(2022: 78%)
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 1
Strategic
report
Highlights
Strategic transactions
– During 2023, we continued to acquire venture focusing on embedded certain. As a result, the business is no longer
businesses that allow us to build scale and finance solutions and financial classified as held for sale, the previously
enhance our capabilities. In March, we services applications. recognised loss has been reversed, and
acquired SVB UK, and subsequently – We continue to make good progress on a broadly offsetting charge relating to
launched HSBC Innovation Banking, our strategic disposals. The planned sale recoverability was recognised in the fourth
which includes SVB UK and new teams in of our banking business in Canada received quarter of 2023.
the US, Hong Kong and Israel, as well as in government approval and is expected to – We remain committed to consider
Denmark and Sweden, to deliver a globally complete in the first quarter of 2024. We the payment of a special dividend of
connected, specialised banking proposition completed the sale of our retail banking $0.21 per share as a priority use of the
to support innovation businesses and operations in France on 1 January 2024, as proceeds from the sale of our banking
their investors. we reshape the organisation to focus on our business in Canada in the first half of
– As part of our ambition to be a leading international customer base. In addition, we 2024. The remaining proceeds will accrue
wealth provider in Asia, we entered into an announced the planned sale of our retail into CET1 capital in consideration for organic
agreement to acquire Citi’s retail wealth business in Mauritius, and also completed growth and investment, and we intend to
management portfolio in mainland the sale of our operations in Greece, the use any excess capital to supplement
China. This acquisition comprised the merger of HSBC Bank Oman with Sohar share buy-backs. Upon completion, the sale
assets under management and deposits, International, and the sale of our New is expected to result in an initial increase
and the associated wealth customers. We Zealand retail mortgage loan portfolio. in the CET1 ratio of approximately 1.2
also announced a partnership with the – While we remain committed to the sale of percentage points.
fintech Tradeshift to launch a joint our business in Russia, the sale became less
ESG highlights
Transition to net zero – Since 2020, we have provided and Act responsibly
– In January 2024, we published our first net facilitated $294.4bn of sustainable – We aim to be a top-three bank for customer
zero transition plan, which is an important finance and investment, which was an satisfaction. In 2023, we were ranked as a
milestone in our journey to achieving our increase of $83.7bn in the past year. Of our top three bank against our competitors
net zero ambition – helping our people, sustainable finance and investment progress in 58% of our six key markets across
customers, investors and other stakeholders to 31 December 2023, $258.3bn related to Wealth and Personal Banking and
to understand our long-term vision, green and sustainable activities and $36.1bn Commercial Banking, but we still have
the challenges, uncertainties and related to social activities. work to do to improve our rank position
dependencies that exist, the progress – Within our own operations, we have against competitors.
we are making and what we plan to do made a 57.3% reduction in our absolute – We published guides to help our buyers
in the future. The plan includes details greenhouse gas emissions from a and our suppliers better understand
on our sectoral approach, and on our 2019 baseline. our net zero ambitions. The guides
implementation plan to embed net zero provide further details to support suppliers
across key areas of our organisation. Build inclusion and resilience in understanding our sustainability
– Our net zero transition plan provides an – In 2023, 34.1% of senior leadership expectations, as set out in our supplier code
overview of the progress we have made to roles were held by women. We have of conduct.
date and what we plan to do next, although a target to achieve 35% by 2025, which – We continued to raise awareness and
we acknowledge there is still much we are on track to achieve, although we develop our understanding of our salient
more to do. It will form the basis of further recognise that progress in the past year human rights issues. In 2023, we
work on our journey to net zero over time, has not been as fast paced as we would provided practical guidance and
and we expect to review and update like. We also continued to work towards training, where relevant, to our colleagues
it periodically. meeting our ethnicity goals. across the Group, on how to identify and
– Following the recent launch of the – We continue to make the banking manage human rights risk.
Partnership for Carbon Accounting experience more accessible in both
Financials (‘PCAF’) accounting standard physical and digital spaces. We are
for capital markets, we have now set working to ensure that our digital channels
combined on-balance sheet financed are usable by everyone, regardless of ability.
emissions and facilitated emissions We also expanded our efforts to support
targets for two emissions-intensive customers with disabilities in our
sectors: oil and gas, and power and branch spaces.
utilities, and report the combined progress
for both sectors. We recognise that data,
methodologies and standards for measuring
emissions and for target setting will
continue to evolve.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 3
Strategic report
Who we are
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services organisations in the world.
We aim to create long-term value for our shareholders and capture opportunity.
Our values
Our values help define who we are as an organisation, and are key to our
long-term success.
We value difference We succeed together We take responsibility We get it done
Seeking out different Collaborating across Holding ourselves Moving at pace and
perspectives boundaries accountable and taking making things happen
the long view
Our strategy
Our strategy supports our ambition of being the preferred international financial partner
for our clients, centred around four key areas.
Focus Digitise Energise Transition
– Maintain leadership in – Deliver seamless – Inspire leaders to – Support our customers
scale markets customer experiences drive performance – Embed net zero into the
– Double-down – Ensure resilience and and delivery way we operate
on international security – Unlock our edge to – Partner for systemic
connectivity – Embrace disruptive enable success change
– Diversify our revenue technologies and – Deliver a unique and – Become net zero in
– Maintain cost discipline partner with innovators exceptional colleague our own operations
and reshape our – Automate and simplify experience and supply chain by
portfolio at scale – Prepare our workforce 2030, and our financed
for the future emissions by 2050
For further details on progress made in each of our strategic areas, see pages 11 to 13.
Our global reach
Our global businesses serve around 42 million customers worldwide through a network
that covers 62 countries and territories.
Our customers range from individual savers Assets of Approximately
and investors to some of the world’s biggest $3.0tn 42m
companies, governments and international
organisations. We aim to connect them to
Customers bank with us
opportunities and help them to achieve
their ambitions.
Operations in We employ approximately
62 221,000
Countries and territories Full-time equivalent staff
For further details of our customers and approach
to geographical information, see page 110.
4 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic
report
Who we are
Our global We serve our customers through three global businesses.
businesses
On pages 30 to 36 we provide In each of our global businesses, Each of the chief executive
an overview of our performance we focus on delivering growth officers of our global businesses
in 2023 for each of our global in areas where we have reports to our Group Chief
businesses, as well as our distinctive capabilities and have Executive, who in turn reports to
Corporate Centre. significant opportunities. the Board of HSBC Holdings plc.
Wealth and Personal Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) Global Banking and
Banking (’WPB’) Our global reach and expertise Markets (’GBM’)
We help millions of our customers help domestic and international We provide a comprehensive
look after their day-to-day businesses around the world range of financial services
finances and manage, protect and unlock their potential. and products to corporates,
grow their wealth. governments and institutions.
For further details, see page 30. For further details, see page 32. For further details, see page 34.
Revenue by Wealth and Personal Banking Commercial Banking Global Banking and Markets
global business1
41% 35% 24%
1 Calculation is based on revenue of our global businesses excluding Corporate Centre. Corporate Centre had negative
revenue of $199m in 2023.
Our stakeholders Building strong relationships with our stakeholders helps enable us to deliver
our strategy in line with our long-term values, and operate the business
in a sustainable way.
Our stakeholders are the people Many of our employees are Our size and global reach mean
who work for us, bank with us, customers and shareholders, our actions can have a significant
own us, regulate us, and live while our business customers are impact. We are committed to
in the societies we serve and often suppliers. We aim to serve, doing business responsibly, and
the planet we all inhabit. These creating value for our customers thinking for the long term. This is
human connections are complex and shareholders. key to delivering our strategy.
and overlap.
Customers Employees Investors Communities Regulators and Suppliers
governments
For further details of how we are engaging with our stakeholders, see page 15.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 5
Strategic report
Group Chairman’s statement
In 2023, reported profit before tax was
$30.3bn, which was an increase of $13.3bn
compared with 2022. This was due mainly to
higher revenue and a number of notable items.
Our three global businesses delivered good
revenue growth, and we ended the year with
strong capital, funding and liquidity positions.
We remain committed to sharing the benefits
of our improved performance with our
shareholders. The Board approved a fourth
quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share, bringing
the total dividend for 2023 to $0.61 per share.
Furthermore, in 2023 we announced three
share buy-backs worth a total of $7bn and,
today, have announced a further share buy-
back of up to $2bn.
The planned sale of our banking operations
in Canada received final approval from the
Canadian government at the end of last year.
Subject to completion of the transaction,
which is expected in the first quarter of 2024,
the Board will consider a special dividend of
$0.21 per share, to be paid in the first half of
2024, as a priority use of the proceeds.
Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman With this anticipated transaction and the
completion of the sale of our retail banking
business in France last month, our focus
Against a challenging global economic and political
has moved to investing for growth, while
backdrop, HSBC’s strategy has delivered improved financial maintaining efficiency. Two examples of
growth opportunities last year were the
performance and increased returns for shareholders
agreed acquisition of Citi’s retail wealth
business in mainland China, which will
help accelerate our Wealth strategy, and
the acquisition of SVB UK, following the
difficulties experienced by its US parent entity.
The global economy performed better Many of our customers and colleagues are Acquiring SVB UK was opportunistic, but the
than expected in 2023, but growth living through very difficult times. Higher deal made excellent strategic sense for HSBC,
remained sluggish and the economic interest rates have had a significant impact and it also helped to protect clients, safeguard
environment was challenging for many on businesses and households, and we will jobs and maintain financial stability.
of our customers. Although inflation fell remain conscious of this with interest rates
globally, core inflation levels and interest expected to begin to fall back in 2024. The Technology and sustainability are two of the
rates remained elevated. There was also wars between Russia and Ukraine, and now trends transforming banking and the world
significant variability in growth from between Israel and Hamas, are absolutely around us. The opportunities from generative
market to market and increased volatility devastating. Our thoughts are with all those AI are among the most transformative within
within the banking sector. Our core impacted, including our colleagues in those my working life. We are actively exploring a
purpose of ‘opening up a world of parts of the world, and their families and number of use cases, while also working to
opportunity’ underlines our focus on friends. Their resilience, professionalism and manage the associated risks.
helping our customers and clients to care for one another during these most testing
navigate this complexity and access of times has been, and is, exceptional. Meanwhile the global climate challenge is
growth, wherever it is. becoming increasingly acute. Our presence
Progress and performance in many of the sectors and markets where
Turning to our performance, I want to again the need to reduce emissions is the greatest
pay tribute to my colleagues. The record provides us with an opportunity to work with
profit performance that we delivered in 2023 our clients to help address it. This is set out
was supported by the impact of interest rates in our first net zero transition plan. The Board
on our strong balance sheet, but it was also discussed and contributed to the net zero
testament to the tireless efforts of our people transition plan in depth. We believe that it is
around the world. I would like to thank them a realistic and ambitious assessment of the
sincerely for their hard work, dedication and long-term journey ahead, as we continue to
commitment to serving our customers. work with our clients on their transitions to
a low-carbon future. It is clear there will be
many uncertainties and dependencies, and
that our approach will need to continue to
evolve with the real world around us.
6 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic report | Group Chief Executive’s review
Future growth levers
We have also continued to diversify our profit Underpinning all of this is our work to build
generation geographically across multiple a stronger performance culture, improve
In 2023, we continued to build in areas markets. The positions that we have as a colleague experience and prepare our
we expect to drive future growth. leading foreign bank in mainland China, workforce for the future. This is important
India, Singapore, the UAE, Saudi Arabia and because achieving our ambitions depends on
We brought in Mexico – all of which are also well connected our 220,000 colleagues feeling motivated and
$84bn to our international network – mean we are believing in our strategy. In our most recent
well placed to capture opportunities in these staff survey, I was pleased that the number of
fast-growing economies. This was again colleagues seeing the positive impact of our
of net new invested assets in wealth. evident as they all grew reported profits strategy in 2023 was up 11 percentage points
significantly in 2023, with mainland China on 2020, which is also above the financial
We grew multi-jurisdictional (excluding associates), India, and Singapore services sector benchmark.
wholesale revenue by each contributing in excess of $1bn of profits
29% to the Group. Finally, helping to finance the substantial
investment needs of our customers in the
It is critical that we maintain tight cost transition to net zero is a growing commercial
from $15.8bn in 2022 to $20.4bn in 2023. discipline. This was challenging in 2023 in opportunity, as well as a necessity to mitigate
a high inflation environment, and will likely rising financial and wider societal risks. Our
remain so in 2024. At the same time, we first net zero transition plan shows how we
need to invest in growth, so we remain very intend to finance and support the transition
focused on maintaining tight underlying to net zero and collaborate globally to help
costs. The sale of our French retail banking enable change at scale. It also sets out our
operations completed on 1 January 2024, and roadmap for implementing net zero, which
the planned sale of our banking business in we will do by supporting our customers,
Canada remains due to complete in the first embedding net zero into the way we operate
quarter of 2024. A number of smaller exits and partnering for systemic change. We
remain underway as we continue to look at understand that our approach – including
opportunities to reshape our portfolio. At the our own transition plan – will need to evolve
same time, our acquisition of SVB UK enabled over time to keep pace with both the evolving
us to create a bigger, new proposition in HSBC science and real economy decarbonisation
Innovation Banking, which combines deep across the sectors and geographies we serve.
sector specialisms with our balance sheet
strength and global reach, ensuring Thank you
we continue our long history of On a personal note, one of the most enjoyable
supporting entrepreneurs. parts of 2023 for me was spending time with
many of my colleagues around the world.
Driving cost savings enables us to invest in Reconnecting with them, and seeing first-
technology, which is the fourth opportunity. hand their passion for serving our customers,
The digitisation of our business continues to pride in HSBC and ambitions for the future,
improve customer experience and increase was energising and inspiring. Leading HSBC
efficiency. Using AI to help price complex is a privilege, and my colleagues are the main
structural options in our Foreign Exchange reason why.
business has cut execution times down from
hours to minutes. We have also identified 2023 was a very good year for HSBC. We now
hundreds of opportunities to leverage have an opportunity to ensure that it becomes
generative AI, and will focus our efforts on use part of a longer-term trend of ongoing good
cases with tangible benefits for the Group and performance and to secure the foundations for
our customers. future success. I am confident that we have
the opportunities, the platform and the team
Innovation also creates new avenues for to enable us to get it done.
growth. We recently launched Zing, which is
our open market mobile platform focused on
cross-border payments, initially available in
the UK. It offers similar capabilities as Global Noel Quinn
Money does to our international Wealth and Group Chief Executive
Personal Banking customers, but is targeted
at non-HSBC customers and allows us to 21 February 2024
drive growth beyond our traditional
customer footprint.
10 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic
report
Our strategy
Focus continued
Maintain cost discipline and reshape our portfolio
In 2023, our costs were up by 6% on a target We completed our exit from our retail banking Innovation Banking, which was launched after
basis. Our aim is to maintain cost discipline operations in France, our WPB business in the acquisition of SVB UK. We also entered
by driving efficiencies in our operations and New Zealand, and our businesses in Greece into an agreement to acquire Citi’s retail
reinvesting cost savings in areas that will drive and Oman. Further exits from Canada, Russia wealth management portfolio in mainland
future growth. We are prioritising investments and Armenia are underway as well as in our China in August 2023, and completed our
in transaction banking, wealth and international retail banking business in Mauritius. purchase of SilkRoad Property Partners,
propositions, and product innovation. At a real estate fund manager in January 2024,
the same time, we continue to reshape our These exits will pave the way for investments which will be integrated into our asset
portfolio through exits and bolt-on acquisitions. in growth and efficiency areas such as HSBC management business.
Digitise
Improve customer experience and efficiency while investing in innovation
In 2023, we made progress on our goal to We are also focused on building future-ready investment in artificial intelligence (‘Al’).
become a digital-first bank, and our customers business models by investing in open-market At present, we employ Al in areas such as
have been increasingly adopting our digital propositions. In 2023, we announced a fraud detection and transaction monitoring.
services. In CMB, 83% of customers were partnership with Tradeshift to launch a new We also launched Al Markets, a digital service
digitally active, an increase of 5 percentage embedded finance solution in the first half that utilises natural language processing to
points since 2022. Our net promoter score for of 2024, which will provide payment and enrich the way investors interact with global
onboarding wholesale international clients in financial services embedded into trade, markets. Additionally, we are in the process
the last quarter of 2023 improved by 12 points e-commerce and marketplace experiences. of piloting numerous generative Al use
when compared with the first three months In January 2024, in the UK we launched Zing, cases in areas like developer augmentation,
of the year. At 54%, more than half of WPB a mobile platform enabling cross-border creative content generation and knowledge
customers were mobile active, an increase of payments available to non-HSBC consumers. management, and have identified hundreds
6 percentage points from 2022. Furthermore, more potential opportunities.
a total of 75% of WPB’s international customer We are also investing in innovative
accounts were opened digitally in 2023, an technologies for the future. In 2024, we plan to
increase of 30 percentage points from 2022. both concentrate our efforts and increase our
Energise
Inspire a dynamic culture
We are opening up a world of opportunity fulfilling careers. Our 2023 employee Snapshot leadership roles were held by women, and we
for our colleagues by building an inclusive survey showed that 73% of our colleagues are on track to achieve our ambition of 35%
organisation that empowers and energises see the positive impact of our strategy, a by 2025. We also set a Group-wide ethnicity
them. We intend to accomplish this by 3 percentage point increase from 2022, and strategy to better represent the communities
building a stronger performance culture, a 11 percentage point improvement from we serve, with 3.0% of leadership roles in
improving colleague experience and preparing 2020. The survey also showed that 81% of our the UK and US held by colleagues of Black
a workforce for the future. colleagues feel confident about HSBC’s future, a heritage in 2023, against our ambition of 3.4%
4 percentage point increase from 2022, and also by 2025. Additionally, in 2023, over 37.8% of
Our success is underpinned by our colleagues. a 11 percentage point improvement over 2020. our senior leaders have identified as being
In a changing world, we empower our from an Asian heritage background.
colleagues by providing clarity of our strategy We remain focused on creating a diverse and
and opportunities for them to develop and have inclusive environment. In 2023, 34.1% of senior In the following ‘ESG overview‘ section, we outline
how we put our purpose and values into practice.
Transition
Support the transition to net zero
In 2020, we set out our ambition to become To support our customers through the transition Management’s actively managed product
a net zero bank by 2050. Since then, we have to net zero and to a sustainable future, in 2020, offerings to help ensure the ESG risks faced
taken a number of steps to execute on our we set out an ambition to provide and facilitate by companies are considered when making
ambition and manage climate risks. In January $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment decisions and to assess ESG
2024, we published our first net zero transition investments by 2030. In 2023, we provided and risks and opportunities that could impact
plan, which provides an overview of the facilitated $83.7bn of sustainable finance and investment performance.
progress we have made to date and the actions investments, bringing our cumulative total since
being taken and planned to embed our net January 2020 to $294.4bn. We also made progress in our ambition to
zero ambition across HSBC. It sets out how we become net zero in our own operations and
intend to harness our strengths and capabilities As part of our ambition to align our financed supply chain by 2030. In 2023, we reduced
in the areas where we believe we can support emissions to achieve net zero by 2050, we our absolute greenhouse gas emissions in our
large-scale emissions reduction: transitioning have set on-balance sheet or combined operations to 293,333 tonnes COe, which
2
industry, catalysing the new economy, and financed emissions targets for a number of represents a 57.3% reduction from our
decarbonising trade and supply chains. emission-intensive sectors. 2019 baseline.
Work continues on the integration of ESG For further details on our climate ambition,
and climate analysis into HSBC Asset see the following ‘ESG overview’ section.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 13
Strategic report | ESG overview
ESG overview
We are taking steps to incorporate environmental, social and governance principles throughout
the organisation, supporting the success of our customers, people and other stakeholders.
Our approach
We are guided by our purpose: to open up We recognise both the commercial We strive to provide an inclusive and
a world of opportunity for our customers, opportunity of taking action to transition to accessible banking experience for our
colleagues and communities. Our purpose net zero and the potential risks of inaction customers. We do this by providing
is underpinned by our values: we value by society at large. In our net zero transition resources that help them manage their
difference; we succeed together; we take plan, we provide an overview of the actions finances, and services that help them
responsibility; and we get it done. we are taking and plan to take to support our protect what they value.
customers, embed net zero into the way we
Our approach to ESG is shaped by operate and partner for systemic change. We are developing an updated global
our purpose and values and a desire to We also set out how we are starting to philanthropy strategy that aligns with our
create sustainable long-term value for our work to integrate nature and just transition ESG areas of focus: ‘transition to net zero’
stakeholders. As an international bank with considerations into our net zero approach. and ‘building inclusion and resilience’.
significant breadth and scale, we understand
that our economies, societies, supply chains We set out in more detail the steps we are Act responsibly
and people’s lives are interconnected. We taking on our climate ambitions in the ESG We are focused on operating a strong and
recognise we can play an important role in review on page 41. sustainable business that puts the customer
helping to tackle ESG challenges. We focus first, values good governance, and gives our
our efforts on three areas: the transition to net Build inclusion and resilience stakeholders confidence in how we do what
zero, building inclusion and resilience, and To help create long-term value for all we do. Our conduct approach guides us to
acting responsibly. stakeholders, we focus on fostering do the right thing and to focus on the impact
inclusion and building resilience for we have on our customers and the financial
Transition to net zero our colleagues, our customers and the markets in which we operate. Customer
In 2020, we set an ambition to become a communities we operate within. experience is at the heart of how we operate.
net zero bank by 2050. Since then, we have We aim to act responsibly and with integrity
made progress in support of this ambition – For colleagues, we focus on creating an across the value chain.
including providing and facilitating sustainable inclusive, healthy and rewarding environment
finance and investment for our customers, as this helps us to attract, develop and retain On page 15, we have set out ways that we
updating several of our sustainability and the best talent, and we support their resilience have supported our stakeholders through
investment risk policies, and setting 2030 through well-being and learning resources. a challenging year.
targets for financed emissions in a range We continue to make progress towards our
of high-emitting sectors. goals for gender and ethnic diversity.
ESG disclosure map and directory
Transition Our approach to the transition Read more on our approach to the transition to net zero Page 45
to net zero
Supporting our customers Read more on our progress made against our $750bn Page 49
to $1tn sustainable finance and investment ambition
Read more on our progress made against our ambition Page 53
to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050
Embedding net zero into the way we Read more on our ambition to achieve net zero in our own Page 63
operate operations and supply chain by 2030
Partnering for systemic change Read more on how we partner externally in support of Page 68
systemic change
We make disclosures consistent with Task Force on Climate-
Detailed Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) recommendations, Page 69
related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
highlighted with the symbol: TCFD
Build Read more on how we are building an inclusive environment
Diversity and inclusion disclosures Page 76
inclusion that reflects our customers and communities, and our latest
and pay gap statistics
Pay gap disclosures Page 77
resilience
Act How we govern ESG Read more on our approach to ESG governance and Page 88
responsibly human rights
Human rights and modern
Page 89
slavery disclosures
How our ESG targets link to Read more on our ESG targets embedded in executive Page 16
executive remuneration remuneration Pages 284 to 298
ESG Data Detailed ESG information Our ESG Data Pack provides more granular ESG information, www.hsbc.com/esg
Pack including the breakdown of our sustainable finance and
investment progress, and complaints volumes
14 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic
report
ESG overview
Engaging with our stakeholders and our material ESG topics
We know that engaging with our stakeholders including engagements outlined in the table as the ESG Guide under the Hong Kong
is core to being a responsible business. below. Disclosure standards such as the TCFD, Stock Exchange Listing Rules and other
To determine material topics that our World Economic Forum (‘WEF’) Stakeholder applicable rules and regulations, are
stakeholders are interested in, we conduct Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability considered as part of the identification
a number of activities throughout the year, Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’), as well of material issues and disclosures.
Our stakeholders How we engage Material topics highlighted by the engagement1
Customers Our customers’ voices are heard through our interactions with them, – Customer advocacy
surveys and by listening to their complaints.
– Cybersecurity
– Employee training
Employees Our colleagues’ voices are heard through our annual Snapshot
survey, Exchange meetings, global jams, townhalls, leadership – Diversity and inclusion
summits, and our ‘speak-up’ channels, including our global
– Employee engagement
whistleblowing platform, HSBC Confidential.
Investors We engage with our shareholders through our AGMs, virtual – Supporting our customers – financed emissions
and in-person meetings, investor roadshows, conferences and
– Embedding net zero into the way we operate
our annual investor survey.
– Sustainability risk policies, including thermal
Communities We engage with non-governmental organisations (‘NGOs’), charities
and other civil society groups through forums, summits and coal phase-out policy and energy policy
roundtables supporting ESG causes such as COP28. We engage
– Net zero transition plan
directly on specific issues by taking part in working groups.
Regulators and We proactively engage with regulators and governments to – Financial inclusion and community investment
governments build strong relationships through virtual and in-person meetings – Climate risk
and by responding to consultations individually and jointly
via industry bodies. – Anti-bribery and corruption
Suppliers Our code of conduct sets out our ambitions, targets and – Conduct and product responsibility
commitments on the environment, diversity and human rights, – Supply chain management
and outlines the minimum standards we expect of our suppliers.
We engage with key suppliers in real estate, technology and – Human rights
other sectors through meetings.
1 These form part of our ESG disclosures suite together with other requirements, and are not exhaustive or exclusive to one stakeholder group. For further details of
our disclosures, see our ESG review and ESG Data Pack, as well as our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.
Supporting our customers in challenging – offered customers the option to switch In 2023, we contacted targeted clients to help
economic times mortgage rates early, extend their mortgage improve awareness of the support available,
We know that many of our customers term with an option to reverse it at a later including communicating with over 178,000
continue to face difficult financial date, or pay interest only for six months, SMEs and proactively making over 43,000
circumstances due to cost of living pressures, as part of our commitment to the new UK outbound calls.
and we are working to support them. As Mortgage Charter;
the rising cost of living has been particularly – offered a temporary reduction of fees Increasing understanding of fraud and scam
high in the UK, one of our largest markets, on arranged overdrafts to help those most risk and education on how to protect against
most of our initiatives focused on supporting in need pay less; becoming a victim continues to be another
our UK personal and business customers. key area of focus. In 2023, we also:
– held over 1,000 financial well-being webinars,
We have enhanced our range of digital
including 227 cost of living sessions for
resources available on our website and we are – held fraud and scam awareness webinars
50,000 customers and colleagues;
proactively approaching those most in need to highlight recent trends and case studies,
– both personal and business customers – to – helped more than 37,000 customers attended by approximately 4,300 customers;
offer targeted support and help build their identify £2.9m in potential benefits by – sent 2.1 million emails and 300,000 letters
financial resilience. providing access to a benefits calculator in quarterly campaigns to share our insights
tool via our website; and
and enhance understanding of key fraud
Proactive support – helped more than 130,000 customers topics and trends; and
For personal customers in financial difficulty, generate a financial fitness score, and
– published 44 articles and alerts on the HSBC
we have developed our digital services with obtain tips on how to improve their
Fraud and Cyber Awareness mobile app,
improvements to the ‘Rising cost of living’ financial resilience using our online
covering a broad range of topics as well as
hub on our public website in the UK. Use of financial fitness tool.
any emerging threats and trends.
segmentation data has enabled us to take a
proactive approach to supporting customers In the UK, CMB has continued to support
For further details of our work to support
and offering targeted solutions to those who commercial banking clients exhibiting signs vulnerable communities and customers
are identified as being most in need. of financial vulnerability. We reviewed client see page 85.
needs on a case-by-case basis and provided For further details on our conduct and product
We have engaged with vulnerable customer solutions including repayment holidays, responsibilities, see the ESG review on page 96.
groups through cost of living calls, targeted extending loan repayments and offering
emails and direct mail. In 2023, we also: extensions to collection periods. The use
of data and front-line insights has improved
our ability to identify financially
vulnerable customers.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 15
Strategic report | ESG overview
Our ESG ambitions, metrics and targets
TCFD
We have established ambitions and targets are linked to the pillars of our ESG strategy: For a summary of how all financial and
that guide how we do business, including transition to net zero, building inclusion and non-financial metrics link to executive
how we operate and how we serve our resilience, and acting responsibly. remuneration, see pages 284 to 298 of
customers. These include targets designed the Directors’ remuneration report.
to help track our progress against our To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a
environmental and social sustainability goals. number of measures are included in the annual The table below sets out some of our key
They also help us to improve employee incentive and long-term incentive scorecards ESG metrics that we use to measure our
advocacy and the diversity of senior of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief progress against our ambitions. For further
leadership, as well as strengthen our market Financial Officer and Group Executives that details of how we are doing, see the ESG
conduct. The targets for these measures underpin the ESG metrics in the table below. review on page 41.
Environmental: Sustainable finance Net zero in our own Financed
and investment2 operations3 emissions4
Transition to $294.4bn 57.3% 7 sectors
net zero1
Cumulative total provided and Reduction in absolute operational Number of sectors where we have
facilitated since January 2020. greenhouse gas emissions from set financed emissions targets,
(2022: $210.7bn) 2019 baseline. comprising five on-balance sheet
(2022: 58.5%) and two combined financed
Ambition: Provide and facilitate
emissions targets.
$750bn to $1tn of sustainable Ambition: To be net zero in our
finance and investment by 2030. own operations and supply chain
Ambition: Align our financed
by 2030.
emissions to achieve net zero by 2050.
Social:
Gender diversity5 Black heritage5 Employee engagement6
34.1% 3.0% 77%
Build inclusion
and resilience
Senior leadership roles Senior leadership roles held by Black Employee engagement score.
held by women. heritage colleagues in the UK and (2022: 74%)
(2022: 33.3%) US combined (2022: 2.5% )
Ambition: Maintain 72% in
Ambition: 3.4% of senior leadership
Ambition: Achieve 35% senior the employee Snapshot
roles held by Black heritage
leadership roles held by women engagement index.
colleagues in the UK and US
by 2025.
combined by 2025.
Governance:
Conduct training7 Customer satisfaction8
98% 3 out of 6 5 out of 6
Acting
responsibly
Employees who completed WPB markets that sustained CMB markets that sustained
conduct training in 2023. top-three rank and/or improved top-three rank and/or improved
(2022: 98%) in customer satisfaction. in customer satisfaction.
(2022: 4 out of 6) (2022: 5 out of 6)
Target: At least 98% of employees
complete conduct and financial Target: To be ranked top three and/or Target: To be ranked top three and/or
crime training each year. improve customer satisfaction rank. improve customer satisfaction rank
1 For further details of our approach to transition to net zero, methodology and PwC’s limited assurance reports on financed emissions, sustainable finance and
investment progress, and our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3 (business travel and supply chain) greenhouse gas emissions data, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-
are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
2 In October 2020, we announced our ambition to provide and facilitate between $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For further details
and breakdown, see the ESG review on page 49. For details of how this target links with the scorecards, see page 284.
3 This absolute greenhouse gas emission figure covers scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 business travel emissions. For further details of how this target links with the
scorecards, see page 284.
4 See page 53 for further details of our targets, which include combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emission targets for two emissions-
intensive sectors: oil and gas, and power and utilities. The remaining five sectors for which we have set on-balance sheet financed emissions targets are: cement;
iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining.
5 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 and above in our global career band structure. For further details, see the ESG review on page 77. For details of
how this target links with the scorecards, see page 284. Colleagues in Canada are excluded from this disclosure to align with scorecards.
6 For further details, see the ESG review on page 79. For details of how this target links with the scorecards, see page 284.
7 The completion rate shown relates to the ‘Fighting financial crime’ training module in 2023 and covers permanent and non-permanent employees. The latest global
conduct training ‘Conduct matters and taking responsibility – 2023’ was launched in December 2023 and will run through the first quarter.
8 The markets where we report rank positions for WPB and CMB – the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China, India, Mexico and Singapore – are in line with the annual
executive scorecards. Our WPB NPS ranking in mainland China is based on 2022 results. Due to data integrity challenges, we are unable to produce a 2023
ranking. For further details of customer satisfaction, see the ESG review on page 91. For further details of how this target links with the scorecards, see page 284.
16 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic
report
ESG overview
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
TCFD
The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force – For financed emissions we do not plan to – We do not fully disclose impacts from
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures set 2025 targets. We set targets in line with climate-related opportunities on financial
(‘TCFD’) recommendations set an important the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (‘NZBA‘) planning and performance including on
framework for understanding and analysing guidelines by setting 2030 targets. While revenue, costs and the balance sheet,
climate-related risks, and we are committed the NZBA defines 2030 as intermediate, we quantitative scenario analysis, detailed
to regular and transparent reporting to help use different time horizons for climate risk climate risk exposures for all sectors and
communicate and track our progress. We management. For climate, we define short geographies or physical risk metrics. This
will advocate the same from our customers, term as time periods up to 2025; medium is due to transitional challenges in relation
suppliers and the industry. term is between 2026 and 2035; and long to data limitations, although nascent work
term is between 2036 and 2050. These time is ongoing in these areas. We expect
We have set out our key climate-related periods align to the Climate Action 100+ these data limitations to be addressed in
financial disclosures throughout the Annual disclosure framework. In 2023, we disclosed the medium term as more reliable data
Report and Accounts 2023 and related interim 2030 targets for financed emissions becomes available and technology solutions
disclosures. We recognise that further work for a number of sectors as we outline are implemented.
lies ahead as we continue to develop our on page 18. Following this, we have now – We currently disclose four out of 15
management and reporting capabilities. In set combined on-balance sheet financed categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas
2023, we made certain enhancements to our emissions and facilitated emissions targets emissions including business travel, supply
disclosures. These include enhancing our for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and chain and financed emissions. In relation to
merger and acquisition process to consider gas, and power and utilities. financed emissions, we publish on-balance
potential climate and sustainability-related – The methodology and data used for sheet financed emissions for a number of
targets, net zero transition plans and climate financed emissions is evolving and we sectors as detailed on page 18. We also
strategy, and how this relates to HSBC. In expect industry guidance, market practice, publish facilitated emissions for the oil and
addition, we published our net zero data availability, scenarios and regulatory gas, and power and utilities sectors. Future
transition plan. disclosure requirements to continue to disclosures on financed emissions and
change, along with the shape of our own related risks are reliant on our customers
We have considered our ‘comply or explain’ business. We expect to periodically review publicly disclosing their greenhouse gas
obligation under both the UK’s Financial and, if required, update our methodologies, emissions, targets and plans, and related
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and baselines, scenarios, and targets to reflect risks. We recognise the need to provide
Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK real economy decarbonisation and evolving early transparency on climate disclosures
Companies Act 2006, and confirm that we guidance and data. but balance this with the recognition that
have made disclosures consistent with the existing data and reporting processes
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended require significant enhancements.
Disclosures, including its annexes and
supplemental guidance, save for certain For a full summary of our TCFD disclosures,
items, which we summarise below. including detailed disclosure locations for
additional information, see pages 69 to 74.
The additional information section on
page 440 provides further detail.
Backing renewable connections in South America
We helped to finance one of the largest transmission lines in South America, which will
connect central and southern Chile to renewable energy generated in the north.
Conexión is building the Kimal-Lo Aguirre initiative after winning a tender from Chile’s
Minister of Energy in 2022. The project will aim to develop approximately 1,400km of critical
infrastructure with the ability to carry up to 3,000 million watts of energy when scheduled
to complete in 2029.
We provided a $160m equity bridge loan to support China Southern Power Grid’s
contribution to the project. China Southern Power Grid is the second largest electric power
company in China. The funds will help unlock energy transition infrastructure required
to support Chile in achieving its net zero goals.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 17
Strategic report | ESG overview
How we measure our net zero progress
TCFD
We are helping the transition to a net zero transport, specifically for the following sectors: over time to keep pace with real economy
economy by transforming ourselves, and oil and gas; power and utilities; cement; iron, developments. Emissions and broader
supporting our customers to make their steel and aluminium; aviation; automotive; and customer data is also expected to improve,
own transitions. Our ambition is to align thermal coal mining. as well as approaches and standards for
our financed emissions to net zero by 2050 greenhouse gas accounting and target setting.
or sooner. Following a reduction in our exposure to the As a result of this, we expect to regularly
shipping sector after the strategic sale of part refine and update our analysis as well as
Our net zero transition plan sets out how of our European shipping portfolio in 2023, data collection and consolidation processes
we intend to harness our strengths and and work undertaken to assess the materiality to accommodate new data sources and
capabilities in areas where we believe we of our remaining portfolio from a financed updated methodologies and scenarios, and
can support large-scale emissions reduction: emissions perspective, we have concluded intend to be transparent on any changes
transitioning industry, catalysing the new that the remaining exposure as of year-end we make and why. As an example, our ESG
economy, and decarbonising trade and supply 2023 is not material enough to warrant setting review includes recalculated 2019 and 2020
chains. The plan also provides details on our a stand-alone target. This aligns with NZBA financed emissions figures for the oil and gas,
sectoral approach, and on our implementation guidelines on sector inclusion for target and power and utilities sectors. In addition,
plan to embed net zero into the way setting. Due to ongoing data availability and periodic updates to published net zero-aligned
we operate. quality challenges, we continue to assess our scenarios mean that it will be important that
financed emissions for our real estate and our net zero-aligned reference scenario choice,
We continue to track our progress against our agriculture sectors. and by extension our target-setting approach,
ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to remain in step with the evolving real economy
$1tn of sustainable finance and investment by We recognise that there is a significant context and is informed by the latest science.
2030, aligned to our published data dictionary, amount of uncertainty and complexity related
and our ambition to achieve net zero in our to the transition, and that progress in the real In the following table, we set out our metrics
own operations and supply chain by 2030. economy will depend heavily on external and indicators and assess our progress
We also recognise that green and sustainable factors including the policy and regulatory against them.
finance and investment taxonomies are not landscape across markets, the speed of
consistent globally, and evolving taxonomies technological innovation and growth, and For further details of our approach to measuring
and practices could result in revisions in our economic and geopolitical events. In addition, financed emissions, including scope,
methodology, assumptions and limitations,
sustainable finance reporting going forward. climate science and the availability and quality
see page 53.
of climate data continue to evolve, and the
To date, we have set 2030 financed emissions net zero-aligned scenarios upon which we
targets across energy, heavy industry and have based our approach will also update
Net zero
implementation plan Metrics and indicators Progress to date
Supporting our Sustainable finance and investment $294.4bn cumulative progress since 2020 (for further breakdown
customers provided and facilitated ($bn)1 see page 49)
Number of sectors analysed for We have set seven financed emissions targets, comprising five
financed emissions2 on-balance sheet and two combined financed emissions targets
so far (see pages 53 to 62)
Thermal coal financing exposures2,3 Our thermal coal financing drawn balance exposure was approximately
$1bn as at 31 December 2020 (for further details, see page 67)
Embedding net zero Percentage of absolute operational 57.3% reduction in absolute greenhouse gas emissions from 2019
into the way we greenhouse gas emissions reduced4 baseline (see page 63)
operate
Percentage of renewable electricity Increase from 48.3% in 2022 to 58.4% (see page 63)
sourced across our operations
Percentage of energy 26.3% reduction in energy consumption from 2019 baseline
consumption reduced (see page 63)
Partnering for Philanthropic investment in climate Committed $105m to our NGO partners since 2020, as part of the
systemic change innovation ventures, renewable energy, Climate Solutions Partnership (see page 68)
and nature-based solutions
1 The detailed definitions of the contributing activities for sustainable finance and investment are available in our revised Sustainable Finance and Investment Data
Dictionary 2023. For this, together with our ESG Data Pack and PwC’s limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.
2 For further details of our financed emissions methodology, exclusions and limitations, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology at
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
3 Data is subject to independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal
Coal Exposures Methodology and PwC’s limited assurance report at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
4 Our reported scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions of our own operations in 2023 are related to business travel. For further details on scope 1, 2 and 3, and our
progress on greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy targets, see page 64 and our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg. For further details of our
methodology and PwC’s limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
18 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic
report
ESG overview
Responsible business culture
We have a responsibility to help protect our 91% of our colleagues to disclose their relief when needed. For examples of our
customers, our communities and the integrity ethnicity, with 62% currently choosing to do programmes, see the ‘Communities’ section
of the financial system. so, where this is legally permissible. of the ESG review on page 86.
Employee matters The table below outlines high-level Human rights
We are building a responsible business culture diversity metrics. As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we
that values difference, takes responsibility, recognise the role of business in respecting
seeks different perspectives and upholds good All employees human rights. Our approach is guided by
standards of conduct. the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Male 48% Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and the OECD
There may be times when our colleagues Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on
Female 52%
need to speak up about behaviours in the Responsible Business Conduct. Our Human
workplace. In the first instance we encourage Senior leadership1 Rights Statement, and annual statements
colleagues to speak to their line manager, and under the UK’s Modern Slavery Act, are
our annual Snapshot survey showed that 86% Male 66% available on www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
of colleagues have trust in their direct manager. esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-
Female 34%
HSBC Confidential is our whistleblowing centre. For further details of our approach, see
channel, which allows colleagues past and Holdings Board the ‘Human rights’ section of the ESG review
present to raise concerns confidentially and, if on page 89.
preferred, anonymously (subject to local laws). Male 53%
Our Snapshot survey showed that 80% of Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
Female 47%
colleagues feel able to speak up when they We are required to comply with all applicable
see behaviours they consider to be wrong. anti-bribery and corruption laws in every
1 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 market and jurisdiction in which we operate
and above in our global career band structure.
We promote an environment where our while focusing on the spirit of relevant
colleagues are treated with dignity and laws and regulations to demonstrate our
respect and we act where we find behaviours For further details of how we look after our commitment to ethical behaviours and
people, including our diversity targets, how we
that fall short. Our inclusion index measures conduct as part of our environmental, social
encourage our employees to speak up, and our
our colleagues’ sense of belonging and approach to employee conduct, see the Social and corporate governance.
psychological safety within the organisation, section of the ESG review on page 75.
and in 2023 this increased to 78%. Environmental matters
Listening to our customers For details of our climate ambition and carbon
We aspire to be an organisation that is We continue to listen, learn and act on our emission metrics, see the ESG review on
representative of the communities in which we customers’ feedback. We have implemented page 44.
serve. We have committed to achieving a 35% the net promoter system, enabling us to
representation of women in senior leadership share customer feedback with our front-line
roles (classified as those at band 3 and above teams and allowing them to respond directly Group non-financial and sustainability
in our global career band structure) by 2025. to customers. We also have dedicated global information statement
We remain on track, having achieved 34.1% forums to promote continuous improvement This section primarily covers Group non-
in 2023. of our customers’ experience. financial and sustainability information as
required by applicable regulations. Other
We aspire to achieve a 3.4% representation of Social matters related information can be found as follows:
Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership We invest in the long-term prosperity of
roles across the UK and US combined by the communities where we operate. We For further details of our key performance
2025. We are on track to achieve this, having aim to provide people, especially those in indicators, see page 1.
increased our representation to 3.0% this year. marginalised and vulnerable communities, For further details of our business model,
see page 4.
We continue to make progress but we know with the skills and knowledge needed to
For further details of our principal risks and
there is more to be done. thrive through the transition to a sustainable
how they are managed, see pages 37 to 39.
future. For this reason, we focus our support
For further details of our TCFD disclosures,
To ensure we set representation goals that are on programmes that help build inclusion and
including alignment with sections 414CA and
locally relevant, we enable our employees to resilience. We also support climate solutions 414CB of the Companies Act 2006, see pages
self-disclose ethnicity data. We have enabled and innovation, and contribute to disaster 69 to 74.
Training colleagues and partners on digital accessibility
With ‘Digitise’ being one of our strategic pillars, we are committed to improving how our
customers can access our online and mobile services. We review against the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines for our websites in 23 markets and mobile apps in 18 markets, and
engaged with more than 10,000 colleagues, partners and companies through our digital
accessibility training and awareness programme in 2023. To share best practice externally,
HSBC sponsored and hosted AbilityNet’s Techshare Pro at our head office in the UK. Our work
on digital accessibility was recognised through 11 awards in 2023, including in Hong Kong,
where we were the only financial services provider to be recognised for our core banking apps.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 19
Strategic report | Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders
The Board is committed to effective engagement with all our
stakeholders and seeks to understand their interests and the
impacts on them when making decisions.
Section 172(1) statement
This section, from pages 20 to 23, forms our our key stakeholders, acknowledging that this The following table includes instances where
section 172(1) statement. It describes how engagement is core to being a responsible the Directors have had regard to section 172(1)
the Directors have performed their duty business and furthers the fulfilment of our factors (which are not mutually exclusive)
to promote the success of the company, strategy. In discharging their responsibilities, when discussing certain matters in Board
including how they have considered the Directors sought to understand, and have meetings and taking decisions where relevant.
and engaged with stakeholders and, in regard to, the interests and priorities of the Some of these instances are explained in more
particular, how they have taken account of Group’s key stakeholders, including in relation detail in this section 172(1) statement and in
the matters set out in section 172(1)(a) to to material decisions that were taken by the the report of the Directors.
(f) of the Companies Act 2006. The Board Board during the course of the year.
continued to focus on its engagement with
Section 172(1) factor Where section 172(1) factor featured in Board considerations
Likely consequences of any – Group strategy – setting and monitoring
a decision in the long term – Mergers and acquisitions activity
– Share capital activity – dividend and buy-back
Interests of our employees – Workforce engagement non-executive Director programme
b – Directors’ workforce engagement activities
– Annual employee Snapshot survey
The need to foster our business – Annual statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act and human rights disclosure approvals
relationships with suppliers, – Directors’ stakeholder engagement activities
c
customers and others – Regular Board reports from Directors and executives
Impact of our operations on the – Directors’ engagement with community initiatives
community and the environment – Net zero transition plan
d – Participation at ESG events such as COP28 and representation at the
World Economic Forum
Our desire to maintain a reputation – The Financial Conduct Authority’s new Consumer Duty obligations
for high standards of business – Global mandatory training
e
conduct – Regular engagement with global regulators including presentations by the Prudential
Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority to the Board
Acting fairly between members of – Annual General Meeting and Hong Kong Informal Shareholders’ Meeting
the company – Retail shareholder activities and investor policies’ approvals
f
– Directors’ engagement with top investors
During 2023, the Board continued with an On pages 22 and 23, we describe how the
active stakeholder engagement programme, Board exercises its Directors’ section 172(1)
meeting numerous stakeholders in several duty and takes into account the impact on
international locations. For further details of relevant stakeholders when making principal
how we engaged with our stakeholders, see decisions in order to support and deliver on
pages 21 and 257. the Group’s strategy.
20 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic
report
Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Directors’ key engagements with stakeholders in 2023
Stakeholders Engagement Impact and outcomes
Customers – Engagement events with business customers, – The Board’s continued engagement with customers and
We recognise that the including customers of HSBC Innovation Banking, to potential customers around the world helps to further the
greater our understanding discuss challenges and opportunities in key markets Board’s understanding of their purposes and business needs,
of our customers’ needs, – Meetings with business customers to discuss plans and how they can be supported to achieve their varied goals.
the better we can help regarding the transition to net zero – Meetings with customers help the Board understand how the
support them to achieve – Board reporting on retail customer surveys including Group can help customers transition to net zero.
their financial aims and net promoter scores – Customer surveys provide insights into how the Group
succeed in our purpose – Visits to branches in the UK, Hong Kong and India to can drive meaningful improvements in customer
and strategy. better understand customers’ changing needs propositions outcomes.
– Retail branch visits help the Board see the positive impact of
Group initiatives such as the No Fixed Address and Survivor
Bank account propositions, and how opportunities are being
realised for customers.
Employees – Employee events, including leadership forums, – Meeting with colleagues across jurisdictions allowed
We want to continue to be webcasts, townhalls, global jams, off-sites and the Board to hear first-hand the employee voice on
a positive place to work employee Exchanges, as well as events that form important issues.
and build careers, with part of the workforce engagement non-executive – These interactions helped to ensure continued connectivity
the success of the Group’s Director programme with the workforce, and inform the Board’s decision making
strategy dependent upon – Interaction with respective employee resource groups around people-specific matters. Employee engagement also
having motivated people across multiple events in many jurisdictions helps the Board to put into perspective employee Snapshot
with the expertise and skills – Participation in the annual Non-Executive Director survey results.
required to deliver it. Summit in Hong Kong – Meeting with employee directors of Group subsidiaries helped
to assure the Board that a consistent approach to governance
has been adopted across the Group.
Investors – Numerous meetings with analysts and several – Regular interactions with institutional and retail investors
We seek to understand investor roadshows to discuss interim and throughout the year helped the Board understand investor
investor needs and year-end results sentiment on material matters, such as strategy delivery and
sentiment through ongoing – Remuneration Committee Chair investor meetings transition to net zero, and gauge investors’ continued support
dialogue and a variety of with top investors and proxy advisers for the Group.
engagements with both retail – Annual retail investor events such as the AGM in
and institutional investors. the UK and the Informal Shareholders’ Meeting in
Hong Kong
– Board meeting attendance by one of our largest
investors to discuss Group strategic execution and
the wider market outlook
Communities – Meetings with charities and NGOs on topics such – The Directors’ participation at a range of community initiatives
We seek to play an as financial education for rural women in India, helped them to understand the effect the Group has on local
important role in supporting reintroducing biodiversity and endangered species communities as an employer, sponsor, collaborator and
the communities in which in Europe and financial inclusion and resilience of supporter, and helped to break down barriers for certain
we operate through our people facing homelessness in the UK communities to access our products.
corporate social – Meetings with Shelter to discuss the Group’s – The Board’s interaction with, and understanding of, the
responsibility and broader partnership and to hear about the impact of the communities in which the Group operates helped the Board
engagement activities. Hero Partnership initiative appreciate how the Group can influence meaningful change,
– Forums, summits and roundtables supporting including by educating, encouraging broader thinking, helping
ESG causes, such as the Abu Dhabi Sustainability to shape policy and formulating solutions, creating supportive
Week, COP28, New York Climate Week and London environments, and helping to achieve net zero ambitions.
Climate Action Week
– Meetings with members of the Sustainable Markets
Initiative Council to discuss future priorities
Regulators and – Various meetings across our key markets with heads – Frequent and varied engagements between the Board and
governments of state, international leaders and government heads of state, international leaders, government officials and
Maintaining constructive officials including ministers and ambassadors regulators provide an opportunity for open dialogue. It is also
dialogue and relations with – Regular meetings with, and presentations from, critical in ensuring that the Board understands and continues
the relevant authorities in our many regulators, including in the UK and to meet its regulatory obligations.
the markets in which we Hong Kong, and elsewhere – Meeting with international officials allows the Board to
operate helps support communicate the Group’s strategy, perspectives and insights
the achievement of our while ensuring that Directors remain abreast of political and
strategic aims. regulatory developments. It also allows the Board to share
perspectives on industry best practices.
Suppliers – Regular reports and updates to the Board from the – Meeting with our suppliers helps the Directors understand our
We engage with suppliers, Group Chief Operating Officer on supplier matters suppliers’ challenges and how we can work collaboratively to
which helps us operate our – Meetings with key technology suppliers to discuss succeed, including in digitising at scale and achieving our net
business effectively and the Group’s innovation ambitions and how they could zero ambitions.
execute our strategy. further support HSBC’s data requirements, including – It is key for the Board to understand the Group’s supply chain
to inform and support its net zero ambitions and how suppliers’ operations are aligned to our purpose and
– Meetings with key suppliers in sectors such as values. Such reporting and engagement supports the Board
real estate when approving the annual statement under the UK Modern
Slavery Act.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 21
Strategic report | Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Principal strategic decisions
The Board operates having regard to the duties of the Directors, including the relevant matters set out in section 172(1)(a)-(f) of the Companies Act
2006. A key focus for the Board is setting, and monitoring execution against, the Group strategy. Principal decisions taken by the Board consider
how the decision furthers the Group purpose, and aligns with one or all of the strategic pillars: ‘Focus’, ‘Digitise’, ‘Energise’ and ‘Transition’.
The following examples demonstrate how the Board operated having regard to the duties of the Directors. Good governance practices adopted by
the Board facilitate its key decision taking. Governance features as an agenda item at all scheduled Board meetings. Papers presented to the Board
for consideration are expected to follow a template to help ensure that Directors get the right level of information to take informed decisions in
keeping with their duties. The template requests authors to, among others things, describe the extent to which relevant stakeholders are engaged
with, or impacted by, the matter under consideration, and whether this has influenced the recommendation to the Board.
Group strategy
As part of the Board’s responsibility to set, launched in June 2023. Senior management strategic decisions taken were, and continue
and monitor execution against, HSBC’s embarked on a programme of communication to be, most likely to promote the long-term
strategy, Directors take into consideration and interactions with customers, employees success of the company.
the Group’s strategies across the global and investors by way of townhalls and Q&A
businesses and legal entities. The Board sessions to help key stakeholders understand During the course of the year, the Board
continued to oversee the progression of the the rationale for the transaction and reiterate continued a targeted focus on receiving
Group’s divestment of non-core operations HSBC’s support for its customers. relevant and succinct management
while targeting select acquisitions. One information, including key metrics and
such principal decision taken during the year The Board continued its monitoring and data, to help demonstrate progress against
was the acquisition by HSBC UK Bank plc oversight of the impacts flowing from its strategic areas of interest. The Board
of SVB UK. In considering this opportunity, principal strategic decisions taken in the considered how it should be informed, in
the Board took into account the views of current and previous years, in particular the the most transparent way, on the evolution
key stakeholders, including UK regulators sale of the retail banking operations in France of the Group’s strategy from transformation
and the government. It also considered and the planned sale of the banking business to one focused on growth. The Board has
the potential impact of the acquisition on in Canada. The Board met in order to agree agreed key performance indicators to
SVB UK customers, principally that their amended terms to complete our France help keep it informed on relevant areas of
banking services would be maintained, business sale. It was updated regularly, and strategic progress, all of which are focused
backed by the strength, safety and security provided input as appropriate, on actions on four overarching perspectives: external
of HSBC. The Board also considered how required to ensure the successful completion commitments/key outcomes; key business
the acquisition would enhance shareholder of these transactions. It also liaised with drivers; sustainable financial performance; and
value, strengthen our CMB franchise, and relevant stakeholders such as governments, the ability to transform and license to operate.
further its ability to serve innovation and regulators, work councils, employees and These indicators will also be used to foster a
fast-growing firms in the technology and customers, as necessary. culture of performance and discipline across
life sciences sectors, supporting our ‘Focus’ the organisation and will be factored into
strategic pillar. Following the acquisition In this way, the Board effectively carried out executive Directors’ scorecards.
of SVB UK, HSBC Innovation Banking was its duties and assured itself that the principal
Sustainability
The Board is responsible for the oversight of the define core areas of the Group’s sustainability Appreciating the importance of the Group’s
Group’s sustainability and ESG strategy setting execution programme, a Group-wide commitment to publish a net zero transition
and delivery, and monitors progress against programme to enable the delivery of our plan, the Board took the decision to establish
execution of our net zero ambitions. Key sustainability agenda. The core areas a dedicated sub-group with responsibility
outcomes are reviewed regularly by the Board. included accountability, governance, for overseeing its finalisation, taking into
Directors also received training on ESG-related capability, investment in infrastructure and consideration the implications for all our
matters as part of their ongoing development. data. Governance was enhanced by the stakeholders and communication of the plan
establishment of the Sustainability Execution to the market. This sub-group included four
The Board’s understanding of the progress Committee, with responsibility to oversee non-executive Directors, the Group Chief
against the Group’s ESG strategy was informed delivery of the sustainability execution Executive and the Group Chief Financial
by the ESG dashboard. The data provided in programme. This committee reports to the Officer, as well as other members of senior
this dashboard included key metrics that help Group Executive Committee which receives management. It took into consideration the
the Board to monitor progress against the regular updates on progress towards short-term consequences on stakeholders,
Group’s ESG ambitions, including the transition fulfilment of our net zero ambitions. It takes particularly for customers and investors, and
to net zero, building inclusion and resilience, into account key stakeholder considerations balanced these against long-term benefits for
and acting responsibly. Additional details were and potential impacts on the Group’s strategic the Group, the society in which we live, and
provided on metrics relating to the roll-out of direction for sustainability, and reports these the success of the company as a whole for
the Group’s supplier code of conduct, female to the Board, helping Directors take relevant the long term. Recommendations made to the
entrepreneurship and gender diversity in decisions. In addition, three non-executive Board by the sub-group, including stakeholder
senior roles. Directors participated in climate advisory impacts, helped to inform the Board’s
panel meetings with external subject matter deliberations, leading to its final approval of
In 2023, the Board gave the Group Executive experts to discuss sustainability, including the the net zero transition plan, published
Committee feedback on the need to better Group’s net zero transition plan. in January 2024.
22 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic
report
Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Technology
In support of the strategic pillar ‘Digitise’, the the global businesses and functions to explore Board. It also attended a Board meeting in
Board continued its oversight of the Group’s how the organisation was executing various person to discuss the independent review. The
technology strategy, Vision 27, recognising technological initiatives. findings from the report helped deepen the
that technology is an integral part of business Board’s understanding of contributing factors
success. In overseeing legal entity and global The third party’s review was facilitated by its to the success of Vision 27.
business strategies, the Board acts to promote attendance at the newly formed technology
connectivity of technology strategies across steering committee, overseen by the Board’s As a result of the review and related Board
the organisation. Technology Governance Working Group. discussions, in order to enhance governance
This steering committee comprised senior around overseeing the progress of the Group’s
To help assure the Board that the Vision 27 management including global business long-term technology strategy, the Board
initiatives remained strategically aligned and representatives to ensure that business views agreed that a new Board committee will be
appropriately resourced, it supported the were well represented. The insights gained established in 2024 in place of the Technology
appointment of a third-party professional from the steering committee helped to form Governance Working Group, to be chaired by
services firm to conduct a review. The third its reports to the Technology Governance a non-executive Director.
party engaged with employees from across Working Group, which in turn reports to the
Financial performance and capital returns
When taking its decision to approve the dividends, while retaining the flexibility to 30 October 2023. In approving the payment of
annual financial resource plan, the Board invest and grow the business in the future, the dividends, the Board took into account the
engaged in active deliberation, taking into supplemented by additional shareholder interests of the shareholders and sought to act
account stakeholders’ perspectives, including distributions, if appropriate. To this end, in in the best interests of the members as a whole.
customers, employees and investors, as the Annual Report and Accounts 2022, the
well as market perception and regulatory Board approved the Group’s announcement In addition to dividend payments, HSBC
expectations. The Board considered the regarding its intention to revert to paying undertook share buy-backs of up to $2bn each
alignment between the Group’s medium-term quarterly dividends from the first quarter of commencing on 10 May 2023 and 3 August
strategic and investment plans with projected 2023. Following discussion at the Board, 2023, and commenced a further buy-back of
performance throughout the annual financial subject to the completion of the sale of the up to $3bn on 1 November 2023. In considering
resource plan. In addition, consideration banking business in Canada, the Board the buy-backs, the Board (or the Chairman’s
was given to scenario analysis related to the agreed its intention to consider the payment Committee with delegated authority from the
macroeconomic and geopolitical environment of a special dividend of $0.21 per share as Board) took into account its stated intention
to ascertain the risks – and potential mitigating a priority use of the proceeds generated to consider buy-backs subject to appropriate
actions – to best protect the Group’s financial by the completion of the transaction. On capital levels, the views of its regulators with
performance and capital returns. 21 February 2023, an interim dividend of regard to its regulatory capital requirements
$0.23 per share for the 2022 full-year was and, in particular, the benefit to shareholders,
In 2023, the Board adopted a dividend announced, followed by interim dividends of and determined that the buy-backs would
policy designed to provide sustainable cash $0.10 each on 2 May 2023, 1 August 2023 and promote the success of the company.
People and culture
Each Board meeting starts with a culture people-related challenges and successes of a plan for its implementation. For further
moment – a standing agenda item for one across the Group and legal entities. In these details of how we structure engagement
of the Board members, on a rotational basis, ways the Board broadens its understanding of between the Board and the workforce,
to share insights into their perceptions the interests of our employees, which in turn see page 257.
on how the Group culture is being lived. helps to shape its decisions or add value when
These perceptions help the Board to fulfil asked to approve HR policy and other people- The Board took the decision in 2023 to
its responsibility of monitoring the Group’s related matters. approve HSBC’s new headquarters and
culture. They also serve to shape and frame to move to the new Panorama St Paul’s
discussions more generally in Board meetings. The dedicated workforce engagement development. This decision was facilitated
non-executive Director provides a regular by people data gathered from the Snapshot
The Board regularly considers updates on report to Board meetings, which together survey and other methods that demonstrated
people and the workforce, supported by with the Directors’ own participation in a desire from colleagues to continue to create
key metrics and culture insights. These arranged employment engagement activities, an agile and technologically fit-for-purpose
updates help the Board understand employee strengthen the Board’s appreciation of what environment to work and succeed together.
sentiment, including any upward or downward matters to employees, and help to inform The Board took this decision knowing that a
trends, which informs considerations of how decisions related to HR and people matters. new purpose-built office and the continuation
the tone from the top is being embedded. An example of people and culture data of a hybrid working model would enable the
Regular reporting to the Board and/or its and engagements assisting Board decision Group to continue to attract top talent, and
committees from the Group Chief Human making in 2023 included the discussion held provide them with collaboration spaces to
Resources Officer includes metrics on attrition, by the Board on a strategic focus around ‘the support their success and well-being. The
whistleblowing, escalations, employee workforce of the future’ programme. This Board concluded the new headquarters would
understanding of strategy and pay sentiment programme is looking at the key workforce be in the best interests of the company for the
across our legal entities. This, together with the skills necessary for the future, the role of long term. For further details of the new head
annual Snapshot survey results, demonstrate technology in the workplace and development office, see page 99.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 23
Strategic report | Risk overview
Managing risk continued
Our risk appetite the annual cyclical scenario stress test to In the second half of 2023, we ran further
Our risk appetite defines our desired forward- determine the banking sector’s ability to internal climate scenario analyses. The
looking risk profile and informs the strategic withstand an adverse scenario and continue to outcomes were used to identify challenges
and financial planning process. It provides an serve UK households and businesses. and opportunities to our net zero strategy,
objective baseline to guide strategic decision inform capital planning and risk appetite, as
making, helping to ensure that planned The results were published on 12 July 2023 well as to respond to climate stress tests for
business activities provide an appropriate by the BoE in its Financial Stability Report regulators, including the Hong Kong Monetary
balance of return for the risk assumed, while and indicated that both HSBC Holdings and Authority and the Central Bank of the United
remaining within acceptable risk levels. HSBC UK are sufficiently capitalised with Arab Emirates.
Risk appetite supports senior management a CET1 capital ratio remaining well above
in allocating capital, funding and liquidity the regulatory reference rate on both an For further details of our approach to climate risk
optimally to finance growth, while monitoring IFRS 9 transitional basis and on a stress testing, see ‘Insights from scenario
analysis’ on page 225.
exposure to non-financial risks. non-transitional basis.
Our operations
At 31 December 2023, our CET1 ratio and During the second half of 2023, the Group-
We remain committed to investing in the
ECL charges were within their defined risk wide internal stress test was completed
reliability and resilience of our IT systems and
appetite thresholds. Our CET1 capital ratio alongside testing of the Group’s strategy. The
critical services, including those provided
at 31 December 2023 was 14.8%, up 0.6 concluding results of the Group-wide internal
by third parties, which support all parts of
percentage points from 2022, mainly driven stress test provided updates to the Group
our business. We do so to help protect our
by capital generation net of dividends, share Risk Committee in support of its assessment
customers, affiliates and counterparties, and
buy-backs and regulatory adjustments, partly of adequacy of HSBC Holdings capital levels.
to help ensure that we minimise any disruption
offset by an increase in RWAs during the The underlying conclusions drawn from this
to services. In our approach to defending
year. For further details of the key drivers exercise will also be included in the Group
against these threats, we invest in business
of the overall CET1 ratio, see ‘Own funds internal capital adequacy assessment process
and technical controls to help us detect,
disclosure’ on page 207. Wholesale ECL (‘ICAAP‘) in the first quarter of 2024.
manage and recover from issues in a
charges during the year reflected the default of
timely manner.
several mainland China commercial real estate Climate risk
developer clients. Wholesale ECL charges fell Climate risk relates to the financial and
We are working to ensure that we balance the
outside of appetite in the first half of 2023, non-financial impacts that may arise as a
opportunity AI presents to accelerate delivery
although returned within appetite during the consequence of climate change and the move
of our strategy with the need to ensure
second half of 2023, due to relatively lower to a net zero economy. Climate risk can impact
appropriate controls are in place to mitigate
defaults in the UK and most other markets. us either directly or through our relationships
the associated risks. HSBC is committed
During 2023, we enhanced the coverage of with our clients. These include the potential
to using AI ethically and responsibly. We
interest rate risk metrics in the banking book risks arising as a result of our net zero
continue to refine and embed robust and
within the Group’s appetite statement. ambition, which could lead to reputational
effective governance and controls into our
concerns, and potential legal and/or regulatory
risk management processes to help meet
Stress tests action if we are perceived to mislead
the Group’s needs and increasing regulatory
We regularly conduct stress tests to assess stakeholders on our business activities or if we
expectations for when AI is both developed
the resilience of our balance sheet and fail to achieve our stated net zero targets.
internally and enabled through third parties.
our capital adequacy, as well as to provide
actionable insights into how key elements We seek to manage climate risk across
We continue to focus on improving the quality
of our portfolios may behave during a crisis. all our businesses in line with our Group-
and timeliness of the data used to inform
We use the outcomes to calibrate our risk wide risk management framework and are
management decisions, and are progressing
appetite to review and calibrate as required incorporating climate considerations within
with the implementation of our strategic and
our strategic and financial plans, helping to our traditional risk types.
regulatory change initiatives to help deliver
improve the quality of management’s decision
the right outcomes for our customers, people,
making. The results from the stress tests also For further details of our approach to climate risk
drive recovery and resolution planning to management, see ‘Climate risk‘ on page 221. investors and communities.
help enhance the Group’s financial stability For further details of our TCFD disclosures, see
the ‘ESG review‘ on page 42. For further details of our risk management
under various macroeconomic scenarios. The framework and risks associated with our banking
selection of stress scenarios is based upon the and insurance manufacturing operations, see
Climate stress tests
identification and assessment of our top risks, pages 137 and 145, respectively.
To support the requirements for assessing the
emerging risks and our risk appetite.
impacts of climate change, we continue to
develop a set of capabilities to execute climate
In January 2023, HSBC Holdings and HSBC
stress testing and scenario analysis. These are
UK, its UK ring-fenced bank, submitted the
used to help improve our understanding of
internally modelled results of the Bank of
risk exposures for managing risk and business
England’s (‘BoE’) 2022–2023 annual cyclical
decision making.
scenario to the regulator. The BoE uses
Top and emerging risks
Our top and emerging risks report identifies financial results, reputation or business model Our suite of top and emerging risks is subject
forward-looking risks so that they can be of the Group. We actively manage and take to regular review by senior governance forums.
considered in determining whether any actions to mitigate our top risks. Emerging During 2023, we removed Ibor transition as a
incremental action is needed to either prevent risks are those that, while they could have a top risk given the cessation of the publication
them from materialising or to limit their effect. material impact on our risk profile were they to of US dollar Libor in June 2023. We continue to
Top risks are those that have the potential occur, are not considered immediate and are monitor closely the identified risks and ensure
to have a material adverse impact on the not under active management. management actions are in place, as required.
38 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Strategic
report
Risk overview
Risk Trend Description
Externally driven
Geopolitical and Our operations and portfolios are subject to risks associated with political instability, civil unrest and military
macroeconomic conflict, which could lead to disruption of our operations, physical risk to our staff and/or physical damage to our
risks assets. Conflict in certain regions and geopolitical tensions are creating a more complicated business
environment. Despite expected reductions, global interest rates are nevertheless likely to remain high in 2024,
which could slow the growth of the global economy and affect our credit portfolio.
Technology and There is a risk of service disruption or loss of data resulting from technology failures or malicious activities by
cybersecurity risk internal or external threats. We continue to monitor changes to the threat landscape, including those arising from
ongoing geopolitical and macroeconomic events, and the impact this may have on third-party risk management.
We operate a continuous improvement programme to help protect our technology operations and counter a
fast-evolving cyber threat environment.
Environmental, We are subject to ESG risks including in relation to climate change, nature and human rights. These risks have
social and increased owing to the pace and volume of regulatory developments globally, increasing frequency of severe
governance (‘ESG’) weather events, and due to stakeholders placing more emphasis on financial institutions’ actions and investment
risks decisions in respect of ESG matters. Failure to meet these evolving expectations may result in financial and
non-financial risks, including reputational, legal and regulatory compliance risks.
Financial crime risk We are exposed to financial crime risk from our customers, staff and third parties engaging in criminal activity.
The financial crime risk environment is heightened due to increasingly complex geopolitical challenges, the
macroeconomic outlook, the complex and dynamic nature of sanctions compliance, evolving financial crime
regulations, rapid technological developments, an increasing number of national data privacy requirements and
the increasing sophistication of fraud. As a result, we will continue to face the possibility of regulatory
enforcement and reputational risk.
Digitalisation and Developments in technology and changes in regulations continue to enable new entrants to the banking industry
technological and new products and services offered by competitors. This challenges us to continue to innovate with new
advances digital capabilities and adapt our products, to attract, retain and best serve our customers. Along with
opportunities, new technology, including generative AI, can introduce risks and we seek to ensure these are
understood and managed with appropriate controls.
Evolving regulatory The regulatory and compliance risk environment remains complex, in part due to the UK’s Financial Conduct
environment risk Authority’s (‘FCA’) implementation of its Consumer Duty in July 2023. There continues to be an intense
regulatory focus on ESG matters, including on ‘green’ products. Regulatory scrutiny of financial institutions
following recent banking failures may result in new or additional regulatory requirements impacting the Group in
the short to medium term.
Internally driven
Data risk We use data to serve our customers and run our operations, often in real-time within digital experiences and
processes. If our data is not accurate and timely, our ability to serve customers, operate with resilience or meet
regulatory requirements could be impacted. We seek to ensure that non-public data is kept confidential, and
that we comply with the growing number of regulations that govern data privacy and cross-border movement
of data.
Risks arising from We procure goods and services from a range of third parties. Due to the current macroeconomic and
the receipt of geopolitical climate, the risk of service disruption in our supply chain has heightened. We continue to
services from strengthen our controls, oversight and risk management policies and processes to select and manage third
third parties parties, including our third parties’ own supply chains, particularly for key activities that could affect our
operational resilience.
Model risk Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes reliance on models. We use models in both
financial and non-financial contexts, as well as in a range of business applications. Evolving regulatory
requirements are driving material changes to the way model risk is managed across the banking industry, with a
particular focus on capital models. New technologies, including AI and generative AI, are driving a need for
enhanced model risk controls.
Change execution Failure to effectively prioritise, manage and/or deliver transformation across the organisation impacts our ability
risk to achieve our strategic objectives. We continue to monitor, manage and oversee change execution risk to try to
ensure that our change portfolios and initiatives deliver the right outcomes for our customers, people, investors
and communities.
Risks associated Our businesses, functions and geographies are exposed to risks associated with employee retention and talent
with workforce availability, and compliance with employment laws and regulations. While high employee attrition has continued
capability, capacity to ease generally, a small number of markets still experience heightened inflation, turnover and labour market
and environmental difficulties. Failure to manage these risks may impact the delivery of our strategic objectives or lead to regulatory
factors with potential sanctions or legal claims.
impact on growth
Risk heightened during 2023 Risk remained at the same level as 2022 Risk decreased during 2023
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 39
Strategic report
Long-term viability and going
concern statement
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, solvency and liquidity. They determined that in China’s commercial real estate sector and
the Directors are required to provide a viability the principal risks are the Group’s top and strained economic and diplomatic relations
statement that must state whether the Group emerging risks as set out on page 38. These between China and the US, the UK, the EU
will be able to continue in operation and meet include geopolitical and macroeconomic and other countries;
its liabilities, taking into account its current risks (including geopolitical tensions and – reports and updates regarding regulatory
position and the principal risks it faces. They their impact on sanctions, trade restrictions and internal stress testing. The 2022–2023
must also specify the period covered by, and and continued distressed Chinese economic Bank of England annual cyclical scenario
the appropriateness of, this statement. activity), digitalisation and technological stress test results were published on
advances, financial crime risk and ESG risks, 12 July 2023. The stress scenario explored
The Directors have specified a period of all of which have remained at heightened the potential impacts of a global economic
three years to 31 December 2026. They are levels during 2023. contraction, persistently higher inflation
satisfied that a forward-looking assessment and interest rates in advanced economies
of the Group for this period is sufficient to The Directors assessed that all of the top with materially increased unemployment,
enable a reasonable statement of viability. In and emerging risks identified are considered and a sharp fall in asset prices. Additionally
addition, this period is covered by the Group’s to be material and, therefore, appropriate during the second half of 2023, the Group-
stress testing programmes, and its internal to be classified as the principal risks to be wide internal stress test was completed,
projections for profitability, key capital ratios considered in the assessment of viability. They which explores a prolonged global stress,
and leverage ratios. Notwithstanding this, also appraised the impact that these principal depicting macroeconomic conditions that
our stress testing programmes also cover risks could have on the Group’s risk profile, are generally more severe than that of the
scenarios out to five years and our assessment taking account of mitigating actions planned 2022–2023 annual cyclical scenario. The
of risks are beyond three years where or taken for each, and compared this with results of both these exercises indicated the
appropriate (see page 140): the Group’s risk appetite as approved by Group is sufficiently capitalised to withstand
the Board. a severe but plausible adverse stress;
– This period is representative of the time
– the results of our 2023 internal climate
horizon to consider the impact of ongoing In carrying out their assessment of the
scenario analysis exercise. The results of
regulatory changes in the financial principal risks, the Directors considered a wide
this exercise further demonstrate the Group
services industry. range of information including:
is sufficiently capitalised to withstand a
– Our updated business plan covers severe stress. Further details of the insights
2024 –2028. – details of the Group’s business and from the 2023 climate scenario analysis are
operating models, and strategy
explained from page 225;
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, (see page 11);
– reports and updates from management
is satisfied that the Group as a whole has – details of the Group’s approach to managing
on risk-related issues selected for in-depth
adequate resources to continue operations for risk and allocating capital;
consideration;
a period of at least 12 months from the date – the continued validity of our existing risk
of this report, and it therefore continues to management practices, liquidity monitoring – reports and updates on regulatory
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the process and metric assumptions, in light developments;
financial statements. of the high-profile US and Swiss banking – legal proceedings and regulatory matters
failures in the first quarter of 2023; set out in Note 36 on the financial
Based upon their assessment, the Directors statements; and
– a summary of the Group’s financial position
have a reasonable expectation that the Group
considering performance, its ability to – reports and updates from management on
will be able to continue in operation and
maintain minimum levels of regulatory the operational resilience of the Group.
meet liabilities as they fall due over the
capital, liquidity funding and the minimum
next three years.
requirements for own funds and eligible
liabilities over the period of the assessment. Aileen Taylor
In making their going concern and viability
Notable are the risks which the Directors Group Company Secretary and
assessments, the Directors have considered
believe could cause the Group’s future Chief Governance Officer
a wide range of detailed information relating
results or operations to adversely impact
to present and potential conditions, including
any of the above; 21 February 2024
projections for profitability, liquidity, capital
requirements and capital resources. – enterprise risk reports, including the Group’s
risk appetite profile (see page 136) and top
The Directors carried out a robust assessment and emerging risks (see page 140);
of the emerging and principal risks facing the – the impact on the Group due to the Russia-
Group to determine its long-term viability, Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars; instability
including those that would threaten its
40 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Environmental,
social and
governance
review
Our ESG review sets out our approach to
our environment, customers, employees
and governance. It explains how we
aim to achieve our purpose, deliver
our strategy in a way that is sustainable,
and build strong relationships with all of
our stakeholders.
42 Our approach to ESG
44 Environmental
75 Social
87 Governance
How we present our TCFD disclosures
Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 17
and additional information is included on pages 69 and
440. Further details have been embedded in this section
and the Risk review section on pages 221 to 230. Our
TCFD disclosures are highlighted with the following
symbol: TCFD
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 41
ESG review
O ur approach to ESG
We continue to work to incorporate environmental, social and
governance principles throughout the organisation and to embed
sustainability into the way we operate.
About the ESG review
Environmental – Transition to net zero
Our purpose is: ‘Opening up a world
– In January 2024, we published our net zero transition plan. This provides an overview of the
of opportunity’.
progress we have made to date and what we plan to do next, although we acknowledge there
is still much more to do.
Our purpose is guided by our values: we value
difference; we succeed together; we take – We have now set combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emissions
responsibility; and we get it done. targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas, and power and utilities, and report the
combined progress for both sectors.
Our approach to ESG is shaped by our purpose
and values and a desire to create sustainable Read more in the Environmental section on page 44.
long-term value for our stakeholders. We
Social – Building inclusion and resilience
collaborate and aim to build strong relationships
with all of our stakeholders, which include the – In 2023, 34.1% of senior leadership roles were occupied by women, with a target to achieve
people who work for us, bank with us, own us, 35% by 2025, although progress has not been as fast paced as we would have liked. We also
regulate us, and live in the societies we serve continued on a journey to meet our ethnicity goals.
and on the planet we all inhabit to deliver the – Employee engagement, which is our headline measure, increased by three points in 2023 and
ESG approach. is now seven points ahead of the external financial services benchmark.
Transition to net zero Read more in the Building inclusion and resilience section on page 75.
We have continued to take steps to implement
our climate ambition to become net zero in Governance – Acting responsibly
our operations and our supply chain by 2030,
– We continue to raise awareness and develop our understanding of our salient human rights
and align our financed emissions to net zero
issues. In 2023, we provided practical guidance and training, where relevant, to our colleagues
by 2050. In January 2024, we published our
across the Group on how to identify and manage human rights risk.
net zero transition plan, which is an important
– We were ranked as a top three bank against our competitors in 58% of our key six markets,
milestone in our journey to achieving our net
although we still have work to do to improve our rank positions.
zero ambition. The plan will help our people,
customers, investors and other stakeholders to
Read more in the Governance section on page 87.
understand our long-term vision, the challenges,
uncertainties and dependencies that exist,
the progress we are making towards our own
transition and what we plan to do in the future. Building inclusion and resilience capabilities so that they can understand their
Our social approach is centred around finances and manage them effectively.
In this ESG review, we publish on-balance sheet fostering inclusion and building resilience for
financed emissions for thermal coal mining, in our colleagues, our customers, and in the Acting responsibly
addition to other sectors we have already been communities we serve. Our governance approach focuses on acting
reporting on, noting the challenge of evolving responsibly and recognises topics such as
methodologies and data limitations. We also We are building a workforce that is human rights, conduct and data integrity.
publish combined on-balance sheet financed representative of the communities that we
and facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and serve and we have targets and programmes in Our policies and procedures help us to provide
power and utilities sectors. We expect to iterate place to ensure fair and inclusive recruitment the right outcomes for customers, including
and mature our approach to supporting sector and to support the equitable progression of those with enhanced care needs, which in
transitions over time. We also continue to work under-represented groups. We also strive to 2023 took into account pressures from the
on improving our data management processes. create an inclusive and accessible banking increased cost of living. Customer experience
experience for all of our customers, and to is at the heart of how we operate and is
We continue to review policy implementation help them access the finance they need measured through customer satisfaction and
as we apply our policies in practice and our without unnecessary barriers. customer complaints.
operationalisation of such policies continues to
be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach Employee resilience is central to our success, We are continuing our journey to embed
when identifying transactions and clients to so we provide a wide range of resources to ESG principles across the organisation,
which our energy policy and thermal coal support colleagues’ mental, physical and including incorporating climate risks within
phase-out policies apply, and when reporting financial well-being, as well as training and the risk management framework, training
on relevant exposures, adopting approaches support so that they are equipped with the our workforce, incorporating climate-related
proportionate to risk and materiality. skills they need to further their careers. We targets within executive scorecards, and
support customer resilience with products, engaging with customers and suppliers.
We are also working with peers and industry services and education that build their
bodies to help mobilise the systemic change
needed to deliver action on climate change,
nature and the just transition.
42 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
How we decide what to measure
We listen to our stakeholders in a number of the threshold at which ESG issues become to report against the core World Economic
different ways, which we set out in more detail sufficiently important to our investors and Forum (‘WEF’) Stakeholder Capitalism
within the ‘ESG overview’ on page 14. We use other stakeholders that they should be publicly Metrics, and Sustainability Accounting
the information they provide us to identify the reported. Our approach to materiality also Standards Board (‘SASB’) metrics and will
issues that are most important to them and considers disclosure standards and other continue to review our approach as the
consequently also matter to our own business. applicable rules and regulations as part of our regulatory landscape evolves.
materiality assessment for specific ESG topics
Our ESG Committee and other relevant and relevant disclosures. Consistent with the scope of financial
governance bodies regularly discuss the new information presented in our Annual Report
and existing themes and issues that matter to Given the recent developments in the ESG and Accounts, the ESG review covers the
our stakeholders. Our management team then regulatory environment across various operations of HSBC Holdings plc and its
uses this insight, alongside the framework jurisdictions in which we operate, combined subsidiaries. Given the relative immaturity
of the ESG Guide (which refers to our with the relative immaturity of processes, of ESG-related data and methodologies
obligations under the Environmental, Social systems, data quality and controls, our focus in general, we are on a journey towards
and Governance Reporting Guide contained remains on supporting a globally consistent improving completeness and robustness.
in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing the set of mandatory sustainability standards.
Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange We aim to continue to evolve our reporting For further details of our material ESG topics, see
of Hong Kong Limited), and the LR9.8.6R(8) to recognise market developments, such ‘Engaging with our stakeholders and our material
ESG topics’ on page 15.
of the Financial Conduct Authority’s (‘FCA’) as the International Sustainability Standard
For further details of our approach to reporting,
Listing Rules, and other applicable laws and Board (‘ISSB’) or the Corporate Sustainability
see ‘Additional information’ on page 439.
regulations to choose what we measure and Reporting Directive (‘CSRD’), and support the
publicly report in this ESG review. Under the efforts to harmonise the disclosures. In this
ESG Guide, ’materiality’ is considered to be Annual Report and Accounts, we continue
Our reporting around ESG
We report on ESG matters throughout our Annual Report and Accounts, including the ’ESG overview’ section of the Strategic Report (pages 14 to 19),
this ESG review (pages 41 to 98), and the ‘Climate risk’ and ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ sections of the Risk review (pages 221 to 230). In
addition, we have other supplementary materials, including our ESG Data Pack, which provides a more granular breakdown of ESG information.
Detailed data Additional reports
ESG Data Pack 2023, including UK Pay Gap Report 2023
SASB Index 2023 and WEF Index 2023
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2023
Green Bond Report 2023
HSBC UN Sustainable Development Goals Bond and Sukuk Report 2023
Assurance relating to ESG data
TCFD
HSBC Holdings plc is responsible for For 2023, ESG data is subject to stand- for thermal coal mining, and our facilitated
preparation of the ESG information and all alone independent PwC limited assurance emissions for two sectors for 2019 to 2022
the supporting records, including selecting in accordance with International Standard (see page 61);
appropriate measurement and reporting on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) – our thermal coal financing drawn balance
criteria, in our Annual Report and Accounts, ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or exposures for 2020 (see page 67); and
ESG Data Pack and the additional reports Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ and,
– our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3
published on our website. in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions,
(business travel) greenhouse gas emissions
in accordance with International Standard on
data (see page 64), as well as supply chain
We recognise the importance of ESG Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance
emissions data.
disclosures and the quality of data Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’,
underpinning them. We also acknowledge issued by the International Auditing and
The work performed for independent limited
that our internal processes to support ESG Assurance Standards Board, on the following
assurance is substantially less than the
disclosures are in the process of being specific ESG-related disclosures and metrics:
work performed for a reasonable assurance
developed and currently rely on manual
opinion, like those provided over financial
sourcing and categorisation of data. Certain – our Green Bond Report 2023 (published in
statements.
aspects of our ESG disclosures are subject December 2023);
to enhanced verification and assurance – our progress towards our ambition to Our data dictionaries and methodologies for
procedures including the first, second and provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of preparing the above ESG-related metrics and
third line of defence. Assurance assists in sustainable finance and investment by 2030 independent PwC’s limited assurance reports
reducing the risk of restatement, although it (see page 49); can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
cannot be fully eliminated given the challenges
– our on-balance sheet financed emissions esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-
in data, evolving methodologies and emerging
for 2021 and 2022 for six sectors, our on- centre.
standards. We aim to continue to enhance our
balance sheet financed emissions for 2020
approach in line with external expectations.
ESG review
For further details of our supplementary materials, see our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 43
ESG review | Environmental
E nvironmental
TCFD
Transition to net zero
We support the transition of our customers, industries
and markets to a net zero and a sustainable future,
while moving to net zero ourselves.
At a glance
Our approach to transition to net zero Embedding net zero into the way Impact on reporting and
Our net zero ambition represents one of we operate financial statements
our four strategic pillars. In January 2024, We take a risk-based, proportionate and We have assessed the impact of climate risk
we published our net zero transition plan. It iterative approach to embedding net zero on our balance sheet and have concluded that
provides an overview of our approach to net into our organisation, focusing our efforts there is no material impact on the financial
zero and the actions we are taking to help on where we can help drive material and statements for the year ended 31 December
meet our ambition. It sets out how we are implementable change, and applying learnings 2023. The effects of climate change are a
working to embed net zero across key areas as we go along. Our approach will continue source of uncertainty. We capture known and
of our organisation to help ensure that we can to mature over time with evolving science, observable potential impacts of climate-related
play a role in the transition to net zero in the methodologies, industry standards and risks in our asset valuations and balance sheet
markets we serve. regulatory requirements, and improvements in calculations. These are considered in relevant
data and in technology infrastructure. areas of our balance sheet, including expected
Supporting our customers credit losses, classification and measurement
To help achieve the scale and speed of change Partnering for systemic change of financial instruments, goodwill and other
required to transition to net zero, we know we Our ability to achieve our own net zero intangible assets; and in making the long term
need to support our customers not just with ambition is heavily reliant on the mobilisation viability and going concern assessment. As
finance, but with the services, insights and of all stakeholders, public and private, across part of assessing the impact on our financial
tools to help them to transition. In 2023, we multiple geographies. We continue to support statements we conducted scenario analysis to
continued to provide sustainable financing systemic change through new and existing understand the impact of climate risk on our
and investment to our customers in line with partnerships, and we engage through business (see page 65). For further details of
our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn industry alliances and initiatives to help build a our climate risk exposures, see page 221.
to $1tn by 2030. We report our progress supportive enabling environment.
against our 2030 financed emissions targets For further details of how management
and our wider progress towards net zero by considered the impact of climate-related risks on
its financial position and performance, see
2050, including how we plan to engage with
‘Critical estimates and judgements’ on page 343.
customers in high-emitting sectors.
In this section
Overview Our approach to We aim to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and in Page 45
the transition our own operations and supply chain by 2030.
Understanding our To achieve our climate ambition we need to be transparent on the Page 46
climate reporting opportunities, challenges, related risks and progress we make.
Supporting our Sustainable finance Our ability to help finance the transformation of businesses and Page 49
customers and investment infrastructure is key to building a sustainable future for our customers
and society.
Financed emissions We aim to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050 Page 53
and support our clients on their transition.
Embedding net Net zero in our Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank is to achieve net zero Page 63
zero into the way own operations carbon emissions in our operations and supply chain by 2030.
we operate
Managing climate risk We manage climate risk across all our businesses in line with our Page 65
Group-wide risk management framework. Enhancing our climate
change stress testing and scenario analysis capability is crucial in
identifying and understanding climate-related risks and opportunities.
Sustainability risk policies Our sustainability risk policies seek to ensure that the financial Page 66
services that we provide to customers do not result in unacceptable
impacts on people or the environment.
Partnering for Supporting systemic We collaborate with a range of partners to support the development of Page 68
systemic change change to deliver net zero an enabling environment and mobilise finance for nature and climate.
Our approach to Task Force on Climate- Our TCFD index provides our responses to each of the 11 Page 69
climate reporting related Financial recommendations and summarises where additional information
Disclosures (‘TCFD’) can be found.
44 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Overview
TCFD
Our approach to the transition
The Paris Agreement aims to limit the rise Responding to the challenges and Our implementation plan
in global temperatures to well below 2°C, opportunities presented by net zero requires We are working to embed net zero across
preferably to 1.5°C, compared with pre- us to work across HSBC to implement and our organisation. This includes embedding
industrial levels. To limit the rise to 1.5°C, the embed our net zero approach, to manage net zero into: the way that we support
global economy would need to reach net associated risks, and to help sustain and grow our customers, both through customer
zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. value for our customers, our shareholders engagement and the provision of financing
We are working to achieve a 1.5°C-aligned and our wider stakeholders. We want to solutions; the way that we operate as an
phase-down of financed emissions from make financing, facilitating and investment organisation, including risk management,
our portfolio. choices that can lead to a meaningful impact policies, governance and own operations;
on emissions reduction in the real economy, and how we partner externally in support of
In October 2020, we announced our ambition not just in our portfolio. This requires engaging systemic change. It also means focusing first
to become a net zero bank by 2050 and with our customers on their transitions to help on the sectors and customers with the highest
in 2021 we included the transition to net finance decarbonisation in the sectors and emissions and transition risks, and evolving
zero as one of the four key pillars of our geographies with the most change ahead. and expanding our efforts over time.
corporate strategy.
In January 2024, we published our net zero Our net zero principles
Our starting point in the transition to net transition plan. It provides an overview of In implementing our approach to net zero,
zero is one of a heavy financed emissions our approach to net zero and the actions we aim to be guided by a set of principles
footprint. Our history means our balance sheet we are taking to help meet our ambition. It which are aligned with our core values:
is weighted towards the sectors and regions sets out how we intend to use our strengths science-based, transparent and accountable;
which matter the most in terms of emissions, as an organisation to help deliver a broader integrating nature; and just and inclusive.
and whose transitions are therefore key to the impact on decarbonisation, how we are
world’s ability to reach net zero on time. This working to embed net zero across key areas For further details of our approach to the
means we will have a complex transition, with of our organisation, and the principles that transition, see our Net Zero Transition Plan 2024
at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-climate-
markets and sectors at different starting points we aim to use to guide the implementation of
strategy/our-net-zero-transition-plan.
and moving at different speeds. However, it our approach.
also provides us with an opportunity to work
with our customers to help make an impact Our net zero strengths
– in both the emissions challenge and the We aim to rebalance our capital deployment
financing challenge. towards achieving net zero over the coming
decades. We believe we can do this best by
promoting change in three key areas that
play to our strengths as an organisation:
transitioning industry; catalysing the new
economy; and decarbonising trade and
supply chains.
Our net zero strengths Catalysing the Decarbonising trade
Where we believe we can Transitioning industry
new economy and supply chains
best promote change
Our implementation plan
Embedding net zero into Supporting Embedding net zero into Partnering for
how we engage, operate our customers the way we operate systemic change
and collaborate
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 45
ESG review | Environmental
Understanding our climate reporting
The availability of high-quality climate-related
Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
data, transparent reporting standards and
consistent methodology will play a vital role in
helping deliver the economic transformation To measure and manage our greenhouse gas emissions, we follow the Greenhouse
required to limit global warming to 1.5°C Gas Protocol global framework, which identifies three scopes of emissions. Scope 1
at the speed and scale that is needed. We represents the direct emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the indirect emissions
understand that our existing data, systems, resulting from the use of electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 represents
controls and processes require significant indirect emissions attributed to upstream and downstream activities. Our upstream
enhancements to drive effective change, activities include business travel and emissions from our supply chain including transport,
but we recognise the necessity to balance distribution and waste. Our downstream activities include those related to investments
this with providing early transparency on and including financed emissions.
climate disclosures.
Under the protocol, scope 3 emissions are also broken down into 15 categories, of which
Our stakeholder dependency we provide reporting emissions data for three related to upstream activities. These are:
Critical to our approach is a recognition that purchased goods and services (category 1); capital goods (category 2); and business
as a bank we cannot do this alone. Our ability travel (category 6). We also report data on downstream activities for financed emissions
to transition relies on decarbonisation in the (category 15).
real economy – both the supply and demand
side – happening at the necessary pace. Our For further breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, see our ESG Data Pack at
customers and the industries and markets www.hsbc.com/esg.
we serve will need to transition effectively,
supported by strong government policies
and regulation, and substantially scaled Our own Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 31 Our financed
investment. Engagement and collaboration operations and Indirect Indirect Direct Indirect emissions
supply chain
are therefore key to how we respond. See page 53
See page 63
We acknowledge that to achieve our climate
ambition we need to be transparent about
the opportunities, challenges, related Electricity, Purchased Company
risks we face and progress we make. Our hea s t t i e n a g m a nd g s o e o r d v s ic a e n s d facilities
reporting must evolve to keep pace with cooling (category 1)
market developments, and we will aim
Company
to work through challenges and seek to vehicles
improve consistency across different markets.
Standard setters and regulators will play
a critical role. Some of the limitations and
challenges that our organisation, and the Business Capital Investments and
wider industry, currently face with regard
(ca
t
t
r
e
a
g
v
o
e
ry
l
6) (ca
g
te
o
g
o
o
d
ry
s
2)
finan
(c
c
a
e
te
d
g
e
or
m
y
i
1
s
5
s
)
i ons
to climate reporting are highlighted on
pages 47 to 48.
Upstream activities HSBC Holdings Downstream activities
1 Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and
‘facilitated emissions’.
Accelerating investment in Baltic offshore wind energy
Polish multi-energy company Orlen Group and Canadian power producer Northland Power
have set up a joint venture to build the Baltic Power project – the first offshore wind farm in
Polish waters of the Baltic Sea.
In September 2023, we played a key role in supporting the construction and operation of 76
offshore turbines when we acted as a mandated lead arranger for a $3.8bn (€4.4bn) credit
facility. We helped coordinate a syndicate of 25 Polish and international financial institutions
to finance the project.
With a target capacity of almost 1.2 gigawatts, the wind farm is expected to represent a
significant step in reducing Poland’s reliance on fossil fuels and generate enough clean
electricity to power the equivalent of more than 1.5 million homes annually.
46 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Understanding our climate reporting continued
Keeping up-to-date with real policy and regulatory landscape, the speed This includes sourcing more reliable data from
economy progress of technological innovation, major economic external providers. We are also developing our
Net zero-aligned scenarios are dynamic by shifts and geopolitical events. There is also processes, systems, controls and governance
nature; they are typically updated every few a risk of government or customer net zero to meet the demands of future ESG reporting.
years to incorporate significant shifts that have pledges or transition plans not turning into the Certain aspects of our reporting rely on
occurred in the real economy. Key drivers necessary emissions reductions in the coming manual sourcing and categorisation of data
of this include changes in the economic decade, or in the case of hard-to abate sectors, that is not always aligned with how our
environment, new data on technology being pared back if technologies do not scale businesses are managed. We also have a
deployment across sectors and geographies, in time. In addition, climate science, the quality dependency on emissions data from our
new policies, and increased investment in of data, and the scenarios upon which we clients. Given the manual nature of the
clean energy and/or in fossil fuels. have based our approach will change. We process, enhanced verification and assurance
recognise that while we have limited control of procedures are performed on a sample basis
The reference scenario we have selected these external dependencies, we can be clear over this reporting, including the first and
to date for our published 2030 targets, for on where we intend to focus our efforts to help second line of defence. Our climate models
on-balance sheet and facilitated emissions, is drive meaningful change, and that we expect undergo independent review by an internal
the International Energy Agency’s (‘IEA’) NZE to iterate and mature our approach over time. model review group, and we obtain limited
2021 scenario, which is 1.5°C-aligned with assurance on our financed emissions and
limited overshoot. In September 2023, the Our internal and external data challenges sustainable finance disclosures from external
IEA’s NZE 2023 scenario was published as an Our climate ambition requires us to continue parties, including our external auditors.
update to reflect developments since 2021. As to enhance our capabilities including
outlined in our net zero transition plan, going governance, processes, systems and controls. Policy implementation
forwards we intend to review each updated In addition, there is a heightened need for We continue to review policy implementation
set of 1.5°C-aligned scenarios to further subject matter experts for climate-related as we apply our policies in practice, and our
develop and enhance our understanding of topics as well as upskilling of key colleague operationalisation of such policies continues to
the latest outlooks for evolving pathways to groups who are supporting customers be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach
achieve net zero by 2050. This will help us to through their net zero transition. We also when identifying transactions and clients to
consider whether, how and when to iterate need new sources of data, some of which which our energy and thermal coal phase-
and update our approach to scenario selection may be difficult to assure using traditional out policies apply, and when reporting on
and target setting, portfolio alignment, and verification techniques. This challenge, relevant exposures, adopting approaches
policies to keep pace with the latest science coupled with diverse external data sources proportionate to risk and materiality. This helps
and real-world developments. We anticipate and structures, further complicates data to focus our efforts on areas where we believe
standard setter and industry guidance on the consolidation. Our internal data on customer we can help drive meaningful change, while
treatment of updated scenarios in target- groups used to source financial exposure taking into account experience from policy
setting to emerge. and emissions data is based on credit and implementation over time.
relationship management attributes, and is not
We recognise that the so-called ‘hard-to- always aligned to the data needed to analyse An evolving approach to embedding
abate’ sectors, such as cement, iron, steel emissions across sector value chains. As a net zero
and aluminium, and aviation have a large consequence, this can result in an inconsistent We acknowledge that our assessment of
dependence on nascent technologies and basis in our financed emissions calculations. client transition plans – which to date has
the presence (or not) of enabling policies focused on clients in scope of our thermal coal
and regulations. We may consider tracking We continue to invest in our climate resources phase-out and energy policies – is at an early
progress relative to 1.5°C-aligned ambition and skills. Our activities are underpinned stage with initial learnings on methodology
ranges for these sectors in the future, which by efforts to develop our data and analytics and client engagement. We are also at
could include industry-specific scenarios capabilities and to help ensure that we have the the early stages of embedding transition
alongside the IEA NZE scenario. appropriate processes, systems, controls and plans alongside financed emissions into
governance in place to support our transition. transaction and portfolio level business and
Critical dependencies risk processes. Our net zero transition plan
Progress in the real economy towards net We continue to increase automation of provides further details of work underway and
zero will likely be non-linear and will depend our processes, with a particular focus on planned.
heavily on external factors including the developing our ESG data capabilities to help
address data gaps and improve consistency.
Limited alignment on sustainable finance taxonomies
Sustainable finance metrics, taxonomies and best practices lack global consistency. As
standards develop over time and as the regulatory guidance around them evolves across
jurisdictions, our methodologies, disclosures and targets may need to evolve. This could lead
to differences in year-on-year reporting and restatements.
We continue to engage with standard setters in different regions to support the development
of transparent and consistent taxonomies to best incentivise science-based decarbonisation,
particularly in high transition risk sectors. We aim to align to enhanced industry standards as
they are further developed, and increase transparency across the different types of green and
sustainable finance and investment categories going forward.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 47
ESG review | Environmental
Understanding our climate reporting continued
Financed emissions reporting challenges certain disclosures. In 2023, there has been
The methodologies and data used to assess an impact on certain climate disclosures, Continuing to evolve our
financed emissions and set targets continue as follows: climate disclosures
to evolve alongside changes to industry We understand the need to provide early
guidance, market practice and regulation. We – Financed emissions: we improved our transparency on climate disclosures but we
plan to refine our analysis using appropriate methodology for calculating financed must balance this with the recognition that
data sources and current methodologies emissions using more granular product our existing data and reporting processes
available for the sectors we analyse. We have identification to isolate exposure in scope, require significant enhancements. Due
developed an internal recalculation policy (see more consistent emission factors for to ongoing data availability and quality
page 56) to define the circumstances under estimates, and a revised aggregation method challenges, we continue to assess our
which a recalculating of financed emissions for emission intensity. Previously reported on- financed emissions for our real estate and
is necessary to help support the consistency, balance sheet numbers included non-lending agriculture sectors.
comparability and relevance of our reported exposures for market products in error. The
emissions data over time. more granular product identification will help We are engaging with standard setters to
ensure these are not included in future. support the development of transparent
We have now set combined on-balance sheet – Financed emissions: to reflect these and consistent climate-related industry
financed emissions and facilitated emissions enhancements we have set out the standards in areas such as product
targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil recalculated metrics for the oil and gas, and labelling, sustainability disclosures,
and gas, and power and utilities, and report power and utilities sectors in the financed sustainable finance taxonomy and
the combined progress for both sectors. We emissions section. The oil and gas baseline emissions accounting. Voluntary industry
continue to report on-balance sheet financed for on-balance sheet financed emissions is initiatives can also help shape action and
emissions and targets for cement, iron, steel now 28.4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide collaboration, and often form the basis of
and aluminium, aviation, automotive and in equivalent (‘Mt COe’) for 2019 versus 33.0 future climate policy and regulation. For
2023 we added thermal coal mining financed Mt COe reported i 2 n the Annual Report example, we supported the TCFD, which is
emissions. and Ac 2 counts 2022. The power and utilities now referenced in climate disclosure rules
baseline for on-balance sheet financed around the world.
Emissions related to our insurance business emissions is now 537.5 tonnes of carbon
are partially captured within the disclosures of dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour (‘tCOe/ In 2024, we will continue to review our
HSBC Asset Management, which manages GWh’) for 2019 versus 589.9 tCOe/GWh 2 approach to disclosures, and enhance
the vast majority of our insurance assets. The reported in the Annual Report and 2 Accounts as appropriate.
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials 2022. For other sectors, changes were not
(‘PCAF’) standard for insurance associated material enough to warrant a recalculation.
emissions (part C) is not applicable to our – Shipping: following a reduction in our
– Thermal coal exposures: we have now
insurance business as HSBC Insurance exposure to the shipping sector after the
revised the basis of preparation for our
focuses on the manufacturing of life strategic sale of part of our European
thermal coal exposures. Aligned with our
insurance products. shipping portfolio in 2023, and work
thermal coal phase-out policy, we applied a
undertaken to assess the materiality of
risk-based approach to identify clients and
In November 2023, our asset management our remaining portfolio from a financed
report on relevant exposures. Our thermal
business updated its 2022 thermal coal emissions perspective, we have concluded
coal financing drawn balance exposure was
phase-out policy and released a new energy that the remaining exposure as of year-end
approximately $1bn† as at 31 December
policy. It continues to focus on its portfolios’ 2023 is not material enough to warrant
2020. We continue to work on our 2021 and
scope 1 and scope 2 decarbonisation setting a stand-alone target. This aligns with
2022 numbers based on our revised basis of
target for 2030 with the aim of aligning Net-Zero Banking Alliance (‘NZBA’) guidelines
preparation and expect to report on these in
with net zero emissions by 2050 or sooner. on sector inclusion for target setting.
future disclosures.
The commitment covers listed equity and
corporate fixed income where data is most – Thermal coal power financed emissions: we For details of assurance over our ESG data, see
reliable and methodologies are most mature. have discontinued separate tracking and page 43.
reporting of thermal coal power financed For details of our approach to calculating
In January 2023, we withdrew our emissions. A review of the counterparties financed emissions and the relevant data and
methodology limitations, see page 55.
commitment to the Science Based Targets included within the on-balance sheet
For details of our sustainable finance and
initiative (‘SBTi’), which we had made in 2016, financed emissions calculation showed that
investment ambition, see page 49.
because we determined that it would not be the majority of thermal coal power entities
For details of our approach to thermal coal
feasible for us to meet SBTi’s requirement in scope are included in other financed financing exposures, see page 67.
to submit a complete set of sector targets emission sector targets. We previously
For further details of our asset management
for validation by its deadline. We continue to set separate targets to reduce on-balance policies, see page 67.
engage with SBTi on guidance for financial sheet financed emissions for thermal coal † Data is subject to independent limited assurance by
institutions and we participated in SBTi’s power and thermal coal mining aligned to PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ ISAE 3410. For
consultation process on its revised standards our thermal coal phase-out policy. We plan further details, see our Financed Emissions and
during the year. to maintain a financed emissions target for Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology and PWC’s
thermal coal mining only, and have set an limited assurance report, which are available at
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
Disclosure revisions absolute on-balance sheet reduction target business/esg-reporting-centre.
We are committed to timely and transparent for 2030 from a 2020 baseline. We used 2020
reporting. However, we recognise that as a baseline to align with those applied to
challenges on data sourcing, as well as the our drawn balance exposure targets. These
evolution of our processes and industry targets reflect the percentage reduction that
standards, may result in us having to restate the IEA indicates in its net zero emissions
scenario for global emissions to 2030.
48 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Supporting our customers
Sustainable finance and investment
TCFD
We recognise that we have an important role Since 1 January 2020, we have provided lending transactions increased by 7%
to play in supporting the transition to a net and facilitated $267.8bn of sustainable compared with 2022. In 2023, transactions
zero global economy. As a global organisation finance and $26.6bn of ESG and sustainable totalling $0.7bn were identified as no longer
with a presence in the regions and sectors investing, as defined in our Sustainable fulfilling our eligibility criteria. These were
where most significant change is needed, we Finance and Investment Data Dictionary declassified and removed from the cumulative
are well placed to help transition industry and 2023. This included 38% where the use of progress total, and reported as a negative
catalyse the new economy to reach net zero. proceeds were dedicated to green financing, entry in 2023.
12% to social financing, and 15% to other
Progress on our sustainable finance sustainable financing. It also included 26% Continued progress towards achieving
and investment ambition of sustainability-linked financing and 9% our sustainable finance and investment
We aim to help our customers transition to of net new investment flows managed and ambition is dependent on market demand
net zero and a sustainable future by providing distributed on behalf of investors. In 2023, our for the products and services set out in our
and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of underwriting of green, social, sustainability Sustainable Finance and Investment Data
sustainable finance and investment by 2030. and sustainability-linked bonds for clients Dictionary 2023.
Our sustainable finance and investment decreased over the year, measured on a
ambition aims to help promote green, proportional share basis, in line with the
sustainable and socially-focused business wider bond market environment, although
and sustainable investment products it remained at 15% of our total bond
and solutions. underwriting. On-balance sheet sustainable
Cumulative progress
2023 2022 2021 2020 since 2020
Sustainable finance and investment summary1 ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn)
Balance sheet-related transactions provided 42.7 42.2 26.0 10.4 121.3
Capital markets/advisory (facilitated) 33.3 34.5 48.7 30.0 146.5
ESG and sustainable investing (net new flows) 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 26.6
Total contribution2 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 294.4
Sustainable finance and investment classification by theme
Green use of proceeds3,4 37.1 29.0 27.1 18.9 112.1
Social use of proceeds3 8.4 6.7 11.3 9.7 36.1
Other sustainable use of proceeds3,5 10.7 12.6 11.7 8.3 43.3
Sustainability-linked6 19.8 28.4 24.6 3.5 76.3
ESG and sustainable investing7 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 26.6
Total contribution2,8 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 294.4
1 The 2023 data in this table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023, which includes green, social and
sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the limits agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided, the proportional share of
facilitated capital markets/advisory activities and the net new flows of sustainable investments within assets under management.
2 The $294.4bn cumulative progress since 2020 is subject to PwC’s limited assurance in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000
(Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. For our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary
2023 and PwC’s limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
3 For green, social and other sustainable use of proceeds, the capital markets products are aligned to the International Capital Markets Association’s (‘ICMA’) Green
Bond Principles, Social Bond Principles or Sustainability Bond Guidelines or the Climate Bonds Initiative as applicable. The lending labelled products are aligned to
the Green Loan Principles (‘GLP’) or Social Loan Principles of the Loan Market Association (‘LMA’), Asia-Pacific Loan Market Association (‘APLMA’) and the Loan
Syndications and Trading Association (‘LSTA’) as applicable; or for our sustainable trade instruments, are aligned to HSBC’s internal sustainable trade instrument
principles which are based on the GLP and reference the UN SDGs. Also included are facilities where HSBC identifies that the use of proceeds would meet
eligibility criteria as defined and approved by appropriate governance committees but these are not labelled or marketed as green or social.
4 Included within the total cumulative contribution towards our ambition are transactions to customers within the six high transition risk sectors (i.e. automotive,
chemicals, construction and building materials, metal and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities) as described on page 223. Of which approximately $37bn is
defined as green use of proceeds in line with the Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023.
5 Sustainable use of proceeds can be used for green, social or a combination of green and social purposes.
6 Our sustainability-linked labelled products are aligned to either the ICMA Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles or the Sustainability-Linked Loan Principles of the
LMA, APLMA and the LSTA as applicable. The coupon or interest rate is dependent on whether the borrower achieves predefined sustainability performance
targets. The funds can be used for general purposes.
7 Net new flows of both HSBC-owned (Asset Management) sustainable investment funds and Wealth and Global Private Banking investments assessed against the
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023.
8 Additional detailed information on our sustainable finance and investment progress can be found in the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 49
ESG review | Environmental
Sustainable finance and investment continued
Sustainable finance and investment For example, we increased our funding from
definitions $5bn to $9bn for our sustainable finance Our sustainable finance and
Our data dictionary defining our sustainable scheme that supports businesses of all sizes investment data dictionary
finance and investment continues to evolve, in China’s Greater Bay Area to transition to We define sustainable finance and
and is reviewed annually to take into account low-carbon operations. The scheme, launched investment as any form of financial
the evolving standards, taxonomies and in 2022, provides successful loan applicants service that integrates ESG criteria into
practices we deem appropriate. This involves access to a range of additional services business or investment decisions. This
reviewing and strengthening our product including training, subsidised third-party includes financing, investing and advisory
definitions, where appropriate, adding assessments and assistance from a team activities that support the achievement
and deleting qualifying products, making with sustainable financing expertise. For our of UN Sustainable Development Goals
enhancements to our internal standards, and Wealth and Personal Banking customers, we (‘SDGs’), including but not limited to the
developing our reporting and governance. launched green mortgages in Mexico, electric aims of the Paris Agreement on climate
vehicle loans in India and a referral service to change.
Industry and regulatory guidance on our electric vehicle leasing partner in the UK.
definitions for sustainable finance continue Details of our revised definitions of the
to evolve. In 2023, the Glasgow Financial In 2023, we introduced an internal briefing contributing activities for sustainable
Alliance for Net Zero (‘GFANZ’), NZBA series called Net Zero in Practice, which finance and investment and how we
and the UK government released work-in- covers new technologies relevant to the net calculate the amounts we count are
progress definitions of transition finance. zero transition, drawing on expertise from available in our Sustainable Finance and
We will continue to monitor these and across the organisation and highlighting Investment Data Dictionary 2023.
other developments in sustainable finance financing opportunities and case studies.
definitions. For our ESG Data Pack and Sustainable
We continue to be a participant in the Just Finance and Investment Data Dictionary,
see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
Our progress will be published each year, Energy Transition Partnerships (‘JETPs‘) in
esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
and we will seek to continue for it to be Indonesia and Vietnam, and in the Nexus
reporting-centre.
independently assured. for Water, Food and Energy in Egypt.
These initiatives aim to play a catalytic
Mobilising capital to support role in mobilising finance to accelerate the
our customers energy transition. For further details of our
In 2023, we continued to focus on providing involvement with the JETPs, see page 68.
our customers with products, services and
initiatives to help enable emissions reduction In 2023, we won three awards at the
in the real economy. Environmental Finance Bond Awards. We
retained the Euromoney award for Best Bank
for Sustainable Finance in Asia for the sixth
year in a row, and won the global award
for Best Bank for Public Sector Clients in
recognition of our innovation in sustainability
and tokenised public-sector bonds.
Developing sustainable food supply chains in south-east Asia
Singapore-based Glife Technologies has developed a digital business-to-business food-
sourcing platform that connects farmers from marginalised communities in south-east Asia
to the hospitality industry.
The distribution network, served by an app, aims to improve the efficiency and sustainability
of supply chains by aggregating orders and sourcing in bulk direct from farmers, in order to
help control costs and reduce the risk of food waste from damage or contamination.
In June 2023, we provided a working capital loan and access to our cross-border network
to help Glife expand its platform into new markets, including Malaysia and Indonesia. The
loan also aims to help Glife finance social projects seeking to improve food security and
creating more sustainable food systems. The loan was drawn from HSBC’s New Economy
fund, which is dedicated to investing in high-growth, pre-profit new economy businesses
in Singapore.
50 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Sustainable finance and investment continued
Responsible and sustainable investment HSBC Asset Management’s fixed income,
Helping customers to
We offer a broad suite of ESG capabilities equity and stewardship teams held over 2,000
across asset management, global markets, meetings with companies in its portfolios. This understand ESG in their
wealth, private banking and securities included engaging with companies on the
services, to help institutional and individual priority list across several thematic priorities, investments
investors to generate financial returns, manage such as climate change, human rights, public
risk and pursue ESG-related opportunities. health, inclusive growth and shared prosperity, We have launched new metrics to
biodiversity and nature, trusted technology help our Global Private Banking and
Our Asset Management business is and data, and diversity, equity and inclusion. Wealth customers understand the
committed to further developing our ESG performance of their investments.
sustainable product range across asset For our private banking and wealth customers, In selected markets in 2023, we also
classes, as well as enhancing our existing we expanded our investment offering with introduced a sustainability preference
product suite for ESG and climate-related the launch of eight ESG and sustainable questionnaire to help identify and
criteria where it is in the investors’ interests investing mutual funds and exchange-traded understand our customers’ sustainable
to do so. In 2023, we launched 10 funds funds in 2023. We also enhanced our ESG investing objectives and ambitions. By
within our ESG and sustainable strategies, and sustainable investing structured products improving clarity on ESG performance,
which adhere to, and are classified within, offering linked to indices such as the MSCI which traditional financial metrics fail to
our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data World Islamic ESG Select 8% Risk Control capture, we aim to provide customers
Dictionary 2023. Index. Throughout 2023, we published regular with meaningful insights to enable
ESG and sustainability-related market insights them to make informed investment
HSBC Asset Management managed over and updates such as #WhyESGMatters decisions. Examples of these metrics,
$684bn assets at the end of 2023, of which and Learning about ESG to help clients available on digital platforms in selected
$73.3bn comprise assets of funds and better understand the implications for markets, are:
mandates invested in our ESG and sustainable their investments.
strategies. – ‘ESG rating and score’, which
HSBC Life, our insurance business, continues measures a company’s resilience to
Our ESG and sustainable investing approach to expand the availability of ESG investment material long-term, industry ESG risks
across different investment products can fund options within its investment-linked and opportunities, with data provided
include but is not limited to the UN SDGs, products. In 2023, eight new ESG funds were by MSCI.
including climate. For the avoidance of introduced across Hong Kong, France and
– ‘Carbon intensity’, which measures
doubt, assets invested pursuant to, or Singapore with a range of investment themes,
a company’s carbon emissions per
considered to be in alignment with, HSBC’s including environmental, circular economy
million of revenue, with data provided
ESG and sustainable investing approach and sustainable energy.
by S&P Trucost.
do not necessarily qualify as ‘sustainable
investments’ as defined by the EU Sustainable In June, under the United Nations Environment
In addition, we have also introduced
Finance Disclosures Regulation (‘SFDR’) Programme Finance Initiative (‘UNEP FI’)
‘HSBC ESG and sustainable investing
or other relevant regulations. Our ESG and Principles for Sustainable Insurance, HSBC
classifications’, which help customers
sustainable investing approach is an HSBC Life co-led a team of insurance organisations
to understand and identify ESG and
internal classification approach used to to publish an industry position paper focused
sustainable investing products in their
establish our own ESG and sustainable on the role and opportunity for life and health
investment portfolio according to
investing criteria (recognising the subjectivity insurers to help build a more inclusive and
HSBC’s definition.
inherent in such an approach and the preventative healthcare model. This included
variables involved). It is also used to promote examples of good industry practice to: help
consistency across asset classes and business insurers improve access to healthcare; close
lines where relevant, and should not be relied the health protection gap; drive better health
on externally to assess the sustainability outcomes across populations; and mitigate
characteristics of any given product. There potential health risks due to climate change
is no single global standard definition of, or and other environmental factors.
measurement criteria for, ESG and sustainable
investing or the impact of ESG and sustainable For further details of our asset management
investing products. policies, see page 67.
We seek to take an active stewardship role to
help drive positive change in the companies
on our priority list in which we invest on behalf
of our customers. The priority list, which is
defined in our Global Stewardship Plan, can be
found at: www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/
en/institutional-investor/about-us/responsible-
investing/-/media/files/attachments/uk/
policies/stewardship-plan-uk.pdf.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 51
ESG review | Environmental
Sustainable finance and investment continued
TCFD
Unlocking climate solutions In 2023, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee
and innovation Agency of the World Bank Group issued HSBC Backing new technology
We recognise the need to find new solutions Holdings a guarantee of $1.8bn in regulatory and innovation
and increase the pace of change for the world capital relief on mandatory reserves held by At the COP28 Summit in the UAE, HSBC
to achieve the Paris Agreement goal of being its subsidiary in Mexico. The benefits of the pledged its support for the Energy
net zero by 2050. capital relief are expected to be deployed to Transition Accelerator Financing Platform,
exclusively support eligible climate finance which aims to scale up the development
We are working with a range of partners projects in Mexico, including renewable of renewable energy projects in
to accelerate investment in sustainable energy, energy efficiency, clean transportation developing countries. Established
infrastructure, natural resources and climate and sustainable agriculture. in 2021 with initial support from the
technology to help reduce emissions and Abu Dhabi Fund for Development and
address climate change. The HSBC Alternatives business, part of HSBC the International Renewable Energy
Asset Management, continued to develop its Agency, the platform brings together
Sustainable infrastructure energy transition infrastructure capabilities public and private institutions. HSBC
Addressing climate change requires the in Asia, targeting investments in renewable signed alongside the European Bank for
rapid development of a new generation of energy generation, storage, grids, charging Reconstruction and Development, the
sustainable infrastructure. and hydrogen infrastructure. To help support International Finance Corporation and
the transition to green energy in North Asia, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee
HSBC continues to support the FAST-Infra the energy transition infrastructure strategy Agency. We will work with platform
Initiative, which we helped conceive, working made its first investment in solar photovoltaic partners to expand the pipeline of
with the IFC, OECD, the World Bank’s Global power project developer Tekoma Energy. investable projects in core HSBC markets,
Infrastructure Facility and the Climate Policy including in Asia and the Middle East,
Initiative, under the auspices of the One Natural capital as an emerging bringing financing solutions that support
Planet Lab. In 2023, the initiative, which aims asset class the transition to net zero.
to mobilise large-scale financing to develop Climate Asset Management, a joint venture
sustainable infrastructure, invited pilot we launched with climate investment and We also became a founding member
photovoltaic and wind power projects around advisory firm Pollination in 2020, continues to of the Global Climate Finance Centre, a
the world to apply for the provisional FAST- create investment opportunities for investors newly launched UAE-based think tank
Infra label. The label is awarded to projects to help protect biodiversity and support the created to connect public and private
that meet specific sustainability criteria. HSBC transition to net zero. finance to help accelerate the transition
is supporting the introduction and widespread to net zero.
adoption of the labelling system as a standard It offers two investment strategies that
for sustainable infrastructure assets globally. aim to build resilience across landscapes HSBC Alternatives made direct
while generating returns. Its nature-based investments in assets that help to
Label applicants included a solar photovoltaic carbon strategy targets nature restoration promote the transition to a net zero
project submitted by Pentagreen Capital, and conservation projects in developing climate. The venture capital strategy
our sustainable infrastructure debt financing economies, prioritising community benefits invests across four themes: power
partnership with Singapore-based investment while generating high-quality carbon transformation, transport electrification,
firm Temasek. The project sponsor was credits. Its natural capital strategy invests in supply chain sustainability and climate
Citicore Solar Energy Corporation, a subsidiary agriculture, forestry and environmental assets risk mitigation. The strategy raised
of the Philippines-focused renewable energy and aims to deliver impact at scale alongside additional funds from institutional and
developer and operator Citicore Renewable long-term financial returns. private wealth clients over the course
Energy Corporation. Pentagreen acted as of 2023. As of 31 December 2023, the
lead arranger of a $100m green loan facility On behalf of these strategies in 2023, Climate strategy had deployed capital into eight
and committed an initial $30m to help Asset Management allocated more than $400m start-up companies. These included
fund Citicore’s development of six solar to projects in Kenya, Uganda, Malawi, Spain, US-based Electric Era, which provides
power projects capable of generating 490 Australia and Portugal. electric vehicle fast-charging technology,
megawatts of electricity for the island of and Israel-based SeeTree, which has
Luzon in the Philippines. The commitment developed a software platform that tracks
marks Pentagreen’s first investment in the health and productivity of trees.
the construction of ready-to-build clean
energy projects.
52 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Financed emissions
TCFD
We announced our ambition to become a net They form part of our scope 3 emissions, against the financed emissions baselines that
zero bank in October 2020, including an aim which include emissions associated with the we now measure ourselves against.
to align our financed emissions to net zero use of a company’s products and services.
by 2050 or sooner. We have published initial Following a reduction in our exposure to the
financed emissions targets for 2030, and plan to In 2021, we started measuring financed shipping sector after the strategic sale of part
review them in five-year increments thereafter. emissions for oil and gas, and power and of our European shipping portfolio in 2023,
utilities. Following the December 2023 release and work undertaken to assess the materiality
Our analysis of financed emissions comprises of the PCAF Global GHG Accounting Standard of our remaining portfolio from a financed
‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and for capital markets, we now include facilitated emissions perspective, we have concluded
‘facilitated emissions’, which we distinguish emissions for these sectors, in recognition of that the remaining exposure as of year-end
where necessary in our reporting. Our on- our role as service provider when customers 2023 is not material enough to warrant setting
balance sheet financed emissions include issue debt and equity to investors. For target a stand-alone target. This aligns with NZBA
emissions related to on-balance sheet setting we now track the combined progress guidelines on sector inclusion for target setting.
lending, such as project finance and direct for on-balance sheet financed and facilitated
lending. Our facilitated emissions include emissions. We have announced a number of planned
emissions related to financing we help clients business disposals in recent years, and we will
to raise through capital markets activities. Our In 2022, we disclosed the on-balance sheet continue to consider how these may impact
analysis covers financing from Global Banking financed emissions targets for the following future disclosures, including recalculations.
and Markets, and Commercial Banking. additional sectors: cement; iron, steel and
aluminium; aviation; and automotive. We also For all sectors other than oil and gas and
Financed emissions link the financing we set a target, and now measure, on-balance thermal coal mining, we have set emissions
provide to our customers and their activities sheet financed emissions for the thermal coal intensity targets. These targets are linked to
in the real economy, and provide an indication mining sector. As part of our financial reporting, real world production and help us to deploy
of the associated greenhouse gas emissions. we present the progress for these sectors capital towards decarbonisation solutions.
Our approach to financed emissions
In our approach to assessing our financed industry, we can focus our engagement and value of finance provided to customers. We
emissions, our key methodological decisions resources where we believe the potential for excluded products that were short term by
were shaped in line with industry practices change is highest. For each sector, our reported design, and typically less than 12 months
and standards. We recognise these are emissions now typically include all the major in duration, consistent with guidance from
still developing. greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, the PCAF, to reduce volatility. For facilitated
methane and nitrous oxide, among others. emissions we considered all capital market
Coverage of our analysis These are reported as tonnes of CO equivalent, transactions in scope for the year of analysis.
2
For each sector, our analysis focuses on the in line with NZBA guidelines. These included debt and equity capital
parts of the value chain where we believe the markets, and syndicated loans.
majority of emissions are produced to help To calculate annual on-balance sheet financed
reduce double counting of emissions. By emissions, we use drawn balances as at 31 For further details of our financed emissions
estimating emissions and setting targets for December in the year of analysis related to methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see our
Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures
customers that directly account for, or indirectly wholesale credit and lending, which include
Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
influence, the majority of emissions in each business loans and project finance as the esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
The chart below shows the scope of our financed emissions analysis of the seven sectors, including upstream, midstream and downstream
activities within each sector. The allocation of companies to different parts of the value chain is highly dependent on expert judgement and data
available on company revenue streams. As data quality improves, this will be further refined.
Coverage of greenhouse
Sector Scope of emissions Value chain in scope gases (’GHGs’)
Oil and gas 1, 2 and 3 Upstream Midstream D ownstream Integrated/ All GHGs
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. transport) (e.g . fuel use) diversified
Upstream Midstream Downstream
Power and utilities 1 and 2 (e.g. transmission All GHGs
(e.g. generation) and distribution) (e.g. retail)
Cement 1 and 2 Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream (e.g clinker Downstream All GHGs
materials, e xtraction ) and cement manufacturing) (e.g. construction )
Iron, steel and Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream
aluminium 1 and 2 materials, extr action) (e.g. ore to steel) (e.g. construction) All GHGs
Aviation
1 for airlines , Upstrea m Midstream Downstream
All GHGs
3 for aircraft lessors (e.g. parts manufacture rs) (e.g. aircraft manufacturing) (e.g. airlines and air less ors)
Automotive 1, 2 and 3 (e. U g. p s s u tr p e p a l m iers) (e.g m . M a m i n d o u s t f t o a r r e c a v tu m e r h e i ) cle D ( o e w .g n . s re tr t e a a il m ) All GHGs
Thermal coal mining 1, 2 and 3 Upstream Midstream Downstream All GHGs
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. processing) (e.g. retail)
Key: Included in analysis
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 53
ESG review | Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Setting our targets Agriculture
Our target-setting approach to date, for For the agriculture sector, due to ongoing
on-balance sheet financed emissions and data availability and quality challenges, and
facilitated emissions, has been to utilise a lack of developed methodologies, we are not
single net zero reference scenario (IEA NZE in a position to report our financed emissions
2021) to underpin both energy supply-related or set a target at this time. We aim to build
sectors (oil and gas, power and utilities, data availability and continue to work with
and thermal coal mining) and our published partners and industry bodies to develop data
targets for demand-side sectors in transport and methodologies across a wider section of
and heavy industry. the agriculture value chain – such as farm-
related and downstream emissions, including
The impact of our capital markets activities from the food and beverage sector – while
is now reflected in our combined financed assessing the make-up of our portfolio.
emissions targets for the oil and gas, and
Investing in battery
power and utilities sectors. Our facilitated Residential real estate
emissions, included in our combined metrics, For residential real estate, where our health and monitoring
are weighted at 33%, in accordance with customers are consumers not corporates,
the PCAF standard. This approach dampens our approach needs to consider financial solutions
volatility, apportions responsibility between inclusivity, and our ability to provide customers
underwriters and asset owners, and allows access to suitable mortgages in addition to The global push towards electrification
for flexibility in deploying on and off-balance decarbonisation aims. We expect to measure is accelerating the demand for
sheet financing in line with clients’ needs. and report our residential real estate financed systems powered by safe, reliable and
To further reduce the inherent volatility in emissions in future disclosures. We continue sustainable batteries.
facilitated emissions, we apply a three-year to consider our approach to setting an
moving average across transactions for our appropriate target to measure our contribution In August 2023, HSBC Asset
target metric, building up from 2019 data. This to helping the sector transition. Management, as part of its climate
means that transactions facilitated in 2028 tech venture capital strategy, helped a
and 2029 will still have an impact on the 2030 Commercial real estate Germany-based analytics software start-
progress number and will need to be taken For commercial real estate, we continue to up secure $7.8m (€7.2m) of investment
into consideration as we manage progress work towards outlining a baseline and a 2030 in its battery monitoring platform,
towards our target. We aim to achieve our financed emissions ambition or ambition with HSBC Asset Management’s fund
target in 2030 notwithstanding the application range, starting with our major markets and providing $4.1m (€3.8m).
of a three-year average. where sufficient data is available to track
decarbonisation progress. We expect to ACCURE Battery Intelligence uses AI,
Our approach for financed emissions review our approach and coverage periodically field data and modelling to forecast and
accounting does not rely on purchasing in line with evolving data, methodologies, manage the health and performance
offsets to achieve any financed emissions scenarios and real-world progress. of batteries, and predict failures, fires
targets we set. Methodologies for embedded carbon and other incidents. With their software
need to be developed given the materiality already supporting 3.5 gigawatt-hours
An evolving approach of financing new property development of storage, the fundraising will help
We believe methodologies for calculating within our portfolio, from a financed expand and develop the platform
financed emissions and setting targets should emissions perspective. across energy, electric vehicle, transit,
be transparent and comparable, and should marine, insurance and other industries
provide science-based insights that focus worldwide.
engagement efforts, inform capital allocation
and support the development of solutions that
are both timely and impactful. We continue to
engage with regulators, standard setters and
industry bodies to help shape our approach to
measuring financed emissions and managing
portfolio alignment to net zero. We also work
with data providers and our clients to help us
gather data from the real economy to improve
our analysis.
Scenarios used in our analysis are modelled
on assumptions of the available carbon
budget and actions that need to be taken to
limit the long-term increase in average global
temperatures to 1.5°C with limited overshoot.
We expect that the scenarios we use will
be updated periodically. We plan to refine
our own analysis of financed emissions as
industry guidance on scenarios, data and
methodologies more broadly evolve in the
years ahead.
54 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Data and methodology limitations
Our financed emissions estimates and – Third-party datasets that feed into our – The classification of our clients into
methodological choices are shaped by analysis may have up to a two-year lag sectors is performed with inputs from
the availability of data for the sectors in reported emissions figures, and we subject matter experts, and will also
we analyse. are working with data providers to help continue to evolve with improvements
reduce this. Mapping external datasets to to data and our sector classification
– We are members of the PCAF, which our internal client entities is challenging approach. Our internal data on customer
defines and develops greenhouse gas due to complex company ownership groups used to source financial exposure
accounting standards for financial structures. and emissions data is based on credit and
institutions. Its Global GHG Accounting – The methodology and data used to relationship management attributes and
and Reporting Standards for Financed assess financed emissions and set targets is not always aligned to the data needed
Emissions and for Facilitated Emissions are new and evolving, and we expect to analyse emissions across sector value
provide detailed methodological guidance industry guidance, market practice, chains. As a consequence, this can result
to measure and disclose financed and and regulations to continue to change. in an inconsistent basis in our financed
facilitated emissions. We plan to refine our analysis using emissions calculations. As the sub-sector,
– We have found that data quality scores appropriate data sources and current and therefore the value chain classification
vary across the different sectors and years methodologies available for the sectors is based on judgement, this may be
of our analysis, although not significantly. we analyse. revised as better data becomes available.
Emissions are calculated at a counterparty
While we expect our data quality scores – We remain conscious that the attribution
group level and each client is mapped to
to improve over time, as companies factor used in the financed emissions
a single sector. Companies with multiple
continue to expand their disclosures to calculation is sensitive to changes in
activities such as conglomerates, with
meet growing regulatory and stakeholder drawn amounts or market fluctuations,
near to equal business activity split across
expectations, there may be fluctuations and we plan to be transparent around
multiple sectors, are excluded as these
within sectors year on year, and/or drivers for change to portfolio financed
can have different activities covered by
differences in the data quality scores emissions where possible.
multiple sector targets. Once we define a
between sectors due to changes in data
– To calculate sector-level baselines and methodology for conglomerates these may
availability.
annual updates, our portfolio-level be covered according to their activity split.
– The majority of our clients do not yet emissions intensity was previously
– The operating environment for climate
report the full scope of greenhouse weighted by the ratio of our financing
analysis and portfolio alignment is
gas emissions included in our analysis, in relation to the value of the financed
maturing. We continue to work to improve
in particular scope 3 emissions. In the company. We believe this introduced
our data management processes, and
absence of client-reported emissions, we volatility. We have now calculated sector
are implementing steering mechanisms
estimated emissions using proxies based level emissions intensity metrics using
to align our provision of finance with
on company production and revenue a portfolio-weighted approach. Due to
the goals and timelines of the Paris
figures. Although we sought to minimise data limitations, we are unable to obtain
Agreement.
the use of non-company-specific data, we production data for all of our clients. We
applied industry averages in our analysis therefore calculate an emissions intensity
For further details of our financed emissions
where company-specific data was figure using the 75th percentile to meet methodology, see our Financed Emissions
unavailable through our vendor datasets. this data gap. and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology at
As data improves, estimates will be www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
replaced with reported figures. responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
Tackling operational emissions in industry
We are supporting one of the largest producers of textile raw materials in Indonesia to
reduce the greenhouse gas emissions in its operations. PT. Indo-Rama Synthetics Tbk, which
specialises in the integrated production of spun yarn and polyester, wanted to expand its
operations and meet its customer demand in a sustainable way.
To help PT. Indo-Rama Synthetics Tbk invest in reducing energy consumption, we provided
a $20m green loan in September 2023 so that it can install energy efficient machinery and
technology in the expansion of its yarn spinning factory.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 55
ESG review | Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Our approach to financed emissions recalculations
The PCAF recommends that financial over time. Our recalculation policy covers to the target. Enhancements to internal
institutions should, in line with the Greenhouse revisions of metrics linked to the targets due or external data, such as changes to the
Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope to changes in financed emissions accounting, classification of the population to a different
3) Accounting and Reporting Standard such as changes to methodology, errors, business activity type or more, or improved
requirement, establish a recalculation policy. and improvements to data. We expect our quality data reported by clients, would not
To adhere to this recommendation, we have recalculation policy to evolve with further constitute a change to the financed emissions
defined the circumstances under which we industry guidance. estimation methodology or an error.
consider a recalculation of baseline and/or
progress against financed emissions target The table below outlines the action we take
metrics is necessary to help ensure the when key areas of change, individually or in
consistency, comparability and relevance of aggregate, breach our defined significance
the reported greenhouse gas emissions data thresholds for the baseline year metric linked
Key reasons for change What we expect to disclose
Changes to the financed – The reasons why applying the new metrics provides reliable and more relevant information
emissions methodology such as
– The actions being taken to remediate same or similar errors in the future
changes to design choices
– The nature of the change(s) and errors in financed emissions accounting impacting the baseline progress
metric and all prior year progress metrics disclosed as far as is practicable
Errors such as a failure to carry
– The aggregate amount of any adjustments impacting the baseline progress metric and all prior year
out our methodology or errors in
progress metrics disclosed as far as is practicable
internal financial data
– The change in financed emissions accounting baseline progress metric and all prior year progress metrics
disclosed as far as is practicable
In 2023, we improved our methodology To reflect these enhancements we have set and the remaining 38% (1.8 Mt COe) was
2
for calculating financed emissions using out the recalculated metrics for the oil and due to the enhanced product mapping and
more granular product identification to gas, and power and utilities sectors in the streamlined approach for emissions estimates.
isolate exposure in scope, more consistent table below. For other sectors, changes were
emission factors for estimates, and a revised not material enough to warrant a recalculation. The power and utilities baseline for on-balance
aggregation method for emissions intensity. sheet financed emissions is now 537.5 tonnes
Previously some reported on-balance sheet The oil and gas baseline for on-balance sheet of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt
numbers included non-lending exposures for financed emissions is now 28.4 million tonnes hour (‘tCOe/GWh’) for 2019 versus 589.9
2
market products in error. The more granular of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt COe’) for tCOe/GWh reported in the Annual Report
2 2
product identification will help ensure these 2019 versus 33.0 Mt COe reported in the and Accounts 2022. This change reflects the
2
are not included in future. Annual Report and Accounts 2022. Of this implementation of the revised aggregation
change, 62% (2.9 Mt COe) was related to method and enhanced product mapping.
2
the inclusion of non-lending products in error
Revisions Previously reported Recalculated metrics Percentage change
Sector Reporting metrics 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020
Oil and gas On-balance sheet financed – Mt COe 33.0 30.1 28.4 25.0 (14)% (17)%
2
Facilitated (100% weighting) – Mt COe 29.5 N/A 43.2 N/A 47% N/A
2
Power and utilities On-balance sheet financed – tCOe/GWh 589.9 509.6 537.5 511.1 (9)% —%
2
Facilitated (100% weighting) – tCOe/GWh 360.0 N/A 420.7 N/A 17% N/A
2
56 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Targets and progress
We have set out in the table below our numbers for the relevant year to track Targets were set for oil and gas, and power
combined on-balance sheet financed and progress to target. We set out the annual and utilities in February 2022, for thermal coal
facilitated emissions targets for the oil and figures before the application of the three-year mining in December 2022, and for the other
gas, and power and utilities sectors. These average in the facilitated emissions table sectors in February 2023. On the following
show the revised baselines. on page 61. pages, we provide more granular details of our
financed emissions within these sectors.
For facilitated emissions, we track progress We have also set out our defined targets for
to target using a three-year average the on-balance sheet financed emissions of When assessing the changes from 2019 to
moving window (average of 2020, 2021 the following sectors: cement; iron, steel and 2022, it is important to emphasise the long-
and 2022 for the 2022 progress number) aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal term commitment that is needed to meet
and figures weighted at 33%. This means coal mining. We disclose emissions in 2021 our 2030 interim targets, and how changes
that transactions facilitated in 2028 and and 2022 and progress achieved in 2022 to exposure and market fluctuations impact
2029 will still have an impact on the 2030 versus baseline for each sector. yearly updates. Movement from one year to
progress number and will need to be taken the next may not reflect future trends for the
into consideration as we manage progress We have implemented a revised approach financed emissions of our portfolio. In the
towards our target. We aim to achieve our to calculate the sector-level intensity metric hard-to-abate sectors, where decarbonisation
target in 2030 notwithstanding the application in 2023, which has been applied for the progress is expected to be slower, we are
of a three-year average. recalculated power and utilities baseline taking steps to engage with clients on their
metric, and for 2021 and 2022 actual data transition plans.
The facilitated emissions values total for all intensity-based sectors. Emissions
17.5 Mt COe in 2021 and 14.4 Mt COe intensity is a weighted average according to As we are at the beginning of our journey to
2 2
in 2022 for the oil and gas sector, the portfolio weight of each investment, as a track and measure progress, we believe it
and 398.3 tCOe/GWh for 2021 and proportion of the total portfolio value. would be premature to infer future trends from
2
377.6 tCOe/GWh in 2022 for the power the 2019 to 2022 progress at this stage.
2
and utilities sector. These values are then The progress figures show the trend in
combined with the on-balance sheet financed emissions before targets were set.
2022 %
change vs.
Sector1 Baseline 2021 2022 baseline 2030 target Unit2 Target scenario
Combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions at 33% with three-year moving average
Oil and gas 42.6 in 2019 37.9 31.9 (25)% (34)% Mt COe IEA NZE 2021
2
Power and utilities 513.4 in 2019 405.1 396.8 (23)% 138.0 tCOe/GWh IEA NZE 2021
2
On-balance sheet financed emissions
Cement 0.64 in 2019 0.70 0.71 10% 0.46 tCOe/t cement IEA NZE 2021
2
Iron, steel and aluminium 1.8 in 2019 2.4 2.5 38% 1.05 (1.43)3 tCOe/t metal IEA NZE 2021
2
Aviation 84.0 in 2019 85.9 86.5 3% 63.04 tCOe/million rpk IEA NZE 2021
2
Automotive 191.5 in 2019 215.7 216.6 13% 66.0 tCOe/million vkm IEA NZE 2021
2
Thermal coal mining 4.0 in 2020 N/A N/A N/A (70)%5 Mt COe IEA NZE 2021
2
1 Our absolute and intensity emission metrics and targets are measured based on the drawn exposures of the counterparties in scope for each sector. For oil and
gas; and power and utilities, the baseline, 2021, 2022 and target type figures represent revised combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions. For
iron, steel and aluminium; cement; aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining, the baseline, 2021, 2022 and target type figures represent on-balance sheet
financed emissions (no revisions applied).
2 For the oil and gas sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt COe’); for the power and utilities sector, intensity is
2
measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour (‘tCOe/GWh’); for the cement sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide
2
equivalent per tonne of cement (‘tCOe/t cement’); for the iron, steel and aluminium sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne
2
of metal (‘tCOe/t metal’); for the aviation sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million revenue passenger kilometres (‘tCOe/
2 2
million rpk’); for the automotive sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million vehicle kilometres (‘tCOe/million vkm’); and for the
2
thermal coal mining sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt COe’).
2
3 While the iron, steel and aluminium 2030 target is aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we also reference the Mission Possible Partnership Technology
Moratorium scenario, whose 2030 reference range is shown in parentheses.
4 Our aviation unit includes passenger and cargo tonnes, converted into revenue passenger kilometre (‘rpk‘), to align with our target pathway. This is comparable to
revenue tonne kilometre (rtk) using a 100kg per passenger conversion factor as we already include belly and dedicated cargo in our production figures. The
conversion factor changed from 95kg per passenger in the previous disclosure to align with industry practice.
5 The thermal coal mining scope differs from the other sectors. We include solely emissions from thermal coal production and coal power generation, rather than the
total emissions of a counterparty within a sector, to reflect the absolute financed emissions reduction thermal coal mining sector target.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 57
Financed emissions continued
Oil and gas Our core approach as we progress towards
For the oil and gas sector, our analysis our portfolio decarbonisation targets is to
included scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, engage with major oil and gas customers
including carbon dioxide and methane, for to understand their transition plans and to
45
upstream and integrated companies. We help support and accelerate those efforts.
revised our baseline for 2019 and progress This is in line with the Group’s energy policy, 40
figures to reflect combined on-balance sheet which supports the phasing down of fossil
35
financed and facilitated emissions and our fuel sources with the highest emission
revised approach. intensity as well as financing restrictions for 30
projects relating to new oil and gas fields, 25
We have set a target to reduce absolute and infrastructure.
on-balance sheet financed emissions and 20
facilitated emissions for our oil and gas In 2022, absolute combined on-balance sheet 15
portfolio by 34% by 2030 relative to a 2019 financed and facilitated emissions decreased
baseline. This is consistent with a global by 25% to 31.9 Mt COe relative to the 2019 10
2
1.5°C-aligned pathway as defined by the IEA baseline, and by 16% from 2021 to 2022. This 5
NZE 2021 scenario. This target is unchanged decline was achieved through a risk-weighted
0
with the inclusion of facilitated emissions. assets reduction strategy and aided by market 20192020 2021 2022 2030
We plan to update our target following conditions, with stronger oil and gas cash flows
the periodic release of new 1.5°C-aligned and higher interest rates resulting in reduced
scenarios in the years ahead to reflect shifts in demand for bank debt and capital markets
the real economy. financing. Market dynamics will continue to
create volatility in future years as we make
progress towards our financed emissions target.
Power and utilities Our target is consistent with a global
For the power and utilities sector, our analysis 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA
included scope 1 and 2 emissions for upstream NZE 2021 scenario. We plan to refresh our
power generation companies. Although target following the periodic release of new
scope 1 emissions are most material for the 1.5°C-aligned scenarios in the years ahead.
sector, most companies report scope 1 and 2
emissions together making it challenging to In 2022, our combined on-balance sheet
split out the data. We revised our baseline for financed and facilitated emissions intensity
2019 and progress figures to reflect combined decreased by 23% to 396.8 tCOe/GWh
2 on-balance sheet financed and facilitated relative to the 2019 baseline. This reduction
emissions and our revised approach. was driven by an increase in financing of
renewable energy projects and companies,
We have set a target to reduce the financed and a decrease in financing of high emissions
emissions intensity of our on-balance sheet intensity clients. Over the period from 2022
and facilitated power and utilities portfolio to 2021 the fall in sector portfolio financed
to 138 tCOe/GWh by 2030. This target is emissions was a more modest 2%.
2
unchanged with the inclusion of facilitated
emissions. We have chosen an intensity- Over the reported period, the average
based target as electricity demand is emissions intensity of clients for whom we
expected to more than double by 2050 due helped raise funds in the capital markets
to both population growth and electrification was lower than for clients financed directly
required to decarbonise mobility, buildings, on our balance sheet. This means the
and industry. We have focused on power combined on-balance sheet financed and
generation companies because they control facilitated emissions intensity from 2019 to
sector output. By engaging with them, we 2022 was lower than for on-balance sheet
believe we can help drive the most material financing alone.
emissions impact in the real economy.
e2OC
tM
Oil and gas 2022 progress
Mt CO2e from baseline
(25)%
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
20192020 2021 2022 2030
hWG/e2OCt
ESG review | Environmental
We plan to report financed emissions and given this has a direct link to real economy We are developing portfolio modelling
progress against our targets annually and to emissions. capabilities that integrate risk, profitability and
be transparent in our disclosures about the financed emissions to inform decision making
methodologies applied and any challenges or A number of clients have material undrawn and determine how to best steer our portfolios
dependencies. However, financed emissions balances that, if drawn, could significantly to meet our financed emissions targets and
figures may not be reconcilable or comparable increase the financed emissions related to commercial and strategic ambitions. As part of
year on year in future, and baselines and those clients. We expect to assess how to this we are testing and developing an analytics
targets may require recalibration as data, manage these exposures on a forward-looking capability that will provide an up-to-date view
methodologies and reference scenarios basis as we progress towards our 2030 of our position relative to our 2030 targets
develop. targets. In addition, for the intensity-based and an indication of the financed emissions
sectors, the emissions intensity is sensitive impact of a transaction to consider alongside
Consistent with PCAF guidance on financed to material clients and changes to drawn risk-return metrics.
emissions accounting, we only consider balances year on year can therefore influence
the outstanding drawn financing amount the trend.
Power and utilities 2022 progress
tCO2e/GWh from baseline
(23)%
Key:
HSBC sector target
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) pathway
58 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Financed emissions continued
Cement Our 2022 emissions intensity was 10% higher
For the cement sector, our analysis included than the 2019 baseline due to higher drawn
scope 1 and 2 emissions for midstream balances for emissions intensive clients, but at
companies with clinker and cement 0.71 tCOe/t cement in 2022, it was marginally
2 0.7
manufacturing facilities. up by 1% from 2021.
0.6
In line with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, Our cement portfolio is relatively concentrated
we target an on-balance sheet financed in customer numbers, and even where 0.5
emissions intensity of 0.46 tonnes of carbon customers have set science-based targets
dioxide equivalent per tonne of cement there is still a risk of pledges not turning 0.4
(‘tCOe/t cement’) by 2030, using 2019 as our into the necessary emissions reductions
2
baseline. While some emissions reductions if technologies do not scale in time. It will 0.3
can be achieved through energy efficiency, be important, therefore, to regularly review
we believe that to significantly reduce progress on technology scaling across the 0.2
fuel and process emissions from cement industry over the years ahead to 2030. For
0.1
manufacturing, and to meet our targets, cement and the other intensity-based sectors
large-scale investments are required in new we plan to integrate net zero considerations
0
technologies, including clinker substitution, into our transaction processes and controls 2019 2020 2021 2022 2030
alternative fuel use such as bioenergy, and and we expect this to help guide our activities
carbon capture use and storage. towards progressive alignment of the portfolio
with our 2030 targets.
tnemec
t/e2OCt
Cement 2022 progress
tCO2e/t cement from baseline
10%
Iron, steel and aluminium Due to the challenges of decarbonising this
We covered scope 1 and 2 for midstream hard-to-abate sector, we also outline an
iron, steel and aluminium production in our alternative scenario from the Mission Possible
analysis. Due to the low significance of the Partnership (‘MPP’).
2.5
aluminium sector’s financed emissions within
our portfolio, we combined them with our iron The emissions intensity in 2022 rose by 38%
and steel financed emissions. In the event that to 2.5 tCOe/t metal against our 2019 baseline 2.0
2
aluminium becomes a more material part of and by 4% versus 2021. This was due to
our portfolio in the future, we may consider increased financing to the aluminium sector, 1.5
creating a separate target for aluminium which has a higher carbon intensity than that
production given the varied decarbonisation of steel.
pathway for this metal. 1.0
We aim to actively manage our portfolio to
For the iron, steel and aluminium sector, we achieve our 2030 financed emissions target
target an on-balance sheet financed emissions for our iron, steel and aluminium portfolio, 0.5
intensity of 1.05 tonnes of carbon dioxide taking into account the actions our customers
equivalent per tonne of metal (‘tCOe/t metal’) are taking to achieve emissions reductions.
2 0
by 2030, using the IEA NZE 2021 scenario as 20192020 2021 2022 2030
our core scenario and 2019 as our baseline.
Aviation The industry is also adopting the unit of
In the aviation sector, we included passenger revenue tonne kilometre (‘rtk’) to take into
airlines’ scope 1 and aircraft lessors‘ scope account the transport of cargo for airlines in
3 downstream emissions. We excluded scope of the target. We will consider this as
military and dedicated cargo flights as the part of our methodology enhancement.
emissions intensity of such cargo flights is
different to that of passenger airlines. This At 86.5 tCOe/million rpk in 2022, the
2
approach is in line with industry practice to emissions intensity increased by 3% versus
ensure consistency of financed emissions the 2019 baseline and was marginally up by
measurement and target setting. 1% from 2021. In 2020 there was a peak in
emissions intensity due to the impact of the
Aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we Covid-19 pandemic, as planes carried fewer
target an on-balance sheet financed emissions passengers.
intensity of 63.0 tonnes of carbon dioxide
equivalent per million revenue passenger We plan to engage with our major customers
kilometres (‘tCOe/million rpk’) by 2030, using on their transition plans, as well as integrate
2
2019 as our baseline. To reach these intensity financed emissions implications into
levels and help meet our targets, we believe transaction and portfolio management for
the sector needs significant policy support, the sector.
investments in alternative fuels, such as
sustainable aviation fuel, and new aircraft to
reduce emissions.
latem
t/e2OCt
Iron, steel and aluminium 2022 progress
tCO2e/t metal from baseline
38%
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2030
kpr
noillim/e2OCt
Environmental
Aviation 2022 progress
tCO2e/million rpk from baseline
3%
Key:
HSBC sector target
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) pathway
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 59
Financed emissions continued
Automotive aligned pathway, modified to match the share
For the automotive sector, we looked at scope of new in-year vehicle sales for light-duty
1, 2 and 3 emissions from the midstream vehicles. Decarbonisation of the automotive
manufacturing of vehicles, and tank-to-wheel sector, and therefore our ability to meet our
300
exhaust pipe emissions for light-duty vehicles. targets, needs large-scale investments in new
We excluded heavy-duty vehicles from our electric vehicle and battery manufacturing
250
analysis as the target pathway derived from plants, widespread charging infrastructure,
the IEA excludes them, as they have a different and government policies to support electric
decarbonisation pathway relative to light-duty vehicles. 200
vehicles. This approach is in line with industry
practice to ensure consistency of financed Our 2022 emissions intensity rose by 13% 150
emissions measurement and target setting. to 216.6 tCOe/million vkm against our 2019
2
We will consider including heavy-duty vehicle baseline and stayed level with 2021. This 100
manufacturers as well as heavy-duty vehicle increase, after an 8% reduction in 2020
production at a later stage of our analysis, as versus 2019, was caused by a shift in the 50
data and methodologies develop. portfolio towards companies producing
more emissions-intensive vehicles. This can
0
We target an on-balance sheet financed be the case for manufacturers that produce 20192020 2021 2022 2030
emissions intensity of 66.0 tonnes of carbon more sports utility vehicles or fewer electric
dioxide equivalent per million vehicle vehicles.
kilometres (‘tCOe/million vkm’) by 2030
2
using 2019 as our baseline. This is in line with
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, which is a 1.5C°
mkv
noillim/
e2OCt
Automotive 2022 progress
tCO2e/million vkm from baseline
13%
Thermal coal mining When calculating our financed emissions from
For the thermal coal mining sector, our thermal coal mining, we focused on thermal
analysis focused on scope 1, 2 and 3 coal extraction and processing companies,
emissions in upstream companies, including and diversified mining companies. We aim to
10
those involved in extraction. The majority measure and focus on our customers with the
of our financed emissions relate to scope 3 most material thermal coal-related emissions
emissions associated with coal mining. in order to help drive a meaningful impact in 8
the real economy.
We set an absolute on-balance sheet
reduction target of 70% for 2030, from an 6
absolute 2020 baseline measure of 4.0 Mt
CO 2 e. We used 2020 as a baseline to align 4
with the baseline used for our drawn balance
exposure targets in the thermal coal phase-
out policy. The financed emissions target is 2
aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario.
0
2019 2020 2030
e2OC
tM
ESG review | Environmental
Thermal coal mining 2022 progress
Mt CO2e from baseline
N/A
Key:
HSBC sector target
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) pathway
60 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Financed emissions continued
On-balance sheet financed emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of on-balance sheet financed emissions using 2021 and 2022 data. For thermal coal
mining, disclosures commenced in 2020 to align with thermal coal exposure reporting metrics. The PCAF data quality score has not improved for
2022 due to limited availability of actual reported emissions from our customers.
On-balance sheet financed emissions – wholesale credit lending and project finance1,2
PCAF data quality score3,†
Sector Year Scope 1–2 (Mt CO 2 e)† Scope 3 (Mt CO 2 e)† Emissions intensity4 Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3
2021 2.1 18.4 N/A 2.8 2.9
Oil and gas
2022 1.3 16.2 N/A 3.2 3.2
2021 8.1 N/A 407.0 2.9 N/A
Power and utilities
2022 7.6 N/A 401.7 3.3 N/A
2021 2.2 N/A 0.70 2.8 N/A
Cement
2022 4.5 N/A 0.71 2.9 N/A
2021 2.0 N/A 2.4 3.0 N/A
Iron, steel and aluminium
2022 2.7 N/A 2.5 3.0 N/A
2021 2.7 0.16 85.9 3.0 3.3
Aviation
2022 2.6 0.15 86.5 3.3 2.4
2021 0.07 3.6 215.7 2.8 2.9
Automotive
2022 0.12 5.4 216.6 2.7 2.9
Thermal coal mining 2020 0.17 3.8 N/A 3.0 3.0
Facilitated emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of facilitated emissions from 2019 to 2022 for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors.
Applying a 100% weighting, the oil and gas values for scope 1 to 3 emissions decreased from 43.2 Mt COe in 2019 to 15.2 Mt COe in 2022. For
2 2
the power and utilities sector, the values for scope 1 and 2 emissions fell from 8.5 Mt COe in 2019 to 3.8 Mt COe in 2022. For all 100%-weighted
2 2
facilitated values, please refer to the ESG Data Pack. The total capital markets activity analysed applying a 100% weighting in 2019 was $22.6bn,
representing 5.5% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2019. In 2020, it was $26.0bn, representing 6.2% of capital markets activity at 31
December 2020. In 2021, it was $18.1bn, representing 4.1% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2021. In 2022, it was $10.4bn representing
3.2% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2022.
Facilitated emissions – ECM, DCM and syndicated loans (33% weighting)
PCAF data quality score3,†
Sector Year5 Scope 1–2 (Mt CO 2 e)† Scope 3 (Mt CO 2 e)† Emissions intensity4 Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3
Oil and gas 2019 1.6 12.7 N/A 2.3 2.7
2020 2.7 24.0 N/A 2.0 2.1
2021 0.90 10.5 N/A 2.9 3.1
2022 0.36 4.7 N/A 3.3 3.3
Power and utilities 2019 2.8 N/A 420.7 2.5 N/A
2020 2.1 N/A 410.1 2.5 N/A
2021 1.5 N/A 364.1 2.9 N/A
2022 1.2 N/A 358.7 2.9 N/A
1 The total amount of short-term finance excluded for the thermal coal mining sector was $0.37bn in 2020; for all other sectors it was $7.0bn in 2021 and $8.5bn in 2022.
2 The total loans and advances analysed in 2020 for the thermal coal mining sector were $2.89bn, representing 0.28% of total loans and advances to customers at 31
December 2020. For all other sectors in 2021, they were $24.1bn representing 2.3% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021 and in 2022,
they were $23.6bn representing 2.6% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2022. The total loans and advances analysed for the purpose of
the financed emissions calculation and reporting have not been adjusted for assets held for sale.
3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based on financing for on-balance sheet financed emissions.
4 Emissions intensity under the new aggregation method.
5 Due to timing differences the approach for calculating 2021-2022 facilitated emissions has been enhanced compared to that of 2019-2020. Enhancements are
mainly data and process-related for the later years to include more consistent and higher quality data sources and are therefore applied prospectively in line with
our recalculation policy. Small methodology changes were applied as well but these do not materially change our 2019-2020 numbers.
† Data is subject to independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal
Coal Exposures Methodology and PWC’s limited assurance report, which are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 61
ESG review | Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Integrating net zero into transaction and portfolio
decision making
In 2023, we began to embed net zero factors Once completed, these assessments can
alongside standard risk-return and other be used to support business decisions in
considerations when evaluating specific relation to our financed emissions portfolio
transactions starting with oil and gas, power management and alignment, and our climate
and utilities, and thermal coal mining sectors. risk management efforts.
We have been testing and developing an Our processes and controls will continue to
analytics capability that, where relevant, evolve as we look at net zero considerations
begins to provide front-line business teams for sectors, customers and deals with higher Reducing landfill waste
and management with insight on the up-to- climate impact and risk. These considerations
and emissions in
date on-balance sheet financed emissions and include: adherence with our sustainability risk
facilitated emissions position of a sector, the policies; climate-related credit risk; customer the Philippines
impact of a transaction where material, and transition plan assessment outcomes (where
implications relative to pathways in line with relevant); reputational risk considerations; and
We are supporting a company that
our 2030 targets. financed and, where applicable, facilitated
is seeking to tackle the problem of
emissions implications (where transactions are
overflowing landfills, which will help
We continued our efforts to design and in scope of our financed emissions disclosures
reduce methane emissions and create
implement a differentiated approach to and 2030 targets). We have dedicated
potential new jobs in the Philippines.
understand and assess the transition plans governance, with escalation pathways for
and risks of our corporate customers, deals deemed high risk, including in terms
In June 2023, we provided a subsidiary
including state-owned enterprises. These of financed emissions implications and
of Prime Infrastructure Capital, a
assessments help us to identify opportunities, reputation risk.
sustainable infrastructure firm with
manage climate risks and define areas to drive
services that span energy, water
strategic engagement with each corporate
distribution and waste management,
customer.
with a $24.5m green loan. The loan
was provided to finance its acquisition
In 2023, we completed assessments for most
and expansion of a waste management
customers in scope of our thermal coal phase-
facility in Cebu, Philippines.
out policy. We also completed assessments
for customers that make the most material
The company has increased the facility’s
contribution to our financed emissions in the
capacity to treat and recycle domestic
oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors.
and industrial solid waste, and is
developing its capabilities to convert
organic and agricultural feedstock waste
into sustainable, refuse-derived fuel.
The funding is expected to help to divert
waste away from landfill, which will
reduce methane emissions generated
by decomposing organic waste.
Reducing emissions in our assets under management
In July 2021, our asset management amounted to $193.9bn at 31 December the creation of a Sustainable Investment
business, HSBC Asset Management, 2019. We use 2019 as the baseline year for Solutions Lab. HSBC Asset Management
signed up to the Net Zero Asset Managers our calculations. Implementation of the net reported an update through the Principles
initiative, which encourages investment zero targets remains subject to consultation for Responsible Investment annual
firms to commit to managing assets in with stakeholders including investors, fund submission, as required under its Net
line with achieving net zero emissions by boards and regulators. Zero Asset Managers commitment. As
2050 or sooner. HSBC Asset Management part of its thermal coal policy, it fulfilled a
continues to work towards its ambition of In 2023, HSBC Asset Management commitment to initiate engagement with
reducing scope 1 and 2 financed emissions worked to develop solutions for clients to all listed issuers held in active fundamental
intensity by 58% by 2030 for 38% of its total address climate ambitions while investing. portfolios with more than 10% revenue
assets under management. These listed Further data science expertise will be exposure to thermal coal.
equity and corporate fixed income assets added to support sustainability through
62 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Embedding net zero into the way we operate
Net zero in our own operations
TCFD
Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank is closely managing the gradual resumption of Focus on natural resources
to achieve net zero carbon emissions in our travel through internal reporting and review Alongside our net zero operations ambition,
operations and supply chain by 2030. of emissions, internal carbon budgets and our aim is to be a responsible consumer
the introduction of emissions information at of natural resources. Through design,
Reduce, replace and remove the point of booking. With hybrid working construction and operational standards,
We have three elements to our strategy: embedded across the organisation, the use we strive to ensure that, wherever possible,
reduce, replace and remove. We plan to first of virtual working practices has reduced the our premises do not adversely affect the
focus on reducing carbon emissions from need for our colleagues to travel to meet with environment or natural resources. We have
consumption, and then replacing remaining other colleagues and customers. identified specific focus areas including
emissions with low-carbon alternatives in line waste, paper and sustainable diets, and
with the Paris Agreement. We continue to focus on reducing the are exploring key opportunities to reduce
environmental impact from the vehicles we our wider environmental impact over the
We plan to remove the remaining emissions use in our global markets, and accelerate the coming decade.
that cannot be reduced or replaced by use of electric vehicles. In 2023, we reduced
procuring, in accordance with prevailing the company car fleet size by 9% compared Our presence in environmentally
regulatory requirements, high-quality offsets with 2022. We are now aiming to ensure that sensitive areas
at a later stage. We are working on our carbon all new vehicles ordered are fully electric or As a global organisation, our branches,
credits strategy by engaging with a range of hybrid vehicles where possible. offices and data centres may be located in
market participants. areas of high or very high water stress and/
Engaging with our supply chain or protected areas of biodiversity, as we
Our energy consumption Our supply chain is critical to achieving our net support our customers and communities in
In October 2020, we announced our ambition zero ambitions, and we are partnering with our these locations.
to reduce our energy consumption by 50% suppliers on this journey. Since 2020, we have
by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, and in 2023 been encouraging our largest suppliers to Approximately 55% of our global offices,
we achieved 26.3%. We continue to work make their own carbon commitments, and to branches and data centres are located in
to do this by optimising the use of our real disclose their emissions via the CDP (formerly areas identified as being subject to high and
estate portfolio, and carrying out a strategic the Carbon Disclosure Project) supply chain very high water stress, accounting for 50%
reduction in our office space and data programme. In 2023, suppliers representing of our annual water consumption. These are
centres. We are using new technology and 70.6% of total supplier spend completed the predominantly urban or city centre locations
emerging products to make our spaces more CDP questionnaire, compared with 63.5% with large, concentrated populations. Our
energy efficient. in 2022. industry is a low user of potable water, and we
have implemented measures to further reduce
As part of our ambition to achieve 100% We will continue to engage with our supply water consumption through the installation
renewable electricity across our operations by chain through CDP, and through direct of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or zero
2030, we continue to look for opportunities discussions with our suppliers on how they flush sanitary fittings.
to procure green electricity in each of our can further support our transition to net zero.
markets. In 2023, our fourth UK renewable In addition, 0.9% of our global office, branch
power purchase agreement (’PPA’) went live in In 2023, we launched our supplier net zero and data centre portfolio lies in protected
Sorbie, Scotland. A key challenge remains the guides, providing further details to support areas of biodiversity. We strive through
limited opportunity to pursue PPAs or green suppliers in understanding our net zero our design, construction and operational
tariffs in key markets due to regulations. ambitions, as set out in our supplier code standards to ensure that, where possible,
of conduct. We are developing internal our premises do not adversely affect
Business travel decarbonisation plans for the highest-emitting the environment or natural resources in
Our ambition is to halve travel emissions by procurement categories (IT hardware, real these areas.
2030, compared with pre-pandemic levels. In estate, data centre and servers, and telecom
2023, our travel emissions remained below services), to be included in category strategies
50% of our 2019 baseline, despite the lifting and to support future supplier selection.
of international travel restrictions. We are
Our environmental and sustainability
management policies
Our buildings policy recognises that regulatory and environmental requirements vary
across geographies and may include environmental certification. The policy is supported
by Corporate Services procedures on environmental and sustainability management,
seeking to ensure that HSBC’s properties continually reduce their overall direct impact on
the environment. Detailed design considerations documented in our Global Engineering
Standards aim to reduce or avoid depletion of critical resources, such as energy, water, land
and raw materials. Suppliers are required to adhere to strict environmental management
principles and reduce their impact on the environment in which they operate.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 63
ESG review | Environmental
Net zero in our own operations continued
Emissions from our energy and travel
Energy and travel greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes COe
We report our emissions following the 2
2019
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which incorporates
2023 2022 baseline
the scope 2 market-based emissions
methodology. We report greenhouse gas Scope 11 16,918 19,329 22,066
emissions resulting from the energy used in Scope 2 (market-based)1 167,174 223,334 392,270
our buildings and employees’ business travel.
Due to the nature of our primary business, Scope 3 1,090,280 1,052,264 1,139,260
carbon dioxide is the main type of greenhouse Category 1: Purchased goods and services1,2 859,256 865,747 829,635
gas applicable to our operations. While the
amount is immaterial, our current reporting Category 2: Capital goods1,2 121,783 144,232 37,617
also incorporates methane and nitrous oxide Category 6: Business travel1 109,241 42,285 272,008
for completeness. Our environmental data for
our own operations is based on a 12-month Total 1,274,372 1,294,927 1,553,596
period to 30 September. Included energy UK 5,909 9,264 10,432
In 2023, we reduced emissions from our 1 O ur data is now presented on an absolute value basis and not rounded values. Data in 2023 is subject to an
energy consumption and travel to 293,333 independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with International Standard on Assurance engagements
3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting
tonnes COe, which represents a 57.3%
2 Guidance 2023 and third-party limited assurance report at www.hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/
reduction compared with our 2019 baseline.
esg-reporting-and-policies. In respect of data in 2019 and 2022, see our relevant Annual Report and Accounts.
This was mainly attributed to:
2 Supply chain emissions calculated using a combination of supplier emissions data and industry averages.
A data quality score is applied to this calculation where 1 is high and 5 is low, based on the quality of
– travel volumes remaining low compared emissions data. This is a weighted average score based on HSBC supplier spend and is in line with HSBC’s
with pre-pandemic levels; financed emissions reporting methodology. Data quality scores can be found in the ESG Data Pack.
– an increase in our consumption of For further details of our methodologies, our PwC limited assurance reports and relevant environment key
facts, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
renewable electricity to 58.4%; and
– the reduction of energy consumption as
a result of strategic footprint reductions
Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes Energy consumption in kWh in 000s
and the implementation of over 450 energy
COe per FTE
conservation measures, which amounted 2
2019 2019
to an estimated energy avoidance in
2023 2022 baseline 2023 2022 baseline
excess of 12 million kWh.
Scope 1, 2 and Total 772,736 797,264 913,556
3 (Category 6) 1.3 1.3 2.9
Emissions from business travel increased
UK only 209,939 222,322 281,271
compared with 2022, due to the easing of Scope 1, 2 and
pandemic-related travel restrictions which 3 (Category 1,
resulted in a return to travel. A decrease in 2 and 6) 5.8 5.9 6.6
scope 1 emissions was partly attributed to a
correction in the classification of road-based
business travel in the UK and India from scope
1 to scope 3.
average carbon intensities and spend data averages remain significantly elevated. Due
to determine their contribution to our supply to volatility in industry average data, we
In 2023, we collected data on energy use
chain emissions. As more of our suppliers will undertake a review of our data sources
and business travel for our operations in 34
report their emissions, we should be able to and methodology during 2024. As supplier
countries and territories, which accounted
include more accurate data and fewer industry emissions reporting matures, we will be able
for approximately 96.0% of our full-time
averages in the calculation. We have applied to include more actual data and fewer industry
employees (‘FTEs’). To estimate the emissions
a data quality score to the sources of data we averages in the methodology. Our initial supply
of our operations in entities where we have
used to determine counterparty emissions. For chain emission figures may require updating
operational control and a small presence, we
further details, see our GHG (Greenhouse Gas) as data availability changes over time and
scale up the emissions data from 96.0% to
Reporting Guidance at www.hsbc.com/esg. methodologies and climate science evolve.
100%. We then apply emission uplift rates
to reflect uncertainty concerning the quality
In 2022, we disclosed our supply chain For further details of our methodologies and
and coverage of emission measurement and emissions for the first time, using supplier relevant environmental key facts, see the ESG
estimation. This is consistent with both the Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
emissions data and industry averages where
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s
actual data was not available. This approach
Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty
is heavily dependent on external data
Management in National Greenhouse Gas
sources to calculate estimates of our supply
Inventories and our internal analysis of data
chain emissions.
coverage and quality.
In 2023, emissions from our supply chain
Emissions from our supply chain
reduced by 3% compared with 2022. This is
Our calculation methodology uses supplier
due to a reduction in spend and an increase
emissions data where we have it from
in the availability of actual emissions data
suppliers, through CDP. Where we do not
from our suppliers. Emissions have increased
have actual emissions data, we use industry
by 13% compared with 2019, as industry
64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Managing climate risk
TCFD
Climate risk relates to the financial and non- Our material exposure to climate risk relates In the table below, we set out our duties to our
financial impacts that may arise as a result of to wholesale and retail client financing activity stakeholders in our four most material roles.
climate change and the move to a net zero within our banking portfolio. We are also
economy. We manage climate risk across all exposed to climate risk in relation to asset For further details of our approach to climate risk,
our businesses and are incorporating climate ownership by our insurance business and see ‘ESG risk’ on page 141 and ‘Climate risk’ on
page 221.
considerations within our traditional risk employee pension plans. Our clients are
types in line with our Group-wide risk exposed to climate-related investment risk in
management framework. our asset management business.
Banking Employee pensions Asset management Insurance
We manage the climate risk in our Our pension plans manage climate Climate risk management is a We consider climate risk in our
banking portfolios through our risk risk in line with their fiduciary key feature of our investment portfolio of assets.
appetite and policies for financial duties towards members and local decision making and portfolio
and non-financial risks. regulatory requirements. management approach.
Climate risk
This helps enable us to identify We monitor climate risk exposure We also engage with We have established an evolving
opportunities to support our internally for our largest plans companies on topics related to ESG programme to meet changing
customers, while continuing to based on asset sector allocation climate change. external expectations and
meet stakeholder expectations. and carbon emissions data customer demands.
where available.
Customers Employees Customers Investors EmpCluosyteoemseCrsommCuunsittoiemsersInvEemsptolorsyeR geo esv g e u r lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ays nede CsomImnvuensittoierSssuppliICenruvsestsotComurR gessoretsov gmCe u rolen amrt msomr e s nu t ans nitdie sCEommpmloEuymneitpeSielsuoR gspyo epev gleie uesr lrn ast m or eCs nu t ass ntR g doom e v gIene urrvlsn aet msoItnr eos nvr set a ssntSdou rpsplierEsmplCoSuyCuseopteompsmlmiCeeruorssnmitmiCeuusnsittoiemsersInveEsmR gtoo eprv glsoe uyr lR gn aeo etem o v gsr ee us nr l En a t at smm noCdrpeus nlso t atysonemde CseorsmmInuSvnueiptsipteolSsireusrpspliIenErvmsepstlooyrR gseo eev gse uCr l n aot mmor ems nC t auus nnsditto iemsCeorsmInmveusntiotSireusspR gpo eliv gee ursr lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ays R g neo deev g Cse uor lmn at mmor eus nn t aistniedSs uppliIenrvsestoSrR gusope v gpe ulirel n art msor e s n t a s nd CommunitSieusppliers R go e v g e u r l n at m or e s n t a s nd Suppliers
Banking faced by companies are considered when and 2022 through its annual TCFD Report,
Our banking business is well positioned making investment decisions and to assess will continue to report against the 2030
to support our customers managing their ESG risks and opportunities that could impact targets and aims to widen the coverage of its
own climate risk through financing. For our investment performance. assessment and reporting over time. In 2023,
wholesale customers, we use our transition its asset managers were formally notified of
engagement questionnaire to understand HSBC Asset Management engages with the Trustee’s ESG risk mitigation priorities and
clients’ climate strategies and risks. We investee companies on a priority list as defined encouraged to develop commensurate risk
have set out a suite of policies to guide our in its Global Stewardship Plan, and votes at mitigation strategies. The manager monitoring
management of climate risk. We continue company general meetings, including on the and selection processes now explicitly
to develop our climate risk appetite and topic of climate change. It also works with include assessment of these strategies where
metrics to help manage climate exposures in collaborative engagement initiatives such as financially material.
our wholesale and retail portfolios. We also Climate Action 100+ and Nature Action 100.
develop and use climate scenario analysis For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK)
to gain insights on the long-term effects For further details of the HSBC Global Asset Pension Scheme’s annual TCFD statements and
of transition and physical risks across our Management (UK) Limited’s annual TCFD climate action plan, see http://futurefocus.staff.
Report, see https://www.assetmanagement. hsbc.co.uk/active-dc/information-centre/
wholesale and retail banking portfolios (for hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/attachments/uk/ other-information.
further details, see page 225). common/tcfd-report-2022.pdf.
Insurance
Asset management Employee pensions In 2023, our Insurance business updated its
HSBC Asset Management recognises that The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension sustainability procedures to align with the
climate risk may manifest as transition and Scheme, our largest plan with $36bn assets Group’s updated energy and thermal coal-
physical risks over the short, medium and under management, aims to achieve net zero phase out policies. We also delivered ESG
long term. The impact of climate-related risk greenhouse gas emissions across its defined product marketing guidelines with insurance
will vary depending on characteristics such benefit and defined contribution assets by examples and training.
as asset class, sector, business model and 2050. To help achieve this, it is targeting an
geography. Where applicable and relevant, interim emissions reduction of 50% by 2030, In response to various ESG regulatory
HSBC Asset Management incorporates from 2019 levels, for its equity and corporate initiatives and developments, HSBC’s
climate-related indicators, such as carbon bond mandates. This commitment was made insurance manufacturing entities in the EU,
intensity and management of carbon in the context of wider efforts to manage the which are in Malta and France, have continued
emissions, into investment decisions as well as impact of climate change on the Scheme’s to implement key disclosure-related regulatory
insights from its climate-related engagement. investments and the consequent impact on requirements, including pre-contractual
the financial interests of members. reporting, client periodic reporting and
Work continues on the integration of ESG sustainable investment impact statements.
and climate analysis into HSBC Asset The Scheme, which has reported emission Related requirements for the UK are expected
Management’s actively managed product reductions for its listed equity and corporate to be introduced in 2024.
offerings to help ensure the climate risks bond mandate portfolios between 2019
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 65
ESG review | Environmental
Sustainability risk policies
TCFD
Our sustainability risk policies help to set We regularly review our policies, incorporating Biodiversity and natural
out our appetite for financing and advisory feedback and building on experience from capital-related policies
activities in certain sectors. Our policies are policy implementation over time. Our sustainability risk policies impose
important mechanisms for delivering our restrictions on certain financing activities
net zero ambitions, as well as for managing Where we identify activities that could that may have material negative impacts on
sustainability risks. cause material negative impacts, we expect nature. While a number of our sustainability
customers to demonstrate that they are risk policies have such restrictions, our
Our policies identifying and mitigating risks responsibly, forestry and agricultural commodities policies
Our sustainability risk policies comprise and we will look to take required actions as focus specifically on a key nature-related
our core net zero-aligned policies – thermal outlined in our policies, which may include impact: deforestation. These policies require
coal phase-out and energy – and our applying financing restrictions or enhanced customers involved with major deforestation-
broader sustainability risk policies covering: due diligence. risk commodities to operate in accordance
agricultural commodities, chemicals, forestry, with sustainable business principles. We
mining and metals, and World Heritage Sites For further details of how we manage also require palm oil customers to obtain
and Ramsar-designated wetlands. We also sustainability risk, as well as our full policies, certification under the Roundtable on
see www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
apply the Equator Principles when financing Sustainable Palm Oil, and commit to ‘No
responsibility/sustainability-risk.
relevant projects. Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation’
(see ‘Our respect for human rights’ on
Governance and implementation
Our sustainability risk policies focus on page 89).
Our Group Risk and Compliance function
mitigating the negative impacts of specific
has specialists who review and support
sectors on people and the environment. Our energy policy
implementation of our sustainability risk
Our net zero policies, including energy and Our energy policy covers the broader energy
policies. Our relationship managers are the
thermal coal phase-out, also support our system, including upstream oil and gas, fossil
primary point of contact for many of our
ambition to transition to net zero. Engaging fuel power generation, hydrogen, renewables
business customers and are responsible
with customers on their transition plans is a and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and waste-
for managing customers’ adherence to
key aspect of our net zero policy approach. to-energy sectors.
the sustainability risk policies. They are
These policies aim to provide clear signals
supported by sustainability risk managers
to our customers on how our appetite and The policy seeks to balance three objectives:
across the Group who have local or regional
expectations for different activities are driving down global greenhouse gas
responsibility for advising on, and overseeing,
changing, as well as how we will consider emissions; enabling an orderly transition
the management of risks as outlined in the
their plans for the future. that builds resilience in the long term; and
policies. Where considered appropriate, policy
supporting a just and affordable transition,
matters are escalated to relevant internal
We continue to review policy implementation recognising the local realities in all the
governance committees.
as we apply our policies in practice, and our communities we serve.
operationalisation of such policies continues
Oversight of the development and
to be enhanced. We take a risk-based The energy policy was first published in
implementation of policies is the responsibility
approach when identifying transactions and December 2022 and updated in January 2024.
of relevant governance committees comprising
clients to which our energy and thermal coal We review the policy annually to help ensure
senior members of the Group Risk and
phase-out policies apply, and when reporting that it remains aligned with our net zero by
Compliance function and global businesses.
on relevant exposures, adopting approaches 2050 ambition and strategic objectives.
proportionate to risk and materiality. This
helps to focus our efforts on areas where we For further details of our oil and gas, and power
believe we can help drive meaningful change, and utilities financed emissions targets, see the
‘Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed
while taking into account experience from
emissions on page 57.
policy implementation over time.
For further details of our energy policy, see
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/sustainability-risk.
66 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Sustainability risk policies continued
Our thermal coal phase-out policy In our Annual Report and Accounts 2022 we Considering materiality criteria helps us to
As set out in the thermal coal phase-out acknowledged that our processes, systems, focus our efforts on areas where we believe
policy, we are committed to phasing out the controls and governance were not yet designed we can help drive meaningful change, while
financing of thermal coal-fired power and to fully identify and disclose thermal coal taking into account experience from policy
thermal coal mining in EU and OECD markets exposures and that we planned to reassess the implementation over time.
by 2030, and globally by 2040. reliability of our data and review our basis of
preparation to help ensure that we are reporting Applying our revised basis of preparation,
Our policy aims to support thermal coal all relevant thermal coal exposures aligned to our thermal coal financing drawn balance
phase-out aligned to science-based our thermal coal phase-out policy. exposure was approximately $1bn† as at
timeframes, recognising the different pace 31 December 2020. We continue to work on
between advanced and emerging economies. We have now revised the basis of preparation our 2021 and 2022 numbers based on our
In turn our policy supports progress towards for our thermal coal exposures. Aligned with revised basis of preparation and expect to
our financed emissions targets for the power our thermal coal phase-out policy, we applied report on these in future disclosures.
and utilities and thermal coal mining sectors. a risk-based approach to identify clients and
report on relevant exposures. This includes For further details of our approach to financed
The policy was first published in December the use of globally recognised third-party emissions, see ‘Our Approach to financed
emissions’ on page 53.
2021 and is reviewed annually, with the most data sources to screen clients and applies
† Data is subject to independent limited assurance
recent update in January 2024, to help ensure materiality considerations to product type,
by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ISAE 3410.
that it remains aligned with our commitments customer type and exposure type, which
For further details, see our Financed Emissions
and takes into consideration relevant changes informs inclusion and exclusion requirements. and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology and
in external factors. PwC’s limited assurance report, which are
Specifically, for product types, short-term available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
For our thermal coal phase-out policy, see www. lending exposures are excluded from our esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
hsbc.com/-/files/hsbc/our-approach/risk-and- thermal coal financing exposures reporting in
responsibility/pdfs/240125-hsbc-thermal-coal-
line with our financed emissions methodology.
phase-out-policy.pdf.
For customer types, exclusions are applied for
For further details of our thermal coal phase-out
certain customer types such as sovereigns
policy January 2024 update, see page 71 of our
Net Zero Transition Plan 2024, which is available and individuals. For exposure types, a
at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-climate- threshold of $15m for drawn balances is
strategy/our-net-zero-transition-plan. applied for thermal coal financing exposures
reporting. For the avoidance of doubt, the
Thermal coal financing exposures $15m threshold applies only to exposure
We intend to reduce thermal coal financing reporting analysis and does not apply to
drawn balance exposure from a 2020 baseline the application of the thermal coal
by at least 25% by 2025 and aim to reduce it phase-out policy.
by 50% by 2030.
For further details of our Financed Emissions and
Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
Asset Management policy
HSBC Asset Management published its own transition away from thermal coal could face under the Group energy policy. HSBC Asset
policy on thermal coal in September 2022, voting sanctions and ultimately a divestment Management’s policy work will continue to
and its own energy policy in November of holdings. support the Group’s sustainability objectives
2023. As an asset manager, it is subject to and the commitment made under the Net
separate regulatory and legal obligations to Under its energy policy, HSBC Asset Zero Asset Managers initiative to support
deliver customers’ investment interests and Management will engage with – and investing aligned with net zero by 2050.
deliver fair outcomes. assess the transition plans of – oil and gas, We continue on the journey of policy
and power and utilities companies held in implementation, including engaging with
Under its thermal coal policy, HSBC Asset its portfolios. For its active fundamental the companies in which we invest, and
Management will not hold listed securities sustainable named funds, it will exclude improving the data we rely on to monitor
of issuers with more than de minimis listed issuers whose overall operations are the policies.
revenue exposure to thermal coal in its substantially in unconventional oil and gas,
actively managed funds beyond 2030 for EU subject to data availability, and with the level For further details of the energy policy, see
and OECD markets, and globally by 2040. and scope of exclusions to be set out in fund www.assetmanagement.hsbc.lu/-/media/files/
attachments/common/energy-policy-en.pdf.
The policy also includes enhanced due prospectuses. In its alternatives business, it
For further details of the thermal coal policy,
diligence on the transition plans of investee will not undertake new direct investments
see www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/
companies with thermal coal exposure. in projects associated with the energy-
media/files/attachments/common/coal-policy-
Companies held in investment portfolios related activities identified as excluded en.pdf.
that do not develop credible plans to from new finance or advisory services
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 67
ESG review | Environmental
Partnering for systemic change
Supporting systemic change to deliver net zero
We recognise that collective action is critical to develop guidance for financial institutions Working with civil society and
to achieve net zero. We seek to collaborate on financing the managed phase-out of non-governmental organisations
with a range of partners to develop a coal-fired power plants in Asia-Pacific. As part of our global philanthropy, we have
supportive environment for achieving net zero – As Chair of the Sustainable Markets partnered with a range of organisations to
and mobilising finance for climate action and Initiative’s (‘SMI’) Financial Services support the acceleration of climate action and
nature-based solutions. Our partnerships vary Taskforce, we have been actively involved in investments in nature.
in scope and form depending on the sector the publication of industry guidance to help
and geography, as well as our presence in encourage investment in critical ecosystems Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership
local markets. We act independently and and sustainable agricultural practices. initiative with the World Resources Institute,
voluntarily in our decision making, based on These include sponsorship of a report by WWF and over 50 local partners, continues to
our own business interests, priorities and Pollination on financing coastal nature- support the scaling up of nature-based solutions
objectives, and in accordance with the laws based solutions, as well as contributing and the transition of the energy sector in Asia.
and regulations of the markets in which we to the Mangrove Breakthrough initiative’s This includes engaging with local enterprises
operate. financial roadmap and the SMI Agribusiness across Asia to make climate commitments
Task Force’s blended finance framework for and take corporate action. Under the Asia
Working with the public sector regenerative farming. Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, we are
We engage with governments and public working closely with smallholders and traders
– As a member of the Taskforce on Nature-
bodies to support the implementation of to transition to more sustainable practices and
related Financial Disclosures (‘TNFD’), we
policies and regulations, including promoting reduce nature-related losses.
have piloted the TNFD beta framework
good practice to develop globally consistent
to better understand our exposure to
approaches to nature and climate-related We have also established several new
nature-related risks, including on subsets
financial regulation. In 2023, this included: partnerships focused on transitioning industry,
of customers. We are currently focused
decarbonising global trade and catalysing the
on assessing and preparing for mandatory
– working with the UK Net Zero Council, a new economy. These include:
nature-related disclosure requirements,
cross-government business partnership, to
and we continue to engage with TNFD and
help address market barriers to delivering – a three-year partnership with the Apparel
explore ways it can help us and our clients
net zero, including high start-up costs for Impact Institute to mobilise blended finance
to strengthen nature-related reporting.
renewable energy projects, regulatory for projects to reduce supply chain emissions
challenges and uncertainty around policy in the global fashion industry;
In 2023, we also supported financial product
frameworks; and development to help mobilise the allocation – a founding membership of the Capacity-
– continuing to engage with Just Energy of capital towards halting and reversing building Alliance for Sustainable Investment,
Transition Partnerships contributing to nature loss: a global platform providing local capacity
Indonesia’s comprehensive investment building services and technical assistance
and policy plan and Vietnam’s resource – We worked with the ICMA to help develop to support growth of transition financing
mobilisation plan, which provide roadmaps global guidance for issuers launching in emerging markets and developing
for minimising the negative impact on local blue bonds – debt instruments that raise economies; and
communities of phasing out fossil fuels and capital to finance sustainable marine and – a two-year partnership with Repower,
how banks can support the transition. ocean-based projects – including eligibility a global non-profit initiative analysing
criteria, standards for evaluating the impact the technical and commercial feasibility
Working with industry of projects, and the steps needed to build of various options for repowering and
We participate in cross-industry alliances and the integrity of the blue economy and repurposing coal-fired power plants to
initiatives to stimulate industry engagement in mobilise investment. accelerate the transition to clean energy.
nature and climate-related issues, and improve
– We partnered with Earth Security to explore
consistency in global financial standards,
the barriers, opportunities and design options
guidance and frameworks to accelerate
for creating a ‘mangrove bond’ in Queensland,
implementation. In 2023, these included:
Australia to help generate funding to
enhance mangrove ecosystems. This led to
– We are supporting the widespread adoption
the publication of a practical blueprint for
of the GFANZ net zero transition plan
investors, banks, corporates and governments
framework, as a member of its Principals
to develop new sustainable fixed income and
Group. We also jointly led a working group
investment product opportunities.
Unlocking the potential of Chinese ecosystems
We have been working with the SEE Foundation in China on a multi-stakeholder pilot project
to enhance the climate resilience and biodiversity of forests, inland wetlands, and mangroves
in several selected local provinces. The project aims to restore and promote sustainable
management of key ecosystems and improve ecosystem services such as carbon sinks,
as a model for other areas in China and around the world. Its efforts to reduce emissions,
and generate jobs through the support of sustainable local enterprises, has also unlocked
government and public funding for expansion and gained recognition from the World Bank
and the Chinese government.
68 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Our approach to climate reporting
TCFD
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
The table below sets out the 11 TCFD recommendations and summarises where additional information can be found.
We have considered our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under both the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and Sections 414CA and
414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006, and confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended
Disclosures, including its annexes and supplemental guidance, save for certain items, which we summarise below and in the additional information
section on page 440.
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Governance
a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a))
Process, frequency – The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the Pages 88
and training approach, execution and associated reporting. It considered ESG at eight meetings during the year. and 256
– Board members receive ESG-related training as part of their induction and ongoing development, and seek
Page 88
out further opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area.
Sub-committee accountability, – The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) considered ESG and climate reporting matters at eight meetings during Page 267
processes and frequency 2023. Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported by the executive-level ESG
Committee, provided close oversight of the disclosure risks in relation to ESG and climate reporting, amid
rising stakeholder expectations.
– The Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) received reports on climate risk management, energy and thermal coal Pages 275
phase-out policies, while maintaining oversight of delivery plans to ensure that the Group develops robust and 278
climate risk management capabilities. It considered ESG risk at five meetings in 2023.
– The diagram on page 88 provides an illustration of our ESG governance process, including how the Board’s
Page 88
strategy on climate is cascaded and implemented throughout the organisation. It identifies examples of
forums that manage both climate-related opportunities and risks, along with their responsibilities and the
responsible chair.
Examples of the Board and – The Board considered whether to establish a Board committee dedicated to ESG issues, but instead decided Page 254
relevant Board committees that the best way to support the oversight and delivery of the Group’s climate ambition and ESG strategy was
taking climate into account to retain governance at Board level.
– In 2023, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and Page 254
detailed updates including: review and approval of the net zero transition plan, deep dives on the sustainability
execution programme, reviews of net zero-aligned policies and climate-aligned financing initiatives.
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB
2A (a))
Who manages climate-related – The ESG Committee supports the development and delivery of our ESG strategy, key policies and material Page 222
risks and opportunities commitments by providing oversight, coordination and management of ESG commitments and initiatives. It
is co-chaired by the Group Chief Sustainability Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
– In 2023, we enhanced our ESG governance with the establishment of a new Sustainability Execution Page 88
Committee, which focuses on defining and measuring the success of our climate ambition, and developing
commercial opportunities that support it through the sustainability execution programme.
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager responsible for the management of Page 222
climate risk under the UK Senior Managers Regime, which involves holding overall accountability for the
Group’s climate risk programme.
How management reports to – The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and implementation of strategy to the Page 250
the Board Group Chief Executive. The Group Chief Executive is supported in his management of the Group by
recommendations and advice from the Group Executive Committee, an executive forum comprising
members of senior management that include chief executive officers of the global businesses, regional chief
executive officers and functional heads.
– The Group Executive Committee further enhanced its governance model of ESG matters with the Page 254
introduction of a new Sustainability Execution Committee and supporting forums. These support senior
management in the operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability strategy, through the oversight of the
sustainability execution programme.
Processes used to – The Group Risk Management Meeting oversees the enterprise-wide management of all risks, including Page 88
inform management updates relating to the Group’s climate risk profile and risk appetite, top and emerging climate risks, and key
climate initiatives.
– The Environmental Risk Oversight Forum oversees global risk activities relating to environmental risk Page 88
management, including the transition and physical risks from climate change. Equivalent forums have been
established at regional level, where appropriate.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 69
ESG review | Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Strategy
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term (Companies Act
2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (d))
Processes used to – To support the requirements for assessing the impacts of climate change, we continue to develop a set Page 37
determine material risks of capabilities to execute climate stress testing and scenario analysis. These are used to improve our
and opportunities understanding of our risk exposures for risk management and business decision making.
– We also develop and use climate scenario analysis to gain insights on the long-term effects of transition and Page 65
physical risks across our wholesale and retail banking portfolios.
– Our sustainable finance and investment ambition aims to help promote green, sustainable and socially-
Page 50
focused business and sustainable investment products and solutions.
Relevant short-, medium-, and – We have continued to take steps to implement our climate ambition to become net zero in our operations and Page 42
long-term time horizons our supply chain by 2030, and align our financed emissions to net zero by 2050.
– In 2023, we continued to provide sustainable financing and investment to our customers in line with our
Page 44
ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn by 2030.
– Our assessment of climate risks covers three distinct time periods, comprising: short term, which is up to
2025; medium term, which is between 2026 and 2035; and long term, which is between 2036 and 2050. Page 141
These time periods are aligned to the Climate Action 100+ framework v1.2.
Transition or physical – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating Page 50
climate-related between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Our sustainable finance data
issues identified dictionary includes a detailed definition of contributing activities.
– For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending
portfolio to six high transition risk sectors. As at 31 December 2023, the overall exposure to six high transition Page 223
risk sectors was $112bn. Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers through
a transition engagement questionnaire (formerly the transition and physical risk questionnaire) to gather
information and assess the alignment of our wholesale customers’ business models to net zero and their
exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the responses to the questionnaire to create a climate risk
score for our key wholesale customers.
– We measure the impacts of climate and weather events to our buildings on an ongoing basis using historical,
Page 229
current and scenario modelled forecast data. In 2023, there were 27 major storms that had a minor impact on
five premises with no impact on the availability of our buildings.
Risks and opportunities by – For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending Page 223
sector and/or geography portfolio to six high transition risk sectors. These are automotive, chemicals, construction and building
materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities.
– Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened physical risk are identified Page 224
and assessed locally, and potential exposure is monitored through quarterly metrics. We have also set risk
appetite metrics for physical risk in our largest mortgage markets, the UK and Hong Kong, as well as those
with local regulatory requirements, including Singapore.
– We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating Page 50
between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For a detailed breakdown of our
sustainable finance progress, see the ESG Data Pack.
Concentrations of credit – We report our exposure to the six high transition risk sectors in the wholesale portfolio. For details, see the Page 223
exposure to carbon-related ESG Data Pack.
assets (supplemental guidance – The UK is our largest mortgage market, which at September 2023 made up 40.0% of our global mortgage
for banks) portfolio. We estimate that 0.2% of our UK retail mortgage portfolio is at very high risk of flooding and 3.5% is Page 224
at high risk. This is based on approximately 94.2% climate risk data coverage by value of our UK portfolio as
at September 2023.
Climate-related risks (transition – Our material exposure to climate risk relates to wholesale and retail client financing activity within our banking Page 65
and physical) in lending and portfolio.
other financial intermediary – We are also exposed to climate risk in relation to asset ownership by our insurance business and employee
business activities pension plans. Page 65
(supplemental guidance
for banks) – HSBC Asset Management recognises that climate risk may manifest as transition and physical risks over
the short, medium and long term. The impact of climate-related risk will vary depending on characteristics Page 65
such as asset class, sector, business model and geography. Where applicable and relevant, HSBC Asset
Management incorporates climate-related indicators, such as carbon intensity and management of carbon
emissions, into investment decisions as well as insights from its climate-related engagement.
– In climate scenario analysis on page 227, we show the relative size of exposures at default in 2023 and the
Page 227
increase in cumulative ECL under each scenario compared with a counterfactual scenario by 2035 (expressed
as a multiple).
70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning (Companies
Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (e))
Impact on strategy, business, – Our net zero ambition represents one of our four strategic pillars. We aim to achieve net zero in our financed Page 44
and financial planning emissions by 2050, and in our own operations and supply chain by 2030.
– Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under
a range of climate scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet Page 225
our growing regulatory requirements. Developments in climate science, data, methodology and scenario
analysis techniques will help us shape our approach further. We therefore expect this view to change over
time.
– We continue to enhance our climate scenario analysis exercises so that we can have a more comprehensive Page 225
understanding of climate headwinds, risks and opportunities to support our strategic planning and actions.
– We have used climate scenarios to inform our organisation’s business, strategy and financial planning. In
2023, we continued to incorporate certain aspects of sustainable finance and financed emissions within our Page 222
financial planning process.
– We do not fully disclose impacts from climate-related opportunities on financial planning and performance
including on revenue, costs and the balance sheet, quantitative scenario analysis, detailed climate risk
exposures for all sectors and geographies or physical risk metrics. This is due to transitional challenges in Page 440
relation to data limitations, although nascent work is ongoing in these areas. We expect these data limitations
to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes available and technology solutions are
implemented.
Impact on products – We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating Page 50
and services between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
Impact on supply chain – We will continue to engage with our supply chain through CDP, and through direct discussions with our Page 63
and/or value chain suppliers on how they can further support our transition to net zero.
– We recognise that collective action is critical to achieve net zero. We seek to collaborate with a range of
Page 68
partners to develop a supportive environment for achieving net zero and mobilising finance for climate
action and nature-based solutions. Our partnerships vary in scope and form depending on the sector and
geography, as well as our presence in local markets.
– HSBC Asset Management engages with investee companies on a priority list as defined in its Global
Page 65
Stewardship Plan, and votes at company general meetings, including on the topic of climate change.
Impact on adaptation and – In October 2020, we announced our ambition to reduce our energy consumption by 50% by 2030, against a Page 63
mitigation activities 2019 baseline. As part of our ambition to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our operations by 2030,
we continue to look for opportunities to procure green electricity in each of our markets. In 2023, our fourth
UK renewable PPA went live in Sorbie, Scotland. A key challenge remains the limited opportunity to pursue
PPAs or green tariffs in key markets due to regulations.
– We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and global engineering standards and will Page 229
continue to assess historical claims data to help ensure our building selection and design standards address
the potential impacts of climate change.
Impact on operations – We have three elements to our strategy: reduce, replace and remove. We plan to first focus on reducing Page 63
carbon emissions from consumption, and then replacing remaining emissions with low-carbon alternatives
in line with the Paris Agreement. We plan to remove the remaining emissions that cannot be reduced or
replaced by procuring, in accordance with prevailing regulatory requirements, high-quality offsets at a later
stage.
– We use stress testing to evaluate the potential for impact on our owned or leased premises. Our scenario Page 229
stress test, conducted in 2023, analysed how eight climate change-related hazards could impact 1,000 of
our critical and important buildings. These hazards were coastal inundation, extreme heat, extreme winds,
wildfires, riverine flooding, pluvial flooding, soil movement due to drought, and surface water flooding.
Impact on investment in – Throughout 2023, we published regular ESG and sustainability-related market insights and updates such Page 51
research and development as #WhyESGMatters and Learning about ESG to help clients better understand the implications for their
investments.
– We recognise the need to find new solutions and increase the pace of change for the world to achieve the Page 52
Paris Agreement goal of being net zero by 2050. We are working with a range of partners to accelerate
investment in sustainable infrastructure, natural resources and climate technology to help reduce emissions
and address climate change.
Impact on acquisitions – We have updated our merger and acquisition process to consider potential climate and sustainability-related Page 222
or divestments targets, net zero transition plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to HSBC.
Impact on access to capital – We have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy and financial planning. Page 440
Our access to capital may be impacted by reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In
addition, if we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on our business activities or if we fail to achieve our
stated net zero ambitions, we could face reputational damage, impacting our revenue-generating ability and
potentially our access to capital markets. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term
as more data becomes available. To manage these risks we have integrated climate risk into our existing risk
taxonomy, and incorporated it within the risk management framework through the policies and controls for
the existing risks where appropriate.
Transition plan to a – We published our Group-wide net zero transition plan in January 2024. In this plan, we provided an overview Page 440
low-carbon economy of our approach to net zero and the actions we are taking to help meet our ambitions. We want to be clear
about our approach, the change underway today and what we plan to do in the future. We also want to
be transparent about where there are still unresolved issues and uncertainties. We are still developing our
disclosures, including considerations of possible additional data in relation to our financial plans, budgets,
and related financial approach for the implementation of the transition plan in the medium term (e.g. amount
of capital and other expenditures supporting our decarbonisation strategy). The UK Transition Plan Taskforce
published its final transition plan disclosure framework in October 2023. We will continue to evolve our
transition plan disclosures to take into account new and evolving regulatory developments.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 71
ESG review | Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower
scenario (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (f))
Embedding climate into – Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under Page 225
scenario analysis a range of climate scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet
our growing regulatory requirements.
– In our 2023 climate scenario analysis exercises, we explored five scenarios that were created to examine the Page 225
potential impacts from climate change for the Group and its entities.
Key drivers of performance – Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential climate pathways may affect and impact Page 227
and how these have been the resilience of our customers and our portfolios, particularly in respect of credit losses. Under the Current
taken into account Commitments scenario, we expect lower levels of losses relating to transition risks, although we would
expect an increase in the effects of climate-related physical risks over the longer term.
– Scenario analysis results have been used to support the Group’s ICAAP. This is an internal assessment of Page 229
the capital the Group needs to hold to meet the risks identified on a current and projected basis, including
climate risk.
– In addition, scenario analysis informs our risk appetite statement metrics. As an example, it supports the Page 229
calibration of physical risk metrics for our retail mortgage portfolios and it is used to consider climate impact
in our IFRS 9 assessment.
Scenarios used and – Our scenarios are: the Net Zero scenario, the Current Commitments scenario, the Delayed Transition Risk Page 225
how they factored in scenario, the Downside Physical Risk scenario and the Near Term scenario.
government policies – Our scenarios reflect different levels of physical and transition risks over a variety of time periods. The
scenario assumptions include varying levels of governmental climate policy changes, macroeconomic factors Page 225
and technological developments. However, these scenarios rely on the development of technologies that are
still unproven, such as global hydrogen production to decarbonise aviation and shipping.
How our strategies may – The nature of the scenarios, our developing capabilities, and limitations of the analysis lead to outcomes that Page 225
change and adapt are indicative of climate change headwinds, although they are not a direct forecast.
– Developments in climate science, data, methodology and scenario analysis techniques will help us shape our
Page 225
approach further. We therefore expect this view to change over time.
– Climate scenario analysis plays a crucial role helping us to identify and understand the impact of climate-
related risks and potential opportunities as we navigate the transition to net zero. Page 229
– Our target-setting approach to date, for on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emissions, has
been to utilise a single net zero reference scenario (IEA NZE 2021) to underpin both energy supply-related
sectors (oil and gas, power and utilities, and thermal coal mining) and our published targets for demand-side Page 53
sectors in transport and heavy industry.
– We recognise that the so-called ‘hard-to-abate’ sectors, such as cement, iron, steel and aluminium, and
aviation have a large dependence on nascent technologies and the presence (or not) of enabling policies and Page 48
regulations. We may consider tracking progress relative to 1.5°C-aligned ambition ranges for these sectors in
the future, which could include industry-specific scenarios alongside the IEA NZE scenario.
– We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk quantitatively, due to transitional
challenges including data limitations and evolving science and methodologies. In 2023, we have disclosed
the impairment impacts for our wholesale, retail and commercial real estate portfolios in different climate
scenarios. In addition, we have disclosed losses on our retail mortgage book under three scenarios and Page 440
flood depths for specific markets. For our wholesale book, we have disclosed potential implications on our
expected credit losses for 11 sectors under two scenarios. We have also disclosed a heat map showing how
we expect the risks to evolve over time.
Risk management
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))
Process – We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and controls across many areas of our organisation, Page 222
and we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature over time.
– We updated our climate risk management approach to incorporate net zero alignment risk and developed
Page 222
guidance on how climate risk should be managed for non-financial risk types. While we have made progress
in enhancing our climate risk framework, further work remains. This includes the need to develop additional
metrics and tools to measure our exposure to climate-related risks, and to incorporate these tools within decision
making.
– In 2023, we enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis exercise by focusing our efforts on generating more
granular insights for key sectors and regions to support core decision-making processes, and to respond to our Page 225
regulatory requirements. In climate scenario analysis, we consider, jointly, both physical risks and transition risks.
– We continue to review policy implementation as we apply our policies in practice, and our operationalisation
Page 66
of such policies continues to be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach when identifying transactions
and clients to which our energy and thermal coal phase-out policies apply, and when reporting on relevant
exposures, adopting approaches proportionate to risk and materiality.
Integration into policies – We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and controls across many areas of our Page 222
and procedures organisation, and we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature
over time.
Consider climate-related risks – We provide further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk Page 223
in traditional banking industry types, including wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk, treasury risk, traded risk, reputational risk, regulatory
risk categories (supplementary compliance risk, resilience risk, model risk, and financial reporting risk.
guidance for banks)
72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))
Process and how we – The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee receive regular updates on our climate Page 222
make decisions risk profile and progress of our climate risk programme.
– The Environmental Risk Oversight Forum (formerly the Climate Risk Oversight Forum) oversees risk activities
relating to climate and sustainability risk management, including the transition and physical risks from climate Page 222
change. Equivalent forums have been established at a regional level.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk
management framework (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (c))
How we have aligned and – Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of Page 221
integrated our approach defence model, which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks.
– We are developing our climate risk capabilities across our businesses, by prioritising sectors, portfolios and
Page 221
counterparties with the highest impacts.
– In 2023, we updated our climate risk materiality assessment, to understand how climate risk may impact
across HSBC’s risk taxonomy. Page 221
– In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our emerging risk reporting and scenario
analysis. Page 221
How we take into account – Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of Page 221
interconnections between defence model, which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks.
entities and functions – Through our climate risk programme, we continued to embed climate considerations throughout the
organisation, including through risk policy updates and the completion of our annual climate risk materiality Page 139
assessment. We also developed risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced our
internal climate scenario analysis.
– We continue to make progress in enhancing our climate risk capabilities, and recognise it is a long-term Page 221
iterative process. This includes updating our approach to reflect how the risks associated with climate change
continue to evolve in the real world, and maturing how we embed climate risk factors into strategic planning,
transactions and decision making across our businesses.
Metrics and targets
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management
process (Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (h))
Metrics used to assess the – We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six Page 223
impact of climate-related risks high transition risk sectors. As at 31 December 2023, the overall exposure to six high transition risk sectors
on our loan portfolio was $112bn.
– The UK is our largest mortgage market, which at September 2023 made up 40.0% of our global mortgage Page 224
portfolio. We estimate that 0.2% of our UK retail mortgage portfolio is at very high risk of flooding, and 3.5%
is at high risk. This is based on approximately 94.2% climate risk data coverage by value of our UK portfolio as
at September 2023.
– In 2023, we further developed our risk metrics to monitor our performance against our net zero targets for Page 222
both financed emissions and own operations.
Metrics used to assess – We continue to track our progress against our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable P age 18
progress against opportunities finance and investment by 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary. For a detailed breakdown of our
sustainable finance progress, see the ESG Data Pack.
– We do not currently fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital deployment or other Page 440
business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, including revenue from products and services
designed for a low-carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with our business or strategic planning
time horizons. In relation to sustainable finance revenue and assets we are disclosing certain elements. We
expect the data and system limitations related to financial planning and performance, and climate-related
opportunities metrics to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes available and
technology solutions are implemented. We expect to further enhance this disclosure in the medium term.
Board or senior – To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a number of measures are included in the annual incentive and long- Page 16
management incentives term incentive scorecards of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Executives.
Internal carbon price – We do not currently disclose internal carbon prices due to transitional challenges such as data challenges. Page 440
But we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further
enhance this disclosure in the medium term.
Metrics used to assess the – As part of our 2023 internal climate scenario analysis, we completed a detailed climate risk assessment for Page 228
impact of climate risk on the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China and Australia, which together represent 75% of the balances in our
lending and financial global retail mortgage portfolio. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal losses to
intermediary business materialise when considering the Current Commitments scenario.
(supplemental guidance – In insights from climate scenario analysis on page 227, we showed the relative size of exposures at default in
for banks) 2023 and the increase in cumulative ECL under each scenario compared with a counterfactual scenario by Page 227
2035 (expressed as a multiple).
– We do not fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related physical (chronic) and
transitions (policy and legal, technology and market) risks on retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and
other financial intermediary business activities (specifically credit exposure, equity and debt holdings, or Page 440
trading positions, each broken down by industry, geography, credit quality and average tenor). We are aiming
to develop the appropriate systems, data and processes to provide these disclosures in future years. We
disclose the exposure to six high transition risk wholesale sectors and the flood risk exposure and Energy
Performance Certificate breakdown for the UK portfolio.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 73
ESG review | Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks (Companies Act 2006 –
Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (h))
Our own operations – We report greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the energy used in our buildings and employees’ Page 64
business travel. In 2023, we also continue to disclose our scope 3 (category 1 and category 2) supply chain
emissions. Our initial supply chain emission figures may require updating as data availability changes over
time and methodologies and climate science evolve.
Greenhouse gas emissions – Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and ‘facilitated Page 53
for lending and financial emissions’. Our on-balance sheet financed emissions include emissions related to on-balance sheet lending,
intermediary business such as project finance and direct lending. Our facilitated emissions include emissions related to financing we
(supplemental guidance help clients to raise through capital markets activities.
for banks) – Work continues on the integration of ESG and climate analysis into HSBC Asset Management’s actively Page 65
managed product offerings to help ensure the climate risks faced by companies are considered when making
investment decisions and to assess ESG risks and opportunities that could impact investment performance.
– We currently disclose four out of 15 categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions including business Page 440
travel, supply chain and financed emissions. In relation to financed emissions, we publish on-balance sheet
financed emissions for a number of sectors as detailed on page 18. We also publish facilitated emissions for
the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors. Future disclosures on financed emissions and related risks are
reliant on our customers publicly disclosing their greenhouse gas emissions, targets and plans, and related
risks. We recognise the need to provide early transparency on climate disclosures but balance this with the
recognition that existing data and reporting processes require significant enhancements.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets
(Companies Act 2006 – Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (g))
Details of targets set and – We continue to track our progress against our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable Page 18
whether they are absolute or finance and investment by 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary.
intensity based – We have continued to take steps to implement our climate ambition to become net zero in our operations and
Page 42
our supply chain by 2030, and align our financed emissions to net zero by 2050.
– For financed emissions we do not plan to set 2025 targets. We set targets in line with the Net-Zero Banking
Alliance (‘NZBA‘) guidelines by setting 2030 targets. While the NZBA defines 2030 as intermediate, we use Page 17
different time horizons for climate risk management. For climate, we define short term as time periods up
to 2025; medium term is between 2026 and 2035; and long term is between 2036 and 2050. These time
periods align to the Climate Action 100+ disclosure framework. In 2023, we disclosed interim 2030 targets for
financed emissions for a number of sectors as we outline on page 18.
– We do not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In relation to capital deployment, since 2015, we
Page 440
have issued more than $2bn of our own green bonds and structured green bonds with the capital invested
into a variety of green projects, including: green buildings, renewable energy and clean transportation
projects. In 2023, we further progressed our internal review and enhancement of the green bond framework,
with further refinement including internal and external review to be undertaken in 2024. This will be subject
to continuous review and monitoring to ensure that they remain up to date and reflect updated standards,
taxonomies and best practices. Any such developments in standards, taxonomies and best practices over
time could result in revisions in our reporting going forward and lead to differences year-on-year as compared
to prior years. See the HSBC Green Bond Report for further information.
– We do not currently disclose internal carbon pricing target due to transitional challenges such as developing Page 440
the appropriate systems and processes, but we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario
analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes
available.
– We do not currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk. This is due to transitional
challenges including data limitations of physical risk metrics. For retail, we do not use targets to measure and Page 440
manage physical risk. In 2023 we introduced internally a global ‘soft trigger’ monitoring and review process
for physical risk exposure where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures markets are
actively considering their balance sheet risk exposure to peril events. We also consider physical and transition
risk as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance our disclosures as
our data, quantitative scenario analysis, risk metrics and physical risk targets evolve, and technology solutions
are implemented in the medium term.
Page 440
– We have described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities
and performance against targets. However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do not
consider water usage to be a material target for our business and, therefore, we have not included a target in
this year’s disclosure.
Other key performance – In October 2020, we announced our ambition to reduce our energy consumption by 50% by 2030, against a 2019 Page 63
indicators used baseline, and in 2023 we achieved 26.3%.
– As part of our ambition to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our operations by 2030, we continue to look
Page 63
for opportunities to procure green electricity in each of our markets. In 2023, our fourth UK renewable PPA went
live in Sorbie, Scotland.
74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Social
Social
Building inclusion and resilience
We play an active role in opening up a world of opportunity for
our customers, colleagues and communities by connecting
across our international networks to help build a more inclusive
and resilient society.
At a glance
Inclusion is key to opening up a world of making with women in senior leadership roles We build resilience by creating products and
opportunity. It involves a commitment to has not been as fast paced as we would like. services that simplify the banking experience,
identifying and addressing barriers that may so customers can manage and grow their
stop people from accessing opportunities Employee well-being is essential. We offer wealth more easily. We also help protect
because of who they are or where they all colleagues a wide range of resources what people value most – their health,
are from. that help support their mental, physical and families, homes and belongings. We also
financial well-being so they can thrive in and build resilience by providing education so
Inclusion goes hand in hand with resilience. out of work. We are working to ensure that customers can understand how to manage
We aim to help people build the capabilities our offices, branches and digital spaces are their finances more effectively.
they need to achieve their goals and to deal accessible and safe for all.
with the challenges they face, so we are Communities
focused on delivering products, services We also help our colleagues build resilience We are developing an updated global
and education that support our colleagues, by ensuring that they are equipped with the philanthropy strategy that allows us to work
customers and communities. skills and knowledge they need to progress alongside the communities we operate within,
their careers during a period of significant and which aligns with our ESG areas of focus
Colleagues economic transformation. – ‘transition to net zero’ and ‘building inclusion
We believe that an inclusive, healthy and and resilience’.
rewarding workplace helps the whole Group Customers
succeed. We are focused on recruiting and We are committed to helping our customers We believe that fostering inclusion and
retaining diverse talent by offering fair pay access the financial services they need. They building resilience helps us to create long-term
and career progression so we can ensure our should not find it more difficult to access value and growth. By removing unnecessary
colleagues – and particularly our leadership finance because of their gender, their ethnicity, barriers and striving to be a fair and equitable
– are representative of the communities we their sexual orientation, their neurodiversity organisation, we can attract and retain the
serve. We do this by setting meaningful goals or their disability. Our ambition is to create a best talent, support a wider customer base
and tracking and monitoring our progress. In welcoming, inclusive and accessible banking to achieve their goals and stimulate growth in
2023, we continued to make progress against experience for all our customers. our communities. This is how we open up a
all of our goals, although the progress we are world of opportunity for our colleagues, our
customers and our communities.
In this section
Promoting diversity Our approach to diversity We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive Page 76
and fostering and inclusion environment that reflects our customers and communities.
inclusion
Creating a diverse Page 77
environment
Fostering an Page 78
inclusive culture
Building a healthy Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey and report insights to our Group Page 79
workplace Executive Committee and the Board.
Being a great place to work We aim to create a great workplace that will help in attracting, Page 81
retaining and motivating our colleagues so they can deliver for our
customers across countries and territories.
Developing skills, Learning and skills We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where colleagues can Page 83
careers and development develop skills and experiences that help them fulfil their potential.
opportunities
Energising our colleagues We are committed to offering colleagues the chance to develop Page 84
for growth their skills while building pipelines of talented colleagues to
support the achievement of our strategic priorities.
Building customer Our approach to customer We aim to support financial well-being and remove barriers Page 85
inclusion and inclusion and resilience people can face in accessing financial services.
resilience
Engaging with our Building a more We focus on a number of priorities where we can make a Page 86
communities inclusive and resilient world difference to the community and support sustainable growth.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 75
ESG review | Social
Promoting diversity and fostering inclusion
Our approach to diversity and inclusion
Our purpose, ‘Opening up a world of perspectives, we can more accurately reflect Group-wide priorities for which we hold senior
opportunity’, explains why we exist as an the societies we serve, creating better executives accountable. Some executives
organisation, and is the foundation of our outcomes for customers and colleagues. also have local priorities, which ensures
diversity and inclusion strategy. Inclusion is an our diversity and inclusion agenda remains
enabler for our ‘energise’ strategic pillar, and Our data-driven strategy enables us to set locally relevant.
is embedded in the values of our organisation. aspirational goals to track and monitor our
By valuing difference and seeking different progress. We remain focused on specific
How we hold ourselves to account
We set meaningful goals We report and track progress We benchmark our performance
Our executive Directors and Group Measuring our performance ensures we External disclosures and benchmarks allow
Executives are accountable for progressing consistently and accurately monitor the progress us to measure the progress that we are
our agenda through a series of diversity and made against our aspirational goals. Our data- making and identify opportunities for future
inclusion aspirational goals that align to three backed approach tracks this through: prioritisation. In 2023, we:
public commitments that we have made. In
2023, we continued to make progress against – an inclusion dashboard, which monitors – scored 87.2% in the Bloomberg
our three goals by: progress against goals with trend data on Gender-Equality Index measuring our
hiring, promotion and exit ratios, is reported gender-related data, transparency
– achieving a 34.1% representation of to the Group Executive Committee on a and performance;
women in senior leadership roles, with quarterly basis; and – maintained our Stonewall Gold standard
a goal of achieving 35% by 2025; – semi-annual review meetings where our and rank as a top global LGBTQ+ inclusion
– attaining a 3.0% representation of Black Head of Inclusion meets each Group employer; and
heritage colleagues in senior leadership Executive to review data, their progress – ranked as a Top 75 employer in the UK
in the UK and US combined, against a against their aspirational goals, and to Social Mobility Index in our first year of
goal to achieve 3.4% by 2025; and support further progress. entering a submission.
– increasing our Inclusion index as measured
in our Snapshot survey, to 78% against a
2023 target of 75%.
A data-driven approach to inclusion
We are evolving our data-driven approach by enabling more of our colleagues to self-identify across a range of data points. This data has
enabled us to set locally relevant priorities and identify areas of our organisation where we need to focus our attention. We invite colleagues
to self-identify on a broad range of data points where we can, although given the international nature of our business, there are some
jurisdictions where we are unable to invite colleagues to share their diversity data with us. We have enabled 91% of our colleagues to disclose
their ethnic background, with 62% of colleagues choosing to do so, where this is legally permissible.
Our approach goes beyond ethnic heritage and considers broader representation within the workplace. We have enabled 90% of the
workforce to share whether they have a disability, 71% of our workforce to share their sexual orientation, and all UK-based colleagues to
share their socio-economic background.
Our approach to Asian heritage representation
Our roots as an organisation trace back over 150 years to Hong Kong, where HSBC opened
its doors to serve clients with international needs. Asia remains a strategic focus for us today.
To better reflect the communities we serve, we have a focus on increasing representation
across our global workforce, including Asian heritage representation. Defining Asian heritage
can be complex due to the vast range of ethnicities and identities across the region. In
2023, 37.8% of our senior leaders were able to self-identify as being from an Asian heritage
background. To deliver our international strategy it is vital that we are both representative
of our local communities, and able to mobilise leaders with global perspective and diverse
heritage backgrounds across our international network.
76 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Social
Creating a diverse environment
Women in senior leadership Black colleagues in senior leadership The programme encourages participants to
Since achieving our ambition of having 30% We remain on track to double the number of support each other with the tools and shared
of senior leadership positions held by women Black colleagues in senior leadership roles experiences to structure their careers, expand
in 2020, we set a new goal to reach 35% by globally by 2025, having increased the number their network and seek job opportunities. It
2025. We remain on track, with 34.1% of of Black senior leaders by 62% since 2020. also helps to create improved visibility of talent
senior leadership roles held by women at the to senior leadership.
end of 2023, excluding our Canada business, In 2022, we set a new Group-wide ethnicity
which is planned for sale in 2024. Progress in strategy, which is overseen by a senior G Ge e n n d d e e r r d d i i v v e e r r s s i i t t y y d s a ta ta tistics
the past year has not been as fast paced as working group and led by our Group Chief
we would like. A total of 37.7% of all external Risk and Compliance Officer. The aim of Holdings 53%
appointments into senior positions were the strategy is to ensure we accurately Board
47%
female, compared with 35.7% in 2022, and reflect the communities we serve and the
women represented 39.6% of all promotions societies in which we operate. We continue Group 79%
into senior leadership roles in 2023. to identify challenges colleagues from Executives
21%
diverse backgrounds face in achieving their
Development programmes, including our aspirations at HSBC. Combined 66%
Accelerating Female Leaders initiative, have Group
Executives and 34%
helped to increase the visibility, sponsorship We have continued to focus on the
direct reports1
and network of our high performing, senior development of Black heritage colleagues
women. Since the start of the programme in through the delivery of dedicated development Subsidiary 65%
2017, 24% of participants have been promoted programmes. Using data analytics, we have directors2
35%
and 2% have taken a lateral move to develop identified that in the UK, Black heritage female
their careers. We have also retained over 79% colleagues are less likely to hold positions Senior 66%
of colleagues who completed the programme. as people managers. To address this, we leadership3
34%
introduced the Solaris programme to provide
In our 2023 Accelerating into Leadership coaching and development for our UK-based Middle 62%
programme, which prepares high potential, Black heritage female colleagues. Forty management3
38%
mid-level colleagues for leadership roles, 43% women have successfully completed the
of participants were women. More than 5,200 programme and 29% have been promoted. 51%
Junior
women also participated in our Coaching management3
49%
Circles programme, which matches senior We also partnered with Vivida, a virtual
leaders with a small group of colleagues reality firm, to launch an immersive learning 48%
to provide advice and support on the programme designed to bring to life the All employees
development of leadership skills and network experiences of Black heritage and ethnic 52%
building. minority colleagues, highlighting the
Male Female
pressures, barriers and biases faced by these
Our succession planning for key leadership communities. The programme has been
1 Combined Group Executives and direct reports
roles includes an assessment of the diversity completed by 11,900 colleagues, and was includes HSBC Group Executives and their direct
of our succession plans. We are improving nominated for awards at the 2023 European reports (excluding administrative staff) as of 31
the gender diversity of those roles critical to Diversity Awards and as finalists at The 2024 December 2023.
our organisation and the successors to those Learning Awards. 2 Directors (or equivalent) of subsidiary companies
roles. In 2023, 40% of the succession pool for that are included in the Group’s consolidated
these roles were women, compared with 36% In 2023 EmpowHER was launched, a financial statements, excluding corporate directors.
in 2022. programme created by Black heritage 3 In our leadership structure, we classify senior
leadership as those at career band 3 and above;
women for Black heritage women at mid-
middle management as those at global career
management levels across the UK business. band 4; and junior management as those at global
career bands 5 and 6.
Representation and pay gaps approximately 80% of our workforce are committed to paying colleagues fairly
We publish this data annually to ensure (excluding our Canada business held for regardless of their gender or ethnicity and
both transparency and a maintained focus sale. In 2023, our mean aggregate UK-wide have processes to ensure that remuneration
on addressing representation gaps within gender pay gap was 43.2%, compared is free from bias. We review our pay practices
the organisation. Our gender and ethnicity with 45.2% in 2022, and the ethnicity pay and undertake a pay equity review annually,
pay gap reporting shows the difference in gap was 4.5%, compared with 0.4% in including a regular independent third-party
average pay between two groups of people 2022. Our UK gender pay gap is driven by review of equal pay in major markets. If
(regardless of roles or seniority). We have several factors including the shape of our pay differences are identified that are not
reported our UK gender representation and workforce, where there are more men than due to objective, tangible reasons such as
pay gap data since 2017 in line with reporting women in senior higher-paid roles, and more performance, skills or experience, we make
regulations, and have voluntarily extended women than men in junior roles. While we adjustments.
this to include the US, mainland China, Hong are confident in our approach to pay equity,
Kong, India, Mexico, Singapore and the UAE, until women and ethnic minority colleagues For further details on our representation data,
alongside ethnicity data for the UK and US. are proportionately represented across all pay gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/
diversitycommitments and the ESG Data Pack
In 2023, we also included gender pay gap areas and levels of the organisation we will
at www.hsbc.com/esg.
data for Argentina and Malaysia, covering continue to see gaps in average pay. We
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 77
ESG review | Social
Fostering an inclusive culture
Our inclusion strategy seeks to make HSBC Each of our non-executive Directors and most the UK Business Disability Forum’s roundtable
an organisation in which every colleague can Group Executives are aligned with one of our and conference. We have enhanced the
feel like they belong, and are empowered global ERGs, ensuring there is a direct link support we provide to colleagues through our
to contribute their perspectives and ideas. between senior leadership and our colleagues. workplace adjustment programme partnering
Our strategy sits above a range of diversity The non-executive Director dedicated to with Microlink, extending the availability of
and inclusion strands from gender, ethnicity workforce engagement is closely aligned to this service to almost 37,790 colleagues in our
and faith to disability and socio-economic our diversity and inclusion strategy and has global service centres and technology centres
background – we want to ensure that attended events such as our 2023 Global in India.
all colleagues are able to realise their ERG Summit.
full potential. UK socio-economic diversity
In 2023, our ERGs led numerous initiatives We believe that no-one should be limited
We use the Inclusion index in our annual and events, including the Ability network by their socio-economic background and
Snapshot survey to measure the extent hosting a global summit aimed at driving are committed to driving socio-economic
to which our colleagues feel a sense of cultural change to build confidence for inclusion within our workforce.
belonging and psychological safety within colleagues with a disability. Our Nurture
the organisation, alongside their perception ERG, which supports working parents and In 2022, we began exploring the impact socio-
of fairness and trust. In 2023, we achieved carers, launched the #LeaveLoudly Campaign economic background has on our colleagues,
a score of 78%, which is three percentage globally. Its aim is to drive engagement by working with them, and internal and external
points ahead of our annual aspirational goal, counteracting ‘presenteeism’, acknowledging stakeholders to develop our understanding on
and two percentage points ahead of the that everyone has multifaceted lives, and to socio-economic diversity.
financial services industry benchmark. show that leaders across HSBC support a
healthy work-life balance. In 2023, we entered the Social Mobility Index
Analysis of our Inclusion index allows us for the first time and gained recognition as a
to measure engagement levels of specific Looking to the future on disability top 75 employer. Our Strive ERG, sponsored
colleague groups in greater detail, in Enhancing the experience of our employees, by the Group Chief Human Resources Officer,
particular different diversity strands, to better particularly those with disabilities, is a vital now has over 1,000 members. We have
understand the experiences of our colleagues part of our commitment to build an inclusive continued to be an active member of Progress
globally. We found that scores from organisation. A key initiative has been a Together, focused on helping members
colleagues who identify as male and female targeted career development programme to progress and retain a socio-economically
were broadly in line with the overall Group- empower colleagues with confidence to drive diverse workforce, including taking part in
wide result, at 79% and 77% respectively. their careers forward. the largest financial services study of socio-
From an ethnicity perspective, our Black economic diversity.
heritage colleagues were four percentage Recognising the pivotal role of line managers,
points below the Group-wide average, while we have introduced a learning plan through We launched a career development
our Asian heritage colleagues’ results were on our Degreed platform to help managers programme through the Strive ERG, enabling
a par with the overall score, at 78%. support team members with physical, colleagues from different backgrounds to lead
sensory, long-term, and mental health with impact and build career confidence.
Our employee resource groups conditions, as well as those who identify as
Our employee resource groups (‘ERGs’) neurodiverse. Our Ability ERG has hosted We continue to improve the socio-economic
foster an inclusive culture and contribute support sessions globally, where colleagues diversity data we collect by running
significantly to the experience of tens of shared their experiences and raised campaigns encouraging our colleagues and
thousands of colleagues. They operate awareness for disability inclusion, and the job applicants to share their socio-economic
globally and are led by colleagues with a support provided by HSBC. background. In 2023, we extended our
range of shared values, identities, interests socio-economic focus to Asia, with an initial
and goals, including disability, LGBTQ+, In collaboration with PurpleSpace, the data collection pilot in Singapore through
ethnicity, faith and gender. disability network and professional our employee engagement survey. We also
development hub, we sponsored and launched a new learning plan, available for all
published a Leadership Model resource for employees to better understand what socio-
employee groups. In 2023, we also sponsored economic diversity is and why it matters.
Supporting colleagues experiencing menopause
Many of our female colleagues will experience menopause symptoms during their career. We
do not want menopause to be a silent struggle and we have put in place the right support so
it does not need to be. In 2023, we launched a new global framework centred around three
principles of: creating awareness; removing barriers; and being adaptable. These form the
basis of our menopause toolkit, which is available to all colleagues, and includes guidance on
how to access menopause support and guidance for line managers on how to best support
those in need.
We recognise that there is much more we can do to support those who are experiencing
menopause and those who are supporting others experiencing it. Senior sponsorship is
helping to raise awareness and our first step is to provide access to dedicated resources
on menopause.
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG review | Social
Listening to our colleagues continued
Employee engagement
We use eight Snapshot indices to measure key areas of focus and compare against peer institutions. The table below sets out how we performed.
vs HSBC vs
Index Score1 20222 benchmark3 Questions that make up the index
Employee 77% +3 +7 I am proud to say I work for this company.
engagement Right now, I feel motivated by this organisation to do the best job I can.4
I would recommend this company as a great place to work.
Employee 76% +4 +4 I generally look forward to my work day.
focus My work gives me a feeling of personal accomplishment.
My work is challenging and interesting.
Strategy 78% +3 +5 I have a clear understanding of this company’s strategic objectives.
I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
I feel confident about this company’s future.
Change 76% 0 +4 Leaders in my area set a positive example.
leadership My line manager does a good job of communicating reasons behind important changes that are made.
Senior leaders in my area communicate openly and honestly about changes to the business.
Speak up 76% +1 0 I believe my views are genuinely listened to when I share my opinion.5
I feel able to speak up when I see behaviour which I consider to be wrong.
I can state my opinion without the fear of negative consequences.6
Trust 78% +1 0 I trust my direct manager.
I trust senior leadership in my area.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
Career 71% +3 +6 I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I believe that we have fair processes for moving/promoting people into new roles.
My line manager actively supports my career development.
Inclusion 78% +2 +2 I feel a genuine sense of belonging to my team.
I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I feel able to be myself at work.
I trust my direct manager.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
I can state my opinion without the fear of negative consequences.6
1 Each index comprises constituent questions, with the average of these questions forming the index score.
2 We revised the questions that comprise some of our indices to ensure the reliability of external benchmark data. New questions were trialled in 2022 so
comparisons are all reported on a like-for-like basis; as such, historical comparison figures differ slightly from those reported last year.
3 We benchmark Snapshot results against a peer group of global financial services institutions, provided by our research partner, Ipsos Karian and Box. Scores for
each question are calculated as the percentage of employees who agree to each statement. For further details of the constituent questions and past results, see
the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
4 Previously: I feel valued at this company.
5 Previously: My company is genuine in its commitment to encourage colleagues to speak up.
6 Previously: Where I work, people can state their opinion without fear of negative consequences.
For further details of well-being, see page 82, and for further details of inclusion, see page 76.
What employees told us Analysis of the key drivers of our engagement Our Snapshot survey showed that 67% of
Seven of our eight Snapshot indices improved scores showed that engaged colleagues are employees plan to stay at HSBC for five or
in 2023, while our change leadership index more likely to feel positive about their career, more years, a two percentage point increase
remained static. Our headline measure our strategy and our leadership. Our free since 2022. This aligned with a drop in
of employee engagement captures how text responses also showed that training and voluntary turnover in 2023 to 9.3%, compared
employees feel about HSBC: whether they progression opportunities was the most cited with 14.1% in 2022, and reflects trends in
are proud to say they work here, whether they reason for recommending HSBC, followed by the wider employment market. Results from
would recommend working at HSBC, and our approach to flexible and hybrid working our listening channels continued to show
how motivated they feel to do their best work. and the strength of our management. that career opportunities and competitive
Employee engagement increased by three reward packages remain the two key drivers
percentage points compared with 2022, and Negative comments continued to focus behind our ability to attract and retain
seven percentage points above the external around pay and benefits but were mentioned talented colleagues.
financial services benchmark. Our employee less than in 2022. For further details of our
focus index, which measures how employees approach to being a great place to work, We are committed to building on our
feel about their day-to-day work, increased including pay transparency, see high levels of engagement and feedback
by four percentage points to put HSBC four page 81. throughout 2024.
points ahead of the industry benchmark.
80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Social
Developing skills, careers and opportunities
Learning and skills development
We aim to build a dynamic environment We have continued to deliver targeted
Identifying and retaining
where our colleagues can develop skills and skills programmes, including our Vision
undertake experiences that help them fulfil 27 programme that aims to ensure we are future talent
their potential. Our approach helps us meet attracting, developing and retaining critical
our key strategic priorities and support our technology talent. We have also expanded
The need for talent is greater than ever.
colleagues to achieve their career goals. our Accelerating Wealth Programme, which
In 2023, a further 9,000 managers
prioritises hiring for transferable skills rather
completed our compulsory inclusive
Our learning and skills platforms than experience. For further details of how we
hiring training, promoting cognitive
We continue to evolve the opportunities to are achieving our wealth goals in Asia,
awareness of bias. Our targeted talent
learn and develop at HSBC. We use a range see page 84.
programmes and enterprise-wide
of skill development platforms, learning
solutions are designed to support
courses and resources to help colleagues Building skills with Talent Marketplace
employees transitioning to more
take ownership of their development and Our people capability teams partner with
complex roles, and provide wider career
career, including: businesses and functions to identify the key
opportunities and career growth.
skills we need now and in the future. We also
– HSBC University, our home for learning continue to support colleagues to develop
Our recruitment programmes are a
and skills accessed online and through a new skills that achieve their career aspirations.
key enabler of achieving our broader
network of training centres, where learning
diversity goals (see page 76). In 2023,
is organised through technical academies We have helped colleagues identify
we welcomed more than 720 graduates
on topics of strategic importance; opportunities to enhance their skills through
and 651 interns to the organisation.
our Talent Marketplace. More than 38,000
– Degreed, our learning experience platform
The graduate intake represented
colleagues have created a profile on the
that provides access to internal and
48 nationalities, over 25 ethnic
platform to help identify their existing skills
external learning content and courses,
backgrounds, and 51% were women.
and those they would like to develop. In 2023,
where colleagues can share, collaborate
In 2023, we continued to broaden our
it matched colleagues to a number of projects
and learn with individuals and in groups via
emerging talent programmes beyond
and networking opportunities unlocking over
learning pathways;
traditional graduate and internship
123,000 hours of skills development.
– Talent Marketplace, our online platform that programmes, developing early access
uses artificial intelligence (‘AI’) to match schemes for those in school and first
Projects centred around Cloud computing,
colleagues interested in developing specific year of university, as well as expanding
data analytics, software development
skills or career goals with opportunities that our apprenticeship scheme (see
and project management have created
exist throughout our global network; and page 84).
opportunities for colleagues to work on in-
– Careers at HSBC, which enables all demand skills.
employees to set alerts and search for We continually refresh all our talent
internal career opportunities. Training at HSBC programmes to ensure they remain
aligned to HSBC’s strategic priorities.
In 2023, we continued to enable colleagues to
Our learning fundamentals learn via a range of channels including digital Our key programmes include:
We expect all colleagues, regardless of their and on-the-job learning. This is reflected
contract type, to complete global mandatory in a reduction in overall learning hours as – Accelerating Female Leaders,
training each year. This training plays a colleagues access different learning channels. which has been re-designed in
critical role in shaping our culture, ensuring partnership with Cranfield School
a focus on the issues that are fundamental 5.3 million of Management. This programme
to our work, such as sustainability, financial supports female colleagues with
crime risk and our intolerance of bullying and learning materials, coaching and
harassment. New joiners attend our Global Training hours by our colleagues in 2023. senior sponsorship to help them
Discovery programme, which is designed to (2022: 6.3 million) prepare for leadership roles; and
build their knowledge of the organisation and – Accelerating into Leadership, which
engage with our purpose, values and strategy. 23.9 hours aims to improve role mobility and
retention, and supports colleagues
As the risks and opportunities our business identified as having the capacity,
faces change, our global academies adapt Training hours per FTE in 2023. interest and drive to succeed in more
to offer general and targeted development. (2022: 28.8 hours) complex roles.
Our Risk Academy provides learning for
every employee in traditional areas of risk
management such as financial crime risk,
and also offers more specific development
for those in senior leadership, high-risk roles
and learning for colleagues on emerging
issues such as ESG risk, terrorist financing,
proliferation financing and sanctions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 83
ESG review | Social
Energising our colleagues for growth
We aspire to offer colleagues the opportunity We need to build strong leadership and In 2023, our technology colleagues completed
to develop their skills while ensuring we build develop our colleagues’ capabilities to more than 800,000 hours of learning and
a pipeline of talent to support our strategic navigate the transition to net zero and achieve gained over 950 certifications in software
priorities. It is vital that we demonstrate our climate goals. In 2023, we worked with our development, cyber, AI, data processes, Cloud
the right leadership and create the right internal experts from the Sustainability Centre computing and app development, among
environment to energise our colleagues of Excellence to provide more advanced skills others. Our new Principle Engineer and
for growth. training in key transition areas such as energy Principle Architecture accelerator programmes
transition, climate technology and financed have equipped colleagues with advanced
Skilling the transition to net zero emissions, alongside other core sustainability technical knowledge and skills, enhancing
The Sustainability Academy was launched in topics such as biodiversity. their ability to innovate in their roles.
2022 to support our net zero ambitions. As
the academy has evolved we have shifted the Supporting our Asia wealth strategy Leadership development
focus from knowledge building to capability Our ambition is to become the preferred We continue to strengthen the training and
building across key colleague groups who are international financial partner for clients, and development opportunities we offer our
supporting customers on their transition to net the expansion of our wealth management leaders at all levels of the Group, to ensure
zero. In 2023, we applied four main activities services particularly in Asia, sits at the heart of they are equipped with the clarity, alignment
to support this effort: this ambition. and capability with our goals to drive the
performance of our organisation. In 2023,
– supplying on-demand learning modules To help achieve this, we have continued to we significantly increased investment in the
based on role, region and client-base for expand our Accelerating Wealth Programme, development of our leadership population.
colleagues who support customers with which offers a skills-based development plan
core transition activities; for colleagues who are looking to pursue a For senior leaders, our Executive and
– creating advanced workshops across career as a relationship manager in wealth Managing Director Leadership Programmes
our global businesses and functions management. The programme enables HSBC helped bring our purpose and strategy to
to build colleagues’ knowledge and to develop talent from within and hire talented life through innovative flagship courses,
develop practical skills to achieve people with different career backgrounds from masterclasses and strategy briefing sessions.
business outcomes; outside the business. In 2023, we extended
the programme to external applicants in Hong We recognise the importance of people
– encouraging external certifications and
Kong and to internal applicants in mainland managers in shaping the experience of our
qualifications, where required, to deepen
China, India and Singapore. We will continue colleagues. In 2023, we re-designed our
colleagues’ expertise; and
to add new countries and territories in 2024 to People Management Excellence programme
– designing a 16-week sustainability provide a sustainable hiring channel for front- to better support managers at all levels. The
leadership programme, in partnership line roles. face-to-face and virtual training includes
with Imperial College London, which a focus on the role and expectations of
combines education on core sustainability Technology transformation managers, how to design and organise
concepts with change management, We are committed to delivering better work, and how to nurture a productive team
purpose and leadership principles. In customer outcomes through digital environment. In 2023, over 3,800 colleagues
2023, the programme was completed by transformation. Our technology transformation attended this programme.
more than 170 senior leaders. Additional skills programme aims to ensure we attract,
net zero learning opportunities were also develop and retain the skilled talent we need
provided to the Board and 100 of our most to execute our strategy.
senior leaders.
Supporting UK emerging talent
We continue to extend our emerging talent programmes beyond traditional graduate and
internship schemes to support our socio-economic diversity ambitions (see page 78). In 2023,
we awarded more than 100 apprenticeships to external and internal applicants. Our degree
apprenticeship programmes provided an alternative to the traditional university route for 47
individuals, and we launched a disability apprenticeship programme for our Marketing function.
We have also offered over 460 structured work placements to secondary school students and
continued to support the #merkybook financial literacy programme for young people.
HSBC has funded 30 University of Cambridge scholarships for Black and socially
disadvantaged students through our Stormzy partnership, and will invest a further £2m
to achieve 60 scholarships by 2026 to support underrepresented groups. In 2023, Black
heritage representation in our graduate and summer internship programmes was 10% of job
applicants and 11% of new hires.
84 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Social
Building customer inclusion and resilience
Our approach to customer inclusion and resilience
We believe that financial services, when insights and view financial fitness content. We are committed to improving accessibility
accessible and fair, can reduce inequality This new tab on the app has attracted over experiences across our digital channels and
and help more people access opportunities. 4.5 million unique visitors. We also added continuously review our browser-based
We are playing an active role in opening investment pots and goals to help motivate websites in 23 markets, and our mobile
up a world of opportunity for individuals by customers to save for the future. banking services in 18 markets, against the
supporting their financial well-being, and WCAG 2.0 AA standards. We also share
removing the different barriers that people can In 2022, we launched our ‘Well+’ reward our digital accessibility expertise with
face in accessing financial services. programme on the HSBC HK Mobile Banking partners, companies and colleagues. More
app to help customers improve the health than 10,000 people and 66 companies have
Access to products and services of their body, money and mind. Reward taken advantage of our specialised training
We provide innovative solutions to help points are earned by completing a series programmes. To further share our best
improve customer access to products and of simple activities, such as building their practice externally, HSBC sponsored and
services. HSBC UK and HSBC Hong Kong financial knowledge. In 2023, we added new hosted AbilityNet’s Techshare Pro event in
provide no-cost accounts for customers capabilities, such as bonus badges, and more our Group head office in London. Our work
who do not qualify for a standard account than 212,000 customers have engaged with on digital accessibility was recognised with
or who might need additional support due Well+ in Hong Kong since launch. 11 awards in 2023.
to social or financial vulnerability. In 2023,
HSBC Egypt ran a campaign that allowed To help customers understand complex Support for customers extends beyond our
new customers to open bank accounts products and make informed decisions, digital channels and we recognise that not all
with no minimum balance required and no HSBC Life UK launched a series of quick disabilities are visible or immediately obvious
account opening fees. In the UK, we continue video guides to explain the key benefits, to others. We have expanded our commitment
to make our branches more accessible by exclusions and underwriting process of critical to the Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Lanyard
providing ‘safe spaces’ for domestic abuse illness cover. Scheme, rolling it out across the UK, Hong
victims, where they can seek specialist Kong, the Channel Islands and Australia. The
support and advice. In 2023, we also launched To support Hong Kong customers with special lanyard indicates that an individual may need
a specialist training programme to raise educational needs, we launched simple a little more help, support or time. HSBC UK is
awareness among our colleagues of modern step-by-step guides, which were shared with also making use of virtual reality tools, such as
slavery and human trafficking. This has been our partners, to explain how to access basic EBOX (Empathy Box), to give colleagues the
completed by more than 5,300 UK colleagues. banking services. opportunity to experience vulnerability from
In addition, our strategic partnership with the perspective of the customer.
housing and homelessness charity Shelter We also support programmes that help
UK aims to support those in crisis and build expand the financial knowledge of children In 2023, HSBC UK was awarded the
financial resilience solutions to help prevent and young people to ensure future resilience. UK Construction Industry Council’s
homelessness in the future. HSBC Egypt partnered with Injaz Al-Arab, Inclusive Environments Recognition at
a member of JA Worldwide, to deliver its the Organisational Level certification. This
‘building a financially capable generation’ recognises the strong organisation and design
Making banking accessible
programme to students in seven schools processes HSBC has put in place to support
Number of no-cost accounts held for
in Cairo. In Mexico, we created a podcast, accessible and inclusive design.
customers who do not qualify for a standard
targeted at developing the financial
account or who might need additional
capabilities of young people with each Supporting women
support due to social or financial vulnerability.
episode covering a specific theme, to HSBC UAE and HSBC Singapore have
2023 718,306 enhance their basic financial knowledge. collaborated with digital financial education
provider Sophia, to create a programme
2022 716,957 We continued to build on our financial literacy designed specifically to help female customers
2021 692,655 programmes for young people in the UK, with build their financial knowledge. It covers a
the launch of the first financial capability skills range of topics, including budgeting, ways to
module for the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award. invest and investment strategies.
Supporting financial knowledge
and education Creating an inclusive banking experience In Mexico, our Mujeres Al Mundo programme
We continue to invest in financial education We aim to ensure that our banking products continues to support women as customers
content and features across different and services are designed to be accessible for through products, services, education and
channels to help customers, colleagues customers experiencing either temporary or networking. In 2023, we also supported
and communities be confident users of permanent challenging circumstances, such female-owned businesses through our $1bn
financial services. as disability, impairment or a major life event. Female Entrepreneur Fund, alongside hosting
bespoke Pitch Day events for a number of
Since 2020, we received over 6.6 million A simplified version of the HSBC HK Mobile female entrepreneurs seeking investment.
unique visitors to our global digital financial Banking app aims to continue to enhance
education content. We continue to help digital inclusion for all, including seniors. The
customers expand their financial capabilities app is the first of its kind among Hong Kong
through our personal financial management banks and has attracted more than 477,000
tools. In 2023, HSBC UK launched new unique users since launch.
capabilities on our app enabling customers
to manage their budgets, see their spending
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 85
ESG review | Social
Engaging with our communities
Building a more inclusive and resilient world
We have a long-standing commitment to We also work with our charity partners around Charitable giving in 2023 (%)
support the communities in which we operate. the world to strengthen the resilience of
We aim to empower people and communities disadvantaged communities:
to develop the skills and knowledge needed to
thrive in the future. – In Hong Kong, we announced a three-year
partnership with Food Angel to increase its
Through the global reach of our charitable capacity to provide meals to underprivileged
partnerships we bring together diverse people, elderly groups.
ideas and perspectives that help us open up – In the US, we expanded our workforce
opportunities and build a more inclusive world. development programme with Feeding
America to support communities to
Building community and future skills find meaningful employment, especially Social, including Future Skills: 26%
We work with charity partners to initiate mothers and Black, Indigenous People of Environment, including the Climate
programmes that help people and Colour women. Solutions Partnership: 37%
communities respond to opportunities and Local priorities: 24%
– In the UK, we announced a three-year
challenges as global economies transition Disaster relief and other giving: 13%
partnership with Shelter to help develop the
towards a low-carbon future. In 2023,
homeless charity’s training, guidance, tools
these included:
and support within local communities to
help build financial resilience.
– launching a three-year partnership with Total cash giving towards
the British Council in Brazil, Mexico, India, – In France, we continued our work with charitable programmes
Indonesia and Vietnam, and extending The Article 1 to help young people from deprived
Prince’s Trust programmes in Australia, communities succeed in higher education $107.3m
Canada, India and Malaysia, to help young, through mentoring programmes.
marginalised people develop the skills they – We supported disaster relief agency
need to thrive in the green economy; response to humanitarian needs, including
– partnering with the Guangdong Lvya Rural those in Israel, Libya, Morocco, the
Women Development Foundation in China Palestinian territories, Türkiye, and the Hours volunteered during work time
to help equip women in remote mountain Hawaiian island of Maui.
areas with sustainable farming skills; and >181,800
Community engagement
– partnering with the Ghabbour Foundation
and volunteering
in Egypt to help provide technicians with
We offer paid volunteering days, and
specialist skills training to work in the
encourage our people to offer their time,
electric vehicle market.
skills and knowledge to causes within their People projected to be reached through
communities. In 2023, our colleagues gave our Future Skills programme
over 181,800 hours to community activities
during work hours. 1.25m
Awards
– National CSR Fund 2023 UAE –
Platinum Impact Seal
– Charitable giving by HSBC in China
received recognition from the China
Philanthropy Times
Advancing financing and digital literacy
Over the past five years, HSBC worked with three microfinance networks to advance
financial and digital literacy of women from unbanked and underbanked communities in
India. The programme has engaged with more than 550,000 women to build awareness
and understanding of digital payment platforms, and enhance their ability to access banking
services, such as savings, credit and insurance, as well as government welfare schemes. By
the end of 2023, 56,000 women had undertaken loan repayments worth $521,000 via digital
channels. Insights from the initiative will be shared with financial institutions and the National
Payment Corporation of India, set up by the banking regulator to oversee retail payments and
settlement systems in India, to increase unbanked households’ access to financial services
and products.
86 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Governance
Governance
Acting responsibly
We remain committed to high standards of governance.
We work alongside our regulators and recognise our
contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance
Our relationship customer feedback so we know where we We strive to meet our responsibilities to
We act on our responsibility to run our need to improve, and take steps to do this. Our society, including through being transparent
business in a way that upholds high standards customer satisfaction performance improved in our approach to paying taxes. We also seek
of corporate governance. in many markets in which we operate, to ensure we respect global standards on
although we still have work to do to improve human rights in our workplace and our supply
Customer experience is at the heart of how our rank position against competitors. chains, and continually work to improve our
we operate. It is imperative that we treat compliance management capabilities.
our customers well, that we listen, and that We are committed to working with our
we act to resolve complaints quickly and regulators to manage the safety of the For further details of our corporate
fairly. We measure customer satisfaction financial system, adhering to the spirit and the governance, see our corporate governance
report on page 238.
through net promoter scores across each letter of the rules and regulations governing
of our global businesses, listen carefully to our industry.
In this section
Setting high How ESG is governed We expect that our approach to ESG governance is likely to continue Page 88
standards of to develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and
governance stakeholder expectations.
Human rights Our respect for We have continued to raise awareness and develop our Page 89
human rights understanding of our salient human rights issues.
Customer Customer satisfaction While we are ranked in the top three banks against our competitors in Page 91
experience 58% of our key markets across WPB and CMB, we still have work to
do to improve our rank position against competitors
How we listen We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and P age 92
manage complaints.
Integrity, conduct Safeguarding the We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and reduce Page 94
and fairness financial system its impact on our organisation, customers and communities that
we serve.
Whistleblowing Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our Page 94
colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.
A responsible We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which Page 95
approach to tax we operate.
Conduct: Our product Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on Page 96
responsibilities the impact we have on our customers and the geographies in which
we operate.
Our approach with We require suppliers to meet our third-party risk compliance Page 96
our suppliers standards and we assess them to identify any financial
stability concerns.
Safeguarding data Data privacy We are committed to protecting and respecting the data we hold and Page 97
process, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the markets
in which we operate.
Cybersecurity We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, Page 98
detect and mitigate cyber threats.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 87
ESG review | Governance
Setting high standards of governance
TCFD
How ESG is governed
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG defining and measuring the success of our We expect that our approach to ESG
strategy, overseeing executive management climate ambition, and developing commercial governance is likely to continue to develop,
in developing the approach, execution and opportunities that support it through the in line with our evolving approach to ESG
associated reporting. Progress against our sustainability execution programme. matters and stakeholder expectations.
ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board
discussion and review of key topics such
as updates on customer experience and
How HSBC’s climate
employee sentiment. The Board is regularly
strategy is cascaded
provided with specific updates on ESG
matters, including the financed emissions Opportunities Risks
sector targets, human rights and employee
well-being. Board members receive ESG- Board level governance
related training as part of their induction
and ongoing development, and seek out
further opportunities to build their skills and
experience in this area. For further details of
Board members’ ESG skills and experience, Group Executive Committee Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee
see page 239. For further details of their
induction and training in 2023, see page 253.
Management level governance
Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG
matters, the governance activities are ESG Committee Group Risk Management Meeting
managed through a combination of specialist Has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, Oversees the enterprise-wide
governance infrastructure and regular material commitments and external management of all risks, including
meetings and committees, where appropriate. disclosure. Oversees and monitors updates relating to the Group’s climate
progress against ESG strategy, policies, risk profile and risk appetite, top and
These include the Group Disclosure and
plans, targets, commitments and emerging climate risks, and key
Controls Committee and Group Audit execution processes. Reports to the climate initiatives.
Committee, which provide oversight for the Board of progress on the commitments,
scope and content of ESG disclosures, and deliverables and targets under the Chair: Group Chief Risk and
the Group People Committee, which provides sustainability execution programme. Compliance Officer
oversight support for the Group’s approach to
Co-Chairs: Group Chief Financial Officer,
performance management. For some areas,
and Group Chief Sustainability Officer
such as climate where our approach is more
advanced, dedicated governance activities
Supporting governance
exist to support the wide range of activities,
including climate risk management in the
Environmental Risk Oversight Forum. Sustainability Execution C ommittee Environmental Risk Oversight Forum
Has oversight of environmental strategy, Oversees risk activities relating to
including commercial execution and climate and sustainability risk
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance
operationalisation through the management, including the transition
Officer and the chief risk officers of our PRA-
sustainability execution programme. and physical risks from climate
regulated businesses are the senior managers This included financed and facilitated change. Equivalent forums have been
responsible for climate financial risks under emissions targets and commitments, established at a regional level, where
the UK Senior Managers Regime. Climate risks implementation and execution of app ropriate.
are considered in the Group Risk Management transition plans, and delivery of $750bn
Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, to $1tn sustainable finance and Chair: Senior adviser, ESG Risk
with scheduled updates provided, as well as investment by 2030.
detailed reviews of material matters, such as
Chair: Group Head of Commercial
climate-related stress testing exercises.
Banking, and Group Chief
Sustainability Officer
The diagram on the right provides an
illustration of our ESG governance process, Regional, global business and global functions
including how the Board’s strategy on climate
is cascaded and implemented throughout Examples of ESG-related management governance
the organisation. It identifies examples of The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.
forums that manage both climate-related
opportunities and risks, along with their Digital Business Services Group Reputational Human Rights
Executive Committee Risk Committee Steering Committee
responsibilities and the responsible chair.
Oversees the global delivery Provides recommendations Oversees the Group’s
The structure of the process is similar for
of ESG activities within our and advice on significant evolving approach to
the escalation of problems, with issues own operations, services reputational risk matters human rights and provides
either resolved in a given forum or raised and technology elements of with impact across enhanced governance.
to the appropriate level of governance with our strategy. the Group.
appropriate scope and authority. Chair: Group Chief Risk
Chair: Group Chief Chair: Group Chief Risk and and Compliance Officer
In 2023, we enhanced our ESG governance Operating Officer Compliance Officer
with the establishment of a new Sustainability
Execution Committee, which focuses on
88 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Governance
Human rights
Our respect for human rights
As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we Our salient human rights issues
recognise the role of business in respecting Illustration of HSBC Group’s inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.
human rights. Our approach is guided by
HSBC activities
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and the OECD Provider of products and
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on services
Responsible Business Conduct.
Personal Business
Inherent human rights risks Employer Buyer customers customers Investor1
Our salient human rights issues
We continue to raise awareness and develop Right to Freedom from ◆ ◆ ◆
decent forced labour
our understanding of our salient human rights
work
issues. These are the human rights at risk of Just and favourable ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
the most severe negative impact through our conditions of work
business activities and relationships. Right to health and ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
safety at work
An extensive review of our salient human
rights issues conducted in 2022 identified Right to equality and freedom ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
from discrimination
five human rights risks inherent to HSBC’s
business globally, and five types of activity Right to privacy ◆ ◆ ◆
through which such risks might arise. These
Cultural and land rights ◆ ◆ ◆
are represented in the adjacent table.
Right to dignity and justice ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
In 2023, building on this assessment, we
provided practical guidance and training, 1 Investor includes our activities in HSBC Asset Management.
where relevant, to our colleagues across the
Group on how to identify and manage human
rights risk. We continued to develop our in-house Through our membership of international
capability on human rights with the launch certification schemes such as the Forestry
We are now focusing on translating this into of further online resources for all staff and Stewardship Council, the Roundtable
risk management enhancements in two key bespoke human rights training for colleagues on Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator
areas of activity. These are the services we in key roles, including those managing Principles, we support standards aimed at
provide to business customers and the goods relationships with suppliers, and those respecting human rights.
and services we buy from third parties. with responsibility for overseeing risk
management processes. Our sustainability risk policies are reviewed
Managing risks to human rights periodically to ensure they reflect our priorities.
In 2023, we continued the process of adapting The actions we are taking to address
our risk management procedures to reflect these salient human rights issues are For further details, see our sustainability risk
what we learned from our work on salient consistent with our values and will help us policies at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/managing-risk/
human rights issues and related guidance. to meet our commitments on diversity and
sustainability-risk.
inclusion, and those we have made under
We continued to embed and build on the UN Global Compact and WEF metrics
Financial crime controls
the Sustainable Procurement Mandatory on risk for incidents of child, forced or
The risk of us causing, contributing or being
Procedure, which sets out the minimum compulsory labour.
linked to adverse human rights impacts is
sustainability requirements for procurement
also mitigated by our financial crime risk
activity. This included enhanced procedures For further details of the actions taken to respect
framework, which includes our global policies
for human rights risk identification through the right to decent work, see our 2023 Annual
Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at and associated controls.
the introduction of a human rights residual
www.hsbc.com/modernslaveryact.
risk questionnaire for suppliers as part of our For further details of the actions taken to respect For further details of how we fight financial
global onboarding assessment process, and the right to equality and freedom from crime, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
human rights supplier audit pilots in our Asia- discrimination, see ’Our approach to diversity esg-and-responsible-business/
Pacific and Latin America regions to assess and inclusion’ on page 76. fighting-financial-crime.
the potential need for further supplier audits in
the future. Sustainability risk policies
Some of our business customers operate
New approaches to identifying and managing in sectors where the risk of adverse human
human rights risk in respect of our business rights impact is high. Our sustainability risk
customers have also been piloted. These policies for agricultural commodities, energy,
included screening for indicators of potential forestry, mining and metals consider human
negative impacts on people, including media rights issues such as forced labour, harmful or
monitoring and other relevant third-party data. exploitative child labour and land rights. They
also consider the rights of indigenous peoples
such as ‘free prior and informed consent’,
workers’ rights, and the health and safety
of communities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 89
ESG review | Governance
Our respect for human rights continued
Driving change HSBC Asset Management has also Supporting those impacted and those
We continued to participate in industry incorporated human rights and modern potentially at risk
forums, including the Thun Group of Banks, slavery considerations into its Global We continued to expand our Survivor Bank
which is an informal group that seeks to Voting Guidelines. This helps to identify programme, which has now supported over
promote understanding of the UNGPs within non-compliance with UN Global Compact 3,000 survivors of modern slavery and human
the sector, and the UN Global Compact principles, as well as a company’s trafficking in the UK, and is a model for
Human Rights Working Group. competency in human rights management making financial services more accessible to
and disclosures. Where a company falls below vulnerable communities worldwide.
HSBC has been a member of the Mekong expectations, HSBC Asset Management may
Club since 2016. We are a participant of its vote against the re-election of the board chair We built on this experience in developing
monthly financial services working group, and or relevant board director. access to banking services for customers
we use its informative typological toolkits, with no fixed abode in the UK and in Hong
infographics, and other multimedia resources As a signatory to the Net Zero Asset Kong, providing over 5,700 accounts under
covering current and emerging issues. Our Management Initiative, HSBC Asset these programmes.
Compliance teams regularly collaborate and Management is taking steps to reduce the
engage with the Mekong Club in designing carbon exposure of its portfolios and engage For further details of our work to support
Group-wide knowledge sharing and with issuers on their climate strategies. It vulnerable communities, see page 86.
training sessions. also recognises the impact that the climate
transition can have on workers, communities, Effectiveness
Investments consumers and other stakeholders, and has The table below includes some indicative
Since 2022, HSBC Asset Management has published its perspectives on a just transition. metrics we use to measure year-on-year
published an annual Global Stewardship continual improvement to our human
Plan outlining its approach to engagement, For the Global Stewardship Plan, see rights processes.
prioritisation of investee companies, objective- www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/
attachments/uk/policies/stewardship-plan-uk.pdf. For further diversity and inclusion metrics, see
setting and escalation procedures. The plan
For further details of the Net Zero Asset page 76 in this ESG review, as well as Section 4
also highlights its thematic priorities including Management Initiative, see www. of the 2023 Annual Statement under the UK
human rights. assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/en/institutional- Modern Slavery Act, which is available at www.
investor/about-us/road-to-net-zero/a-transition- hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
HSBC Asset Management recognises for-everyone. business/modern-slavery-act.
collaborative engagement as a tool to promote
change. It participates in investor-led joint
engagement initiatives where it believes
these can have a positive influence. It is a
signatory to the Principles for Responsible
Monitoring effectiveness
Investment Advance initiative to promote
active stewardship on human rights and social Metric 2023 2022
issues. It has also actively contributed to other
Contracted suppliers who either confirmed adherence to the code of
sector-specific initiatives, including engaging
conduct or provided their own alternative that was accepted by our 95% 93%
with technology firms on digital rights and
Global Procurement function
responsible AI, and working with ESG data
providers to promote higher quality human Employees who have received training on human rights 8,176 520
rights data set.
Votes by HSBC Asset Management against management for reasons
213 87
including human rights1
1 The figure represents the number of resolutions at investee company shareholder meetings (including
AGMs) where votes were cast against management for reasons related to human rights.
Working for a just transition
Just Energy Transition Partnerships are becoming increasingly popular bringing key stakeholders
together to enable a clean, fair energy transition in emerging economies that rely heavily on coal.
Essentially, they are multilateral financial agreements aimed at accelerating the phase-out of fossil
fuels, in a way that addresses the social consequences of doing so.
For further details on HSBC’s role in Just Energy Transition Partnerships with Indonesia and Vietnam, see
www.hsbc.com/news-and-views/views/hsbc-views/jetps-powering-a-faster-energy-transition.
Read more on Just Energy Transition Partnerships on page 68 of this ESG Review.
90 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG review | Governance
How we listen
To improve how we serve our customers, we
How we handle complaints
must be open to feedback and acknowledge
when things go wrong. We continue to adapt Our principles Our actions
at pace to provide support for customers
Making it easy Customers can complain through the channel that best suits them.
facing new challenges, new ways of working
for customers We provide a point of contact along with clear information on next
and those that require enhanced care needs.
to complain steps and timescales.
We aim to be open and consistent in how All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise
Acknowledging
we track, record and manage complaints, empathy to acknowledge our customers’ issues. Complaints are
complaints
although as we serve a wide range of escalated if they cannot be resolved at first point of contact.
customers – from personal banking and
Keeping the
wealth customers to large corporates, We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout
customer up
institutions and governments – we tailor our the complaint resolution process through their preferred channel.
to date
approach in each of our global businesses. As
the table on the right demonstrates, we have Ensuring fair We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and
a consistent set of principles that enable us resolution ensure the right outcome for our customers.
to remain customer-focused throughout the
Providing We provide customers with information on their rights and the appeal
complaints process.
available rights process if they are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaint.
For further details of complaints volumes Undertaking root Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and
by geography, see our ESG Data Pack at cause analysis address any systemic issues and to inform process improvements.
www.hsbc.com/esg.
Wealth and Personal Banking (‘WPB’)
In 2023, we received approximately 1.2 million In response to an increase in credit and debit
complaints from customers. The ratio of card fraud attacks in Mexico during the first WPB complaint volumes1
complaints per 1,000 customers per month quarter of 2023, we focused on strengthening (per 1,000 customers per month)
in our large markets remained stable at our monitoring and fraud detection capabilities
2023 2022
around 2.3. to help protect our customers. In October,
we also released the new Visa Account Total2 2.3 2.3
In the UK, complaints fell 19%. In 2023, we Attack Intelligence tool to mitigate foreign
applied the new UK Consumer Duty rules e-commerce attacks on customer debit cards.
UK3 1.1 1.4
to our complaint handling processes and As a result of these efforts, average monthly
invested in root cause analysis to ensure good complaints in Mexico for the last nine months
outcomes and avoid instances of foreseeable of the year decreased by 20.5% compared Hong Kong3 0.9 1.0
harm. We will continue to focus on enhancing with the first quarter.
our processes and on training complaint Mexico3 5.2 5.1
handlers to improve the customer experience In our private bank, we received 507
and reduce our complaint volumes further. complaints, an increase of 176 compared with
2022. This was largely due to growth in our
The decrease in complaints in Hong Kong was customer base since establishing new private 1 A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction
primarily driven by improvements in our digital banking operations in the UAE and Mexico, about WPB’s activities, products or services
capabilities to make it easier for customers to along with an increase in complaints in the where a response or resolution is explicitly or
implicitly expected.
connect with us. Regular reviews, analysis of US. This led to an increase in administration
2 Markets included: Hong Kong, mainland China,
customer feedback and greater collaboration and service issues, a high proportion of
France, the UK, UAE, Mexico, Canada and the US.
across business lines to address emerging which were attributable to delays and errors
3 The UK, Mexico and Hong Kong make up 86% of
customer pain points also contributed to the in processing client instructions. Overall,
total complaints.
fall in complaints. the private bank resolved 465 complaints.
Complaint data for the new private banking
operation in India was reported within the
WPB figures, pending system development to
separately report the complaint figures.
Acting on feedback
In 2023, we continued to develop and embed tools and capabilities across our business to deliver improved experiences for our customers
around the world. Through our measurement of customer experience, we identify opportunities for improvement, develop agile customer
experience plans and track and measure our progress. As a result of standardising our approach to customer experience globally, we have
strengthened our capability to listen, understand and act on what our customers are telling us on a regular basis.
92 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Governance
How we listen continued
Commercial Banking (‘CMB’)
In 2023, we received 45,899 customer and We attribute the overall decrease in our
client complaints, a decrease of 27% from complaint volumes to enhanced training of CMB complaint volumes1
2022. Of the overall volumes, 33,777 came our front-line colleagues to ensure they can (000s)
from HSBC UK and 7,354 from Asia-Pacific. identify the differences between a complaint,
2023 2022
query and feedback. We also focused on
The most common complaint related to addressing the root causes of the complaint Total 46 63
servicing and transactions, with the largest trends, as well on improvements to our
volume of complaints globally coming systems, processes and advice to our clients.
UK 33.8 49.2
from business banking customers, which
represented 87% of our total complaints. We resolved 47,812 complaints globally
in 2023. The average resolution time for Hong Kong 6.5 8.1
complaints was 24 days, which was just above
our global target of 20 days.
Acting on feedback
In 2023, we focused on improvements to our governance of complaints, creating regular forums in key markets to ensure that analysis of the
root cause of issues and trends are prioritised to enhance our understanding of pain points for our customers. Since the Covid-19 pandemic,
there has been increased efforts Group-wide to identify customers who are more exposed to harm or declare as vulnerable. In 2023, we
focused on identifying these complaint types to ensure that we can offer adjustments and support within our processes. This new process helps
to improve our understanding and support of clients at risk of financial or non-financial harm to ensure our banking services are accessible to all.
Global Banking and Markets (‘GBM’)
In 2023, we received 1,552 customer In Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS’)
complaints in Global Banking, a decrease complaints increased by 21% to 354. GBM complaint volumes1
of 27% from 2022. Of the overall complaint We attribute some of the increase to
2023 2022
volumes, 49% came from Europe and 23% improvements in our data reporting processes
came from the Middle East, North Africa and globally. The majority of complaints were Total 1,906 2,419
Türkiye. The most common complaint, at 38% operational in nature and resolved in a timely
of total complaints, related to servicing, which manner. Of the overall MSS complaints, 47%
Global Banking2 1,552 2,127
was in line with previous years. came from Europe and 34% from Asia, our
two largest markets.
Global Markets and
354 292
Securities Services3
Acting on feedback
We have continued to invest in our client feedback tool to create a more consistent and streamlined experience for colleagues across GBM
and our wholesale businesses globally. In 2023, we introduced additional automation to improve the process of logging complaints, and
simplified our procedures to make it easier for front-line colleagues to record feedback. We have also introduced mandatory training around
conduct and complaints to ensure our people are acting on the feedback they receive and are consistent in how they evaluate queries
and complaints.
1 Globally, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, relating to the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific product or service or
service activity. Within the UK, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction – whether justified or not – about our products, services or activities which suggests
we have caused (or might cause) financial loss, or material distress or material inconvenience.
2 Global Banking also includes Global Payments Solutions (previously known as Global Liquidity and Cash Management) and complaints relating to payment
operations, which is part of Digital Business Services.
3 Contains Global Research complaint volumes.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 93
ESG review | Governance
Integrity, conduct and fairness
Safeguarding the financial system
We have continued our efforts to combat monitoring capability and our trade screening
financial crime and reduce its impact on our controls, and investing in the application of
organisation, customers and the communities machine learning to improve the accuracy and
that we serve. Financial crime includes timeliness of our detection capabilities.
fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion,
sanctions and export control violations, These new technologies should enhance our
money laundering, terrorist financing and ability to respond effectively to unusual activity
proliferation financing. and be more granular in our risk assessments.
This helps us to protect our customers, the
We manage financial crime risk because it is organisation and the integrity of the global
the right thing to do to protect our customers, financial system against financial crime.
shareholders, staff, the communities in which
we operate, as well as the integrity of the Our anti-bribery and corruption policy
The scale of our work
financial system on which we all rely. We have Our global financial crime policy requires
a financial crime risk management framework that all activity must be: conducted without
that is applicable across all global businesses intent to bribe or corrupt; reasonable and Each month, on average, we monitor
and functions, and in all countries and transparent; considered to not be lavish over 1.35 billion transactions for signs
territories in which we operate. The financial nor disproportionate to the professional of financial crime. In 2023, we filed over
crime risk framework, which is overseen by relationship; appropriately documented 96,000 suspicious activity reports to law
the Board, is supported by our financial crime with business rationale; and authorised at enforcement and regulatory authorities
policy that is designed to enable adherence an appropriate level of seniority. There were where we identified potential financial
to applicable laws and regulations globally. no concluded legal cases regarding bribery crime. We perform daily screening
Annual global mandatory training is provided or corruption brought against HSBC or its of 125 million customer records for
to all colleagues, with additional targeted employees in 2023. Our global financial crime sanctions exposure. In 2022, we
training tailored to certain individuals. policy requires that we identify and mitigate reported screened customer records as
We carry out regular risk assessments the risk of our customers and third parties a monthly average, although screening
to identify where we need to respond to committing bribery or corruption. Among was, and continues to be, performed on
evolving financial crime threats, as well as other controls, we use customer due diligence a daily basis.
to monitor and test our financial crime risk and transaction monitoring to identify and
management programme. help mitigate the risk that our customers are
98%
involved in bribery or corruption. We perform
We continue to invest in new technology, anti-bribery and corruption risk assessments
including through the deployment of a on third parties that expose us to this risk.
capability to monitor correspondent banking Total percentage of permanent and non-
activity. We are also enhancing our fraud permanent employees who received financial
crime training, including on anti-bribery and
corruption.
Whistleblowing
We want colleagues and stakeholders to to variable pay and performance ratings, or provides the Group Audit Committee with
have confidence in speaking up when they operational actions including changes to periodic updates on their effectiveness.
observe unlawful or unethical behaviour. We policies and procedures. Specialist teams and investigation functions
offer a range of speak-up channels to listen to own whistleblowing controls, with monitoring
the concerns of individuals and have a zero We actively promote our full range of speak- in place to determine control effectiveness.
tolerance policy for acts of retaliation. up channels to colleagues to help ensure
their concerns are handled through the most For further details of the role of the Group Audit
Listening through effective route. In 2023, 4% fewer concerns Committee in relation to whistleblowing, see
page 270.
whistleblowing channels were raised through HSBC Confidential
Our global whistleblowing channel, compared with 2022. Of the concerns
HSBC Confidential concerns raised
HSBC Confidential, is one of our speak-up investigated through the HSBC Confidential
in 2023:
channels, which allows colleagues and other channel in 2023, 81% related to individual
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially behaviour and personal conduct, 14% to
1,746
and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to security and fraud risks, 4% to compliance
local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC risks and less than 1% to other categories.
Confidential concerns are raised through an
(2022: 1,817)
independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines The Group Audit Committee has oversight of
and a web portal in multiple languages. We the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements,
Substantiation rate of concerns
also provide and monitor an external email and the Chair of the Group Audit Committee
investigated through HSBC
address for concerns about accounting, acts as HSBC’s Whistleblowers’ Champion
Confidential in 2023:
internal financial controls or auditing matters with responsibility for ensuring and overseeing
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). the integrity, independence and effectiveness
41%
Concerns are investigated proportionately of the Group’s policies and procedures.
and independently, with action taken where
appropriate. This can include disciplinary Regulatory Compliance sets the
(2022: 41%)
action, such as dismissal and adjustments whistleblowing policy and procedures, and
94 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Governance
A responsible approach to tax
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all – We seek to ensure that our entities – We implement processes that aim to
jurisdictions in which we operate, and to active in nil or low tax jurisdictions have ensure that inappropriately tax-motivated
minimise the likelihood of customers using clear business rationale for why they are products and services are not provided to
our products and services to evade or based in these locations and appropriate our customers.
inappropriately avoid tax. We also abide transparency over their activities.
by international protocols that affect our – We seek to have open and transparent Our tax contributions
organisation. Our approach to tax and relationships with all tax authorities. Given The effective tax rate for the year of 19.1%
governance processes is designed to achieve the size and complexity of our organisation, was higher than in the previous year (2022:
these goals. which operates across over 60 jurisdictions, 4.7%). The effective tax rate for the year was
a number of areas of differing interpretation increased by 2.3% from the non-taxable
Through adoption of the Group’s risk or disputes with tax authorities exist at impairment of the Group’s interest in BoCom,
management framework, we seek to ensure any point in time. We cooperate with the and reduced by 1.6% by the release of
that we do not adopt inappropriately tax- relevant local tax authorities to mutually provisions for uncertain tax positions and by
motivated transactions or products, and that agree and resolve these in a timely manner. 1.5% by the non-taxable provisional gain on
tax planning is scrutinised and supported by the acquisition of SVB UK. Further details are
genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no With respect to our customers’ taxes, we are provided on page 369.
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. guided by the following principles:
The UK bank levy charge for 2023 of $339m
With respect to our own taxes, we are guided – We have made considerable investments was higher than the charge of $13m in 2022,
by the following principles: to support external tax transparency mainly due to adjustments arising upon filing
initiatives and reduce the risk of banking prior year returns, which represented a credit
– We are committed to applying both the services being used to facilitate customer in 2022 and a charge in 2023.
letter and spirit of the law. This includes tax evasion. Initiatives include the US
adherence to a variety of measures arising Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the As highlighted below, in addition to paying
from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of $6.8bn of our own tax liabilities during 2023,
Shifting initiative including the ‘Pillar Two’ Financial Account Information (‘Common we collected taxes of $10.8bn on behalf
global minimum tax rules which will apply Reporting Standard’), and the UK legislation of governments around the world. A more
to the Group from 2024. These rules seek on the corporate criminal offence of failing detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes
to ensure that the Group pays tax at a to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion. paid in 2023 is provided in the ESG Data Pack.
minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction
in which it operates. We have identified 12
jurisdictions that may have an effective tax
rate below 15% in 2024. We continually
monitor the number of active subsidiaries
within each jurisdiction as part of our
ongoing entity rationalisation programme.
Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region
Tax on profits $3,685m (2022: $2,429m) Europe $2,945m (2022: $2,745m) Europe $4,714m (2022: $4,197m)
Withholding taxes $432m (2022: $361m) Asia-Pacific $2,488m (2022: $1,894m) Asia-Pacific $3,226m (2022: $3,274m)
Employer taxes $1,052m (2022: $1,041m) Middle East, North Africa Middle East, North Africa
Bank levy $57m (2022: $314m) and Türkiye $296m (2022: $259m) and Türkiye $77m (2022: $67m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,298m (2022: $1,152m) North America $389m (2022: $207m) North America $1,119m (2022: $1,129m)
Other duties and levies $249m1 (2022: $232m) Latin America $655m (2022: $424m) Latin America $1,680m (2022: $1,493m)
1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $91m (2022: $94m)
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 95
ESG review | Governance
Conduct: Our product responsibilities
Our conduct approach guides us to do the Our approach includes: Financial promotion
right thing and to focus on the impact we have Our policies help to ensure that in the sale
for our customers and the financial markets – designing products to meet identified of products and services, we use marketing
in which we operate. It is embedded into the customer needs; and product materials that support customer
way we design, approve, market and manage – managing products through governance understanding and fair customer outcomes.
products and services, with a focus on five processes, helping to ensure they meet This includes providing information on
clear outcomes: customers’ needs and deliver a fair products and services that is clear, fair and not
exchange of value; misleading. We also have controls in place to
– We understand our customers’ needs. ensure our cross-border marketing complies
– periodically reviewing products to help
with relevant regulatory requirements.
– We provide products and services that offer ensure they remain relevant and perform in
a fair exchange of value. line with expectations we have set; and
– We service customers’ ongoing needs and – improving, or withdrawing from sale,
put it right if we make a mistake. products which do not meet our customers’ Product governance
– We act with integrity in the financial markets needs or no longer meet our high standards. Our product management policy covers
we operate in. the entire lifecycle of the product. This
– We operate resiliently and securely to avoid Meeting our customers’ needs helps ensure that our products meet our
harm to customers and markets. Our policies and procedures set standards to requirements before we sell them and
ensure that we consider and meet customer allows continued risk-based oversight
We train all our colleagues on our approach needs. These include: of product performance against the
to customer and market conduct, helping intended customer outcomes.
to ensure our conduct outcomes are part of – enabling customers to understand the key
everything we do. features of products and services; When we decide to withdraw a product
– enabling customers to make informed from sale, we aim to consider the
Designing products and services decisions before purchasing a product or implications for our existing customers
Our approach to product development is set service; and and agree actions to help them achieve a
out in our policies and provides a clear basis – ensuring processes are in place for the fair outcome where appropriate.
on which informed decisions can be made. provision of advice to customers.
Our policies require that products must be
fit-for-purpose throughout their existence, They help us provide the right outcomes for
meeting regulatory requirements and customers, including those with enhanced
associated conduct outcomes. care needs. This helps us to support
customers who are more vulnerable to
external impacts, including the current cost of
living crisis (see ‘Supporting our customers in
challenging economic times’ on page 15).
Our approach with our suppliers
We maintain global standards and procedures and servers, and computer hardware. Supplier code of conduct
for the onboarding and use of third-party Engagement with suppliers has given Our supplier code of conduct sets out our
suppliers. We require suppliers to meet our us a better understanding of their ambitions, targets and commitments on the
third-party risk compliance standards and decarbonisation efforts and the challenges environment, diversity and human rights,
we assess them to identify any financial and opportunities of achieving net zero in and outlines the minimum standards we
stability concerns. these categories. As a result, strategies for expect of our suppliers on these issues. We
these procurement categories will include seek to formalise adherence to the code
Sustainable procurement decarbonisation plans from 2024 onwards. with clauses in our supplier contracts, which
Supporting and engaging with our supply – We completed analysis to understand the support the right to audit and act if a breach
chain is vital to the development of our impacts and dependencies of our supply is discovered. At the end of 2023, 95% of
sustainable procurement processes. In 2023: chain on biodiversity. The analysis will approximately 10,400 contracted suppliers
inform the development of a biodiversity had either confirmed adherence to the
– We published net zero guides to help strategy for global procurement in 2024, to supplier code of conduct or provided their own
buyers and suppliers understand our reduce supply chain biodiversity impacts. alternative that was accepted by our Global
net zero ambitions. The guides explain Procurement function.
– We launched the supplier diversity portal in
our carbon reduction requirements and
the UK and US. The portal enables small and
provide practical advice for meeting these For further details of the number of suppliers in
ambitions, as laid out in our supplier code medium-sized enterprises or businesses, each geographical region, see the ESG Data
which are majority-owned, operated and Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
of conduct.
controlled by historically underrepresented
– We began developing decarbonisation groups, to register interest in becoming
plans for high-emitting procurement an HSBC supplier. For further details, see
categories, including real estate services, www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
telecommunications, data centres responsibility/working-with-suppliers.
96 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
ESG
review
Governance
Safeguarding data
Data privacy
We are committed to protecting and As part of our three lines of defence model,
respecting the data we hold and process, in our Global Internal Audit function provides
accordance with the laws and regulations of independent assurance as to whether our
the markets in which we operate. data privacy risk management approaches
and processes are designed and operating
Our approach rests on having the right talent, effectively. In addition, we have established
technology, systems, controls, policies and data privacy governance structures, and
processes to ensure appropriate management continue to embed accountability across all
of privacy risk. Our Group-wide privacy policy businesses and functions.
and principles provide a consistent global
approach to managing data privacy risk, and We continue to implement industry
must be applied by all our global businesses practices for data privacy and security. Our
and functions. Our privacy principles are privacy teams work closely with our data
Data Privacy Day
available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ protection officers, industry bodies and
esg-and-responsible-business/managing-risk/ research institutions to drive the design,
operational-risk. implementation and monitoring of privacy In January 2023, we held a hybrid
solutions. We conduct regular reviews and roundtable event for our colleagues to
We conduct regular employee training privacy risk assessments, and continue to mark International Data Privacy Day.
and awareness sessions on data privacy develop solutions to strengthen our data The event was hosted by our Global
and security issues throughout the year. privacy controls. Head of Data Legal, and guest speakers
This includes mandatory training for all our included the former UK Information
colleagues globally, with additional training We continue to enhance our internal data Commissioner and industry specialists
sessions, where needed, to keep up to date privacy tools to improve accountability for from an external law firm, with HSBC’s
with new developments in this space. data privacy. We have procedures to articulate own data privacy experts in attendance.
the actions needed to deal with data privacy
We provide transparency to our customers considerations. These include notifying The event covered privacy-related
and stakeholders on how we collect, use regulators, customers or other data subjects, developments likely to have the greatest
and manage their personal data, and their as required under applicable privacy laws impact across the Group. Key themes
associated rights. Where relevant, we work and regulations, in the event of a reportable included upcoming data privacy
with third parties to help ensure adequate incident occurring. reforms in the UK and the implications
protections are provided, in line with our for global organisations, and trends
data privacy policy and as required under Intellectual property rights practices in enforcement of data privacy laws
data privacy law. We offer a broad range of We have a group intellectual property risk and regulations. We also reviewed the
channels in the markets where we operate, policy, supported by controls and guidance, to impact, successes and challenges of
through which customers and stakeholders manage risk relating to intellectual property. General Data Protection Regulation
can raise concerns about the privacy of This is to help ensure that commercially and (‘GDPR’) implementation globally.
their data. strategically valuable intellectual property
is identified and protected appropriately,
Our dedicated privacy teams report to the including by applying to register trademarks
highest level of management on data privacy and patents and enforcing our intellectual
risks and issues, and oversee our global data property rights against unauthorised use
privacy programmes. We review data privacy by third parties. Our intellectual property
regularly at multiple governance forums, framework also helps us avoid infringement
including at Board level, to help ensure of third-party intellectual property rights,
appropriate challenge and visibility for senior supporting our consistent and effective
executives. Data privacy laws and regulations management of intellectual property risk in
continue to evolve globally. We continually line with our risk appetite.
monitor the regulatory environment to ensure
we respond appropriately to any changes.
The ethical use of data and AI
Artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies provide the opportunity to process and
analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies offer
significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for the
financial services industry and society as a whole. We have a set of principles to help ensure
we consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC’s Principles for the Ethical
Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/our-conduct.
We continue to develop and enhance our approach to, and oversight of, AI, taking into
consideration the fast-evolving regulatory landscape, market developments and best practice.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 97
ESG review | Governance
Cybersecurity
The threat of cyber-attacks remains a concern Policy and governance Cyber training and awareness
for our organisation, as it does across the We have a robust suite of cybersecurity We understand the important role our people
financial sector and other industries. As policies, procedures and key controls play in protecting against cybersecurity
cyber-attacks continue to evolve, failure to designed to help ensure that the organisation threats. Our aim is to equip every colleague
protect our operations may result in the loss is well managed, with effective oversight and with the appropriate tools and behaviours they
of sensitive data, disruption for our customers control. This includes but is not limited to need to keep our organisation and customers’
and our business, or financial loss. This could defined information security responsibilities data safe. We provide cybersecurity training
have a negative impact on our customers and for employees, contractors and third parties, and awareness to our people, ranging from
our reputation, among other risks. as well as standard procedures for cyber our top executives to IT developers to front-line
incident identification, investigation, mitigation relationship managers around the world.
We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical and reporting.
events and changes to the cyber threat Over 94% of our IT developers hold at least
landscape and take proactive measures We operate a three lines of defence model, one of our enhanced security certifications
with the aim to reduce any impact to aligned to the enterprise risk management to help ensure we build secure systems
our customers. framework, to help ensure oversight and and products.
challenge of our cybersecurity capabilities
Prevent, detect and mitigate and priorities. In the first line of defence, we We host an annual Cyber Awareness Month
We invest in business and technical controls have risk owners within global businesses and for all colleagues, covering topics such as
to help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber functions who are accountable for identifying online safety at home, social media safety,
threats. Our cybersecurity controls follow and managing cyber risk. They work with safe hybrid working, and cyber incidents and
a ’defence in depth’ approach, making use cybersecurity control owners to apply the response. Our dedicated cybersecurity training
of multiple security layers, recognising the appropriate risk treatment in line with our and awareness team provides a wide range
complexity of our environment. Our ability risk appetite. Our controls are designed to of education and guidance to both customers
to detect and respond to attacks through be executed in line with our policies and are and our colleagues about how to identify and
round-the-clock security operations centre reviewed and challenged by our risk stewards prevent online fraud.
capabilities is intended to help reduce the representing the second line of defence.
impact of attacks. They are independently assured by the
Global Internal Audit function, the third line of
We have a cyber intelligence and threat defence. The assessment and management of Over 99%
analysis team, which proactively collects our cybersecurity risk is led and coordinated
and analyses internal and external cyber by a Global Chief Information Security Officer,
information to continuously evaluate threat who has extensive experience in financial Employees completed mandatory
levels for the most prevalent attack types services, security and resilience, as well as cybersecurity training on time.
and their potential outcomes. We actively in strategy, governance, risk management
participate in the broader cyber intelligence and regulatory compliance. The Global Chief
community, including by sharing technical Information Security Officer is supported by Over 94%
expertise in investigations, alongside others in regional and business level chief information
the financial services industry and government security officers. In the event of incidents, the
agencies around the world. Global Chief Information Security Officer and IT developers hold at least one of our internal
relevant supporting officers are informed by secure developer certifications.
In 2023, we further strengthened our cyber our security operations team and are engaged
defences and enhanced our cybersecurity in alignment with our cybersecurity incident
capabilities with the objective to help reduce response protocols. Over 90
the likelihood and impact of unauthorised
access, security vulnerabilities being exploited, Key performance indicators, control
data leakage, third-party security exposure, effectiveness and other matters related to Cybersecurity education events were
and advanced malware. These defences build cybersecurity, including significant cyber held globally.
upon a proactive data analytical approach to incidents, are presented on a regular basis
help identify advanced targeted threats and to various management risk and control
malicious behaviour. committees including to the Board, the Group Over 96%
Risk Management Meeting and across global
We work with our third parties, including businesses, functions and regions. This is
suppliers, financial infrastructure bodies and done to ensure ongoing awareness and Of survey respondents to cybersecurity
other non-traditional third parties, in an effort management of our cybersecurity position. education events said they have a better
to help reduce the threat of cyber-attacks understanding of cybersecurity following
impacting our business services. Our cybersecurity capabilities are regularly these events.
assessed against the National Institute of
We have a third-party security risk Standards and Technology framework by
management process in place to assess, independent third parties, and we proactively
identify and manage the risks associated with collaborate with regulators to participate in
cybersecurity threats with supplier and other regular testing activities. HSBC also engages
third-party relationships. The process includes external independent third parties to support
risk-based cybersecurity due diligence reviews our penetration and threat-led penetration
that assess third parties’ cybersecurity testing, which help to identify vulnerabilities to
programmes against our standards cyber threats and test security resilience.
and requirements.
98 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Financial summary
Financial summary
Contents Cost target
At our full-year 2022 results, we set a target for our ‘adjusted‘
100 Changes to presentation from 1 January 2023
operating expenses of growth for 2023 compared with 2022. Under
100 Use of alternative performance measures our new reporting framework we no longer present ‘adjusted‘ results.
101 Critical estimates and judgements The exception to this is for operating expenses, where our ‘target
101 Impact of hyperinflationary accounting basis’ will adjust reported results for notable items and the period-on-
102 Consolidated income statement period effects of foreign currency translation differences. We also
exclude the impact of retranslating comparative period financial
103 Income statement commentary
information at the latest rates of foreign exchange in hyperinflationary
106 Supplementary table for planned disposals
economies, which is not within our control. We consider that this
107 Consolidated balance sheet measure provides useful information to investors by quantifying and
excluding the items that management considered when setting and
Changes to presentation from
assessing cost-related targets. In our target basis, we also exclude
1 January 2023 the costs related to the acquisition of SVB UK and related
investments internationally, which are expected to add approximately
1% to our cost growth compared with 2022.
Changes to our reporting framework
Our 2022 baseline for operating expenses on this basis is $29.8bn,
On 1 January 2023, we updated our financial reporting framework. which has been retranslated at the average rates of foreign exchange
We no longer report ‘adjusted’ results, which excluded the impact of for 2023.
both foreign currency translation differences and significant items.
Resegmentation
Instead, we compute constant currency performance by adjusting
comparative reported results only for the effects of foreign currency
In the first quarter of 2023, following an internal review to assess
translation differences between the relevant periods. This will enable
which global businesses were best suited to serve our customers’
users to understand the impact of foreign currency translation
respective needs, a portfolio of our Global Banking customers within
differences on the Group’s performance. We separately disclose
our entities in Latin America was transferred from GBM to CMB for
‘notable items‘, which are components of our income statement that
reporting purposes. Comparative data have been re-presented
management would consider as outside the normal course of
accordingly. Similar smaller transfers from GBM to CMB were also
business and generally non-recurring in nature. While our primary
undertaken within our entities in Australia and Indonesia, where
segmental reporting by global business remains unchanged, effective
comparative data have not been re-presented.
from 1 January 2023, the Group changed the supplementary
presentation of results from geographical regions to main legal Banking NII
entities to better reflect the Group’s structure.
At our interim 2023 results, we introduced banking net interest
IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’
income. This alternative performance measure is reconciled on
page 104, and deducts from Group reported net interest income: the
On 1 January 2023, HSBC adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’. As
impact of the cost of funding reported in net interest income used to
required by the standard, the Group applied the requirements
fund trading and fair value net assets; the impact of foreign exchange
retrospectively with comparative data previously published under
swaps in Markets Treasury, where an offsetting income or loss is
IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ restated from the 1 January 2022
recorded in trading and fair value income, and third-party net interest
transition date. As required by IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial
income from our insurance business.
Statements’ a third statement of financial position as at the transition
date of 1 January 2022 has been disclosed (for further details, see This resulting measure is intended to approximate the Group’s
page 331). Under IFRS 17 there is no present value of in-force banking revenue that is directly impacted by changes in interest rates.
business (‘PVIF’) asset recognised up front. Instead the measurement
Use of alternative performance
of the insurance contract liability takes into account fulfilment cash
flows and a contractual service margin (‘CSM’) representing the measures
unearned profit. In contrast to the Group’s previous IFRS 4 accounting
where profits are recognised up front, under IFRS 17 they are
Our reported results are prepared in accordance with International
deferred and systematically recognised in revenue as services are
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International
provided over the expected coverage period. The CSM also includes
Accounting Standards Board (‘IFRS Accounting Standards’),
directly attributable costs, which had previously been expensed as
as detailed in the financial statements starting on page 329.
incurred and which are now incorporated within the insurance liability
measurement and recognised over the expected coverage period. To measure our performance, we supplement our IFRS Accounting
Standards figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards measures,
In conjunction with the implementation of IFRS 17, the Group has
which constitute alternative performance measures under European
made use of the option to re-designate to fair value through profit or
Securities and Markets Authority guidance and non-GAAP financial
loss assets that were previously held at amortised cost totalling
measures defined in and presented in accordance with US Securities
$55.1bn, and eligible assets previously held at fair value through other
and Exchange Commission rules and regulations. These measures
comprehensive income totalling $1.1bn. The re-designation of
include those derived from our reported results that eliminate factors
amortised cost assets generated a net increase to assets of $4.9bn
that distort year-on-year comparisons. The ‘constant currency
because the fair value measurement on transition was higher than the
performance’ measure used throughout this report is described
previous amortised cost carrying amount.
below. Definitions and calculations of other alternative performance
The impact of the transition was a reduction of $1.1bn on the Group’s measures are included in our ‘Reconciliation of alternative
full-year 2022 reported revenue and a reduction of $0.5bn on full-year performance measures’ on page 130. In addition, insurance-specific
2022 reported profit before tax. The Group’s total equity at 1 January non-GAAP measures including ‘Insurance manufacturing value of new
2022 reduced by $10.5bn to $196.3bn on the transition, and tangible business‘, ‘Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value‘, and
equity reduced by $2.4bn to $146.9bn. For further details of our ‘Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax‘ are provided on pages 116 to
adoption of IFRS 17, see Note 38 ‘Effects of adoption of IFRS 17’ on 117, together with their definitions and reconciliation to GAAP
page 422. measures. All alternative performance measures are reconciled to the
closest reported performance measure.
100 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
new calculation basis. Insurance manufacturing value of new necessitates changes to the underlying economic scenario models
business is calculated as the sum of the IFRS 17 new business CSM used in the valuation of policyholder guarantees to reflect this
and loss component adjusted for: basis.
– a full attribution of expenses incurred within our insurance There were no other adjustments made, with demographic and
manufacturing operations. IFRS 17 considers only directly expense assumptions remaining unchanged, except for inclusion of
attributable expenses within the new business CSM future non-attributable expenses as described above. The IFRS 17 risk
measurement; and adjustment remained unchanged, with no additional allowances made
for market risks. Insurance manufacturing value of new business was
– long-term asset spreads expected to be generated over the
measured before tax and after inclusion of the impact of reinsurance.
contract term. Under IFRS 17, new business CSM is in contrast
calculated on a market consistent risk neutral basis. This also
Insurance manufacturing value of new business
2023 2022
$m $m
Insurance manufacturing operations new business CSM and loss component1 1,678 1,095
Inclusion of incremental expenses not attributable to the contractual service margin (342) (285)
Long-term asset spreads 238 362
Insurance manufacturing value of new business 1,574 1,172
1 Insurance manufacturing new business contractual service margin was $1,686m (2022: $1,111m) and the loss component was $8m (2022: $16m).
Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax The present value of projected future profits is calculated as the CSM
net of tax adjusted for:
Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax is a non-GAAP alternative
performance measure that provides information about our insurance – a full attribution of expenses incurred within our insurance
manufacturing operations’ net asset value plus the future earnings manufacturing operations, net of tax. IFRS 17 considers only
from in-force business. At 31 December 2023, insurance equity plus directly attributable expenses within the CSM measurement; and
CSM net of tax was $16,583m (31 December 2022: $14,646m).
– long-term asset spreads expected to be generated over the
At 31 December 2023, insurance equity plus CSM net of tax was contract term, net of tax. Under IFRS 17, CSM is in contrast
calculated as insurance manufacturing operations equity of $7,731m calculated on a market consistent risk neutral basis. This also
plus CSM of $10,786m less tax of $1,934m. At 31 December 2022, it necessitates changes to the underlying economic scenario models
was calculated as insurance manufacturing operations equity of used in the valuation of policyholder guarantees to reflect this
$7,236m plus CSM of $9,058m less tax of $1,648m. basis.
Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value There are no other adjustments made, with demographic and
expense assumptions remaining unchanged, except for inclusion of
Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value is a non-GAAP
future non-attributable expenses as described above. The IFRS 17 risk
alternative performance measure that provides information about the
adjustment remained unchanged, with no additional allowances made
value of the insurance manufacturing operations and is defined as
for market risks. Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value was
total shareholders’ equity plus the present value of projected future
measured after tax and after inclusion of the impact of reinsurance.
profits. It is not comparable with peer embedded value disclosure as
there is no single industry standard basis of calculation.
Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value
At 31 Dec 2023 At 31 Dec 2022
$m $m
Total shareholders’ equity and contractual service margin net of tax 16,583 14,646
Inclusion of incremental expenses not attributable to the contractual service margin, net of tax (582) (559)
Long-term asset spreads, net of tax 2,368 2,369
Insurance manufacturing proxy embedded value 18,369 16,456
WPB: Wealth balances
The following table shows the wealth balances, which include invested assets and wealth deposits. Invested assets comprise customer assets
either managed by our Asset Management business or by external third-party investment managers, as well as self-directed investments by our
customers.
WPB – reported wealth balances1
2023 2022
$bn $bn
Global Private Banking invested assets 363 312
– managed by Global Asset Management 61 57
– external managers, direct securities and other 302 255
Retail invested assets 383 363
– managed by Global Asset Management 178 198
– external managers, direct securities and other 205 165
Asset Management third-party distribution 445 340
Reported invested assets1 1,191 1,015
Wealth deposits (Premier, Jade and Global Private Banking)2 536 503
Total reported wealth balances 1,727 1,518
1 Invested assets are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role
as investment manager. At 31 December 2023, $32bn of invested assets were classified as held for sale and are not included in the table above.
2 Premier, Jade and Global Private Banking deposits, which include Prestige deposits in Hang Seng Bank, form part of the total WPB customer accounts
balance of $805bn (2022: $779bn) on page 111. At 31 December 2023, $42bn of wealth deposits were classified as held for sale and are not included
in the table above.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 117
Financial
review
Risk review
Our approach to risk
Our risk appetite
We recognise the importance of a strong culture, which refers to our – trends highlighted in other Group risk reports;
shared attitudes, beliefs, values and standards that shape behaviours
– communication with risk stewards on the developing risk
including those related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk
landscape;
management. All our people are responsible for the management of
– strength of our capital, liquidity and balance sheet;
risk, with ultimate supervisory oversight residing with the Board. Our
risk appetite defines the level and types of risk that we are willing to – compliance with applicable laws and regulations;
take, while informing the financial planning process and guiding – effectiveness of the applicable control environment to mitigate
strategic decision making. risk, informed by risk ratings from risk control assessments;
The following principles guide the Group’s overarching appetite for – functionality, capacity and resilience of available systems to
risk and determine how our businesses and risks are managed. manage risk; and
Financial position – the level of available staff with the required competencies to
manage risks.
– We aim to maintain a strong capital position, defined by regulatory
and internal capital ratios. We formally articulate our risk appetite through our RAS. Setting out
our risk appetite helps ensure that we agree a suitable level of risk for
– We carry out liquidity and funding management for each operating
our strategy. In this way, risk appetite informs our financial planning
entity on a stand-alone basis.
process and helps senior management to allocate capital to business
Operating model activities, services and products.
The RAS is applied to the development of business line strategies,
– We seek to generate returns in line with our risk appetite and
strategic and business planning, and remuneration. At a Group level,
strong risk management capability.
performance against the RAS is reported to the Group Risk
– We aim to deliver sustainable and diversified earnings and Management Meeting alongside key risk indicators to support
consistent returns for shareholders.
targeted insight and discussion on breaches of risk appetite and any
Business practice associated mitigating actions. This reporting allows risks to be
promptly identified and mitigated, and informs risk-adjusted
– We have no appetite for deliberately or knowingly causing remuneration to drive a strong risk culture.
detriment to consumers, or incurring a breach of the letter or spirit
Each global business, region and material operating entity is required
of regulatory requirements.
to have its own RAS, which is monitored to help ensure it remains
– We have no appetite for inappropriate market conduct by any aligned with the Group’s RAS. Each RAS and business activity is
member of staff or by any Group business. guided and underpinned by qualitative principles and/or quantitative
– We are committed to managing the climate risks that have an metrics.
impact on our financial position and delivering on our net zero
Risk management
ambition.
– We consider and, where appropriate, mitigate reputational risk that
We recognise that the primary role of risk management is to help
may arise from our business activities and decisions.
protect our customers, business, colleagues, shareholders and the
– We monitor non-financial risk exposure against risk appetite, communities that we serve, while ensuring we are able to support
including exposure related to inadequate or failed internal our strategy and provide sustainable growth. This is supported
processes, people and systems, or events that impact our through our three lines of defence model described on page 138.
customers or can lead to sub-optimal returns to shareholders,
The implementation of our business strategy remains a key focus. As
censure, or reputational damage.
we implement change initiatives, we actively manage the execution
Enterprise-wide application risks. We also perform periodic risk assessments, including against
strategies, to help ensure retention of key personnel for our continued
Our risk appetite encapsulates the consideration of financial and non-
safe operation.
financial risks. We define financial risk as the risk of a financial loss as
a result of business activities. We actively take these types of risks to We aim to use a comprehensive risk management approach across
maximise shareholder value and profits. Non-financial risk is the risk the organisation and across all risk types, underpinned by our culture
to achieving our strategy or objectives as the result of failed internal and values. This is outlined in our risk management framework,
processes, people and systems, or from external events. including the key principles and practices that we employ in managing
material risks, both financial and non-financial. The framework fosters
Our risk appetite is expressed in both quantitative and qualitative
continuous monitoring, promotes risk awareness and encourages a
terms and applied at the global business and regional levels, and to
sound operational and strategic decision-making and escalation
material operating entities. Every three years, the Group Risk and
process. It also supports a consistent approach to identifying,
Compliance function commissions an external independent firm to
assessing, managing and reporting the risks we accept and incur in
review the Group’s approach to risk appetite and to help ensure that it
our activities, with clear accountabilities. We actively review and
remains in line with market best practice and regulatory expectations.
enhance our risk management framework and our approach to
This review was last carried out in 2021 and confirmed the Group’s
managing risk, through our activities with regard to: people and
risk appetite statement (‘RAS’) remains aligned to best practices,
capabilities; governance; reporting and management information;
regulatory expectations and strategic goals. Our risk appetite
credit risk management models; and data.
continues to evolve and expand its scope as part of our regular review
process. Group Risk and Compliance is independent from the global
businesses, including our sales and trading functions. It provides
The Board reviews and approves the Group’s risk appetite regularly to
challenge, oversight and appropriate balance in risk/return decisions.
make sure it remains fit for purpose. The Group’s risk appetite is
considered, developed and enhanced through:
– an alignment with our strategy, purpose, values and customer
needs;
136 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Our risk management framework
The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of the risk management framework, including governance, structure, risk
management tools and our culture, which together help align employee behaviour with risk appetite.
Key components of our risk management framework
HSBC values and risk culture
The Board approves the Group’s risk appetite, plans and performance
Non-executive risk governance targets. It sets the ‘tone from the top’ and is advised by the Group Risk
Committee (see page 254).
Risk governance
Our executive risk governance structure is responsible for the
enterprise-wide management of all risks, including key policies and
Executive risk governance
frameworks for the management of risk within the Group (see pages
138 and 145).
Our ‘three lines of defence’ model defines roles and responsibilities for
Roles and risk management. An independent Group Risk and Compliance
Three lines of defence model
responsibilities function helps ensure the necessary balance in risk/return decisions
(see page 138).
Risk appetite
Enterprise-wide risk management tools
The Group has processes in place to identify, assess, monitor, manage
Processes and tools
and report risks to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite.
Active risk management: identification/assessment,
monitoring, management and reporting
Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the
Policies and procedures
controls required to manage our risks.
Operational and resilience risk management defines minimum
Control activities standards and processes for managing operational risks and internal
Internal controls controls.
The Group has systems and processes that support the identification,
Systems and infrastructure capture and exchange of information to support risk management
activities.
Risk governance
The Board has ultimate supervisory responsibility for the effective global functions. Further details can be found under the ‘Reputational
management of risk and approves our risk appetite. risk’ section of www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
business/managing-risk.
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, supported by members
of the Group Risk Management Meeting, holds executive Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated to senior
accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment and managers with individual accountability for decision making. All our
management of the risk environment and the effectiveness of the risk people have a role to play in risk management. These roles are
management framework. defined using the three lines of defence model, which takes into
account our business and functional structures, including regulatory
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is also responsible for
compliance and financial crime, as described in the following
the oversight of reputational risk, with the support of the Group
commentary, ‘Our responsibilities’.
Reputational Risk Committee. The Group Reputational Risk
Committee considers matters arising from customers, transactions We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help ensure
and third parties that either present a serious potential reputational there is appropriate oversight and accountability of risk, which
risk to the Group or merit a Group-led decision to ensure a consistent facilitates reporting and escalation to the Group Risk Management
risk management approach across the regions, global businesses and Meeting. This structure is summarised in the following table.
Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance
Authority Membership Responsibilities include:
Group Risk Management Group Chief Risk and Compliance – Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-
Meeting Officer delegated risk management authority
Group Chief Legal Officer – Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the risk management
Group Chief Executive framework
Group Chief Financial Officer – Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk
impacts and taking appropriate action
Group Head of Financial Crime and
Group Money Laundering Reporting – Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action
Officer – Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and
All other Group Executive Committee conduct
members
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 137
Risk
review
Risk review
Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance (continued)
Authority Membership Responsibilities include:
Group Risk and Group Chief Risk and Compliance – Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in providing strategic
Compliance Executive Officer direction for the Group Risk and Compliance function, setting priorities and
Committee Chief risk and compliance officers of providing oversight
HSBC’s global businesses – Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk
Regional chief risk and compliance and compliance across the Group
officers and chief risk officers
Heads of Global Risk and Compliance
sub-functions
Global business/regional Global business/regional chief risk and – Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-
risk management compliance officers and chief risk delegated risk management authority
meetings officers – Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment
Global business/regional chief – Implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
executive officers
– Monitoring all categories of risk and overseeing appropriate mitigating actions
Global business/regional chief financial
– Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls
officers
Global business/regional heads
of global functions
The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 252.
Treasury risks are the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee and the Group Risk Committee. Global Treasury actively manages these
risks, supported by the Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen by Treasury Risk
Management and the Group Risk Management Meeting. Further details on treasury risk management are set out on page 203.
Our responsibilities
All our people are responsible for identifying and managing risk within We have continued to strengthen the control environment and our
the scope of their roles. Roles are defined using the three lines of approach to the management of risk, as set out in our risk
defence model, which takes into account our business and functional management framework. Our ongoing focus is on helping to ensure
structures as described below. more effective oversight and better end-to-end identification and
management of financial and non-financial risks. This is overseen by
Three lines of defence
the Enterprise Risk Management function, headed by the Global Head
To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use an of Enterprise Risk Management.
activity-based three lines of defence model. This model delineates
Stress testing and recovery planning
management accountabilities and responsibilities for risk
management and the control environment. Our stress testing programme assesses our capital and liquidity
strength through a rigorous examination of our resilience to external
The model underpins our approach to risk management by clarifying
shocks, and forms part of our risk management and capital and
responsibility and encouraging collaboration, as well as enabling
liquidity planning. As well as undertaking regulatory-driven stress
effective coordination of risk and control activities. The three lines of
tests, we conduct our own internal stress tests in order to understand
defence are summarised below:
the nature and level of material risks, quantify the impact of such risks
– The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible and develop plausible mitigating actions. The outcome of a stress test
for identifying, recording, reporting and managing them in line with provides management with key insights into the impact of severely
risk appetite, and ensuring that the right controls and assessments adverse events on the Group and provides an indication of resilience
are in place to mitigate them. to regulators on the Group’s financial stability.
– The second line of defence challenges the first line of defence on Internal stress tests
effective risk management, and provides advice, guidance and
Our internal capital assessment uses a range of stress scenarios that
assurance of the first line of defence to ensure it is managing risk
explore risks identified by management. They include potential
effectively.
adverse macroeconomic, geopolitical, climate and operational risk
– The third line of defence is our Global Internal Audit function, events, as well as other potential events that are specific to HSBC.
which provides independent assurance as to whether our risk
The selection of stress scenarios is based upon the output of our
management approach and processes are designed and operating
identified top and emerging risks and our risk appetite. Stress testing
effectively.
analysis helps management understand the nature and extent of
Group Risk and Compliance function vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed. Using this information,
Our Group Risk and Compliance function is responsible for the management decides whether risks can or should be mitigated
Group’s risk management framework. This responsibility includes through management actions or, if they were to crystallise, be
establishing global policy, monitoring risk profiles, and identifying and absorbed through capital and liquidity. This in turn informs decisions
managing forward-looking risk. Group Risk and Compliance is made about preferred capital and liquidity levels and allocations.
up of sub-functions covering all risks to our business. Forming part of During 2023, we completed a Group-wide internal stress test
the second line of defence, the Group Risk and Compliance function alongside testing of the Group’s strategy, otherwise known as the
is independent from the global businesses, including sales and trading corporate plan, to test and inform our strategy and assumptions. The
functions. It provides challenge, appropriate oversight and balance in stress scenario explored the potential impact of interest rate shocks
risk/return decisions. and a deep recession. Under this scenario, inflation re-intensifies as
Responsibility for minimising both financial and non-financial risk, accentuated geopolitical tensions lead to severe global supply chain
including regulatory compliance and financial crime, lies with our disruptions and a rise in energy prices.
people. They are required to manage the risks of the business and In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major
operational activities for which they are responsible. We maintain subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event-driven scenario
adequate oversight of our risks through our various specialist risk analysis specific to its region. They also participate, as required, in the
stewards and the collective accountability held by our chief risk and regulatory stress testing programmes of the jurisdictions in which
compliance officers. they operate, such as stress tests required by the Bank of England
138 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
(‘BoE’) in the UK, the Federal Reserve Board (‘FRB’) in the US, and Although we continue to track the transition of remaining contracts to
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) in Hong Kong. Global alternative interest rate benchmarks, overall, our regulatory
functions and businesses also perform bespoke stress testing to compliance, conduct and legal risks have materially diminished. We
inform their assessment of risks to potential scenarios. will continue to monitor until all contracts are fully transitioned.
We also conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group level and, Key developments in 2023
where required, at subsidiary entity level to understand potential
extreme conditions that would make our business model non-viable. In 2023, we actively managed the risks related to macroeconomic and
Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and vulnerabilities geopolitical uncertainties, as well as other key risks described in this
we might face, and helps inform early warning triggers, management section. In addition, we sought to enhance our risk management in
actions and contingency plans designed to mitigate risks. the following areas:
Recovery and resolution plans – We enhanced our model risk frameworks and controls as we seek
Recovery and resolution plans form part of the integral framework to manage the increasing numbers of climate risk, artificial
safeguarding the Group’s financial stability. The Group recovery plan, intelligence (‘AI’) and machine learning models being embedded in
together with stress testing, help us understand the likely outcomes business processes. Focus is also on generative AI due to the
of adverse business or economic conditions and in the identification pace of technological changes and regulatory and wider interest in
of appropriate risk mitigating actions. The Group is committed to adoption and usage.
further developing its recovery and resolution capabilities, including in – We implemented two revised risk appetite frameworks to better
relation to the Resolvability Assessment Framework. manage and strengthen our controls with respect to concentration
risks. These relate to concentration risks arising from exposures to
Ibor transition
countries and territories, and to single customer groups.
Interbank offered rates (‘Ibors’) were previously used extensively to
– We enhanced our processes, framework and capabilities to seek
set interest rates on different types of financial transactions and for
to improve the control and oversight of our material third parties,
valuation purposes, risk measurement and performance
and to help maintain our operational resilience and meet new and
benchmarking.
evolving regulatory requirements.
The publication of sterling, Swiss franc, euro, Japanese yen and US
– We continued to make progress with our comprehensive
dollar Libor interest rate benchmarks, as well as the Euro Overnight
regulatory reporting programme in seeking to strengthen our
Index Average (‘Eonia’) and other local interbank interest rates
global processes, improve consistency and enhance controls
globally, has ceased following regulatory announcements and industry
across regulatory reports.
initiatives. To support any remaining contracts referencing sterling and
US dollar Libor benchmarks, the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority – Through our climate risk programme, we continued to embed
(‘FCA’) has compelled the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited to climate considerations throughout the organisation, including
publish the three-month sterling Libor setting using an alternative through risk policy updates and the completion of our annual
‘synthetic’ methodology until 31 March 2024, and the one-month, climate risk materiality assessment. We also developed risk
three-month and six-month US dollar Libor settings until metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced
30 September 2024. We continue to support our customers in the our internal climate scenario analysis.
transition of the limited number of outstanding contracts relying on
– We deployed industry-leading technology and advanced analytics
‘synthetic’ Libor benchmarks in line with these dates.
capabilities into new markets to improve our ability to identify
There are approximately 90 of these contracts remaining, which are suspicious activities and prevent financial crime.
predominantly syndicated lending contracts, where Commercial
– We continued to develop and enhance our electronic
Banking and Global Banking customers have required additional time
communication policies and standards to help ensure that we act
to enable refinancing or restructuring, with transition expected to be
on the most substantive issues. A Group-wide approach to
completed prior to 30 September 2024. Additionally, there are a small
providing corporate device access is being implemented to meet
number of Group-issued MREL and capital securities and client retail
regulatory expectations.
mortgages that are contingent on demised Ibors after the end of their
fixed interest rate periods. HSBC remains committed to seeking to – We are embedding our suite of regulatory management systems
remediate and/or mitigate relevant risks relating to Ibor-demise, as following the Group-wide roll-out of regulatory horizon scanning
appropriate, for these contracts. HSBC expects to be able to capabilities, and enhanced regulation mapping tooling.
remediate and/or mitigate these risks by the relevant interest rate – We continued to stabilise our net interest income, despite the
calculation dates, which may occur post-cessation of the relevant fluctuations in interest rate expectations, driven by central bank
Ibor. All other contracts referencing benchmarks that are no longer rate increases and a reassessment of the trajectory of inflation in
published have been transitioned in line with client and investor major economies.
discussions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 139
Risk
review
2025. It is anticipated that inflation will converge towards central Technology and cybersecurity risk
banks’ target rates by early 2025. Similarly, interest rates are
expected to decline but remain materially higher than in recent years. Like other organisations, we operate in an extensive and complex
We also consider scenarios where commodity prices are materially technology landscape. We need to remain resilient in order to support
higher, inflation and interest rates rise and a global recession follows, customers, our colleagues and financial markets globally. Risks arise
although we assign these scenarios a lower probability of occurring. where, for example, technology is not understood, maintained or
developed appropriately. We also continue to operate in an
Forecasts remain uncertain, and changing economic conditions and
increasingly complex cyber threat environment globally. These threats
the materialisation of key risks could reduce the accuracy of the
include potential unauthorised access to customer accounts and
Central scenario forecast. In particular, forecasts in recent years have
attacks on systems, whether ours or our third-party suppliers’. These
been sensitive to commodity price changes, changing supply chain
threats require ongoing investment in business and technical controls
conditions, monetary policy adjustments and inflation expectations.
to defend against them.
Uncertainty remains with respect to the relationship between the
economic factors and historical loss experience, which has required Mitigating actions
adjustments to modelled ECL in cases where we determined that the
– We continue to upgrade many of our IT systems and are
model was unable to capture the material underlying risks.
transforming how software solutions are developed, delivered,
Despite these risks, forecast stability and reduced forecast dispersion maintained and tested as part of our investment in the Group’s
in our main markets ensured that the Central scenario for impairment operational resilience capabilities to seek to meet the expectations
was assigned the same likelihood of occurrence across our key of our customers and regulators and to help prevent disruptions to
markets. our services.
For further details of our Central and other scenarios, see – Our cyber intelligence and threat analysis team continually
‘Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent cyber-attack types
on page 156. and their potential outcomes (see page 98), and we continue to
seek to strengthen our controls to help reduce the likelihood and
Global tensions over trade, technology and ideology are manifesting
impact of advanced malware, data leakage, exposure through third
themselves in divergent regulatory standards and compliance
parties and security vulnerabilities.
regimes, presenting long-term strategic challenges for multinational
businesses. – We continue to seek to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities,
including Cloud security, identity and access management, metrics
As the geopolitical landscape evolves, compliance by multinational
and data analytics, and third-party security reviews and to invest in
corporations with their legal or regulatory obligations in one
mitigating the potential threats of emerging technologies.
jurisdiction may be seen as supporting the law or policy objectives of
that jurisdiction over another, creating additional compliance, – We regularly report and review cyber risk and control
reputational and political risks for the Group. We maintain dialogue effectiveness at executive level across global businesses,
with our regulators in various jurisdictions on the impact of legal and functions and regions, as well as at non-executive Board level to
regulatory obligations on our business and customers. help ensure there is appropriate visibility and governance of the
risk and its mitigating actions.
The financial impact on the Group of geopolitical risks in Asia is
heightened due to the region’s relatively high contribution to the – We participate globally in industry bodies and working groups to
Group’s profitability, particularly in Hong Kong. collaborate on tactics employed by cyber-crime groups and to
work together to seek to prevent, detect and defend against
While it is the Group’s policy to comply with all applicable laws and
cyber-attacks on financial organisations globally.
regulations of all jurisdictions in which it operates, geopolitical
tensions, and potential ambiguities in the Group’s compliance – We respond to attempts to compromise our cybersecurity in
obligations, will continue to present challenges and risks for the accordance with our cybersecurity framework, which adheres to
Group and could have a material adverse impact on the Group‘s applicable laws, rules and regulations. To date, none of these
business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, attacks have had a material impact on our business or operations.
strategy and reputation, as well as on the Group’s customers.
Environmental, social and governance
Mitigating actions
(’ESG’) risk
– We closely monitor geopolitical and economic developments in
key markets and sectors, and undertake scenario analysis where We are subject to financial and non-financial risks associated with
appropriate. This helps us to take actions to manage our portfolios ESG-related matters. Our current areas of focus include climate risk,
where necessary, including through enhanced monitoring, nature-related risks and human rights risks. These can impact us both
amending our risk appetite and/or reducing limits and exposures. directly and indirectly through our business activities and
relationships. For details of how we govern ESG, see page 88.
– We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify
sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with management Our assessment of climate risks covers three distinct time periods,
actions being taken to rebalance exposures and manage risk comprising: short term, which is up to 2025; medium term, which is
appetite where necessary. between 2026 and 2035; and long term, which is between 2036 and
2050. These time periods are aligned to the Climate Action 100+
– We regularly review key portfolios – including our commercial real
framework v1.2.
estate portfolio – to help ensure that individual customer or
portfolio risks are understood and that our ability to manage the We may face credit losses if our customers’ business models fail to
level of facilities offered through any downturn is appropriate. align to a net zero economy or if our customers face disruption to
their operations or deterioration to their assets as a result of extreme
– We continue to seek to manage sanctions and trade restrictions
weather.
through the use of reasonably designed policies, procedures and
controls, which are subject to ongoing testing, auditing and We may face trading losses if climate change results in changes to
enhancements. macroeconomic and financial variables that negatively impact our
trading book exposures.
– We have taken steps, where necessary, to enhance physical
security in geographical areas deemed to be at high risk from We may face impacts from physical risk on our own operations and
terrorism and military conflicts. premises, owing to the increase in frequency and severity of weather
events and chronic shifts in weather patterns, which could affect our
ability to conduct our day-to-day operations.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 141
Risk
review
Risk review
We may face increased reputational, legal, and regulatory compliance – In 2023, we conducted pilot exercises to assess nature risk
risks if we fail to make sufficient progress towards our net zero exposures, focusing on our continental Europe portfolios in line
ambition, and ESG-related targets, commitments and ambitions, if we with regulatory expectations.
fail to meet evolving regulatory expectations and requirements on the
– In 2023, we provided practical guidance and training, where
management of climate risk and broader ESG risks, or if we
relevant, to our colleagues across the Group on how to identify
knowingly or unknowingly make inaccurate, unclear, misleading, or
and manage human rights risk. For further details, see page 89.
unsubstantiated claims regarding sustainability to our stakeholders.
– We have expanded the scope of financial reporting risk to explicitly
Requirements, policy objectives, expectations or views may vary by
include oversight over accuracy and completeness of climate-
jurisdiction and stakeholder in relation to ESG-related matters. We
related and broader ESG disclosures. In 2023, we updated the risk
may be subject to potentially conflicting approaches to ESG matters in
appetite statement to reference our ESG and climate-related
certain jurisdictions, which may impact our ability to conduct certain
disclosures. We also updated our internal controls to incorporate
business within those jurisdictions or result in additional regulatory
requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in climate-
compliance, reputational, political or litigation risks. These risks may
related and broader ESG disclosures. To support this, we have
also arise from divergence in the implementation of ESG, climate
developed a framework to guide control implementation over
policy and financial regulation in the many regions in which we
climate-related and broader ESG disclosures, which includes areas
operate, including initiatives to apply and enforce policy and regulation
such as process and data governance, and risk assessment.
with extraterritorial effect.
– We continue to engage with our customers, investors and
We may face financial reporting risk in relation to our climate-related
regulators proactively on the management of climate-related and
and broader ESG disclosures, as any data, methodologies, scenarios
broader ESG risks. We also engage with initiatives, including the
and reporting standards we have used may evolve over time in line
Climate Financial Risk Forum, Equator Principles, Task Force on
with market practice, regulation or developments in science. We may
Climate-related Financial Disclosures and CDP (formerly the
also face the risk of making reporting errors due to issues relating to
Carbon Disclosure Project) to help drive best practice for climate
the availability, accuracy and verifiability of data, and system, process
risk management.
and control challenges. Any changes and reporting errors could result
in revisions to our internal frameworks and reported data and could For further details of our approach to climate risk management, see
mean that reported figures are not reconcilable or comparable year on ‘Climate risk’ on page 221.
year. We may also have to re-evaluate our progress towards our For further details of ESG risk management, see ‘Financial crime risk‘
climate-related targets in the future.
on page 231 and ‘Regulatory compliance risk’ on page 231.
We may face model risk, as the uncertain and evolving impacts of
Our ESG review can be found on page 42.
climate change and data and methodology limitations present
challenges to creating reliable and accurate model outputs. Financial crime risk
We may face climate and broader ESG-related litigation and regulatory Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory scrutiny
enforcement risks, either directly if stakeholders think that we are not regarding their ability to detect and prevent financial crime. In 2023,
adequately managing climate and broader ESG-related risks, or these risks were exacerbated by rising geopolitical tensions and
indirectly if our clients and customers are themselves the subject of ongoing macroeconomic factors. These challenging developments
litigation, potentially resulting in the revaluation of client assets. require managing conflicting laws and approaches to legal and
We may also be exposed to nature-related risks beyond climate regulatory regimes, and implementing increasingly complex and less
change. These risks arise when the provision of ecosystem services, predictable sanctions and trade restrictions.
such as water availability, air quality and soil quality, is compromised Amid high levels of inflation and increasing cost of living pressures,
by human activity. Nature risk can manifest through macroeconomic, we face increasing regulatory expectations with respect to managing
market, credit, reputational, legal and regulatory risks, for both HSBC internal and external fraud and protecting vulnerable customers. In
and our customers. addition, the accessibility and increasing sophistication of generative
Regulation and disclosure requirements in relation to human rights, AI brings financial crime risks. While there is potential for the
and to modern slavery in particular, are increasing. Businesses are technology to support financial crime detection, there is also a risk
expected to be transparent about their efforts to identify and respond that criminals use generative AI to perpetrate fraud, particularly
to the risk of negative human rights impacts arising from their scams.
business activities and relationships. The digitisation of financial services continues to have an impact on
Mitigating actions the payments ecosystem, with an increasing number of new market
entrants and payment mechanisms, not all of which are subject to the
– A dedicated Environmental Risk Oversight Forum is responsible same level of regulatory scrutiny or regulations as banks.
for shaping and overseeing our approach and providing support in
Developments around digital assets and currencies have continued at
managing climate and sustainability risk. For further details of the
pace, with an increasing regulatory and enforcement focus on the
Group’s ESG governance structure, see page 88.
financial crimes linked to these types of assets.
– Our climate risk programme continues to support the development Expectations continue to increase with respect to the intersection of
of our climate risk management capabilities across four key pillars:
ESG issues and financial crime, as our organisation, customers and
governance and risk appetite, risk management, stress testing and
suppliers transition to net zero. These are particularly focused on
scenario analysis, and disclosures. We continue to enhance our
potential ‘greenwashing’, human rights issues and environmental
approach and mitigation of the risk of greenwashing.
crimes. In addition, climate change itself could heighten risks linked to
– In January 2024, we updated our energy policy covering the vulnerable migrant populations in countries where financial crime is
broader energy system including upstream oil and gas, oil and gas already more prevalent.
power generation, coal, hydrogen, renewables and hydropower,
We also continue to face increasing challenges presented by national
nuclear, biomass and energy from waste. We also updated our
data privacy requirements, which may affect our ability to manage
thermal coal phase-out policy, which aims to drive thermal coal
financial crime risks across markets.
phase-out aligned to science-based timeframes. We take a risk-
based approach in the way that we identify transactions and Mitigating actions
clients to which our energy and thermal coal phase-out policies – We continue to seek to manage sanctions and trade restrictions
apply, and report on relevant exposures, adopting approaches through the use of reasonably designed policies, procedures and
proportionate to risk and materiality. For further details of our controls, which are subject to ongoing testing, auditing and
sustainability risk policies, see page 67. enhancements.
– We continue to develop our fraud controls and invest in
capabilities to fight financial crime through the application of
142 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Risk review
We continued to prioritise the redevelopment of internal ratings-based Change execution risk
(‘IRB’) and internal model methods (‘IMM’) models, in relation to
counterparty credit, as part of the IRB repair and Basel III The needs of our customers are evolving faster than ever, particularly
programmes, with a key focus on enhancing the quality of data used with regard to technological advancements and the global transition to
as model inputs. Some models have been approved and a number are a low-carbon economy. The resulting scale, complexity and pace of
pending approval decisions from the UK’s Prudential Regulation strategic and regulatory change have elevated the level of risk for
Authority (‘PRA’) and other key regulators. Some IMM and internal executing such changes safely and efficiently.
model approach (‘IMA’) models have been approved for use, and
Mitigating actions
feedback has been received for some IRB models. Climate risk
modelling is a key focus for the Group as HSBC’s commitment to – Change execution risk is part of our risk taxonomy and control
ESG has become a key part of the Group’s strategy. Focus is also on library so that it is defined, assessed, managed, reported and
AI and machine learning where the pace of technological advances is overseen in the same way as our other material risks.
driving significant changes in modelling techniques. – Our change framework provides colleagues across all levels of the
Model risk remains a key area of focus given the regulatory scrutiny in Group who deliver on strategic and organisational initiatives with a
this area, with local regulatory exams taking place in many common and consistent understanding of their role in achieving
jurisdictions and the PRA’s publication of supervisory statement 1/23 value and outcomes.
(SS1/23) which provided revised principles on how model risk should – The Change Prioritisation and Oversight Committee oversees the
be managed, as well as further developments in policy expected from prioritisation, strategic alignment and management of execution
other regulators. risk for all strategic change portfolios and initiatives.
Mitigating actions Risks associated with workforce capability,
– We have continued to embed the enhanced monitoring, review capacity and environmental factors with
and challenge of expected credit loss model performance through
our Model Risk Management function as part of a broader potential impact on growth
quarterly process to determine loss levels. The Model Risk
Our global businesses and functions in all of our markets are exposed
Management team aims to provide effective review and challenge
to risks associated with workforce capacity challenges, including
of any future redevelopment of these models.
challenges to retain, develop and attract high-performing employees
– A programme of work is in progress to address the requirements in key labour markets, and compliance with employment laws and
of the new PRA guidance for managing model risk. regulations. Failure to manage these risks may have an impact on the
– Model Risk Governance committees at the Group, business and delivery of our strategic objectives. It could also result in poor
functional levels continue to provide oversight of model risk. customer outcomes or a breach of employment laws and regulations,
which may lead to regulatory sanctions or legal claims.
– A full review of the Group’s model landscape is being undertaken
across the organisation to ensure models are being deployed in Mitigating actions
line with global business strategy. – We seek to promote a diverse and inclusive workforce and provide
– Model Risk Management works closely with businesses to ensure health and well-being support. We continue to build our speak-up
that IRB/IMM/IMA models in development meet risk culture through active campaigns.
management, pricing and capital management needs. Global – We monitor hiring activities and levels of employee attrition, with
Internal Audit provides assurance over the risk management each business and function putting in place plans to help ensure
framework for models. they have effective workforce forecasting to meet business
demands.
– Additional assurance work is performed by the model risk
governance teams, which act as second lines of defence. The – We monitor people risks that could arise due to organisational
teams test whether controls implemented by model users comply restructuring, helping to ensure we manage redundancies
with model risk policy and if model risk standards are adequate. sensitively and support impacted employees. We encourage our
people leaders to focus on talent retention at all levels, with an
– Models using AI or generative AI techniques are validated and
empathetic mindset and approach, while ensuring the whole
monitored to help ensure that risks that are determined by the
proposition of working at HSBC is well understood.
algorithms have adequate oversight and review. A framework to
manage the range of risks that are generated by these advanced – Our Future Skills curriculum helps provides skills that will help to
techniques, and to recognise the multidisciplinary nature of these enable employees and HSBC to be successful in the future.
risks, is being developed. – We develop succession plans for key management roles, with
oversight from the Group Executive Committee.
144 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Our material banking risks
The material risk types associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing operations are described in the following tables:
Description of risks – banking operations
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
Credit risk (see page 147)
Credit risk is the risk of financial Credit risk arises principally from direct Credit risk is:
loss if a customer or counterparty lending, trade finance and leasing – measured as the amount that could be lost if a customer or
fails to meet an obligation under a business, but also from other products counterparty fails to make repayments;
contract. such as guarantees and derivatives.
– monitored using various internal risk management measures and
within limits approved by individuals within a framework of delegated
authorities; and
– managed through a robust risk control framework, which outlines clear
and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers; and
by setting limits and appetite across geographical markets, portfolios
or sectors.
Treasury risk (see page 203)
Treasury risk is the risk of having Treasury risk arises from changes to the Treasury risk is:
insufficient capital, liquidity or respective resources and risk profiles – measured through risk appetite and more granular limits, set to
funding resources to meet driven by customer behaviour, provide an early warning of increasing risk, minimum ratios of relevant
financial obligations and satisfy management decisions or the external regulatory metrics, and metrics to monitor the key risk drivers
regulatory requirements, including environment. impacting treasury resources;
the risk of adverse impact on
– monitored and projected against appetites and by using operating
earnings or capital due to
plans based on strategic objectives together with stress and scenario
structural and transactional foreign
testing; and
exchange exposures and changes
in market interest rates, together – managed through control of resources in conjunction with risk profiles,
with pension and insurance risk. strategic objectives and cash flows.
Market risk (see page 218)
Market risk is the risk of an Market risk arises from both trading Market risk is:
adverse financial impact on trading portfolios and non-trading portfolios. – measured using sensitivities, value at risk and stress testing, giving a
activities arising from changes in Market risk for non-trading portfolios is detailed picture of potential gains and losses for a range of market
market parameters such as discussed in the Treasury risk section movements and scenarios, as well as tail risks over specified time
interest rates, foreign exchange on page 215. horizons;
rates, asset prices, volatilities,
Market risk exposures arising from our – monitored using value at risk, stress testing and other measures; and
correlations and credit spreads.
insurance operations are discussed on – managed using risk limits approved by the Group Risk Management
page 235. Meeting and the risk management meetings in various global
businesses.
Climate risk (see page 221)
Climate risk relates to the financial Climate risk can materialise through: Climate risk is:
and non-financial impacts that may – physical risk, which arises from the – measured using risk metrics and stress testing;
arise as a result of climate change increased frequency and severity of – monitored against risk appetite statements; and
and the move to a net zero weather events;
economy. – managed through adherence to risk appetite thresholds, through
– transition risk, which arises from the specific policies, and through enhancements to processes and
process of moving to a low-carbon development of tools including the development of product market
economy; controls to manage the risk of greenwashing and the development of
– net zero alignment risk, which arises portfolio steering capabilities to manage our net zero targets.
from failing to meet our net zero
commitments or to meet external
expectations related to net zero
because of inadequate ambition and/
or plans, poor execution, or inability
to adapt to changes in the external
environment; and
– the risk of greenwashing, which
arises from the act of knowingly or
unknowingly making inaccurate,
unclear, misleading or
unsubstantiated claims regarding
sustainability to stakeholders.
Resilience risk (see page 230)
Resilience risk is the risk of Resilience risk arises from failures or Resilience risk is:
sustained and significant business inadequacies in processes, people, – measured using a range of metrics with defined maximum acceptable
disruption from execution, systems or external events. impact tolerances, and against our agreed risk appetite;
delivery, physical security or safety
– monitored through oversight of enterprise processes, risks, controls
events, causing the inability to
and strategic change programmes; and
provide critical services to our
customers, affiliates, and – managed by continual monitoring and thematic reviews.
counterparties.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 145
Risk
review
Credit risk
Contents The principal objectives of our credit risk management are:
– to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending,
147 Overview and robust risk policies and control frameworks;
147 Credit risk management – to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining,
149 Credit risk in 2023 implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under
149 Summary of credit risk actual and scenario conditions; and
153 Stage 2 decomposition – to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their
154 Assets held for sale costs and their mitigation.
155 Credit exposure Key risk management processes
156 Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL
estimates IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ process
168 Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and The IFRS 9 process comprises three main areas: modelling and data;
allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers
implementation; and governance.
including loan commitments and financial guarantees
172 Credit quality Modelling, data and forward economic guidance
176 Wholesale lending We have established IFRS 9 modelling and data processes in various
190 Personal lending geographies, which are subject to internal model risk governance
including independent review of significant model developments.
198 Supplementary information
202 HSBC Holdings We have a centralised process for generating unbiased and
independent global economic scenarios. Scenarios are subject to a
Overview process of review and challenge by a dedicated central team and
individually for each region. Each quarter, the scenarios and probability
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty weights are reviewed and checked for consistency with the economic
fails to meet an obligation under a contract. Credit risk arises conjuncture and current economic and financial risks. These are
principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but subject to final review and approval by senior management in a
also from other products such as guarantees and derivatives. Forward Economic Guidance Global Business Impairment Committee.
Credit risk management Implementation
A centralised impairment engine performs the expected credit losses
Key developments in 2023 calculation using data, which is subject to a number of validation
checks and enhancements, from a variety of client, finance and risk
There were no material changes to the policies and practices for the systems. Where possible, these checks and processes are performed
management of credit risk in 2023. We continued to apply the in a globally consistent and centralised manner.
requirements of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ within the Credit Risk
Governance
sub-function. For our wholesale portfolios, we introduced new
policies for the management of country risk, subordinated debt Regional management review forums are established in key sites and
assessments, and a revised risk appetite framework. Implementation regions in order to review and approve the impairment results.
of these changes did not have a material impact on our wholesale Regional management review forums have representatives from
portfolios. Credit Risk and Finance. The key site and regional approvals are
reported up to the relevant global business impairment committee for
We actively managed the risks related to macroeconomic
final approval of the Group’s ECL for the period. Required members of
uncertainties, including interest rates, inflation, fiscal and monetary
the committee are the Wholesale Global Chief Corporate Credit
policy, broader geopolitical uncertainties and conflicts.
Officer and Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for Wealth and
For further details, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 140. Personal Banking Risk, as well as the relevant global business’s Chief
Governance and structure Financial Officer and the Global Financial Controller.
Concentration of exposure
We have established Group-wide credit risk management and related
(Audited)
IFRS 9 processes. We continue to assess the impact of economic
developments in key markets on specific customers, customer Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or
segments or portfolios. As credit conditions change, we take exposures have comparable economic characteristics, or such
mitigating actions, including the revision of risk appetites or limits and counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same
tenors, as appropriate. In addition, we continue to evaluate the terms geographical areas or industry sectors so that their collective ability to
under which we provide credit facilities within the context of meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in
individual customer requirements, the quality of the relationship, local economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls
regulatory requirements, market practices and our local market and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our
position. portfolios across industries, countries and global businesses. These
include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls,
Credit Risk sub-function
and stress testing.
(Audited)
Credit quality of financial instruments
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the Group
(Audited)
Chief Executive together with the authority to sub-delegate them. The
Credit Risk sub-function in Group Risk and Compliance is responsible Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based approach
for the key policies and processes for managing credit risk, which under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support the
include formulating Group credit policies and risk rating frameworks, calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. The
guiding the Group’s appetite for credit risk exposures, undertaking five credit quality classifications encompass a range of granular
independent reviews and objective assessment of credit risk, and internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail
monitoring performance and management of portfolios. customers, and the external ratings attributed by external agencies to
debt securities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 147
Risk
review
For our wholesale portfolios, a global methodology is used for the This includes refining model inputs and outputs and using
estimation of the term structure of probability of default (‘PD’) and adjustments to ECL based on management judgement and
loss given default (‘LGD’). For PDs, we consider the correlation of quantitative analysis for impacts that are difficult to model.
forward economic guidance to default rates for a particular industry in
The effects of management judgemental adjustments are considered
a country. For LGD calculations, we consider the correlation of
for both balances and allowance for ECL when determining whether
forward economic guidance to collateral values and realisation rates
or not a significant increase in credit risk has occurred and is allocated
for a particular country and industry. PDs and LGDs are estimated for
to a stage where appropriate. This is in accordance with the internal
the entire term structure of each instrument.
adjustments framework.
For impaired loans, allowance for ECL estimates are derived based on
Management judgemental adjustments are reviewed under the
discounted cash flow (‘DCF’) calculations for internal forward-looking
governance process for IFRS 9 (as detailed in the section ‘Credit risk
scenarios specific to individual borrower circumstances (see page
management’ on page 147). Review and challenge focuses on the
348). Probability-weighted outcomes are applied, and depending on
rationale and quantum of the adjustments with a further review
materiality and status of the borrower, the number of scenarios
carried out by the second line of defence where significant. For some
considered will change. Where relevant for the case being assessed,
management judgemental adjustments, internal frameworks establish
forward economic guidance is incorporated as part of these scenarios.
the conditions under which these adjustments should no longer be
LGD-driven proxy and modelled estimates are used for certain less
required and as such are considered as part of the governance
material cases.
process. This internal governance process allows management
For our retail portfolios, the models are predominantly based on judgemental adjustments to be reviewed regularly and, where
historical observations and correlations with default rates and possible, to reduce the reliance on these through model recalibration
collateral values. or redevelopment, as appropriate.
For PD, the impact of economic scenarios is modelled for each The drivers of management judgemental adjustments continue to
portfolio, using historical relationships between default rates and evolve with the economic environment and as new risks emerge.
macroeconomic variables. These are included within IFRS 9 ECL In addition to management judgemental adjustments there are also
estimates using either economic response models or models that ‘Other adjustments’, which are made to address process limitations
contain internal, external and macroeconomic variables. The and data/model deficiencies.
macroeconomic impact on PD is modelled over the period equal to
‘Management judgemental adjustments’ and ‘Other adjustments’
the remaining maturity of the underlying assets.
constitute the total value of adjustments to modelled allowance for
For LGD, the impact is modelled for mortgage portfolios by ECL. For the wholesale portfolio, defaulted exposures are assessed
forecasting future loan-to-value profiles for the remaining maturity of individually and management judgemental adjustments are made only
the asset, using national level house price index forecasts and to the performing portfolio.
applying the corresponding LGD expectation relative to the updated At 31 December 2023, there was a $0.2bn reduction in management
forecast collateral values.
judgemental adjustments compared with 31 December 2022. For the
Management judgemental adjustments are described below. wholesale portfolio, this was due to modelled outcomes better
reflecting the key risks at 31 December 2023. For the retail portfolio,
Management judgemental adjustments
there was an increase in other credit judgements due to the potential
delayed impact of economic scenarios on unsecured portfolio
In the context of IFRS 9, management judgemental adjustments are
defaults, primarily within the UK .
typically short-term increases or decreases to the modelled allowance
for ECL at either a customer, segment or portfolio level where Management judgemental adjustments made in estimating the
management believes allowances do not sufficiently reflect the credit scenario-weighted reported allowance for ECL at 31 December 2023
risk/expected credit losses at the reporting date. These can relate to are set out in the following table.
risks or uncertainties that are not reflected in the models and/or to
any late-breaking events with significant uncertainty, subject to
management review and challenge.
Management judgemental adjustments to ECL at 31 December 20231
Retail Wholesale2 Total
$bn $bn $bn
Modelled ECL (A)3 2.6 2.4 5.0
Banks, sovereigns, government entities and low-risk counterparties 0.0 0.0
Corporate lending adjustments 0.1 0.1
Inflation related adjustments 0.1 0.1
Other credit judgements 0.5 0.5
Total management judgemental adjustments (B)4 0.6 0.1 0.7
Other adjustments (C)5 0.0 0.0 0.0
Final ECL (A + B + C)6 3.2 2.5 5.7
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 163
Risk
review
Risk review
HSBC Holdings is the provider of MREL to its subsidiaries, including the outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel III
equity and non-equity capital. These investments are funded by HSBC reforms (‘Basel 3.1‘).
Holdings’ own equity capital and MREL-eligible debt. MREL includes
Regulatory developments
own funds and liabilities that can be written down or converted into
capital resources in order to absorb losses or recapitalise a bank in the Future changes to our ratios will occur with the implementation of
event of its failure. In line with our existing structure and business Basel 3.1. The Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA‘) has published
model, HSBC has three resolution groups – the European resolution its consultation paper on the UK’s implementation, with a proposed
group, the Asian resolution group and the US resolution group. There implementation date of 1 July 2025. The PRA has also published a set
are some smaller entities that fall outside these resolution groups. of near-final rules in relation to some Basel 3.1 elements. We are
currently assessing the impact of implementation.
HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the
composition of its capital and its investments in subsidiaries. The RWA output floor under Basel 3.1 is proposed to be subject to a
four-and-a-half year transitional provision. Any impact from the output
As a matter of long-standing policy, the holding company group
floor is expected be towards the end of the transition period.
retains a substantial holdings capital buffer comprising cash and other
high-quality liquid assets, which at 31 December 2023 was in excess Regulatory reporting processes and controls
of $27bn, within risk appetite.
The quality of regulatory reporting remains a key priority for
We aim to ensure that management has oversight of our liquidity and management and regulators. We are progressing with a
funding risks at Group and entity level through robust governance, in comprehensive programme to strengthen our global processes,
line with our risk management framework. We manage liquidity and improve consistency and enhance controls across regulatory reports.
funding risk at an operating entity level in accordance with globally
The ongoing programme of work focuses on our material regulatory
consistent policies, procedures and reporting standards. This ensures
reports and is being phased over a number of years. This programme
that obligations can be met in a timely manner, in the jurisdiction
includes data enhancement, transformation of the reporting systems
where they fall due.
and an uplift to the control environment over the report production
Operating entities are required to meet internal minimum process.
requirements and any applicable regulatory requirements at all times.
While this programme continues, there may be further impacts on
These requirements are assessed through our internal liquidity
some of our regulatory ratios, such as the CET1, LCR and NSFR, as
adequacy assessment process (‘ILAAP’), which ensures that
we implement recommended changes and continue to enhance our
operating entities have robust strategies, policies, processes and
controls across the process.
systems for the identification, measurement, management and
monitoring of liquidity risk over an appropriate set of time horizons, Stress testing and recovery and resolution planning
including intra-day. The ILAAP informs the validation of risk tolerance The Group uses stress testing to inform management of the capital
and the setting of risk appetite. It also assesses the capability to and liquidity needed to withstand internal and external shocks,
manage liquidity and funding effectively in each major entity. These including a global economic downturn or a systems failure. Stress
metrics are set and managed locally but are subject to robust global testing results are also used to inform risk mitigation actions, input
review and challenge to ensure consistency of approach and into global business performance measures through tangible equity
application of the Group’s policies and controls. allocation, and recovery and resolution planning, as well as to re-
Planning and performance evaluate business plans where analysis shows capital, liquidity and/or
returns do not meet their target.
Capital and RWA plans form part of the annual financial resource plan
that is approved by the Board. Capital and RWA forecasts are In addition to a range of internal stress tests, we are subject to
submitted to the Group Executive Committee on a monthly basis, and supervisory stress testing in many jurisdictions. These include the
capital and RWAs are monitored and managed against the plan. The programmes of the Bank of England (‘BoE’), the US Federal Reserve
responsibility for global capital allocation principles rests with the Board, the European Banking Authority, the European Central Bank
Group Chief Financial Officer, supported by the Group Capital and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. The results of regulatory
Management Meeting. This is a specialist forum addressing capital stress testing and our internal stress tests are used when assessing
management, reporting into Holdings ALCO. our internal capital and liquidity requirements through the ICAAP and
ILAAP. The outcomes of stress testing exercises carried out by the
Through our internal governance processes, we seek to strengthen
PRA and other regulators feed into the setting of regulatory minimum
discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions, and to
ratios and buffers.
ensure that returns on investment meet management’s objectives.
Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities to We maintain recovery plans for the Group and material entities, which
support growth objectives where returns above internal hurdle levels set out potential options management could take in a range of stress
have been identified and in order to meet their regulatory and scenarios that could result in a breach of capital or liquidity buffers.
economic capital needs. We evaluate and manage business returns The Group recovery plan sets out the framework and governance
by using a return on average tangible equity measure and a related arrangements to support restoring HSBC to a stable and viable
economic profit measure. position, and so lowering the probability of failure from either
Funding and liquidity plans also form part of the financial resource idiosyncratic company-specific stress or systemic market-wide issues.
plan that is approved by the Board. The Board-level appetite measures Our material entities’ recovery plans provide detailed actions that
are the liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’) and net stable funding ratio management would consider taking in a stress scenario should their
(‘NSFR’), together with an internal liquidity metric. In addition, we use positions deteriorate and threaten to breach risk appetite and
a wider set of measures to manage an appropriate funding and regulatory minimum levels. This is to help ensure that HSBC entities
liquidity profile, including legal entity depositor concentration limits, can stabilise their financial position and recover from financial losses
intra-day liquidity, forward-looking funding assessments and other key in a stress environment.
measures. The Group also has capabilities, resources and arrangements in place
Risks to capital and liquidity to address the unlikely event that HSBC might not be recoverable and
would therefore need to be resolved by regulators. The Group and the
Outside the stress testing framework, other risks may be identified
BoE publicly disclosed the status of HSBC’s progress against the
that have the potential to affect our RWAs, capital and/or liquidity
BoE’s Resolvability Assessment Framework in June 2022, following
position. Downside and Upside scenarios are assessed against our
the submission of HSBC’s inaugural resolvability self-assessment in
management objectives, and mitigating actions are assigned as
October 2021. HSBC has continued to enhance its resolvability
necessary. We closely monitor future regulatory developments and
capabilities since this time and submitted its second self-assessment
continue to evaluate the impact of these upon our capital and liquidity
in October 2023. A subsequent update was provided to the BoE in
requirements, particularly those related to the UK’s implementation of
January 2024. Further public disclosure by the Group and the BoE as
204 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) rose by $14.4bn during the year, Asset quality
driven by an increase of $34.4bn from increased lending, higher
Asset quality contributed to an RWA increase of $2.5bn due to credit
operational risk RWAs, business acquisitions and foreign exchange
risk rating migrations and portfolio mix changes, notably in Asia, the
movements. These were partly offset by a reduction of $19.9bn due
US and Europe.
to methodology and policy changes.
Model updates
Asset size
Model updates decreased RWAs by $2.6bn, mainly due to a change
Asset size RWAs increased by $26.2bn, including a $10.4bn rise in
in our risk approach to multilateral development banks’ exposures,
operational risk RWAs driven by growth in NII.
following approval for change from the PRA, the implementation of
WPB RWAs increased by $15.6bn, notably due to an expansion of the exposure at default mortgage model in the UK, and changes to
retail lending in Asia, the UK and Mexico, additional sovereign the incremental risk charge model.
exposures in Asia and other trading entities, including a $2.9bn rise in
Methodology and policy
operational risk RWAs.
The decrease of RWAs from methodology and policy of $19.9bn was
CMB RWAs increased by $3.2bn, reflecting an increase in operational
mainly driven by a decline of $7.7bn from regulatory changes related
risk RWAs of $5.2bn and additional sovereign exposures across
to the risk-weighting of residential mortgages in Hong Kong, and
various entities. This was partly offset by a net decrease in corporate
credit risk parameter refinements mainly in Asia and Europe.
lending in Asia, the US and Europe.
Acquisitions and disposals
GBM RWAs increased by $3.2bn, mainly from the $4.0bn rise in
operational risk RWAs and additional sovereign exposures across The increase in RWAs from acquisitions and disposals of $6.2bn was
various entities. This was partly offset by a fall in lending in Asia and primarily due to a rise of $9.6bn from the acquisition of SVB UK. This
Europe. was partly offset by a decline of $3.2bn from the disposal of our
business in Oman.
Corporate Centre RWAs rose by $2.6bn, primarily due to an increase
in corporate exposures in Saudi Awwal Bank (‘SAB’). Foreign currency movements increased total RWAs by $2.0bn.
1
Leverage ratio
At
31 Dec 31 Dec
2023 2022
$bn $bn
Tier 1 capital (leverage) 144.2 139.1
Total leverage ratio exposure 2,574.8 2,417.2
% %
Leverage ratio 5.6 5.8
1 Leverage ratio calculation is in line with the PRA’s UK leverage rules. This includes IFRS 9 transitional arrangement and excludes central bank claims.
Our leverage ratio was 5.6% at 31 December 2023, down from 5.8% Regulatory transitional arrangements for
at 31 December 2022. The increase in the leverage exposure was
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
primarily due to growth in the balance sheet, which led to a fall of
0.4 percentage points in the leverage ratio. This was partly offset by a
We have adopted the regulatory transitional arrangements of the
rise of 0.2 percentage points due to an increase in tier 1 capital.
Capital Requirements Regulation for IFRS 9, including paragraph four
At 31 December 2023, our UK minimum leverage ratio requirement of of article 473a. These allow banks to add back to their capital base a
3.25% was supplemented by a leverage ratio buffer of 0.9%, which proportion of the impact that IFRS 9 has upon their loan loss
consists of an additional leverage ratio buffer of 0.7% and a allowances. Our capital and ratios are presented under these
countercyclical leverage ratio buffer of 0.2%. These buffers translated arrangements throughout the tables in this section, including the end
into capital values of $18.0bn and $5.1bn respectively. point figures.
Regulatory and other developments
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements
In September 2023, the PRA announced changes to the UK
Pillar 3 of the Basel regulatory framework is related to market
implementation of Basel 3.1 with a new proposed implementation
discipline and aims to make financial services firms more transparent
date of 1 July 2025. For further details related to the November 2022
by requiring publication of wide-ranging information on their risks,
consultation, see page 6 of our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December
capital and management.
2022. We are currently assessing the impact of the consultation paper
and the associated implementation challenges (including data For further details, see our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2023,
provision) on our RWAs upon initial implementation. The RWA output which is expected to be published on or around 21 February 2024 at
floor under Basel 3.1 is now proposed to be subject to a four-and-a- www.hsbc.com/investors.
half year transitional provision. Any impact from the output floor is
expected to be towards the end of the transition period.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 209
Risk
review
Risk review
Market risk
Contents Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of movements in individual
218 Overview market factors on specific instruments or portfolios, including interest
218 Market risk management rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. We use sensitivity
219 Market risk in 2023 measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type.
Granular sensitivity limits are set for trading desks with consideration
219 Trading portfolios
of market liquidity, customer demand and capital constraints, among
220 Market risk balance sheet linkages
other factors.
Overview Value at risk
(Audited)
Market risk is the risk of an adverse financial impact on trading
activities arising from changes in market parameters such as interest VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions as
rates, foreign exchange rates, asset prices, volatilities, correlations a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified
and credit spreads. Market risk arises from both trading portfolios and time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use of VaR is
non-trading portfolios. integrated into market risk management and calculated for all trading
positions regardless of how we capitalise them. Where we do not
For further details of market risk in non-trading portfolios, see page
calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarised in
215 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2023.
the ‘Stress testing’ section below.
Market risk management Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that
incorporates the following features:
Key developments in 2023 – historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with
reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest
There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;
management of market risk in 2023.
– potential market movements that are calculated with reference to
Governance and structure data from the past two years; and
The following diagram summarises the main business areas where – calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a one-day
trading market risks reside and the market risk measures used to holding period.
monitor and limit exposures. The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the
underlying exposures. The nature of the VaR models means that an
Trading risk increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VaR
– Foreign exchange and commodities without any changes in the underlying positions.
Risk types – Interest rates VaR model limitations
– Credit spreads
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used with awareness of its
– Equities
limitations. For example:
Global business GBM – The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future market
Risk measure Value at risk | Sensitivity | Stress testing moves may not encompass all potential market events,
particularly those that are extreme in nature. As the model is
The objective of our risk management policies and measurement calibrated on the last 500 business days, it does not adjust
techniques is to manage and control market risk exposures to instantaneously to a change in the market regime.
optimise return on risk while maintaining a market profile consistent – The use of a one-day holding period for risk management
with our established risk appetite. purposes of trading books assumes that this short period is
Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the sufficient to hedge or liquidate all positions.
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for HSBC Holdings. These – The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take into
limits are allocated across business lines and to the Group’s legal account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence.
entities. Each major operating entity has an independent market risk
– VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the
management and control sub-function, which is responsible for
close of business and therefore does not reflect intra-day
measuring, monitoring and reporting market risk exposures against
exposures.
limits on a daily basis. Each operating entity is required to assess the
market risks arising in its business and to transfer them either to its Risk not in VaR framework
local Markets and Securities Services or Markets Treasury unit for
The risks not in VaR (‘RNIV’) framework captures and capitalises
management, or to separate books managed under the supervision of
material market risks that are not adequately covered in the VaR
the local ALCO. The Traded Risk function enforces the controls
model.
around trading in permissible instruments approved for each site as
well as changes that follow completion of the new product approval Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and are either
process. Traded Risk also restricts trading in the more complex incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or quantified
derivative products to only those offices with appropriate levels of through either the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test
product expertise and control systems. approach within the RNIV framework. While VaR-based RNIVs are
calculated by using historical scenarios, stress-type RNIVs are
Key risk management processes
estimated on the basis of stress scenarios whose severity is
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures calibrated to be in line with the capital adequacy requirements. The
outcome of the VaR-based RNIV approach is included in the overall
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while
VaR calculation but excluded from the VaR measure used for
maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk appetite.
regulatory back-testing.
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures
Stress-type RNIVs include a deal contingent derivatives capital charge
including sensitivity analysis, VaR and stress testing.
to capture risk for these transactions and a de-peg risk measure to
capture risk to pegged and heavily managed currencies.
218 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Climate risk
TCFD
Contents Approach
We recognise that the physical impacts of climate change and the
221 Overview
transition to a net zero economy can create significant financial risks
222 Climate risk management for companies, investors and the financial system. HSBC may be
223 Embedding our climate risk approach affected by climate risks either directly or indirectly through our
225 Insights from climate scenario analysis relationships with our customers, which could result in both financial
and non-financial impacts.
Overview
Our climate risk approach aims to effectively manage the material
climate risks that could impact our operations, financial performance
Our climate risk approach is aligned to the framework outlined by the and stability, and reputation. It is informed by the evolving
Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’), which expectations of our regulators.
identifies two primary drivers of climate risk:
We are developing our climate risk capabilities across our businesses,
– physical risk, which arises from the increased frequency and by prioritising sectors, portfolios and counterparties with the highest
severity of extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and impacts.
floods, or chronic gradual shifts in weather patterns or rises in the
sea level; and We continue to make progress in enhancing our climate risk
capabilities, and recognise it is a long-term iterative process.
– transition risk, which arises from the process of moving to a net
zero economy, including changes in government policy and We aim to regularly review our approach to increase coverage and
legislation, technology, market demand, and reputational incorporate maturing data, climate analytics capabilities, frameworks
implications triggered by a change in stakeholder expectations, and tools, as well as respond to emerging industry best practice and
action or inaction. climate risk regulations.
In addition to these primary drivers of climate risk, we have also This includes updating our approach to reflect how the risks
identified the following thematic issues related to climate risk, which associated with climate change continue to evolve in the real world,
are most likely to materialise in the form of reputational, regulatory and maturing how we embed climate risk factors into strategic
compliance and litigation risks: planning, transactions and decision making across our businesses.
– net zero alignment risk, which arises from the risk of HSBC failing Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk
to meet its net zero commitments or failing to meet external management framework and three lines of defence model, which
expectations related to net zero, because of inadequate ambition sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks. For further
and/or plans, poor execution, or inability to adapt to changes in the details of the three lines of defence framework, see page 138.
external environment; and
– the risk of greenwashing, which arises from the act of knowingly
or unknowingly making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or
unsubstantiated claims regarding sustainability to our
stakeholders.
The tables below provide an overview of the climate risk drivers and thematic issues considered within HSBC’s climate risk approach.
Climate risk – risk drivers Details Potential impacts Time horizons
Physical Acute Increased frequency and severity of weather events causing
disruption to business operations
Chronic Longer-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g. sustained higher
temperatures, sea level rise, shifting monsoons or chronic – Decreased real estate values or
heat waves) stranded assets
Transition Policy and Mandates on, and regulation of products and services and/or – Decreased household income and
legal policy support for low-carbon alternatives. Litigation from wealth Short term
parties who have suffered loss and damage from climate – Increased costs of legal and Medium term
impacts compliance Long term
Technology Replacement of existing products with lower emissions – Increased public scrutiny
options – Decreased profitability
End-demand Changing consumer demand from individuals and corporates – Lower asset performance
(market)
Reputational Increased scrutiny following a change in stakeholder
perceptions of climate-related action or inaction
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 221
Risk
review
Risk review
Climate risk – thematic issues
Net zero Net zero Failing to set or adapt our net zero ambition and broader business strategy in alignment with key stakeholder
alignment risk ambition risk expectations, latest scientific understanding and commercial objectives.
Net zero Failing to meet our net zero targets due to taking insufficient or ineffective actions, or due to the actions of
execution risk clients, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Net zero Failing to report emissions baselines and targets, and performance against these accurately due to data,
reporting risk methodology and model limitations.
Risk of Firm Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading, or unsubstantiated claims in relation to our sustainability commitments
greenwashing and targets, as well as the reporting of our performance towards them.
Product Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims in relation to products or services offered to
clients that have stated sustainability objectives, characteristics, impacts or features.
Client Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims as a consequence of our relationships with
clients or transactions we undertake with them, where their sustainability commitments or related performance
are misrepresented or are not aligned to our own commitments.
In 2023, we updated our climate risk materiality assessment, to The assessment is refreshed annually, and the results may change as
understand how climate risk may impact across HSBC’s risk our understanding of climate risk and how it impacts HSBC evolve
taxonomy. The assessment focused on a 12-month time horizon, as (for further details, see ‘Impact on reporting and financial statements’
well as time horizons for the short-term, medium-term and long-term on page 44).
periods. We define short term as time periods up to 2025; medium
In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our
term as between 2026 and 2035; and long term as between 2036
emerging risk reporting and scenario analysis (for further details, see
and 2050. These time periods align to the Climate Action 100+
‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 38).
disclosure framework v1.2. The table below provides a summary of
how climate risk may impact a subset of HSBC’s principal risks.
Other financial
Regulatory and non-financial
Climate risk drivers Credit risk Traded risk Reputational risk1 compliance risk1 Resilience risk risk types
Physical risk ● ● ● ● ●
Transition risk ● ● ● ● ● ●
1 Our climate risk approach identifies thematic issues such as HSBC net zero alignment risk and the risk of greenwashing, which are most likely to
materialise in the form of reputational, regulatory compliance and litigation risks.
Climate risk management
Key developments in 2023 Governance and structure
Our climate risk programme continues to support the development of The Board takes overall supervisory responsibility for our ESG
our climate risk management capabilities. The following outlines key strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the
developments in 2023: approach, execution and associated reporting.
– We updated our climate risk management approach to incorporate The ESG Committee supports the development and delivery of our
net zero alignment risk and developed guidance on how climate ESG strategy, key policies and material commitments by providing
risk should be managed for non-financial risk types. oversight, coordination and management of ESG commitments and
initiatives. It is co-chaired by the Group Chief Sustainability Officer
– We enhanced our climate risk materiality assessment to consider
and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
longer time horizons.
The Sustainability Execution Committee has oversight of the
– We enhanced our approach to assessing the impact of climate
environmental strategy, including the commercial execution and
change on capital, focusing on credit and market risks.
operationalisation through the sustainability execution programme,
– We further developed our risk metrics to monitor our performance which is a Group-wide programme established to enable the delivery
against our net zero targets for both financed emissions and own of our sustainability agenda.
operations.
The Group Reputational Risk Committee considers climate-related
– We enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis, including matters arising from customers, transactions and third parties that
through improvements to our use of customer transition plan data. either present a serious potential reputational risk to the Group or
For further details of scenario analysis, see page 65. merit a Group-led decision to ensure a consistent approach to
reputational risk management across the regions, global businesses
– We have updated our merger and acquisition process to consider
and global functions.
potential climate and sustainability-related targets, net zero
transition plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk
HSBC. Committee receive regular updates on our climate risk profile and
progress of our climate risk programme.
While we have made progress in enhancing our climate risk
framework, further work remains. This includes the need to develop The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager
additional metrics and tools to measure our exposure to climate- responsible for the management of climate risk under the UK Senior
related risks, and to incorporate these tools within decision making. Managers Regime, which involves holding overall accountability for
the Group’s climate risk programme.
The Environmental Risk Oversight Forum (formerly the Climate Risk
Oversight Forum) oversees risk activities relating to climate and
sustainability risk management, including the transition and physical
risks from climate change. Equivalent forums have been established
at a regional level.
For further details of the Group’s ESG governance structure, see
page 88.
222 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Risk appetite Policies, processes and controls
Our climate risk appetite forms part of the Group’s risk appetite We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and
statement and supports the business in delivering our net zero controls across many areas of our organisation, and we will continue
ambition effectively and sustainably. to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature
over time. For further details of how we manage climate risk across
Our climate risk appetite statement is approved and overseen by the
our global businesses, see page 65.
Board. It is supported by risk appetite metrics and tolerance
thresholds. We have also defined additional key management
information metrics. Both the risk appetite statement and key
management information metrics are reported on a quarterly basis for
oversight by the Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group
Risk Committee.
Embedding our climate risk approach
The table below provides further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk types. For further details of
our internal scenario analysis, see ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ on page 225.
Risk type Our approach
Wholesale We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six high transition risk sectors, as
credit risk shown in the below table. As at 31 December 2023, the overall exposure to six high transition risk sectors was $112bn. The sector
classifications are based on internal HSBC definitions and can be judgemental in nature. The sector classifications are subject to the
remediation of ongoing data quality challenges. This data will be enhanced and refined in future years.
Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers through a transition engagement questionnaire (formerly the
transition and physical risk questionnaire) to gather information and assess the alignment of our wholesale customers’ business
models to net zero and their exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the responses to the questionnaire to create a climate
risk score for our key wholesale customers.
Our credit policies require that relationship managers comment on climate risk factors in credit applications for new money requests
and annual credit reviews. Our credit policies also require manual credit risk rating overrides if climate is deemed to have a material
impact on credit risk under 12 months if not already captured under the original credit risk rating.
Key developments to our framework in 2023 include expanding the scope of our transition engagement questionnaire to capture new
countries, territories and sectors.
Key challenges for further embedding climate risk into credit risk management relate to the availability of adequate physical risk data to
assess impacts to our wholesale customers.
Wholesale loan exposure to high transition risk sectors at 31 December 20231
Construction Metals Power
and building and Oil and and
Units Automotive Chemicals materials mining gas utilities Total 2023
Exposure to sector1, 2, 3, 4 $bn 21 17 20 14 18 22 112
Sector weight as a proportion of
high transition risk sectors % 18 16 18 13 16 19 100
1 Amounts shown in the table also include green and other sustainable finance loans, which support the transition to the net zero
economy. The methodology for quantifying our exposure to high transition risk sectors and the transition risk metrics will evolve
over time as more data becomes available and is incorporated in our risk management systems and processes.
2 Counterparties are allocated to the high transition risk sectors via a two-step approach. Firstly, where the main business of a group
of connected counterparties is in a high transition risk sector, all lending to the group is included in one high transition risk sector
irrespective of the sector of each individual obligor within the group. Secondly, where the main business of a group of connected
counterparties is not in a high transition risk sector, only lending to individual obligors in the high transition risk sectors is included.
The main business of a group of connected counterparties is identified by the industry that generates the majority of revenue within
a group. Customer revenue data utilised during this allocation process is the most recent readily available and will not align to our
own reporting period.
3 These disclosures cover the whole of the value chain of the sector. For details of financed emissions coverage, please refer to page
53.
4 The six high transition risk sectors make up 17.4% of total wholesale loans and advances to customer and banks of $644bn.
Amounts include assets held for sale.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 223
Risk
review
Risk review
Risk type Our approach
Retail credit We have implemented policies and tools to manage climate risk across our retail mortgage markets.
risk Our retail credit risk management policy requires each mortgage market to conduct an annual review of their climate risk management
procedures, including perils and data sources, to ensure they remain fit for purpose. In 2023 we introduced a global ‘soft trigger’
monitoring and review process for physical risk exposure where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures markets
are actively considering their balance sheet risk exposure to peril events.
Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened physical risk are identified and assessed locally and
potential exposure is monitored through quarterly metrics. We have also set risk appetite metrics for physical risk in our largest
mortgage markets, the UK and Hong Kong, as well as those with local regulatory requirements, including Singapore.
The UK is our largest mortgage market, which as at September 2023 made up 40.0% of our global mortgage portfolio. We estimate
that 0.2% of our UK retail mortgage portfolio is at very high risk of flooding and 3.5% is at high risk. This is based on approximately
94.2% climate risk data coverage by value of our UK portfolio as at September 2023.
In the UK we also monitor the energy performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties in our mortgage portfolio. As at
September 2023, approximately 64.5% of properties within the portfolio by value had a valid EPC dated within the last 10 years. Of
these, 40.0% of properties had a current rating of A to C, and 97.0% had the potential to reach these rating bands, if appropriate
energy efficiency improvement measures are taken.
For both flood risk and EPC data, we disclose the end of September 2023 position. This is due to the time required for the data to be
processed and our reliance on the government’s public EPC data, which usually lags one month behind.
The table below outlines the UK retail mortgage portfolio tenor as at the end of December 2023 (by balance split by remaining term).
This table shows that the majority of our portfolio tenor is greater than five years, and that the average remaining loan term in the UK
is 21.5 years.
Residential mortgages tenor (remaining mortgage term by balance $m)1
Tenor Remaining mortgage balance ($m)
<1 years 382
1 to 5 years 3,469
>5 years 157,643
Weighted average of remaining 21.50
mortgage term (years)
The average term for new mortgages in the UK is 25 years, although the average life of a loan is approximately five years due to
refinancing. Despite this, our strategic approach to climate risk considers present day and long-term risk given customers may remain
over the whole loan term.
For further details of flood risk and the EPC breakdown of our UK retail mortgage portfolio, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/
esg.
1 The table includes instances where individual properties have multiple associated accounts and balances. These are aggregated to a
property level and the longest term remaining is taken as the tenor.
Treasury risk As part of our ICAAP in 2023, we enhanced our approach for assessing the impact of climate change on capital, focusing on credit and
market risks. As part of our ILAAP, we conducted an initial analysis to identify the potential climate risk exposures across key liquidity
risk drivers.
We updated our treasury risk policies to ensure that the impact of climate risk is considered when assessing applicable treasury risks.
We regularly discuss climate-related topics that may impact Global Treasury through climate-relevant governance forums, including the
Treasury Risk Management Climate Risk Oversight Forum and the Group Treasury Sustainability Committee.
Treasury portfolios are also included within the scope of the internal climate scenario analysis and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority’s
climate risk stress test, with potential quantitative impacts on relevant hold-to-collect-and-sell positions estimated.
Pensions risk
We conduct an annual exercise to monitor the exposure of our largest pension plans to climate risk.
Our pension policies have also been updated to explicitly reflect climate considerations.
Insurance risk
We have an evolving programme to support the identification and management of climate risk. In 2023, we updated our sustainability
procedures to align with the Group’s updated energy and thermal coal-phase out policy.
Traded risk We have implemented metrics and thresholds to monitor exposure to high physical and transition risk sectors for the different asset
classes in the Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS‘) business. The metrics use a risk taxonomy that categorises countries/territories
and sectors into high, medium and low risk, for which we have set corresponding thresholds. We have implemented these metrics for
key entities. In addition, we have identified key regions and business lines that contribute the most to the total MSS high-climate
sensitive exposures and developed reports to monitor trends and pockets of risks.
We have developed tools to provide a better understanding of key profit and loss drivers under different climate scenarios along
different dimensions such as risk factors and business lines. These reports are available to traded risk managers to help monitor and
understand how climate-sensitive exposures are impacted under different scenarios. Stress testing results have been presented to
senior management for visibility during dedicated review and challenge sessions to provide awareness on the impact to the MSS
portfolio and underlying business lines.
Reputational We manage the reputational impact of climate risk through our broader reputational risk framework, supported by our sustainability risk
risk policies and metrics.
Our sustainability risk policies set out our appetite for financing activities in certain sectors. Our thermal coal phase-out and energy
policies aim to drive down greenhouse gas emissions while supporting a just transition.
Our global network of sustainability risk managers provides local policy guidance to relationship managers for the oversight of policy
compliance and in support of implementation across our wholesale banking activities. For further details of our sustainability risk
policies, see the ESG review on page 42.
We have developed risk appetite metrics to monitor our performance against our financed emissions targets. For further details of our
targets, see page 57.
224 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Risk type Our approach
Regulatory Our policies set the Group-wide standards that are required to manage the risk of breaches of our regulatory duty to customers,
compliance including those related to climate risk, ensuring fair customer outcomes are achieved. To make sure our responsibilities are met in this
risk regard, our policies are subject to continuous review and enhancement. We are also focused on the ongoing development and
improvement of our monitoring capabilities, ensuring appropriate alignment to the broader focus on regulatory compliance risks.
Regulatory Compliance is particularly focused on mitigating climate risks inherent to the product lifecycle. To support this, we have
enhanced a number of processes including:
– ensuring Regulatory Compliance provides risk oversight and review of new product marketing materials with any reference to
climate, sustainability and ESG;
– developing our product marketing controls to ensure climate claims are robustly evidenced and substantiated within product
marketing materials; and
– clarifying and improving product marketing framework, procedures and associated guidance, to ensure product-related marketing
materials comply with both internal and external standards, and are subject to robust governance.
Regulatory Compliance operates an ESG and Climate Risk Working Group to track and monitor the integration and embedding of
climate risk management into the functions’ activities, while monitoring regulatory and legislative changes across the ESG and climate
risk agenda. Regulatory Compliance also continues to be an active member of the Group’s Environmental Risk Oversight Forums.
Resilience Our Enterprise Risk Management function is responsible for overseeing the identification and assessment of physical and transition
risk climate risks that may impact on the organisation’s operational and resilience capabilities.
We have developed metrics to assess how physical risk may impact our critical properties. In 2023, we also developed an energy and
travel risk appetite metric for our own operations to establish and monitor progress against our net zero ambitions.
Our resilience risk policies are subject to continuous improvement to remain relevant to evolving climate risks. New developments
relevant to our own operations are reviewed to ensure climate risk considerations are effectively captured.
Model risk The impact of climate risk on model risk is driven by the increasing number of climate risk models and the expanding model use cases.
Review and challenge of models mitigates some risk but given the nascent nature of climate modelling and the lack of benchmarks,
the validation of model assumptions and results remains a key challenge.
Model Risk has published a new climate risk and ESG model category standard, which sets out minimum control requirements for
identifying, measuring and managing model risk for climate-related models.
We completed independent model validation for a number of models used for financed emissions calculations and climate scenario
analysis using both qualitative and quantitative assessments of modelling decisions and outputs.
Financial We have expanded the scope of financial reporting risk to explicitly include oversight over accuracy and completeness of ESG and
reporting climate reporting. In 2023, we updated the risk appetite statement to reference our ESG and climate-related disclosures. We also
risk updated our internal controls to incorporate requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in ESG and climate reporting. To
support this, we have developed a framework to guide control implementation over ESG and climate reporting disclosures, which
includes areas such as process and data governance, and risk assessment.
As the landscape for ESG and climate-related disclosures develops, we continue to focus on horizon scanning and interpretation of
relevant external reporting requirements, to ensure a timely response for producing the required disclosures. As the volume and
nature of these requirements continue to evolve, the level of risk is heightened. Part of our response to this heightened risk includes
undertaking a range of assurance procedures over these disclosures.
Challenges We continue to enhance our climate scenario analysis exercises so
that we can have a more comprehensive understanding of climate
While we have continued to develop our climate risk framework, our headwinds, risks and opportunities to support our strategic planning
remaining challenges include: and actions.
– the diverse range of internal and external data sources and data In climate scenario analysis, we consider, jointly, both physical risks
structures needed for climate-related reporting, which introduces and transition risks. For further details about these risks, see ‘Climate
data accuracy and reliability risks; risk’ on page 221.
– data limitations on customer assets and supply chains, and We also analyse how these climate risks impact principal risk types
methodology gaps, which hinder our ability to assess physical within our organisation, including credit and traded market risks, non-
risks accurately; financial risks, and pension risk.
– industry-wide data gaps on customer emissions and transition Our climate scenarios
plan and methodology gaps, which limit our ability to assess
transition risks accurately; and In our 2023 climate scenario analysis exercises, we explored five
– limitations in our management of net zero alignment risk is due to scenarios that were created to examine the potential impacts from
known and unknown factors, including the limited accuracy and climate change for the Group and its entities.
reliability of data, merging methodologies, and the need to The analysis considered the key regions in which we operate, and
develop new tools to better inform decision making. assessed the impact on our balance sheet across three distinct
timeframes: short term up to 2025; medium term from 2026 to 2035;
Insights from climate scenario
and long term from 2036 to 2050. The time horizons are aligned to
analysis the Climate Action 100+ framework v1.2.
We created our internal scenarios using external publicly available
Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential climate scenarios as a reference, including those produced by the
exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under a range of climate Network for Greening the Financial System (‘NGFS’), the
scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) and the
the future and meet our growing regulatory requirements. International Energy Agency. Using these external scenarios as a
template, we adapted them by incorporating the unique climate risks
In 2023, we enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis exercise
and vulnerabilities to which our organisation and customers across
by focusing our efforts on generating more granular insights for key
different business sectors and regions are exposed. This helped us
sectors and regions to support core decision-making processes, and
produce the scenarios, which vary by severity to analyse how climate
to respond to our regulatory requirements. We also produced several
risks will impact our portfolios.
climate stress tests for regulators around the world, including the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) and the Central Bank of the
United Arab Emirates.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 225
Risk
review
Risk review
Our scenarios were: – the Near Term scenario, which assumes both a sharp increase in
policies that drive a disorderly transition towards net zero and a
– the Net Zero scenario, which is consistent with the Paris
sharp increase in extreme climate events over a five-year period
Agreement. This assumes that there will be orderly but
until 2027. This scenario focused on our business in Asia.
considerable climate action, limiting global warming to no more
than 1.5°C by 2100, when compared with pre-industrial levels; We have chosen these scenarios to provide a holistic view that will
supplement the Group’s current and future strategic thinking. They
– the Current Commitments scenario, which assumes that climate
reflect inputs from our key stakeholders and experts across the
action is limited to current governmental committed policies,
Group, and have been reviewed through internal governance.
including already implemented actions, leading to global
temperature rises of 2.4°C by 2100. This slow transition scenario Our scenarios reflect different levels of physical and transition risks
helps us to determine the actions we need to take to reach our over a variety of time periods. The scenario assumptions include
net zero ambition while operating in a world that is not net zero; varying levels of governmental climate policy changes,
– the Delayed Transition Risk scenario, which assumes that climate macroeconomic factors and technological developments. However,
action is delayed until 2030 with a late disorderly transition to net these scenarios rely on the development of technologies that are still
zero but stringent and rapid enough to limit global warming to unproven, such as global hydrogen production to decarbonise aviation
under 2°C by 2100. This scenario allows us to stress test severe and shipping.
but plausible transition risk impacts; The nature of the scenarios, our developing capabilities, and
limitations of the analysis lead to outcomes that are indicative of
– the Downside Physical Risk scenario, which assumes climate
climate change headwinds, although they are not a direct forecast.
action is limited to currently implemented governmental policies,
leading to extreme global warming with global temperatures Developments in climate science, data, methodology and scenario
increasing by greater than 4°C by 2100. This scenario allows us to analysis techniques will help us shape our approach further. We
assess physical risks associated with climate change; and therefore expect this view to change over time.
Characteristics of our scenarios
... Scenarios ...... ...
Current Delayed Downside
Net zero Commitments Transition Risk Physical Risk Near Term
Scenario
outcomes Rise in global temperatures by
2100 (vs pre-industrial levels) 1.5˚c 2.4˚c 1.6˚c 4.2˚c 1.4˚c
Focus horizon Medium term Short/medium term Medium/long term Medium/long term Short/medium term
Underlying Assumed variation in global
Low Medium High Low High
assumptions climate policies
based on Assumed pace of technology Accelerates from Based on existing
global change and adoption Fast Gradual 2030 None technology
averages
Assumed socioeconomic Very high
High Moderate Very high Very high
impact (in long term)
2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050 2027
Assumed carbon price
($/tCO) 161 623 34 91 34 558 6 6 193
2
Assumed change in energy
consumption (% change after
2022) (10)% (16)% 12% 17% 12% (11)% 5% 24% (14)%
Assumed change in CO
2
emissions (% change after 2022) (37)% (100)% (7)% (33)% (7)% (89)% 3% 11% (34)%
Climate Physical q Lower u Moderate q Lower p Higher p Higher
Scenario risk risk
characteristics Transition p Higher u Moderate p Higher q Lower p Higher
Our methodology
For our scenario analysis, we used models to assess how transition bespoke adjustments to our results based on their expert judgement
and physical risks may impact our portfolios under different where relevant.
scenarios. Our models incorporate a range of climate-specific metrics
Our models support the calculation of outputs that inform us about
that will have an impact on our customers, including expected
the level of climate-related ECL provisions required under IFRS 9, and
production volumes, revenue, costs and capital expenditure.
also support the shaping of our climate-related capital approach under
We assess how these metrics interplay with economic factors such ICAAP. In 2023, in addition to incorporating our customers’ transition
as carbon prices, which represent the cost effect of climate-related plans, we enhanced our credit risk models for the wholesale portfolio
policies that aim to discourage carbon-emitting activities and by updating our assumptions regarding how we expect state-
encourage low-carbon solutions. The expected result of higher carbon supported companies to be impacted, and improved how we model
prices is a reduction in emissions as high-emission activities become the impact of emissions on company financial forecasts.
uneconomical. We also assume carbon prices will vary from country
Modelling limitations
to country.
We continue to look for ways of enhancing our methodology to
The models for our wholesale corporate lending portfolio consider
improve the effectiveness of our climate scenario analyses. There are
our customers’ individual climate transition plans where available,
industry-wide limitations, particularly on data availability, although our
while we refine and deepen our assessment of these plans. These
models are designed to produce outputs that can support our
results feed into the calculation of our risk-weighted assets and
assessment of the level of our climate resilience.
expected credit loss (‘ECL’) projections. For our real estate portfolio
models, we focus on physical risk factors, including property Climate scenario analysis requires considerable amounts of data,
locations, perils and insurance coverage when assessing the overall although data is only available for a subset of our counterparties. As a
credit risk impact to the portfolio. The results are reviewed by our result, we have to extrapolate the results observed in the subset to
sector specialists who, subject to our governance procedures, make the wider population or dataset. We do not capture the second order
226 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
T l
impacts of climate risk exposures within our modelling approach, The Near Term scenario
such as impacts on our counterparties from their supply chains.
Our Near Term scenario allowed us to explore the combined impacts
We continue to enhance our capabilities by incorporating lessons of a disorderly transition towards net zero and extreme acute physical
learnt from previous exercises and feedback from key stakeholders, events occurring simultaneously. The scenario was designed to meet
including regulators. HKMA regulatory requirements and will help us to improve how we
assess short-term impacts across the Group. As part of the HKMA
For a broad overview of the models that we use for our climate
exercise, our initial analysis was focused on our portfolio in Asia.
scenario analysis, as well as graphs that show how global carbon
prices and carbon emissions will differ under our climate scenarios, The exercise allowed us to understand the extent to which a stressed
see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg. scenario exhibiting both high physical and transition risks in the near
term could immediately impact our customers across all our sectors.
Analysing the outputs of climate scenario
In the following sections, we assess the impacts to our banking
analysis
portfolios under different climate scenarios.
Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential How climate change is impacting our
climate pathways may affect and impact the resilience of our
wholesale lending portfolio
customers and our portfolios, particularly in respect of credit losses.
As the following chart shows, losses are influenced by their exposure
In our internal climate scenario analysis, we assessed the impact of
to a variety of climate risks under different climate scenarios.
climate-related risks on our corporate counterparties under different
climate scenarios, which we measured by reviewing the modelled
effect on our ECL.
The climate scenario analysis exercise for the wholesale lending
portfolio was designed to examine our climate risks and
vulnerabilities, primarily in the short and medium term. We focused
on the Current Commitment scenario, believing it to be the scenario
most likely to unfold in this timeframe, and the Net Zero scenario,
which allows us to assess the resilience of our strategy and to
identify specific climate-related opportunities.
Within our wholesale lending portfolio, customers in higher emitting
sectors continue to be most exposed to larger climate-related losses.
For each sector in both scenarios, we calculated the projected ECL
increase as at 2035, where we compared the increase in ECL under
the scenario against a counterfactual scenario that incorporates no
climate change.
We use the sector’s exposure at default (‘EAD’), which represents
1 The counterfactual scenario is modelled on a scenario where there the size of our exposure to potential losses from customer defaults.
would be no losses due to climate change. This helps to identify which sectors are the most material to us in
2 The dotted line in the chart shows the impact of modelled expected
terms of the impact of climate change.
credit losses following our strategic responses to reduce the effect of
climate risks under the Net Zero scenario. The table below shows the relative size of exposures at default in
3 The projections shown in this chart were modelled during 2023 and are 2023 and the increase in cumulative ECL under each scenario
not intended to reflect the final 31 December 2023 position that is compared with a counterfactual scenario by 2035 (expressed as a
disclosed elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023. multiple).
Impact on wholesale lending portfolios
While climate-related losses are expected to remain minimal in the
short term, they are likely to increase compared with the
ECL increase1
counterfactual scenario in the medium and longer term, driven by the Exposure
transition to a net zero economy. Wholesale sectors at default Current
Net Zero
(2023) Commitments
These losses are lower in the Net Zero orderly transition scenario,
than in the Delayed Transition Risk scenario where climate action
begins later and is more rapid and disruptive as our customers will Conglomerates and n <1.1x <2.75x
industrials
have less time to restructure their business models and reduce their
carbon emissions. As the dotted line in the graph shows, losses in Construction and n
<1.25x <2.25x
these scenarios can be mitigated through active management building materials
approaches, which include identifying new climate-related business Chemicals n <1.1x <1.75x
opportunities and adapting our portfolios to reduce exposure to
climate risks and losses. Power and utilities n <1.1x <1.75x
By building a more climate-resilient balance sheet, we can reduce
Oil and gas n <1.1x <1.25x
impairment risks and improve longer-term stability.
Automotive n <1.25x <1.75x
Under the Current Commitments scenario, we expect lower levels of
losses relating to transition risks, although we would expect an Land transport and n <1.1x <2.75x
increase in the effects of climate-related physical risks over the logistics
longer term. If the world does not align with a net zero path, physical Agriculture & soft n <1.1x <2.5x
commodities
risks in the medium to long term are expected to continue to rise due
to the increasing frequency of extreme weather events. Metals and mining n <1.1x >3x
Aviation n <1.1x <1.5x
Marine n <1.1x <1.5x
1 Increase in cumulative ECL compared with counterfactual by 2035
expressed as a multiple.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 227
Risk
review
<1.5x
>1.5x
2023 2028 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
Net Zero Current Commitments Delayed Transition Risk
Counterfactual1 Net Zero2
3stnemriapmi
evitalumuC
How credit losses from climate risks have been modelled
under different transition scenarios
Risk review
We have continued to incorporate information from our customers’ In 2023, we widened the scope of our climate modelling to include
transition plans to consider more detailed information on how they new markets, such as mainland China, and increased the peril
and their sector will be impacted under different climate scenarios. coverage within markets already covered.
The levels of ECL observed across our wholesale lending portfolio are In our analysis of the retail mortgage portfolio, we reassessed the
driven by: our customers’ carbon emissions; the presence of realistic physical perils that could impact the value of properties, which
transition plans; the amount of capital investment required to support include flooding, wildfire and windstorms. The underlying peril data
their transition; and the degree to which their competitive we use has been enhanced to include updated and higher resolution
environment impacts their ability to pass on carbon costs. flood maps where available. We have also worked with external
vendors to improve outputs from peril projections and to increase the
In 2022, we used scenario analysis to assess the impacts on our
granularity of data to provide more detailed insights into the impact of
corporate counterparties across the sectors that are most affected by
climate risks across our portfolio of properties, in particular the impact
climate-related risks.
of wildfires.
In 2023, we enhanced our approach in some key high-emitting
sectors, which includes the construction and building materials, Our scenario analysis methodology was enriched further in 2023 by
power and utilities, and oil and gas sectors. The analysis below combining the impacts of physical risk with transition risks, including
provides a more detailed view of the anticipated impacts on these rising energy costs and impacts from direct government legislation
portfolios and our customers, improving our understanding of climate such as homeowner energy efficiency upgrades in the UK. We have
risks and potential opportunities. enhanced our modelling by considering customers’ affordability
incorporating increased debt servicing costs and the impacts on
The construction and building materials sector faces an increase in
property valuations. As insurance remains a key mitigator against
losses because it includes companies with high emissions from
climate losses, we further refined our assumptions including the
manufacturing processes, such as steel or cement, or from their
assessment of insurance availability for properties that experience
supply chains, which will increase cost pressures due to carbon
frequent climate events.
taxes. The sector also has a high proportion of customers without
transition plans. Projected peril risk
Although our scenario analysis showed that companies with Flooding has the potential to drive significant impacts at an aggregate
transition plans performed better on average, their plans typically fall level but this is localised to specific areas that are close to water
short of requirements needed to meet net zero targets. Overall, we sources such as rivers or the coast, or areas that are located in
believe there are significant lending opportunities for us to help valleys where surface water can ‘pool’.
support our customers as they transition to a lower carbon economy The ’Exposure to flooding’ table below shows that the majority of
while meeting their growing business demands. properties located in four of our largest markets are predicted to
These opportunities include the exploration of less carbon-intensive experience zero to low risk of flooding, with flood depths of less than
fuel sources, electrification, the integration of carbon capture and 0.5 metres, under a 1-in-100-year event in each of the scenarios.
storage, and the adoption of new technologies in the search to Flood depths outlined here do not consider building type and property
reduce emissions. floor level, which would potentially further mitigate the impacts.
However, they are considered within our climate risk modelling and
In the power and utilities sector, our analysis showed that rising costs
loss projections.
from increased carbon prices and the capital expenditure required to
support transition requirements, infrastructure improvements and The table below sets out the proportion of properties with projected
decommissioning costs, alongside greater downstream energy flood depths in a 1-in-100-year severity flood event, under the Current
demands, will potentially lead to higher debt levels and worsening Commitments and Downside Physical Risk scenarios.
counterparty risk ratings for customers. Exposure to flooding (%)1
As technologies mature, the capital cost of some renewables
infrastructure is expected to fall, becoming cheaper than non- Scenarios
renewable sources due to improved efficiencies. This will reduce the Baseline Current Downside
required expenditure for companies. Number of Flood depth flood risk C o m mitments Physical
properties2 (metres) 20233 2050 Risk 2050
In the oil and gas sector, customers that commit to renewable energy
(%) (%) (%)
should benefit from the additional greener revenue streams, which
will help mitigate the impact of reduced profitability from fossil fuels UK 0-0.5 97.4 97.4 96.9
and heightened carbon prices, enabling them to sustain their gross n 0.5-1.5 2.4 2.5 2.8
margins. This sector has relatively lower projected losses as a large
>1.5 0.2 0.2 0.3
proportion of customers provided transition plans with granular
information about their climate-related impacts. Hong Kong 0-0.5 85.3 81.4 79.5
We have the opportunity to ease potential negative impacts as n 0.5-1.5 14.6 18.4 20.4
>1.5 0.1 0.1 0.1
transition risks increase by supporting our customers to diversify into
more renewable and greener revenue streams, and invest in Australia 0-0.5 95.7 95.4 95.3
emission-reducing technologies. 0.5-1.5 2.9 3.0 3.1
n
>1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5
How climate change is impacting our retail
Mainland 0-0.5 88.0 86.5 84.7
mortgage portfolio China 0.5-1.5 11.1 12.5 12.7
As part of our 2023 internal climate scenario analysis, we completed n >1.5 0.9 1.0 2.7
a detailed climate risk assessment for the UK, Hong Kong, mainland
1 Severe flood events include river and surface flooding and coastal
China and Australia, which together represent 75% of the balances in inundation. The table compares 2050 snapshots under the Current
our global retail mortgage portfolio. Commitments and Downside Physical Risk scenarios with a baseline
Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal view in 2023. We do expect to see changes to our flood depth
losses to materialise when considering the Current Commitments distributions as climate risk data is refreshed.
scenario. Although the severity of climate perils is expected to 2 The size of the bubbles represents the size of the portfolios, in terms
of number of properties where exposure to flooding data is available,
worsen over time, our overall losses also remain low under a
relative to one another.
Downside Physical Risk scenario.
3 Baseline flood risk is the flood risk for a 1 in 100 year event, based on
current peril data.
228 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
How climate change is impacting our We have developed tools to provide us with a more granular
understanding of the key profit and loss drivers under different
commercial real estate portfolios
climate scenarios. These can be viewed by risk factor, business line
or at trading desk level to help traded risk managers to monitor and
We assessed our commercial real estate customers’ vulnerability to
understand how climate sensitive exposures are impacted.
various perils, including flooding and windstorms. Our commercial
real estate portfolio is globally diversified with larger concentrations in Sovereign credit risk
Hong Kong, the UK and the US.
We assessed the impacts of climate risks on sovereign debt under
Geographical location is a key determinant in our exposure to the different climate scenarios. In particular, our models considered
potential physical risk events, which can lead to higher ECL due to the impacts of climate change on a country’s GDP, the amount of
the cost of repairing damage as well as impact property valuations in headroom sovereign nations have in terms of their fiscal and external
areas where physical risk events are increasing in frequency. reserves, and their dependency and exposure to particular corporate
sectors.
The ‘Exposure to peril’ table below shows the proportion of our
commercial real estate portfolio exposed to specific physical perils in Pension risk
our key markets.
We modelled balance sheet and income statement projections for
Exposure to peril (%)1 the main pension plans. Our modelling capability has been enhanced
to incorporate climate-specific modelling over a longer timeframe,
Exposure Coastal Cyclone Surface Riverine with the initial exercise being focused on assessing the impacts of a
at inundation wind water flooding disruptive transition to net zero using the Delayed Transition scenario.
flooding
default2 (%) (%) (%) (%) Non-financial risk
n We assessed the potential impacts of errors in sustainable lending
Hong Kong 2.0 94.8 19.0 10.0 volumes contained within our ESG disclosures as part of our financial
reporting risks. To understand our regulatory compliance risks we
UK n 15.8 0.0 16.5 7.1 assessed any misrepresentations within the marketing of our ESG
US n 10.1 81.5 11.4 28.6 funds.
Use of climate scenario analysis outputs
1 Proportion of our commercial real estate portfolio exposed to specific
physical perils in the Downside Physical scenario.
Climate scenario analysis plays a crucial role helping us to identify and
2 The size of the bubbles represents the size of the portfolios, in terms
understand the impact of climate-related risks and potential
of EAD, relative to one another.
opportunities as we navigate the transition to net zero.
Overall, and in line with our 2022 disclosure, our commercial real Scenario analysis results have been used to support the Group’s
estate portfolio remains resilient to climate risk, with the more severe ICAAP. This is an internal assessment of the capital the Group needs
impacts mitigated by insurance coverage. to hold to meet the risks identified on a current and projected basis,
Our most significant credit exposure is in Hong Kong, a region with including climate risk.
material physical risk exposures to wind and flooding due to strong In addition, scenario analysis informs our risk appetite statement
tropical cyclones. The impact on prospective credit losses remains metrics. As an example, it supports the calibration of physical risk
low, due to stringent building standards and existing measures in metrics for our retail mortgage portfolios and it is used to consider
place against flooding and storm surges. climate impact in our IFRS 9 assessment.
Our largest exposure to transition risk is within our UK portfolio. From a financial planning perspective, internal climate scenario
Under the Net Zero scenario, we assessed the impacts of the UK analysis results are used to assess whether additional short-term
government consultation on non-domestic rental properties being climate-specific ECL are required within our financial plan.
required to hold an energy performance certificate rating of at least
Next steps
’B’ by 2030. To meet these proposed minimum standards, more than
80% of the properties in our portfolio would potentially need to be
We plan to continue to enhance our capabilities for climate scenario
retrofitted, which would increase impairments and lead to a small
analysis including addressing model limitations and data gaps and
uplift in ECL for this portfolio.
developing our assessment of liquidity, resilience and insurance risks.
In 2023, as part of the scenario analysis exercise for the Central Bank We also plan to use the results for decision making, particularly in:
of the United Arab Emirates, we also assessed in more detail the
– client engagement, by identifying climate opportunities and
climate risk impacts on our UAE portfolio. Our findings showed that
vulnerabilities in specific regions and sectors such as renewables,
many properties could become chronically exposed to permanent
carbon capture technologies and electric vehicles, and using this
inundation over time due to their relatively low elevation above sea
information to engage and support clients in their transition to net
level.
zero;
How we assess climate risk impacts on
– portfolio steering, by using scenario analysis outputs to inform
other risk types how to reallocate our portfolio to maximise returns and mitigate
risk while achieving our net zero targets; and
We use climate scenario analysis to assess the impacts on other – looking beyond climate change by building capabilities to assess
risks beyond credit risk. These include traded market risks, non- our resilience to wider environmental risks.
financial risks and pension risk.
Understanding the resilience of our critical
Traded market risk
properties
In 2023, we explored the potential impacts of climate risks on our
trading and banking portfolio under the Delayed Transition Risk and Climate change poses a physical risk to the buildings that we occupy
Downside Physical Risk scenarios. as an organisation, including our offices, retail branches and data
The analysis considered all relevant asset classes including interest centres, both in terms of loss and damage, and business interruption.
rates, exchange rates, corporate and sovereign bonds and equities. We measure the impacts of climate and weather events to our
The analysis applied shocks reflecting the impact of abrupt increases buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current and scenario
in carbon prices or physical risk perils resulting in structural economic modelled forecast data. In 2023, there were 27 major storms that had
impacts that affect the productivity of high-risk sectors at a country a minor impact on five premises with no impact on the availability of
level. our buildings.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 229
Risk
review
Risk review
We use stress testing to evaluate the potential for impact on our A further 248 properties have the potential to be impacted by climate
owned or leased premises. Our scenario stress test, conducted in change, albeit to a lesser extent, with insurance-related losses
2023, analysed how eight climate change-related hazards could estimated at between 5% and 10% of the insured value of our
impact 1,000 of our critical and important buildings. These hazards buildings. The principal risks are temperature extremes and water
were coastal inundation, extreme heat, extreme winds, wildfires, stress.
riverine flooding, pluvial flooding, soil movement due to drought, and
A key finding from the Middle of the Road scenario showed that the
surface water flooding.
total number of buildings at risk reduced from 20 to 13. The
The 2023 stress test modelled climate change with IPCC’s Taking the highlighted facilities are still at risk from the same perils of extreme
Highway scenario (SSP5-8.5), which projects that the rise in global temperature and water stress by 2050.
temperatures will likely exceed 4°C by 2100. It also modelled a less
This forward-looking data along with historical data helps inform real
severe IPCC Middle of the Road scenario (SSP2-4.5), which projects
estate planning. We will continue to enhance our understanding of
that global warming will likely be limited to 2°C.
how extreme weather events impact our building portfolio as climate
Key findings from the Taking the Highway scenario included that by risk assessment tools improve and evolve. We buy insurance for
2050, 20 of our 1,000 critical and important buildings will have a high property damage and business interruption and consider insurance as
potential for impact due to climate change, with insurance-related a loss mitigation strategy depending on its availability and price.
losses estimated to be in excess of 10% of the insured value of the
We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and
buildings.
global engineering standards and will continue to assess historical
These include 16 retail properties primarily impacted by extreme claims data to help ensure our building selection and design
temperatures and four data centres, where three face the risk of standards address the potential impacts of climate change.
water stress and one faces extreme temperatures and water stress.
This could lead to failure of mechanical cooling equipment or soil
movement resulting from drought.
Resilience risk
Overview
Resilience risk is the risk of sustained and significant business We prioritise our efforts on material risks and areas undergoing
disruption from execution, delivery, physical security or safety events, strategic growth, aligning our location strategy to this need. We also
causing the inability to provide critical services to our customers, remotely provide oversight and stewardship, including support of
affiliates and counterparties. Resilience risk arises from failures or chief risk officers, in territories where we have no physical presence.
inadequacies in processes, people, systems or external events.
Governance and structure
Resilience risk management
The Enterprise Risk Management target operating model provides a
globally consistent view across resilience risks, strengthening our risk
Key developments in 2023
management oversight while operating effectively as part of a
During the year, we carried out several initiatives to keep pace with simplified non-financial risk structure.
geopolitical, regulatory and technology changes, and strengthened
We view resilience risk across seven sub-risk types related to: third-
the management of resilience risk:
party risk; technology and cybersecurity risk; transaction processing
– We focused on enhancing our understanding of our risk and risk; business interruption and incident risk; data risk; change
control environment, by updating our risk taxonomy and control execution risk; and facilities availability, safety and security risk.
libraries, and refreshing risk and control assessments.
Risk appetite and key escalations for resilience risk are reported to
– We continued to recognise that our customers are impacted by the Non-Financial Risk Management Board, chaired by the Group
service disruptions, and responded to these urgently and aimed to Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, with an escalation path to the
recover with minimum delay. We continued to initiate post- Group Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee.
incident review processes to prevent recurrence. Where we
identify that investment is required to further enhance the Group’s Key risk management processes
operational resilience capabilities, findings are fed into the Group’s Operational resilience is our ability to anticipate, prevent, adapt,
financial planning, helping to ensure we continue to meet the respond to, recover and learn from operational disruption while
expectations of our customers and our regulators. minimising customer and market impact. Resilience is determined by
– We continued to monitor markets affected by the Russia-Ukraine assessing whether we can continue to provide our important
and Israel-Hamas wars, as well as other geopolitical events, for business services, within an agreed impact tolerance. This is
any potential impact they may have on our colleagues and achieved via day-to-day oversight and periodic and ongoing
operations. assurance, such as deep dive reviews and controls testing, which
may result in challenges being raised to the business by risk
– We strengthened the way third-party risk is overseen and
stewards. Further challenge is also raised in the form of risk steward
managed across all non-financial risks, and enhanced the
opinion papers to formal governance. We accept we will not be able
processes, framework and reporting capabilities used by our
to prevent all disruption but we must prioritise investment to
global businesses, functions and regions.
continually improve the response and recovery strategies for our
– We provided analysis and easy-to-access risk and control important business services and important group business services
information and metrics to enable management to focus on non- to meet regulatory expectations.
financial risks in their decision making and appetite setting.
Business operations continuity
– We further strengthened our non-financial risk governance and We continue to monitor the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars,
senior leadership, and improved our coverage and risk steward
and remain ready to take measures to ensure business continuity in
oversight for data risk and change execution.
affected markets should the situations require. There have been no
significant disruptions to our services, although businesses and
functions in nearby markets continually review their plans and
responses to minimise any potential impacts.
230 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Regulatory compliance risk
Overview
Regulatory compliance risk is the risk associated with breaching our Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. Regulatory Compliance and
duty to clients and other counterparties, inappropriate market conduct Financial Crime teams work together and with relevant stakeholders
(including unauthorised trading) and breaching related financial to achieve good conduct outcomes, and provide enterprise-wide
services regulatory standards. Regulatory compliance risk arises from support on the compliance risk agenda in close collaboration with
the failure to observe relevant laws, codes, rules and regulations and colleagues from the Group Risk and Compliance function.
can manifest itself in poor market or customer outcomes and lead to
Key risk management processes
fines, penalties and reputational damage to our business.
The Global Regulatory Compliance capability is responsible for setting
Regulatory compliance risk management
global policies, standards and risk appetite to guide the Group’s
management of regulatory compliance risk. It also devises the
Key developments in 2023
required frameworks, support processes and tooling to protect
The dedicated programme to embed our updated purpose-led against regulatory compliance risks. The Group capability provides
conduct approach has concluded. Work to map applicable regulations oversight, review and challenge of the global market, regional and line
to our risks and controls continued in 2023, alongside the adoption of of business teams to help them identify, assess and mitigate
new tooling to support enterprise-wide horizon scanning for new regulatory compliance risks, where required. The Group’s regulatory
regulatory obligations and supporting wider work on regulatory compliance risk policies are regularly reviewed. Global policies and
reporting enhancements. Climate risk has been integrated into procedures require the identification and escalation of any actual or
regulatory compliance policies and processes, with enhancements potential regulatory breaches, and relevant events and issues are
made to the product governance framework and controls to ensure escalated to the Group’s Non-Financial Risk Management Board, the
the effective consideration of climate – and in particular the risk of Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, as
greenwashing – risks. appropriate. The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance reports to the
Governance and structure Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and attends the Risk and
The Compliance function has now been restructured and integrated Compliance Executive Committee, the Group Risk Management
into a combined Risk and Compliance function with the appointment Meeting and the Group Risk Committee.
of a Group Head of Regulatory Compliance reporting directly into the
Financial crime risk
Overview
Financial crime risk is the risk that HSBC’s products and services will Governance and structure
be exploited for criminal activity. This includes fraud, bribery and
The structure of the Financial Crime function remained substantively
corruption, tax evasion, sanctions and export control violations,
unchanged in 2023, although we continued to review the
money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing.
effectiveness of our governance framework to manage financial
Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day banking operations
crime risk. The Group Head of Financial Crime and Group Money
involving customers, third parties and employees.
Laundering Reporting Officer continues to report to the Group Chief
Financial crime risk management Risk and Compliance Officer, while the Group Risk Committee retains
oversight of matters relating to financial crime.
Key developments in 2023
Key risk management processes
We regularly review the effectiveness of our financial crime risk
management framework, which includes continued consideration of We will not tolerate knowingly conducting business with individuals
the complex and dynamic nature of sanctions compliance and export or entities believed to be engaged in criminal activity. We require
control risk. We continued to respond to the financial sanctions and everybody in HSBC to play their role in maintaining effective systems
trade restrictions that have been imposed on Russia, including and controls to prevent and detect financial crime. Where we believe
methods used to limit sanctions evasion. we have identified suspected criminal activity or vulnerabilities in our
control framework, we will take appropriate mitigating action.
We continued to make progress with several key financial crime risk
management initiatives, including: We manage financial crime risk because it is the right thing to do to
protect our customers, shareholders, staff, the communities in which
– We deployed our intelligence-led, dynamic risk assessment
we operate, as well as the integrity of the financial system on which
capability for customer account monitoring in additional entities
we all rely. We operate in a highly regulated industry in which these
and global businesses, including in the UK, the Channel Islands
same policy goals are codified in law and regulation.
and the Isle of Man, Hong Kong and the UAE.
We are committed to complying with the laws and regulations of all
– We deployed a next generation capability to increase our
the markets in which we operate and applying a consistently high
monitoring coverage on correspondent banking activity.
financial crime standard globally.
– We successfully introduced the required changes to our
We continue to assess the effectiveness of our end-to-end financial
transaction screening capability to accommodate the global
crime risk management framework, and invest in enhancing our
change to payment systems formatting under ISO 20022
operational control capabilities and technology solutions to deter and
requirements.
detect criminal activity. We have simplified our framework and
– We made enhancements in response to the rapidly evolving and consolidated previously separate financial crime policies into a single
complex global payments landscape and refined our digital assets policy to drive consistency and provide a more holistic assessment of
and currencies strategy. financial crime risk. We further strengthened our financial crime risk
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 231
Risk
review
Risk review
taxonomy and control libraries and our monitoring capabilities through development of responses to consultation papers focused on how
technology deployments. We developed more targeted metrics, and financial crime risk management frameworks can deliver more
continued to seek to enhance our governance and reporting. We are effective outcomes in detecting and deterring criminal activity.
committed to working in partnership with the wider industry and the Through our work with the Wolfsberg Group and the Institute of
public sector in managing financial crime risk and we participate in International Finance, we supported the efforts of the global standard
numerous public-private partnerships and information sharing setter, the Financial Action Task Force. In addition, we participated in
initiatives around the world. In 2023, our focus remained on a number of public events related to enhancing public-private
measures to improve the overall effectiveness of the global financial partnerships, payment transparency, asset recovery, tackling forestry
crime framework, notably by providing input into legislative and crimes, wildlife trafficking and human trafficking.
regulatory reform activities. We did this by contributing to the
Model risk
Overview
Model risk is the risk of the potential for adverse consequences from Governance and structure
model errors or the inappropriate use of modelled outputs to inform
business decisions. Model risk governance committees at the Group, business and
functional levels provide oversight of model risk. The committees
Model risk arises in both financial and non-financial contexts
include senior leaders from the three global businesses and the
whenever business decision making includes reliance on models.
Group Risk and Compliance function, and focus on model-related
Key developments in 2023 concerns and are supported by key model risk metrics. We also have
Model Risk Committees in our geographical regions focused on local
In 2023, we continued to make improvements in our model risk delivery and requirements. The Group-level Model Risk Committee is
management processes amid regulatory changes in model chaired by the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and the
requirements. heads of key businesses participate in these meetings.
Initiatives during the year included:
Key risk management processes
– Following regulatory feedback on a number of our model
submissions for our internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) approach for We use a variety of modelling approaches, including regression,
credit risk, internal model method (‘IMM’) for counterparty credit simulation, sampling, machine learning and judgemental scorecards
risk and internal model approach (‘IMA’) for market risk, we for a range of business applications. These activities include
implemented approved models for IMM and IMA alongside an customer selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction
approved IRB model for UK mortgages. We began a programme monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting. Global
of work to address feedback from the PRA and other regulators responsibility for managing model risk is delegated from the Board to
on the IRB models for wholesale credit. the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, who authorises the
Group Model Risk Committee. This committee regularly reviews our
– We made changes to our VaR model in response to multiple
model risk management policies and procedures, and requires the
breaches that had been observed from market volatility resulting
first line of defence to demonstrate comprehensive and effective
from changes in monetary policy in major markets.
controls based on a library of model risk controls provided by Model
– We introduced a new procedure to ensure any new tool Risk Management. Model Risk Management also reports on model
developed using generative AI would require validation by Model risk to senior management and the Group Risk Committee on a
Risk Management before its use. regular basis through the use of the risk map, risk appetite metrics
– We enhanced our frameworks and controls as climate risk and AI and top and emerging risks.
and machine learning models become more embedded in We regularly review the effectiveness of these processes, including
business processes. the model risk committee structure, to help ensure appropriate
understanding and ownership of model risk is embedded in the
– Following the publication of Supervisory Statement 1/23 – the
businesses and functions.
PRA’s guiding principles for how model risks should be managed
across the industry – we began a programme of work to seek to
meet the enhanced model risk management requirements, with
representation from all global businesses and key functions,
including Internal Audit.
232 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Insurance manufacturing operations risk
Contents ‘Insurance Contracts’, which became effective on 1 January 2023.
Given the fundamental change the new accounting standard
represented in insurance accounting, and the complexity of the new
233 Overview
standard, this presented additional financial reporting and model risks
233 Insurance manufacturing operations risk management
for the Group, which were managed via the IFRS 17 implementation
234 Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2023 project. Other areas of focus were the ongoing integration of the
234 Measurement insurance business that was acquired through AXA Singapore in 2022
235 Key risk types into the Group’s risk management framework, the establishment of a
235 – Market risk reinsurance entity in Bermuda and controls supporting IFRS 17
implementation.
236 – Credit risk
236 – Liquidity risk Governance and structure
237 – Insurance underwriting risk
(Audited)
Overview Insurance manufacturing risks are managed to a defined risk appetite,
which is aligned to the Group’s risk appetite and risk management
The key risks for our insurance manufacturing operations are market framework, including its three lines of defence model. For details of
risk, in particular interest rate and equity, credit risk and insurance the Group’s governance framework, see page 137. The Global
underwriting risk. These have a direct impact on the financial results Insurance Risk Management Meeting oversees the control
and capital positions of the insurance operations. Liquidity risk, while framework globally and is accountable to the WPB Risk Management
significant in other parts of the Group, is less material for our Meeting on risk matters relating to the insurance business.
insurance operations. The monitoring of the risks within our insurance operations is carried
HSBC’s insurance business out by Insurance Risk teams. The Group’s risk stewardship functions
support the Insurance Risk teams in their respective areas of
We sell insurance products through a range of channels including our expertise.
branches, insurance sales forces, direct channels and third-party
Stress and scenario testing
distributors. The majority of sales are through an integrated
bancassurance model that provides insurance products principally for (Audited)
customers with whom we have a banking relationship, although the
Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management framework
proportion of sales through other sources such as independent
for the insurance business. We participate in local and Group-wide
financial advisers, tied agents and digital platforms is increasing.
regulatory stress tests, as well as internally developed stress and
For the insurance products we manufacture, the majority of sales are scenario tests, including Group internal stress test exercises.
savings, universal life and protection contracts.
The results of these stress tests and the adequacy of management
We choose to manufacture these insurance products in HSBC action plans to mitigate these risks are considered in the Group’s
subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk ICAAP and the entities’ regulatory Own Risk and Solvency
appetite. Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and Assessments, which are produced by all material entities.
rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping part
Key risk management processes
of the underwriting profit and investment income within the Group.
We have life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in eight markets, Market risk
which are Hong Kong, Singapore, mainland China, France, UK, Malta, (Audited)
Mexico and Argentina. In addition, we have: an interest in a life
All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk
insurance manufacturing associate in India; a captive insurance entity
mandates and limits that specify the investment instruments in which
in Bermuda that insures the non-financial risks of the wider Group;
they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market
and a reinsurance entity in Bermuda.
risk that they may retain. They manage market risk by using, among
Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale to be an others, some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the
effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a small number of nature of the contracts written:
leading external insurance companies in order to provide insurance
– We are able to adjust bonus rates to manage the liabilities to
products to our customers. These arrangements are generally
policyholders for products with participating features. The effect is
structured with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a
that a significant proportion of the market risk is borne by the
combination of commissions, fees and a share of profits. We
policyholder.
distribute insurance products in all of our geographical regions.
– We use asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are
This section focuses only on the risks relating to the insurance
structured to support projected liability cash flows. The Group
products we manufacture.
manages its assets using an approach that considers asset quality,
Insurance manufacturing operations diversification, cash flow matching, liquidity, volatility and target
investment return. We use models to assess the effect of a range
risk management
of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and
associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in
Key developments in 2023 determining how best to structure asset holdings to support
liabilities.
The insurance manufacturing subsidiaries follow the Group’s risk
management framework. In addition, there are specific policies and – We use derivatives and other financial instruments to protect
practices relating to the risk management of insurance contracts, against adverse market movements.
which did not change materially over 2023. During the year, there – We design new products to mitigate market risk, such as
was continued market volatility observed across interest rates, equity changing the investment return sharing proportion between
and credit markets and foreign exchange rates. This was policyholders and the shareholder.
predominantly driven by geopolitical factors and wider inflationary
concerns. One key area of risk management focus during 2023 was
the implementation of the new accounting standard, IFRS 17
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 233
Risk
review
Corporate
governance
report
HSBC continues to enhance its corporate
governance practices and procedures to
support the Board’s ambition of world-class
governance.
The corporate governance report contains
the Report of the Directors and gives
details of our Board of Directors, senior
management, and Board committees. It
outlines key aspects of our approach to
corporate governance, including internal
control.
It also includes the Directors’ remuneration
report, which explains our policies on
remuneration and their application.
239 The Board
244 Senior management
248 How we are governed
254 Board matters considered and shareholder
engagement
260 Board and committee effectiveness,
performance and accountability
262 Board committees
279 Directors’ remuneration report
306 Share capital and other related governance
disclosures
311 Internal control
313 Employees
315 Statement of compliance
316 Directors’ responsibility statement
We have a comprehensive range of policies and systems
in place designed to help ensure that the Group is well
managed, with effective oversight and control.
238 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
The Board
The Board, which seeks to promote the Group’s long-term
success, deliver sustainable value to shareholders
and promote a culture of openness and debate, comprises
diverse, high-calibre members who have experience in
our global markets.
Chairman and executive Directors
Mark E Tucker (66) Noel Quinn (62) Georges Elhedery (49)
N Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board: August 2019 Appointed to the Board: January 2023
Group Chairman
Group Chief Executive since: March 2020
Appointed to the Board: September 2017 Skills and experience: Georges has over 25 years
Group Chairman since: October 2017 Skills and experience: Having qualified as an of experience in the banking industry across Europe,
accountant in 1987, Noel has more than 30 years the Middle East and Asia, and has held a number
Skills and experience: With over 35 years of
of banking and financial services experience, both of executive roles at both a regional and global
experience in financial services in Asia, Africa,
in the UK and Asia. business level.
the US, the EU and the UK, including 30 years
living and working in Hong Kong, Mark has a
Career: Noel was appointed Group Chief Executive Career: Georges was appointed Group Chief
deep understanding of the industry and markets
in March 2020, having held the role on an interim Financial Officer and executive Director with effect
in which we operate.
basis since August 2019. Since joining HSBC and from 1 January 2023. He is also responsible for the
its constituent companies in 1987, Noel has held a oversight of the Group’s transformation initiatives,
Career: Mark was previously Chairman, Group
variety of roles including Chief Executive Officer, strategy and corporate development activities.
Chief Executive and President of AIA Group
Global Commercial Banking; Regional Head of Georges was previously co-Chief Executive Officer,
Limited (‘AIA’), and prior to AIA he was Group Chief
Commercial Banking for Asia-Pacific; Head of Global Banking and Markets and also Head of
Executive of Prudential plc. Mark previously served
Commercial Banking UK; and Head of Commercial the Markets and Securities Services division of
as a non-executive Director of the Court of the Bank
Finance Europe. the business. Georges joined HSBC in 2005 with
of England and as an independent non-executive
extensive trading experience in London, Paris
Director of Goldman Sachs Group.
External appointments: and Tokyo. He has since held a number of senior
– Independent non-executive Director of Sustainable leadership roles, including Head of Global Banking
External appointments:
Markets Initiative Limited and Chair of the Financial and Markets, Middle East and North Africa; Chief
– Non-executive Chairman of Discovery Limited
Services Task Force Executive Officer for HSBC, Middle East, North
– Supporting Chair of Chapter Zero
– Principal member of the Glasgow Financial Africa and Türkiye; and Global Head of Markets
– Member of the UK Investment Council
Alliance for Net Zero based in London.
– Member of the Advisory Group on Trade Finance
– Member of the World Economic Forum’s
to the International Chamber of Commerce
International Business Council
– Member of the Trade Advisory Group on Financial
– Member of the World Bank Private Sector
Services to the UK Government’s Department for
Investment Lab
International Trade
– Member of the Advisory Board of the China
– Member of the Asia Business Council
Children Development Fund
– Member of Hong Kong’s Chief Executive’s
– Founding member of CNBC ESG Council
Advisory Council on Economic Development
– Member of the British Infrastructure Council
– Member of the Investment Advisory Council of the
Supreme National Investment Committee of the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
– Chairman of the Multinational Chairman’s Group
– Director, Peterson Institute for Board committee membership key
International Economics
– Director, Institute of International Finance Committee Chair
– Asia Society Global Board of Trustees
– International Advisory Council of the China A Group Audit Committee
National Financial Regulatory Administration Ri Group Risk Committee
– Hong Kong Academy of Finance International
Council of Advisors R Group Remuneration Committee
– Member of the Asia Global Institute N Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
– International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council
to the Mayor of Beijing – Adviser to the Mayor
For full biographical details of our Board members, see
– International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance.
to the Mayor of Shanghai – Adviser to the Mayor
Corporate
governance
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 239
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Independent non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham (46) Rachel Duan (53) Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (63)
Ri R N A R N Ri R N
Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2022 Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board:
September 2021 September 2021
Skills and experience: Geraldine is
an experienced executive within the Skills and experience: Rachel is Skills and experience: Carolyn
global financial services industry, with an experienced business leader with has significant experience across
significant leadership experience exceptional international experience the media, government and finance
in Asia. in the US, Japan, mainland China and sectors, and a deep understanding of
Hong Kong. the macroeconomic, regulatory, and
Career: Geraldine is the former Chair political environment.
and Head of Asia-Pacific at BlackRock, Career: Rachel spent 24 years at
where she was responsible for all General Electric (‘GE’), where she Career: An economist by training,
business activities across Hong held positions including Senior Vice Carolyn has served as a partner at
Kong, mainland China, Japan, President of GE, and President and McKinsey & Company, a member of
Australia, Singapore, India and Korea. Chief Executive Officer of GE’s Global the UK prime minister John Major’s
After stepping down from this role, Markets where she was responsible Number 10 Policy Unit, and as
she acted as senior adviser to the for driving GE’s growth in Asia-Pacific, Director-General of the Confederation
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, of British Industry, and held senior
of BlackRock. She earlier served as Russia and the Commonwealth executive positions at the BBC and
BlackRock’s Global Head of Corporate of Independent States. She also ITV plc. She has extensive board
Strategy, and previously was a partner previously served as President experience, having previously
within McKinsey & Company’s and Chief Executive Officer of GE served as non-executive Director
financial services practice. Advanced Materials China and then of Lloyds Banking Group plc, The
of the Asia-Pacific; President and CEO Vitec Group plc, Capita plc and BAE
External appointments: of GE Healthcare China; and President Systems plc. She has also served as
– Independent non-executive Director and CEO of GE China. a non-executive Director of the UK
of Brunswick Group Partnership Ltd Competition and Markets Authority
– Independent non-executive Director External appointments: and the Financial Services Authority.
of H.R.L. Morrison & Co Limited – Independent non-executive Director
– Member of the Advisory Board of of Sanofi S.A. External appointments:
ClimateWorks Centre Australia – Independent non-executive Director –Independent non-executive Director
– Member of the Advisory Board of of AXA S.A. of Tesco plc
the McKinsey Health Institute – Independent non-executive Director –Chair of Royal Mencap Society
of the Adecco Group AG –Honorary Fellow of Gonville and
Caius College, Cambridge
240 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Brendan Nelson (74) David Nish (63) Swee Lian Teo (64) Aileen Taylor (51)
A Ri N A Ri N Ri N Group Company Secretary and
Chief Governance Officer
Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director
Appointed: November 2019
Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board: May 2016 Appointed to the Board: October 2023
September 2023 Senior Independent non-executive Skills and experience: Aileen is a
Skills and experience: Swee Lian
Director since: February 2020 solicitor with significant governance
Skills and experience: Brendan brings extensive experience within
and regulatory experience across
brings UK and international financial Skills and experience: David has the international financial services
various roles in the banking
and auditing expertise, and significant international experience in financial industry, having previously spent over
industry. She is a member of the
experience in auditing and as services, corporate governance, 27 years with the Monetary Authority
European Corporate Governance
audit committee chair of strategy, financial reporting, and of Singapore (‘MAS‘).
Council, the GC100 and the
UK-listed companies. operational transformation.
Financial Conduct Authority’s
Career: During Swee Lian’s time
Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
Career: Brendan spent over 25 years Career: David served as Group Chief at the MAS, she worked in foreign
as a partner at KPMG LLP, served Executive Officer of Standard Life reserves management, financial sector
Career: Prior to joining HSBC,
on the board from 2000 and as plc between 2010 and 2015, having development, strategic planning
Aileen spent 19 years at the Royal
Vice Chairman from 2006, until his joined the company in 2006 as Group and financial supervision, before
Bank of Scotland Group, holding
retirement in 2010. Internationally, he Finance Director. He is also a former she became the Deputy Managing
various legal, risk and compliance
held various senior positions including Group Finance Director of Scottish Director for Financial Supervision. She
roles. She was appointed Group
Global Chairman of the financial Power plc and was a partner at Price retired from the MAS in 2015 after
Secretary in 2010 and subsequently
services practice. Subsequently, Waterhouse. David has also previously serving as Special Advisor, focused
Chief Governance Officer and
Brendan joined the boards of bp served as a non-executive Director on MAS’s role in the international
Board Counsel.
plc and NatWest Group plc where of HDFC Life (India), Northern Foods regulatory framework, in the
he also served as Chairman of both plc, Thus plc, London Stock Exchange Managing Director’s office. Swee Lian
companies’ audit committees. Group plc, the UK Green Investment previously served as a non-executive
During his career, Brendan was Bank plc and Zurich Insurance Group. Director on the boards of AIA Group
President of the Institute of Chartered Limited and the Dubai Financial
Accountants of Scotland, a member External appointments: Services Authority.
of the Financial Reporting Review – Senior Independent non-executive
Panel and a member of the Financial Director of Vodafone Group plc and External appointments:
Services Authority’s Practitioner Chairman of the Audit and – Non-executive Director of Singapore
Panel. As current Chairman of the Risk Committee Telecommunications Limited and
Board of BP Pension Fund Trustees – Honorary Professor of University of Chair of the Risk Committee
Ltd, Brendan has received training in Dundee Business School – Non-executive Director of Avanda
ESG considerations for investment Investment Management Pte Ltd
decisions and helped set an ambition – Director of Clifford Capital Pte Ltd
to be net zero in terms of greenhouse – Director of Clifford Capital Holdings
gas emissions from investments Pte Ltd
by 2050. – Chair of CapitaLand
Integrated Commercial Trust
External appointments: Management Limited.
– Chairman of BP Pension Trustees Ltd
Former Directors who served during the year
Jackson Tai
Jackson Tai retired from the Board on 5 May 2023
For full biographical details of our Board members,
see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance.
Corporate
governance
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 243
Dr Celine Herweijer (46) John Hinshaw (53) Bob Hoyt (59)
Group Chief Sustainability Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Group Chief Legal Officer
Celine joined HSBC as Group Chief John became Group Chief Operating Bob joined HSBC as Group Chief
Sustainability Officer in July 2021, Officer in February 2020, having Legal Officer in January 2021. He was
and is responsible for the Group’s joined HSBC in December 2019. He previously Group General Counsel
execution of its sustainability strategy. is Chairman of HSBC Global Services at Barclays from 2013 to 2020. Prior
She was previously a partner at PwC Limited and a Director of HSBC to that, he was General Counsel
for over a decade, where she held Innovation Bank Limited. John was and Chief Regulatory Affairs Officer
global leadership roles including previously Executive Vice President of for PNC Financial Services Group.
acting as its global innovation and Technology and Operations and Chief Bob has served as General Counsel
sustainability leader. Before joining Customer Officer at Hewlett Packard and Senior Policy Adviser to the US
PwC in 2009, Celine worked as and Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Department of the Treasury under
Director of Climate Change and has held senior executive positions Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr, and
Consulting for Risk Management at Verizon and Boeing. John serves as Special Assistant and Associate
Solutions. She is a World Economic on the boards of Sysco Corporation Counsel to the White House under
Forum Young Global Leader, a and Illumio, Inc., and has previously President George W. Bush.
co-chair of the We Mean Business served on the boards of BNY Mellon,
Coalition, a PhD climate scientist and DocuSign and the National
NASA Fellow. Academy Foundation.
Steve John (50) Pam Kaur (60) David Liao (51)
Group Chief Communications and Group Chief Risk and Co-Chief Executive,
Brand Officer Compliance Officer The Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation Limited
Steve joined HSBC in December Pam was appointed Group Chief
2019 and was appointed to the Risk and Compliance Officer in 2021, David was appointed Co-Chief
Group Executive Committee in April having been Group Chief Risk Officer Executive of the Asia-Pacific region in
2021. He has a wealth of senior since 2020. She is a Director of the 2021. He is also a Director of the Bank
communications, public policy and Hongkong and Shanghai Banking of Communications Co., Limited, and
leadership experience acquired Corporation Limited. Since joining Hang Seng Bank Limited. David joined
across a number of multinational HSBC in 2013, her roles included HSBC in 1997, with previous roles
and charitable organisations. Steve Group Head of Internal Audit and including: Head of Global Banking
was previously a partner and Global Head of Wholesale Market and Coverage for Asia-Pacific; President
Director of Communications at Credit Risk. Since qualifying as a and Chief Executive of HSBC China;
McKinsey & Company from 2014 to chartered accountant with Ernst & Head of Global Banking and Markets,
2019. He has also held roles with Young, Pam held various senior audit, HSBC China; and Treasurer and Head
Bupa as Global Director of Corporate compliance, finance and operations of Global Markets, HSBC China.
Affairs and PepsiCo as Director of roles with Deutsche Bank, the Royal
Corporate Affairs for their UK and Bank of Scotland Group, Lloyds TSB
Ireland franchises. and Citigroup. She serves as a non-
executive Director of abrdn plc.
Corporate
governance
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 245
Board and senior management diversity
We value difference
Diversity and inclusion are embedded within the culture of HSBC. The Board remains
committed to having an inclusive culture that recognises the importance of
gender, social and ethnic diversity, and the benefits gained from different perspectives.
This section outlines the key diversity and inclusion metrics for Board members and executive management as at 31 December 2023. This includes
tenure, age, skills and experience, as well as gender and ethnic representation.
Gender and ethnic diversity Board composition,
tenure and age
The Financial Conduct Authority requires all listed companies to publish in their Annual Report
and Accounts information on female and ethnic heritage representation on the Board and in
2 13
senior management. The tables below outline the current gender and ethnic diversity of the HSBC
Holdings Board and executive management reflecting data gathered through self-identification.
Executive Non-executive
Directors Directors
Gender
Board Board Executive management Executive management
Tenure1
Male Male
Female Female 0–2 years
Non executive 3–5 years
Directors 10 6+ years
Executive
Directors 2
Board members Executive management2
Executive management Executive management Number of Age
Number % senior positions1 Number %
Male 8 53 4 105–2 years 79 45–49
3–5 years 50–54
Female 7 47 0 4 21
6+ years 55–59
Other – – – – – 60–64
65+
Not specified/prefer not to say – – – – –
1 Tenure of a non-executive Director is calculated
Ethnic diversity by reference to the date of their election by
Board Executive management Executive management shareholders following their appointment.
Male White British or otMhearl e White British or other White Skills and experience
Female White (including Female (including minority-White groups)
minority-White groups) Mixed/multiple ethnic groups The summary below provides an overview
Asian/Asian British Asian/Asian British of the skills and experiences held by the
Other ethnic groups, Other ethnic groups, including Arab non-executive Directors on the Board. This
including Arab Not specified/prefer not to say is based on the current skills matrix, which
is reviewed annually by the Nomination &
Corporate Governance Committee to ensure
Executive management Executive management
Board members Executive management2 that the Board has the skills and experience
Number of required to effectively discharge its duties
Number % senior positions1 Number %
and to support succession planning
White British or other White 10 67 4 13 69 discussions. The skills and experiences of the
(including minority-White groups) newly appointed non-executive Directors are
also included in the below extract.
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups – – – 1 5
Asian/Asian British 3 20 – 3 16 Banking 12
Black/African/Caribbean/ – – – – – Finance 10
Black British Risk 10
Other ethnic groups, 2 13 – 1 5
Customer 7
including Arab
Digital technology 4
Not specified/prefer not to say – – – 1 5
Corporate social responsibility/ESG 5
1 Senior positions on the Board comprise the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial
Officer and Senior Independent non-executive Director. Direct Asia market experience 6
2 Executive management comprises the Group Chief Executive, his direct reports, and the Group Company G M l a o l b e al business experience 10
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer.
Corporate
governance
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 247
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
How we are governed
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Committee report on page 262. Non-executive Directors also review
Group has a comprehensive range of policies and procedures in place the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and
designed to help ensure that it is well managed, with effective objectives. The Group Chairman meets with the non-executive
oversight and controls. Directors without the executive Directors in attendance after Board
meetings and otherwise, as necessary.
Board and executive governance
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate.
The Board, led by the Group Chairman, is responsible among other There is a clear division of responsibilities between the leadership of
matters for: the Board by the Group Chairman, and the executive responsibility for
day-to-day management of HSBC’s business, which is undertaken by
– promoting the Group’s long-term success and delivering
the Group Chief Executive.
sustainable value to shareholders;
The majority of Board members are independent non-executive
– establishing and approving the Group’s strategy and objectives,
Directors. At 31 December 2023, the Board comprised the Group
and monitoring the alignment of the Group’s purpose, strategy and
Chairman, 12 non-executive Directors, and two executive Directors
values with the desired culture and standards;
who are the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial
– setting the Group’s risk appetite and monitoring the Group’s risk Officer. As previously announced, David Nish will not stand for
profile; re-election at the Annual General Meeting (’AGM’) on 3 May 2024.
– approving and monitoring capital and financial resource plans for For further details of Board members' career backgrounds, skills,
achieving strategic objectives, including material transactions; experience and external appointments, see their biographies on
page 239, and for a breakdown of the diversity and skills of the Board
– considering and approving the Group’s technology and
and senior management, see page 247.
environmental, social and governance strategies;
Operation of the Board
– ensuring effective engagement with, and encouraging participation
from, shareholders and other key stakeholders;
The Board is ordinarily scheduled to meet nine times a year. In 2023,
– approving the appointment and remuneration of Directors, the Board held 11 meetings. For further details on attendance at
including Board roles; those meetings, see page 249. The Board agenda is agreed by the
Group Chairman, working with both the Group Chief Executive and
– reviewing the Group’s overall corporate governance arrangements;
the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. For
and
further information, see ’Board matters considered and shareholder
– providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a engagement’ on page 254.
framework of prudent and effective controls.
The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, the
The Board’s responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the Group Chief Legal
reserved within its terms of reference, which are available on our Officer are regular attendees at Board meetings. The non-executive
website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/ Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
board-responsibilities. The Board’s powers are subject to relevant Limited is also a regular attendee at most Board meetings. The chief
laws, regulations and HSBC’s articles of association. executive officers of the three global businesses attend Board
The role of the independent non-executive Directors is to support the strategy discussions, and other senior executives attend Board
development of strategy, oversee risk, hold management to account meetings for specific items as required.
and ensure the executive Directors are discharging their In addition, as agreed by the Board, the Board Oversight Sub-Group is
responsibilities properly, while creating the right culture to encourage called on an ad hoc basis where necessary. Such meetings are an
constructive challenge. Further details on the independence of the informal mechanism for a smaller group of Board members and
Board can be found in the Nomination & Corporate Governance management to discuss emerging issues and upcoming Board
matters. The Board Oversight Sub-Group was not convened in 2023.
248 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Board roles, responsibilities and meeting attendance
The table below sets out the Board members’ respective roles, responsibilities and attendance at Board meetings and the AGM in 2023. For a
full description of key Board members’ responsibilities, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-responsibilities.
Board
attendance
Roles in 20231 Responsibilities
Group Chairman 12/12 – Provides effective leadership of the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance practices.
Mark E Tucker2,3 – Leads the Board in providing strong strategic oversight and setting the Board’s agenda, culture and values.
– Leads the Board in challenging management’s thinking and proposals, and fosters open and constructive debate
among Directors.
– Maintains internal and external relationships with key stakeholders, and communicates investors’ views to the
Board.
– Organises periodic monitoring and evaluation, including externally facilitated evaluation, of the performance of the
Board, its committees and individual Directors.
– Leads on succession planning for the Board and its committees, ensuring appointments reflect diverse cultures,
skills and experiences.
Executive Director 12/12 – Leads and directs the implementation of the Group’s business strategy, embedding the organisation’s culture and
Group Chief Executive values.
Noel Quinn3 – Leads the Group Executive Committee with responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Group, under
authority delegated to him from the Board.
– Maintains relationships with key internal and external stakeholders including the Group Chairman, the Board,
customers, regulators, governments and investors.
– Maintains responsibility and accountability for the Group’s and its employees’ compliance with applicable laws,
codes, rules and regulations, good market practice and HSBC’s own standards.
Executive Director 12/12 – Supports the Group Chief Executive in developing and implementing the Group strategy, and recommends the
Group Chief Financial annual budget and long-term strategic and financial resource plan.
Officer – Leads the Finance function and is responsible for effective financial and regulatory reporting, including the
Georges Elhedery3,4 effectiveness of the processes and controls, to ensure the financial control framework is robust and fit for
purpose.
– Maintains relationships with key stakeholders including shareholders.
Non-executive Director 10/12 – Supports the Group Chairman, acting as intermediary for non-executive Directors when necessary.
Senior Independent – Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman, supporting the clear division of
Director responsibility between the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
David Nish3,5,6 – Listens to shareholders’ views if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels.
Non-executive Directors – Develop and approve the Group strategy.
Geraldine Buckingham3,5 12/12 – Challenge and oversee the performance of management in achieving agreed corporate goals and objectives.
Rachel Duan3,5 12/12 – Approve the Group’s risk appetite and review risk profile and performance.
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn3,5,6 10/12 – Contribute to the assessment and monitoring of culture.
James Forese3,5 12/12 – Maintain internal and external relationships with the Group’s key stakeholders.
Ann Godbehere4,5 3/3
-
Steven Guggenheimer3,5,6 11/12
Dr José Antonio Meade 12/12
Kuribreña3,5,7
Kalpana Morparia3,4,5 10/10
Eileen Murray3,5,6 11/12
Brendan Nelson4,5 3/3
Jackson Tai3,5,6,8 6/7
Swee Lian Teo4,5 2/2
Group Company – Maintains strong and consistent governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
Secretary and Chief – Supports the Group Chairman in ensuring effective functioning of the Board and its committees, and transparent
Governance Officer engagement between senior management and non-executive Directors.
Aileen Taylor – Facilitates induction and professional development of non-executive Directors.
– Advises and supports the Board and management in ensuring effective end-to-end governance and decision
making across the Group.
1 The total number of meetings comprised nine scheduled meetings, two ad hoc meetings and the AGM.
2 The non-executive Group Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
3 Attended the AGM on 5 May 2023.
4 Georges Elhedery joined the Board effective 1 January 2023. Kalpana Morparia joined the Board effective 1 March 2023. Ann Godbehere and Brendan
Nelson joined the Board effective 1 September 2023. Swee Lian Teo joined the Board effective 1 October 2023.
5 Independent non-executive Director. All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of HSBC. There are no relationships or
circumstances that are likely to affect any individual non-executive Director’s judgement. All non-executive Directors have confirmed their
independence during the year.
6 Meetings held on 9 March 2023, 16 March 2023 and 8 November 2023 were called at short notice. Due to prior commitments Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
was unable to attend on 9 March 2023, David Nish, Jackson Tai and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn were unable to attend on 16 March 2023, and David Nish
and Steven Guggenheimer were unable to attend on 8 November 2023. Due to prior commitments Eileen Murray was unable to attend the Board
meeting in September 2023.
7 Dr José Antonio Meade Kuribreña was appointed as the independent non-executive Director with responsibility for workforce engagement on 1 June
2022. Further information can be found on page 257.
8 Jackson Tai retired from the Board on 5 May 2023.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 249
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Relationship between the Board and senior Subsidiary governance
management
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate
The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and governance throughout the Group. All subsidiary boards and their
implementation of strategy to the Group Chief Executive. The Group respective businesses are required to have in place effective
Chief Executive is supported in his management of the Group by governance arrangements with regard to the businesses’ nature, size,
recommendations and advice from the Group Executive Committee location and the sectors in which they operate.
(’GEC’), an executive forum comprising members of senior The subsidiary accountability framework
management that include chief executive officers of the global
businesses and regions, as well as functional heads. For further The subsidiary accountability framework aims to balance appropriate
details of the senior management team, see page 244. governance oversight by the Group with each subsidiary’s local legal
and regulatory duties. The framework supports the Group in
All Directors are encouraged to have contact with management at all
promoting effective governance arrangements across its subsidiaries
levels, and have full access to all relevant information. Visits to local
by:
business operations and meetings with local management are
arranged for the non-executive Directors when they attend Board – setting out high level principles to enhance communications and
meetings in different locations, and when travelling for other reasons. connectivity; and
Senior management often attend alongside Directors’ stakeholder
– ensuring a shared and consistent understanding of the Group’s
engagements (see ’Board decision making and engagement with
strategic objectives, culture and values.
stakeholders’ on page 20). The workforce engagement non-executive
Director attends the GEC on occasion to provide senior management The subsidiary accountability framework also focuses on ensuring that
with updates on workforce engagements carried out by the Board, each subsidiary is led by an effective board with an appropriate
including relevant Board observations. For further details, see ’Board balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge, having regard
stakeholder and workforce engagement’ on page 257. to the nature of the subsidiary’s business and local legal and
regulatory requirements. Board composition of the Group’s
Executive governance
subsidiaries is kept under review as part of succession planning.
The GEC promotes the tone from the top, set by the Board, across The framework is subject to periodic review by the Board and/or the
the organisation. This helps to ensure that our colleagues follow our Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and updated as
values, and foster a culture that delivers against our purpose of required to ensure it is aligned to best practice.
opening up a world of opportunity. At its meetings, the GEC dedicates
The role of principal subsidiaries
time to reflect on our purpose and values and how they are
demonstrated in the day-to-day course of business.
Certain subsidiaries are designated formally by the Board as principal
During 2023, the GEC undertook an extensive review of the Group’s subsidiaries. In addition to their obligations under their respective local
strategy with a view to building upon its unique strengths. For further laws and regulations, principal subsidiaries, supported by regional
details of our strategy, see page 11. company secretaries, perform a critical role in ensuring effective and
high standards of governance across the Group and in overseeing the
The GEC has led and overseen the delivery of a number of strategic
implementation of the subsidiary accountability framework in the
projects to simplify how we get things done, by identifying operating
regions for which they are responsible.
efficiencies, reducing complexity and optimising costs. The GEC will
continue to focus on simplification throughout 2024. Representatives from principal subsidiaries attend the Board and its
committee meetings for relevant topics, including when the Board
The GEC’s operating rhythm helps to facilitate end-to-end governance
holds meetings outside of the UK. Chairs of the principal subsidiary
between senior leadership and the Board.
risk and audit committees also regularly attend respective Group Risk
The operating rhythm has the following three pillars: Committee and Group Audit Committee meetings. Attendance and
participation at these committees enhance the subsidiary directors'
– regular check-in meetings to review and discuss current and
understanding of the challenges facing the Group and help to identify
emerging trends and issues;
common challenges and share lessons learned. Such committee
– a monthly meeting to review the performance of each of the participation supplements the regular reports, certifications and
global businesses in principal geographical areas and legal entities, escalations from principal subsidiaries' boards and their committees
supported by the development and introduction of a new key to the Board and relevant committee(s) of the Board.
performance indicators architecture in 2023; and
The Group Chairman also interacts regularly with the chairs of the
– a strategy- and governance-focused meeting, which is generally principal subsidiaries, including through the Chairman’s Forum. The
held two weeks in advance of each Board meeting. Chairman’s Forum comprises the chairs of the principal subsidiaries
Separate committees have been established to provide specialist and the chairs of the Group’s audit, risk and remuneration
oversight for matters delegated to the Group Chief Executive and committees, and where relevant, the Group Chief Executive, other
senior management. For further details of these committees, see non-executive Directors and relevant executive management,
page 252. advisers and/or external experts. In 2023, the Chairman’s Forum
covered topics such as strategic business considerations, geopolitical
To further support our senior management, we have dedicated
issues, resolvability assessment requirements and separability,
corporate governance officers who support and advise legal entities,
shareholder engagements, Group-wide connectivity of non-executive
global businesses and global functions on our corporate governance
Directors, key regulatory themes, ESG insights, employee
practices. These corporate governance officers serve to strengthen
engagement and financial performance.
the consistency and effectiveness of our end-to-end governance
arrangements, and support connectivity and information sharing. The Group Remuneration Committee Chair also hosted dedicated
forums with chairs of principal subsidiaries to share key priorities for
2023 and the future. These sessions also provide an opportunity for
review and input on proposed pay outcomes and allocation, before
approval by the Group Remuneration Committee.
250 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
The principal subsidiaries are: Subsidiary director development
Principal subsidiary Oversight responsibility The Group is dedicated to supporting the continuing professional
The Hongkong and Shanghai development of its subsidiary directors. In May 2023, a two-day non-
Banking Corporation Limited Asia-Pacific executive director summit was held in Hong Kong, which brought
HSBC Bank plc Europe, Bermuda (excluding together over 100 non-executive directors from across the Group.
Switzerland and UK ring-fenced Connectivity was a key theme and attendees were reminded of the
activities) importance of the subsidiary accountability framework in driving
consistent governance standards and ensuring connectivity and
HSBC UK Bank plc UK ring-fenced bank and its
engagement across our non-executive director community. The
subsidiaries
agenda included sessions on strategy and financial performance; Asia-
HSBC Middle East Holdings BV Middle East, North Africa and
Pacific; subsidiary governance; the macroeconomic environment;
Türkiye
diversity and inclusion; sustainability; technology; finance; and risk.
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. US
The Bank Director Programme, launched in 2022, continues to
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK)
support subsidiaries with succession planning by developing and
Limited Mexico and Latin America
equipping internal talent to undertake internal non-executive director
HSBC Bank Canada1 Canada
roles on subsidiary boards.
1 On 29 November 2022, HSBC announced the sale of HSBC Bank Following the success of the Bank Director Programme, a Bank Chair
Canada to Royal Bank of Canada, subject to regulatory and Programme is being developed to ensure existing and prospective
governmental approvals. On 21 December 2023, the Canadian Federal chairs of subsidiary boards and board committees have the requisite
Government’s Minister of Finance approved the sale, and the knowledge, skills and behaviours to be effective chairs.
transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2024.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 251
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board and Group Executive committees and working groups
The Board delegates oversight of certain audit, risk, remuneration, and emerging risks, will be demised from the same date. The terms
nomination and governance matters to its committees. Each standing of reference and membership of the Board committees are available
Board committee is chaired by a non-executive Director and has a at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-
remit to cover specific topics in accordance with their respective committees.
terms of reference. Only the Group Chairman and the independent
The GEC has established a number of committees to support the
non-executive Directors are members of Board committees. Details
Group Chief Executive and senior management in their running of the
of the work carried out by each of the Board committees can be
business, and provide specialist oversight for matters delegated to
found in the respective committee reports from page 262.
them, including capital and liquidity, risk management, disclosure and
The Chairman’s Committee provides the Board with the opportunity financial reporting, restructuring and investment considerations,
to consider ad hoc and routine matters between scheduled Board transformation oversight, ESG matters and talent and development.
meetings. All Board members are invited to attend Chairman’s These committees also help fulfil their responsibilities under the
Committee meetings. Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
As part of its ongoing review of the effectiveness of the Group’s During 2023, new committees were established including the
governance arrangements, and in response to the findings from the Sustainability Execution Committee to provide greater oversight of
Board evaluation in 2023, the Board has decided to establish a new ESG matters. In addition, the Transformation Oversight Executive
Group Technology Committee to oversee the Group’s technology Committee was demised and in its place the Change Prioritisation
strategy and alignment with the overall Group strategy. The Oversight Committee was formed. The committee provides oversight
committee, which will be in place from 1 March 2024, will have of the Group's change portfolio, focusing on investment oversight and
responsibility for areas where technology is fundamental to strategic prioritisation, as well as delivery and execution of ongoing initiatives
delivery, including innovation, data and cyber risk frameworks. As a across the Group.
result, the Technology Governance Working Group, which was
established to support oversight of technology strategy, governance
Board
Chair: Mark Tucker
Nomination & Group Informal governance
Chairman’s Corporate Group Audit Group Risk
Committee Governance Committee Committee Remuneration Board Oversight Sub-
Committee Committee Group
Chair: Dame Carolyn
Chair: Mark Tucker Chair: Mark Tucker Chair: David Nish1 Chair: James Forese Chair: Mark Tucker
Fairbairn
Technology
See page 262 See page 266 See page 274 See page 279 Governance Working
Group2
Co-Chairs:
Eileen Murray and
Steven Guggenheimer
Chairman’s Forum
1 Brendan Nelson will be appointed as chair from 21 February 2024.
2 The Technology Governance Working Group will be demised on 1 March 2024. The Group Technology Committee will
Chair: Mark Tucker
be established on the same date.
Group Executive Committee
Chair: Noel Quinn
Change Environmental,
Acquisitions and Group Disclosure Group Risk Holdings Asset
Group People Prioritisation and Social and
Disposals and Controls Management and Liabilities
Committee Oversight Governance
Committee Committee Meeting Committee
Committee Committee
Co-Chairs:
Chair: Georges Chair: Elaine Chair: Georges Chair: Georges
Chair: Noel Quinn Elhedery Arden Chair: Pam Kaur Elhedery Elhedery Celine Herweijer and
Georges Elhedery
Sustainability
Execution
Committee
Co-Chairs:
Celine Herweijer and
Barry O’Byrne
252 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Board induction and training
The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer works agreed that the training programme would include key topics relevant
with the Group Chairman to ensure that all Board members receive to the Directors' respective roles and recent developments, in areas
appropriate training, both individually and collectively, throughout their such as corporate governance, recovery and resolution, and
time on the Board. On appointment, new Directors are provided with technology. Where appropriate, the training sessions were facilitated
tailored and comprehensive induction programmes to fit with their by external presenters who were able to provide insights into
individual experiences and needs, including the process for managing geopolitical matters, macroeconomic issues and investor sentiment.
conflicts. The training sessions were held as part of scheduled Board meetings
to allow for in-person interactions as much as possible.
During 2023, Kalpana Morparia, Ann Godbehere, Brendan Nelson and
Swee Lian Teo were welcomed to the Board as non-executive Directors were also issued routine training modules that all colleagues
Directors. Biographies for each can be found from page 239. must complete annually. During 2023, this training covered topics
including risk management, cybersecurity, sustainability, health,
The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer also
safety and well-being, financial crime, and data.
helps to arrange and deliver the induction programme through formal
briefings and introductory sessions with other Board members, senior Non-executive Directors also discussed individual development areas
management, legal counsel, auditors, tax advisers and regulators, as with the Group Chairman as part of their ongoing performance
appropriate. Topics covered in the induction programme include, but discussions with regard to their contributions on the Board. The
are not limited to: purpose and values; culture and leadership; Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer makes
governance and stakeholder management; Directors’ legal and appropriate arrangements for any additional training needs identified
regulatory duties; recovery and resolution planning; anti-money using internal resources, or otherwise, at HSBC’s expense.
laundering and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings; and
Members of Board committees receive relevant training as
strategy.
appropriate. Further details on any specific training commissioned by
The induction process is often initiated before appointment to allow Board committees can be found in the respective committee reports.
each new Board member to contribute meaningfully from Directors may take independent professional advice at HSBC’s
appointment, such as in February 2023 when Kalpana Morparia joined expense.
the Board meeting as an observer before she was appointed to the
Board Directors who serve on principal subsidiary boards receive
Board the following month. The structure of the induction supports
training that is pertinent to circumstances and context relevant to
good information flows within the Board and its committees, as well
those boards. Opportunities exist for the principal subsidiary
as between senior management and non-executive Directors,
committee chairs to share their understanding of specific areas with
providing a clear understanding of our culture and way of operating.
the Board Directors as part of the Chairman’s Forum. For further
In January 2023, the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee details, see ’The role of principal subsidiaries’ on page 250.
agreed the proposed approach to Board training for the year. It was
Directors’ induction and ongoing development in 2023
Corporate
governance, ESG Board global
Strategy and Risk and and other mandatory
Director Induction1 business briefings2 control3 reporting matters4 training5
Geraldine Buckingham ô l l l l
Rachel Duan ô l l l l
Georges Elhedery l l l l l
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn ô l l l l
James Forese ô l l l l
Ann Godbehere6 l l l l l
Steven Guggenheimer ô l l l l
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña ô l l l l
Kalpana Morparia l l l l l
Eileen Murray ô l l l l
Brendan Nelson6 l l l l l
David Nish ô l l l l
Swee Lian Teo6 l l l l l
Noel Quinn ô l l l l
Mark Tucker ô l l l l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
1 The induction programme was delivered through formal briefings and introductory sessions including topic-specific deep dives, with Board members,
senior management, legal counsel, auditors, tax advisers and regulators, as appropriate. Topics covered included, but were not limited to: purpose and
values; culture and leadership; governance and stakeholder management; Directors’ legal and regulatory duties; recovery and resolution planning; anti-
money laundering and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings; and strategy.
2 Directors participated in business strategy, market development and business briefings, which are global, regional and/or market-specific. Examples of
specific sessions held in 2023 included: ’Technology and the future of artificial intelligence’, ’WPB customer-centricity improvement plan’, and
’Investor sentiments’.
3 Directors received risk and control training and briefings. Examples of specific sessions held in 2023 included: ’Recovery and resolution’ and ’Capital
management’.
4 Directors received training in Board meetings on: ’Board stakeholder engagement and management’ and various ESG development updates. Directors
received additional training through their attendance at forums such as the Chairman's Forum, Remuneration Committee Chairs' Forum and the Non-
Executive Director Summit.
5 Global mandatory training, issued to all Directors, mirrored training undertaken by all employees, including senior management. This included:
management of risk under the risk management framework; cybersecurity risk; health, safety and well-being; sustainability; financial crime, including
understanding money laundering, terrorist financing, tax transparency, sanctions, fraud and bribery and corruption risks; our values, including
workplace harassment; and data privacy and data literacy.
6 Ann Godbehere and Brendan Nelson, who joined the Board effective 1 September 2023, and Swee Lian Teo, who joined the Board effective
1 October 2023, only participated in training modules that were available to them since their respective joining dates.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 253
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board matters considered and shareholder engagement
During 2023, the Board remained focused on HSBC’s strategic reverted to paying quarterly dividends, and achieved a dividend payout
direction, overseeing performance, and risk. It considered ratio of 50% of reported earnings per ordinary share (’EPS’), in line
performance against financial and other strategic objectives, key with our published target for 2023 and 2024. EPS for this purpose
business challenges, emerging risks, business development, investor excludes material notable items and related impacts, including the
relations and the Group’s relationships with its stakeholders. The end- sale of our retail banking operations in France, the planned sale of the
to-end governance framework facilitated discussion on strategy and banking business in Canada and the acquisition of SVB UK. In addition
performance by each of the global businesses and across the principal to dividend payments, HSBC announced share buy-backs of up to
geographical areas, which enabled the Board to support executive $2bn each on 2 May 2023 and 1 August 2023, and a further share
management with its delivery of the Group’s strategy. buy-back of up to $3bn on 30 October 2023, bringing the total
announced for 2023 to $7bn.
Key areas of focus
On 21 February 2023, an interim dividend of $0.23 per share for the
The Board’s key areas of focus in 2023 are set out by theme below. 2022 full-year was announced, followed by interim dividends of $0.10
each on 2 May 2023, 1 August 2023 and 30 October 2023. For further
Strategy and business performance
details of dividend payments, see page 435.
The Group remains focused on building a sustainable platform for Risk, regulatory and legal considerations
growth by increasing returns for investors, enhancing customer
service, and creating capacity for future investment. The Board The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, promotes a strong
reviewed progress within the Group’s global businesses and regions risk governance culture that shapes the Group’s risk appetite and
against its four strategic pillars: Focus, Digitise, Energise and supports the maintenance of a strong risk management framework,
Transition. At each Board meeting in 2023, the Board discussed the giving consideration to the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and
Group’s strategic performance and opportunities to track strategic management of risks, including emerging risks.
execution and delivery. The Board considered the Group’s approach to risk including its
Environmental, social and governance regulatory obligations. A number of key frameworks, control
documents, core processes and legal responsibilities were also
In 2020, the Group announced a climate ambition to align its financed reviewed and approved as required by the Board and/or its relevant
emissions to net zero by 2050, and to become net zero in its own committees. These included:
operations and supply chain by 2030. The Group aims to achieve this
– the Group’s risk appetite framework and risk appetite statement;
by supporting clients’ transition to a net zero carbon economy and
focusing on sustainable finance opportunities, as well as by reducing – the individual liquidity adequacy assessment process;
the carbon emissions in its own operations. – the individual capital adequacy assessment process;
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing – the Group’s obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and
executive management in developing the approach, execution and approval of the Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement;
associated reporting. The Board considered whether to establish a
– review and approval of the self-assessment to address the BoE's
Board committee dedicated to ESG issues, but instead decided that
Resolvability Assessment Framework;
the best way to support the oversight and delivery of the Group’s
climate ambition and ESG strategy was to retain governance at Board – review and approval of the Group’s risk data aggregation and risk
level. The GEC further enhanced its governance model of ESG reporting framework aligned to the Basel Committee on Banking
matters with the introduction of a new Sustainability Execution Supervision 239 Principles;
Committee and supporting forums. These support senior
– review of the latest PRA Operational Resilience self-assessment
management in the operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability
regulatory submission;
strategy, through the oversight of the sustainability execution
programme. For further details of the Sustainability Execution – annual review and approval of the internal controls framework; and
Committee and the sustainability execution programme, see page 88. – the revised terms of reference for the Board and Board
In 2023, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy committees.
through regular dashboard reports and detailed updates including: The Board also reviewed and monitored the implications of
review and approval of the net zero transition plan, deep dives on the geopolitical and macroeconomic developments during the year, both
sustainability execution programme, reviews of net zero-aligned directly and by way of updates from the Group Risk Committee, and
policies and climate-aligned financing initiatives. received regular updates on the Group's risk profile, including in
Financial decisions relation to financial crime risk.
Technology
The Board and its dedicated committees approved key financial
decisions throughout the year, including the Annual Report and Throughout the year, the Board received detailed updates on
Accounts 2022, the Interim Report 2023 and the first quarter and the technology and innovation from the Group Chief Operating Officer,
third quarter Earnings Releases. including on the implementation of the technology strategy and key
At the end of 2022, the Board approved the 2023 financial resource strategic business initiatives.
plan. The Board monitored the Group’s performance against the Following a detailed update at the Board meeting in May 2023, at the
approved plan, as well as the plans of each of the global businesses. Board’s request, management engaged a third party professional
The Board also approved the renewal of the various debt issuance services firm to review the technology strategy and provide industry
programmes. In January 2024, the Board approved the financial and peer insights. The Board received a number of updates on the
resource plan for 2024. review during the second half of 2023, and recommendations were
The Board adopted a dividend policy designed to provide sustainable presented at the December 2023 Board meeting.
cash dividends, while retaining the flexibility to invest and grow the Members of the Board were also closely involved in the hiring
business in the future, supplemented by additional shareholder process for the new Group Chief Information Officer, who will join the
distributions, if appropriate. For the financial year 2023, the Group Group at the end of February 2024.
254 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
In addition, the Technology Governance Working Group continued to Governance
oversee the Group's governance of technology, and supported
connectivity with the principal subsidiaries on key technology The Board continued to oversee the governance, smooth operation
initiatives. From 1 March 2024, the Technology Governance Working and oversight of the Group and its principal and material subsidiaries,
Group will be demised and the Group Technology Committee will be including monitoring compliance with the UK Corporate Governance
established on the same date. Code, the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code and the
Companies Act 2006. Governance featured prominently in the Board
People and culture
agendas for the year and helped to shape strategic direction and
decision taking on key issues. To see how the Board considered
The Board continued to dedicate time in its meetings to discuss
principal decisions in relation to our strategy, see ’Principal strategic
people-related and culture-related issues, with these topics remaining
decisions’ on pages 22 and 23.
an important part of its focus. Each scheduled Board meeting begins
with a ’culture moment’, which helps to ensure that the right cultural The Board and senior management continued to support further
tone is set from the top, and sets the right cultural tone for Board improvements to various governance initiatives to encourage
discussion. To help raise its awareness of employee and other simplification and promote effective decision making in the business.
stakeholder perspectives, Board meetings and dedicated reports Guidance and training for Board and committee paper templates took
feature insights into behaviours within the Group, which demonstrate place across global businesses and functions throughout the course
alignment to its purpose and values. Board papers highlight relevant of the year to ensure a consistent approach for writing papers. In
stakeholder considerations, including in connection with employees. addition, to drive our simplification agenda, the Group-wide
The Board also gains valuable cultural insights through its many delegations of authority framework was reviewed and standardised,
personal interactions with the workforce and other stakeholders. For allowing for more efficient signing and execution of contracts and
further details see ’Board decision making and engagement with other documentation by directors and senior management across all
stakeholders’ on page 20. entities.
The Board also learns of people and culture matters by way of In 2023, Jackson Tai retired as an independent non-executive
presentations at the Chairman’s Forum. The principal subsidiary chairs Director. On 1 January 2023, Georges Elhedery joined the Board as
report on their respective approaches to workforce engagement as Group Chief Financial Officer, and the following were appointed as
well as what they have learned from such engagements and other independent non-executive Directors: Kalpana Morparia on 1 March
cultural insights. The Board also receives cultural insights from the all- 2023; Ann Godbehere and Brendan Nelson on 1 September 2023; and
employee Snapshot survey and broader reporting, which provide key Swee Lian Teo on 1 October 2023. The Board, supported by the
data indicators, including on people's behaviours, sentiment and Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee, reviews the skills
business outcomes. Through the work of the committees, the Board and experience of the Board on an ongoing basis. This ensures that
is also able to monitor how the Group’s culture is working in practice the Board and its committees comprise the necessary skills, diversity,
by receiving people-related reports covering whistleblowing, conduct experience and competencies to discharge their responsibilities
and investigations. effectively. For further details of the review and changes to the Board,
see the Nomination & Corporate Governance report on page 262. For
Board engagement with management and the wider workforce
further details of diversity of the Board, see page 247.
continued to remain a strong area of attention, particularly with the
ongoing activities carried out by the dedicated workforce engagement
non-executive Director. For further details of the work carried out by
the workforce engagement non-executive Director, see page 257.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 255
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board engagements with shareholders
In 2023, the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive held a Q&A included our financial performance, updates on strategy and market
session with retail shareholders as part of the Informal Shareholders’ presence, geopolitical risks and the macroeconomic outlook in key
Meeting in Hong Kong, and the Board held a Q&A session with geographies.
shareholders as part of the 2023 AGM in the UK. Board members
For further details of the Group Remuneration Committee Chair’s
remained responsive to shareholder requests, and were particularly
engagements with key investors and proxy advisory firms, and how
active following the 2023 AGM poll vote result. They continued to
they were taken into account by the Group Remuneration Committee
engage in constructive dialogue with top investors, including Ping An
in its decision making, see the Directors’ remuneration report on
Asset Management Co. Ltd. The Group Chairman and the Senior
page 279.
Independent Director, often with the Group Company Secretary and
Chief Governance Officer, engaged with a number of our large For further details of how the Board engaged with shareholders
institutional investors in 16 meetings, including a large group during 2023, see ’Board decision making and engagement with
gathering held with the members of The Investor Forum. The Group stakeholders’ on page 20.
Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer, together and
separately, attended over 100 meetings with investors. Key topics
Board matters considered in 2023
Main topic Sub-topic Meetings at which topics were discussed1
Jan Feb Mar May Jun Jul Sep Nov Dec
Strategy Group strategy ô l l l l l l l l
Regional strategy/global business strategy l l l l l l l l l
Environmental, social, governance ô l l l l l l l l
Business and financial Region/global business l l ô l l l l l l
performance Financial performance l l l l l l l ô l
Financial Results and accounts l l ô ô ô l ô ô ô
Dividends l l ô ô ô l ô ô ô
Group financial resource planning ô ô ô ô l ô l ô ô
Risk Risk function l l ô l l l l ô l
Risk appetite l ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô
Capital and liquidity adequacy ô ô l l l ô ô ô ô
Regulatory Regulatory and legal matters2 l l l l l l l ô l
Regulatory matters with regulators in attendance3 ô ô ô ô l ô l ô ô
External External insights ô ô ô ô l ô l ô ô
Technology Strategic and operational l ô ô l ô ô l l l
People and culture Purpose, values and engagement l l ô l l l l ô l
Governance Policies and terms of reference ô ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô
Board/committee effectiveness l ô ô ô ô l ô ô l
Appointment and succession ô l l ô ô l l ô l
Conflicts of interest ô l ô l ô l l ô l
Stakeholder/workforce engagement ô l ô l l l l ô l
Delegation of authority l l ô ô ô ô l ô ô
AGM and resolutions l l l l ô ô l ô ô
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
1 No Board meetings were held during April, August and October 2023.
2 Includes recovery and resolution planning, modern slavery and human trafficking, UK regulatory activities, and listing authority renewals.
3 Meetings attended by members of the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.
256 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Board stakeholder and workforce engagement
The Board is committed to engaging with colleagues, which takes Workforce engagement programme
place in a two-way dialogue in a variety of forums. This helps build the
Board’s understanding of key themes and topics that are important to A structured workforce engagement programme has been in place
the workforce. throughout 2023 with a focus on topics aligned to the Group’s four
strategic pillars. The programme was structured around the Board’s
Since his appointment as dedicated workforce engagement non-
priorities and agenda in 2023. These included in-person engagements
executive Director in 2022, and in line with the Board's expectation of
when the Board travelled to different regions for Board meetings,
the role, José Meade has helped deliver a progressive programme of
which were highly valued by colleagues and Board members alike.
engagements throughout 2023. Outcomes from these engagements
have helped inform discussions and decision making in the The engagements formed the bases of José Meade’s reports to the
Boardroom, by taking into account the employee voice on related key Directors, aligned to key Board agenda items including those in the
themes and topics. geographies in which the Board met. Further engagement events,
town halls and meetings with the workforce were scheduled with
His dedicated role does not preclude other Board members from
Board members based on their locality or coincidental travel
engaging with the workforce. It remains the responsibility of all
throughout the year.
Directors to consider diverse stakeholder views, including employees,
across the Group. The engagement events were held both at scale and through more
targeted dialogue in smaller groups, to accommodate the breadth of
For more examples of how the Board has engaged with the
experience, geographical spread and range of seniority of our
workforce and other stakeholders, see ‘Board decision making and
colleagues. These engagements were designed to promote open
engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20.
dialogue and two-way discussions between the Board and
employees, allowing the Board to gain valuable insight on employee
perspectives, and in turn inform its deliberations in decision making.
February March May June July September November December
Cost of living International Pay, reward and Strategy and HSBC graduate Mexico town Hyderabad
Branch visit
crisis support Women’s Day performance performance insights hall office event
↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓
Mexico and
Hyderabad and
London-based Group-wide Group-wide Managing Local branch US-based Latin America-
Audience India-based
colleagues colleagues colleagues Directors colleagues graduates based
colleagues
colleagues
In person visit to
Various global Birmingham, New York, US, Mexico City,
Hyderabad,
Location London, UK and local UK, Videoconference Hong Kong and Mexico, and
India office and
events videoconference videoconference videoconference
videoconference
José Meade’s connectivity with the employee resource groups the GEC and the Chairman’s Forum to discuss the key themes and
formed part of the workforce engagement programme. He took part outcomes from the 2023 workforce engagements. Feedback gained
in the annual employee resource group summit in September to from the GEC session attended in November 2023 re-emphasised the
discuss his observations since taking on the workforce engagement value colleagues put on the two-way dialogue with Board members.
role, and to hear feedback on how the Board could enhance support This feedback helped shape the 2024 workforce engagement
for employee resource groups. José also participated in meetings programme.
with the employee resource group to which he is aligned, UK Nurture.
The Board also regularly considers other forms of employee
This helped him better understand their successes, the value of the
engagement to help be informed of initiatives and sentiment, and to
network and agree how often and through which means he would
plan for future engagement activities. The Chairman’s Forum, held in
connect with his employee resource group in 2024.
December 2023, also discussed employee feedback gained through
During the year, the Board acknowledged that relevant aspects of the Group’s principal subsidiaries. José Meade presented to the
Board discussions on workforce engagement activities and matters, Chairman’s Forum an overview of workforce engagement over the
informed by the employee voice, needed to make their way back to course of 2023 and key themes arising. He will continue to discuss
management. In this way, relevant views could be taken into workforce engagement with the GEC and the Chairman’s Forum
consideration when progressing workforce-related matters at the during 2024.
executive level. To facilitate this, José Meade committed to attending
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 257
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board and committee effectiveness, performance and
accountability
The Board and its committees are committed to regular, independent Board effectiveness review format
evaluation of their effectiveness. In 2023, the Board performance
review comprised an externally facilitated evaluation in accordance A comprehensive brief was provided to IBE by the Group Chairman
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. and Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. The review
During 2023, the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee took the form of detailed interviews with every Board member,
oversaw the process to appoint an independent service provider to regular attendees of the relevant meetings and key advisers. IBE also
evaluate the Board and its committees' effectiveness and observed the Board and its committees at the September 2023
performance. The Group Chairman led a formal tender process, with meetings and reviewed the meeting materials.
the support of the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance A report was compiled by IBE based on the information and views
Officer, which included a desktop review of proposals and a panel supplied by those interviewed and IBE’s observations from the
interview with prospective firms to discuss their approach to the September 2023 Board and committee meetings.
evaluation. The panel interviews included the Group Chairman, three
non-executive Directors, and the Group Company Secretary and Chief
Governance Officer.
Following this process, and based on the recommendation of the
panel, the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee appointed
Independent Board Evaluation (‘IBE’) to conduct the Board review in
2023. IBE is an independent external service provider with no other
connection with the Group or any individual Directors.
Board and committee evaluation process
Appointed IBE Evaluation brief Board and
following provided to IBE committee
competitive tender meetings observed
process by IBE
Reports presented Observations discussed One-to-one
to the Board and with the Group interviews
committees and Chairman, Board and conducted
actions for 2024 committee chairs
agreed
The Board made good progress against all of the action points identified during the 2022 evaluation. In particular:
– Management developed a new key performance indicator – Stakeholder engagement plans were structured around the
architecture relating to performance, execution and risk Board’s visits to Paris, Hong Kong, New York and India during the
management as well as other key value drivers. year, and broader non-executive Director travel. These plans
provided the Board with the opportunity to engage with the full
– The Sustainability Execution Committee, a management forum,
spectrum of stakeholder groups, including employees. Further
was established to provide greater focus and accountability for
details of the Board’s engagement activities are detailed on
progress against the Group’s ESG deliverables and milestones.
page 21.
– An independent review of the Group’s technology strategy was
– Continued training and guidance was provided to key paper
performed by a third party, with the outcomes, including lessons
authors and contributors to reinforce the importance of timely,
learned, and next steps discussed and agreed by the Board.
balanced and accurate reporting to the Board.
– The Board held focused sessions on prioritisation and
simplification.
260 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Findings and recommendations
Overall, the review concluded that the Board was performing well as – Effecting change: A need for greater focus was identified in
an engaged, global governance body. The Group Chairman is regarded relation to the prioritisation of execution, with clearer and more
as an excellent leader of the Board, fostering a culture of openness, timely progress reporting to the Board, in particular around
with encouragement for Board members to speak freely on any issue. challenges faced.
In particular, the effectiveness review highlighted that the Board
– Board information: Reporting to the Board requires more succinct
performed well in various areas including:
narrative and relevant key performance indicators. It was reiterated
– Stakeholder accountability: The Board takes its responsibilities that the Board would continue to hold the Group Chief Executive
towards stakeholders seriously, positively and sincerely. and members of the GEC accountable for the quality of reporting
to the Board.
– Board culture: The culture of the Board is regarded as a key
strength. Preserving and sustaining this has been a key factor in – Technology governance: Strengthened governance mechanisms
considering candidates for appointment to the Board. were agreed to support the Board’s review and challenge of
Communication is open and transparent. technology-related deliverables and monitoring of delivery against
the Group-wide technology strategy.
– Relationship with senior management: Board members value the
openness between, and access to, the senior management team. Further details of the findings and agreed actions to be taken can be
found in the table below. Completion of these actions will be
– Committee chairs: Chairs of committees are well supported by the
monitored by the Board throughout 2024.
respective functional teams, including Risk, Finance, HR and
Corporate Governance and Secretariat. The additional areas of feedback gathered from members of the
Board and regular attendees will be taken forward at the discretion of
– Board resources and support: The Board appreciates the strategic
the Group Chairman based on his determination of their impact on the
advice and counsel it receives on governance issues from the
overall effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer and her
team. Similar discussions were led by each of the Board committee chairs in
their respective January 2024 meetings. Progress against these
IBE presented its report to the December 2023 Board meeting, and
actions will be included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
was present for the Board’s discussion, led by the Group Chairman,
on the findings identified through IBE’s review. Among other
recommendations for consideration that could strengthen the end-to-
end governance of the Board and its committees, the Board focused
on the following three specific themes:
Summary of 2023 Board effectiveness findings and recommendations for action:
Findings from the evaluation Agreed actions
Effecting change – Although the Board is performing well, there are areas – Consideration will be given to the frequency and format of
where, working with management, enhancements could strategic updates to the Board.
be made to drive even greater value. – The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer will
– This would reinforce a clear understanding of priorities support the Group Chairman and committee chairs to ensure that
and enhanced clarity of management reporting, there is enhanced consolidation of related discussion and actions
particularly in relation to areas of challenge in, or delay to, across Board and the committees, including clearer articulation of
execution of those key deliverables. expected outcomes.
– Greater rigour was required in relation to the – The Group Chief Executive will drive an increased focus in
communication of, accountability for, and execution addressing the Board’s feedback within the wider management
against the Board’s feedback. team.
Board information – The volume of information provided to the Board and to – The Board has commissioned a training programme, to be
committee meetings during the year was a common developed and delivered by the Group Company Secretary and
area of discussion during the review. Enhanced, dynamic Chief Governance Officer, to further support senior leaders and
and well-timed reporting of information to the Board is other subject matter experts on reporting to, and interactions
required. with, the Board.
– Although the Board welcomed the thoroughness of – A condensed key performance indicators framework was approved
management’s review of key performance indicators, by the Board at its meeting in January 2024 and will be cascaded
these required to be refined for Board purposes to throughout the Group by the Group Chief Executive, the Group
ensure better alignment with paper narrative to ensure a Chief Financial Officer and the Group Company Secretary and
clear, consistent basis for Board reporting. Chief Governance Officer.
Technology – Although the Board welcomed the important and – A formal Board-level governance committee consisting of non-
governance valuable role of the Technology Governance Working executive Directors – the Group Technology Committee – will be
Group, there is still more to do to develop a holistic established to provide oversight of technology-related matters
oversight of technology at Board-level. across the Group. This will be chaired by Eileen Murray and take
– It was agreed that the future approach to oversight of effect from 1 March 2024.
technology-related matters needed to complement the – The existing Technology Governance Working Group will be
existing responsibilities of the Board, Group Risk demised at that time.
Committee, Group Audit Committee and subsidiary
boards.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 261
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
"I am confident that the changes to the composition of the Board over the past year have further strengthened
the Board’s collective knowledge and experience required to oversee, challenge and support management."
Mark E Tucker
Chair
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
Membership Key responsibilities
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
Meeting attendance
Member since in 2023 – overseeing and monitoring the corporate governance framework
of the Group and ensuring that this is consistent with best
Mark Tucker (Chair) Oct 2017 9/9
practice;
Geraldine Buckingham May 2022 9/9
Rachel Duan Sep 2021 9/9 – overseeing succession planning and leading the process for
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn1 Sep 2021 8/9 identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the
Board and its committees; and
James Forese May 2020 9/9
Ann Godbehere2 Sep 2023 2/2 – overseeing succession planning and development for the Group
Executive Committee and other senior executives.
Steven Guggenheimer May 2020 9/9
José Antonio Meade Apr 2019 9/9
Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia3 Mar 2023 6/6
Eileen Murray4 Jul 2020 8/9
Brendan Nelson2 Sep 2023 2/2
David Nish Apr 2018 9/9
Jackson Tai5 Apr 2018 5/5
Swee Lian Teo6 Oct 2023 1/1
1 Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was unable to attend the January meeting
due to a prior commitment.
2 Ann Godbehere and Brendan Nelson joined the Committee on their
appointments to the Board on 1 September 2023.
3 Kalpana Morparia joined the Committee on her appointment to the
Board on 31 March 2023.
4 Eileen Murray was unable to attend the September meeting due to
a prior commitment.
5 Jackson Tai retired from the Board on 5 May 2023.
6 Swee Lian Teo joined the Committee on her appointment to the
Board on 1 October 2023.
I am pleased to present the Nomination & Corporate Governance We also welcomed Kalpana Morparia and Swee Lian Teo and,
Committee report, which provides an overview of the Committee’s together with Ann and Brendan’s appointments, I am confident that
activities during 2023. the changes to the composition of the Board over the past year have
further strengthened its collective knowledge and experience required
I signalled in last year’s report that succession for key roles on the
to oversee, challenge and support management.
Board would be a priority for the Committee through 2023, and we
announced in early December the successors for the roles of Senior As a result of the changes to the Board during 2023, our year-end
Independent Director and Chair of the Group Audit Committee. This 2023 target of at least 40% female representation was achieved. We
represented the culmination of considerable work by the Committee are committed to maintaining this at or above 40% going forward.
over a number of months. More broadly, we remain committed to ensuring the compositions of
the Board and senior management reflect the wider workforce and
As announced in December, David Nish confirmed his plans to retire
communities in which we operate, and you can read more on our
from the Board at the conclusion of our AGM in May 2024. Brendan
efforts this year on page 313.
Nelson will succeed David as Chair of the Group Audit Committee
with effect from 21 February 2024, and Ann Godbehere will succeed The annual review of the performance of the Board and its
him as Senior Independent Director with effect from the conclusion of committees is a critical part of ensuring that our governance practices
the 2024 AGM. On behalf of the Board, I want to take this opportunity are aligned with best practice and are working effectively.
to thank David for his significant commitment and contribution to Independent Board Evaluation conducted the 2023 review for the
HSBC, particularly in his role as Chair of the Group Audit Committee, Board and its committees, and its findings and agreed actions can be
and for the valuable counsel he has provided to the Board and to me found on pages 260 to 261.
personally. You can read more on the Committee’s work on these
appointments later in this report.
262 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
These actions included the decision to establish the Group Committee governance
Technology Committee, which was discussed by the Committee.
Further information on this new Board-level committee is set out on The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Human Resources
page 252. In addition, the Committee reviewed the approach to the Officer, and the Group Head of Talent routinely and selectively
Group’s governance of developing areas such as ESG and AI, and will attended Committee meetings. The Group Company Secretary and
continue to focus on whether these remain appropriate and forward- Chief Governance Officer attends all Committee meetings and
looking as external standards and practices develop. supports the Group Chairman in ensuring that the Committee fulfils
its governance responsibilities.
There have been numerous consultations issued over 2023, aimed at
improving the effectiveness of the UK audit, governance and Russell Reynolds Associates supported the Committee and the
regulatory regimes. Given their potential impact, the Committee management team in relation to Board succession planning and
received updates on these and their potential implications on appointments. It also provides support to management in relation to
governance arrangements. The Committee also reviewed and senior management succession, development and recruitment. It
provided input to the Group’s responses to relevant consultations, regularly and selectively attended meetings during the year, and has
including the Financial Reporting Council's ('FRC') consultation on no other connection with the Group or members of the Board.
proposed revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code. The
Appointment and re-election of Directors
Committee continues to monitor potential future developments in the
UK, Hong Kong and elsewhere to ensure that the impact of any A rigorous selection process is followed for the appointment of
proposed governance and regulatory changes on HSBC and its Directors. Appointments are made on merit and candidates are
international operations is considered. considered against objective criteria, and with regard to the benefits
As we look ahead to the remainder of 2024, the Committee will look of a diverse Board. Appointments are made in accordance with HSBC
to oversee and enhance the succession pipeline at Board and senior Holdings’ Articles of Association.
management level, as well as efforts to deliver consistent standards The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director or
of governance best practice across the Group. secretary, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional officer. The Board
may appoint any Director or secretary to hold any employment or
executive office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term
and, subject to continued satisfactory performance based upon an
assessment by the Group Chairman and the Committee, are
proposed for re-election by shareholders at each AGM. They typically
serve two three-year terms, with any individual's appointment beyond
Mark E Tucker six years to be for a rolling one-year term and subject to thorough
review and challenge with reference to the needs of the Board.
Group Chairman
Where non-executive Directors are appointed beyond six years, an
explanation will be provided in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders vote at each AGM on whether to elect and re-elect
individual Directors. All Directors that stood for election and re-
election at the 2023 AGM were elected and re-elected by
shareholders.
Non-executive Director commitments
The terms and conditions of the appointments of non-executive
Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the
expectations of them, and the estimated time required to perform
their role. Letters of appointment of each non-executive Director are
available for inspection at the registered office of HSBC Holdings.
Non-executive Directors serving on the Board and as a member of
any committees are expected to serve up to 75 days per annum. The
Senior Independent Director is expected to serve an additional 30
days per annum. Those Directors who also chair a large committee
are expected to commit up to 100 days per annum, with the Group
Risk Committee Chair expected to commit up to 150 days per annum.
Any additional time commitment required of non-executive Directors
in connection with Board and committee activities is confirmed to
them separately.
Board approval is required for any non-executive Director’s external
commitments, with consideration given to their total time
commitments, potential conflicts of interest, and regulatory and
investor expectations.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 263
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Board composition and succession Board diversity
During 2023, the compositions of the Board and its committees were The Board recognises the importance of gender, social and ethnic
reviewed, with assessments focused on the skills, knowledge and diversity, and the benefits diversity brings to Board effectiveness.
experience necessary to oversee, challenge and support management Diversity is taken into account when considering succession plans
in the achievement of the Group’s strategic and business objectives. and appointments at both Board and senior management level, as
The assessments were focused on the Board, both collectively and as well as more broadly across the Group. The Committee also
individual members. The Committee discussed succession planning considered the diversity and representation on Board committees
for key roles on the Board and committees, including the roles of when reviewing their composition.
Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Group Audit Committee.
At the end of 2023, the Board had 47% female representation, with
The recruitment process for the new Directors provided an
seven female Board members out of 15, ahead of the year-end 2025
opportunity to add significant executive experience in banking. It also
target set by the FTSE Women Leaders Review. Ann Godbehere’s
provided an opportunity to add deep business and cultural expertise
appointment as Senior Independent Director will mean the Board
across Asia that the Board had previously identified as a priority, and
achieves the FTSE Women Leaders Review target that at least one of
to meet our target for a woman to hold at least one of the senior
the senior Board positions of Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Senior
Board positions by the end of 2025. In line with these objectives, a list
Independent Director or Chief Financial Officer is held by a woman. In
of potential candidates was identified and considered by the
accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the Board is on track to be
Committee. Members of the Board, including the Group Chief
compliant with these diversity targets and will be fully compliant with
Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer, met with potential
effect from the conclusion of the 2024 AGM. Beyond gender, the
candidates and their feedback helped inform the Committee’s
Board continues to exceed the Parker Review target of having at least
discussions and recommendations to the Board. The Board then
one Director of ethnic heritage. However, given the international
approved the Committee’s recommendations to appoint Kalpana
nature of our business, including our heritage in Asia, the Board has
Morparia with effect from 1 March 2023, Ann Godbehere and
set a target to maintain or improve the current representation of
Brendan Nelson with effect from 1 September 2023, and Swee Lian
Directors from a diverse ethnic heritage.
Teo with effect from 1 October 2023.
The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy was updated in December
Kalpana Morparia and Swee Lian Teo each bring significant banking,
2023. The policy confirms our commitment to, and also details the
risk and regulatory experience in Asia. Ann’s deep financial acumen
approach to achieving, our diversity ambitions. Further details on
and extensive financial services experience gained over a 30-year
activities to improve diversity across senior management and the
career, as well as her extensive large, public-listed company board
wider workforce, together with representation statistics, can be found
experience as a non-executive director, makes her the right successor
from page 76. The Board's diversity and inclusion policy is available on
for the role of Senior Independent Director. Brendan’s UK and
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-
international financial expertise and significant experience as statutory
responsibilities
audit partner, and as audit committee chair at UK-listed companies, as
well as previously being President of the Institute of Chartered Independence
Accountants of Scotland, will be particularly valuable in the leadership
of the Group Audit Committee given the evolving audit, regulatory and Independence is a critical component of good corporate governance,
disclosure environment in which the Group operates. Their and a principle that is applied consistently at both HSBC Holdings and
biographies can be found on pages 239 to 243. subsidiary level. The Committee has delegated authority from the
Board in relation to the assessment of the independence of non-
Following the annual review of the Board skills matrix, the Committee
executive Directors. In accordance with the UK and Hong Kong
remains focused on identifying candidates for future appointments
Corporate Governance Codes, the Committee has reviewed and
with deep business and cultural expertise across Hong Kong and
confirmed that all non-executive Directors who have submitted
mainland China.
themselves for election and re-election at the AGM are considered to
The Committee will continue to monitor the market during 2024 for be independent. This conclusion was reached after consideration of
potential candidates for appointment to the Board in both the short all relevant circumstances that are likely to impair, or could appear to
and medium term, to ensure that the Board has a pipeline of credible impair, independence.
successors.
In line with the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate
Neither Jackson Tai, who retired from the Board during the year, nor Governance Code, the Committee also reviewed and considered the
David Nish, who is not offering himself for re-election at the 2024 mechanisms in place to ensure independent views and input are
AGM, have raised concerns about the operation of the Board or the available to the Board. These mechanisms include:
management of the company.
– having the appropriate Board and committee structure in place,
Committee composition including rules on the appointment and tenure of non-executive
Directors;
As part of the decision to establish the Group Technology Committee,
– facilitating the option of having brokers and external industry
when reviewing the Committee composition, it was agreed that
experts in attendance at Board meetings during 2023, as well as
Eileen Murray would be appointed as Chair, and Steven
having representatives from the Group’s key regulators attend
Guggenheimer, Kalpana Morparia, Swee Lian Teo and Brendan
Board meetings in relation to specific regulatory items;
Nelson would be appointed as members of the Group Technology
Committee with effect from 1 March 2024. – ensuring non-executive Directors are entitled to obtain
independent professional advice relating to their personal
The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board
responsibilities as a Director at the Group’s expense;
committees more broadly to ensure that these remained appropriate
and diverse, with consideration of the Board diversity and inclusion – having terms of reference for each committee and the Board
policy while utilising the respective skills and expertise of the Board provide authority to engage independent professional advisers;
members as set out in the Board skills matrix on page 247. As a and
result, and in addition to the appointments of members to the Group – holding annual Board and committee effectiveness reviews, with
Technology Committee, it was agreed that Ann Godbehere would be feedback sought from members on the quality of, and access to,
appointed to the Group Audit Committee with effect from independent external advice.
21 February 2024.
264 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Senior executive succession and Subsidiary governance
development
In line with the subsidiary accountability framework, the Committee
continued to oversee the corporate governance and succession
Following Georges Elhedery’s appointment as Group Chief Financial
arrangements across the principal and material subsidiary portfolio.
Officer from 1 January 2023, the Committee monitored and received
The Committee also reviewed the succession plans for the principal
updates on his induction plan.
subsidiary chairs to ensure future successors had the necessary skills
The succession plans for the Group Executive Committee members and experience to effectively oversee and monitor delivery of the
were approved by the Committee in December 2023. These reflect Group’s strategic and business priorities within their territory, in
continued efforts to support the development and progression of accordance with the Group’s governance expectations.
diverse talent and promote the long-term success of the Group, with
Where a subsidiary was unable to fully comply with the subsidiary
the gender diversity and proportion of Asian heritage successors
accountability framework, the Committee endorsed exceptions,
improving year on year. The approval of succession plans included
where appropriate, subject to strong rationale, including consideration
future internal and external succession options for the Group Chief
of local laws and regulations and market practice. Endorsement
Executive, to ensure that the Committee has a robust and actionable
requests were also subject to thorough review and consideration by
plan when required. The Committee also reviewed longer-term
the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer in
internal succession options for the Group Chief Executive to enable
advance of consideration by the Committee.
the Committee to interact more frequently with high potential and
diverse talent in the Group. The Committee reviewed succession plans and oversaw compliance
with the Group’s governance expectations of principal and material
The Committee continued to receive updates on the development of
subsidiaries. The overall quality of succession plans has improved
our talent programme within the Asia-Pacific region. Since its launch
markedly over the past three years, with plans demonstrating a clear
in 2020, significant progress has been made towards ensuring that
focus on strengthening boards’ overall diversity and experience, in
we have a deeper and more diverse leadership bench-strength.
line with strategic and business objectives.
Succession plans are more robust, with greater diversity and good
succession fulfilment outcomes. The Committee continued to support and seek opportunities to
enhance subsidiary connectivity, including through the Chairman’s
Committee evaluation
Forum and Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum, which regularly
brought together the chairs of the principal subsidiaries to discuss
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and Board
common issues, and the Non-Executive Director Summit which
committees, including the Committee, was conducted externally by
brought over 100 non-executive Directors together in Hong Kong in
Independent Board Evaluation for 2023. It determined that the
May 2023.
Committee continued to operate effectively, with no specific actions
identified for the Committee. Positive feedback was received on the Subsidiaries also provided opportunities for internal talent to serve on
effectiveness of the recruitment processes of new Board members their boards, following the training that they received through the
and the succession planning for senior management. HSBC Bank Director Programme. The Committee continues to
support and look for opportunities to enhance subsidiary connectivity
Further details of the annual review of the Board and committee
through Non-Executive Director Summits and other engagement
effectiveness can be found on pages 260 to 261.
forums.
Matters considered during 2023
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Sep Dec
Board composition and succession
Board composition, including succession planning and skills matrices l l l l l l l l l
Approval of diversity and inclusion policy ô ô ô ô ô ô ô ô l
Executive talent and development
Senior executive succession l l ô ô ô l l l l
Approval of executive succession plans ô ô ô ô ô ô ô ô l
Talent programmes ô ô ô ô ô ô l ô ô
Governance
Board and committee evaluation l ô l ô ô ô l ô ô
Subsidiary governance ô ô ô ô l ô l l l
Subsidiary and executive appointments l l ô ô l ô l ô l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 265
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Group Audit Committee
"Given the uncertain external environment, as well as HSBC's growth ambitions, the GAC will continue to play
an important role in monitoring the effectiveness of the control environment."
David Nish
Chair
Group Audit Committee
Membership Key responsibilities
Meeting attendance The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
Member since in 20231
– monitoring and assessing the integrity of the financial
David Nish (Chair) May 2016 10/10 statements, formal announcements and regulatory information
Rachel Duan2 Apr 2022 9/10 in relation to the Group’s financial performance, as well as
James Forese3 May 2020 7/7 significant accounting judgements;
Eileen Murray4 Jun 2022 8/10 – reviewing the effectiveness of, and ensuring that management
Brendan Nelson5 Sep 2023 4/4 has appropriate internal controls over, financial reporting;
Jackson Tai6 Dec 2018 3/3 – reviewing management’s arrangements for compliance with
prudential regulatory financial reporting;
1 These included two joint meetings with the Group Risk Committee – reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external
(‘GRC’) and the Technology Governance Working Group. auditor and overseeing its appointment, remuneration and
2 Rachel Duan was unable to join one meeting, a joint meeting with independence;
the GRC and Technology Governance Working Group, due to prior a
– overseeing the Group’s policies, procedures and arrangements
commitment.
for capturing and responding to whistleblower concerns and
3 James Forese rejoined the GAC on 5 May 2023 following his
ensuring they are operating effectively; and
appointment as GRC Chair.
4 Eileen Murray was unable to join two meetings due to prior – overseeing the work of Global Internal Audit and monitoring and
commitments. assessing the effectiveness, performance, resourcing,
5 Brendan Nelson joined the GAC upon appointment to the Board with independence and standing of the function.
effect from 1 September 2023 and has been appointed GAC Chair
with effect from 21 February 2024.
6 Jackson Tai retired from the GAC on 5 May 2023 upon his
retirement from the Board.
I am pleased to introduce the Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) report The GAC continued to strengthen our relationships and understanding
setting out the key matters and issues considered in 2023. of issues at the local level through regular information sharing with
the principal subsidiary audit committee chairs. This was
As well as the GAC’s usual obligations for financial reporting and the
supplemented with regular meetings with the chairs to discuss key
associated control environment, the GAC spent significant time on
issues, and through their periodic attendance at GAC meetings. I also
the oversight of the Group's ESG disclosures and improvement of the
joined a number of principal subsidiary audit committee meetings
Group’s regulatory reporting, specifically assurance of the Group’s
throughout the year, which supported connectivity and information
ESG disclosures for the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 and the
flows across the Group.
net zero transition plan and related policies, which were published in
January 2024. The Group’s whistleblowing arrangements continue to satisfy
regulatory obligations. I regularly met the whistleblowing team to
Internal financial control also remained a key area of focus for the
discuss material whistleblowing cases, and the progress made in
GAC during 2023. This will continue to be a priority going ahead due
enhancing the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements.
to the need for a robust control environment given the ongoing the
volume of regulatory- and strategy-driven change across the Group. The GAC’s performance and effectiveness were reviewed as part of
This included oversight of regulatory and accounting deliverables, the Board effectiveness review undertaken during the year. I was
such as the enhancement of Finance systems and controls and the pleased that the review concluded that the GAC continued to operate
progress in the implementation of Basel III. effectively, with no material areas for improvement identified.
Significant time was also spent at GAC meetings on the positioning Finally, as announced on 6 December, Brendan Nelson will succeed
and forward-looking financial guidance provided to the market as part me as Chair of the GAC following the publication of HSBC’s Annual
of our financial reporting for both the current and prior year, notably in Report and Accounts 2023 on 21 February 2024. The Board has
relation to returns, costs and expected credit losses (‘ECL’), including determined that Brendan’s previous experience, notably as audit chair
those associated with the Group’s exposure to the China corporate at NatWest and bp, makes him ideally suited to chair the GAC.
real estate market.
Given the uncertain external environment, as well as HSBC’s growth David Nish
ambitions, the GAC will continue to play an important role in
Chair of the Group Audit Committee
monitoring the effectiveness of the control environment in supporting
sustainability of these ambitions.
266 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Committee governance
The Committee operates under delegated authority from the Board, The Committee Chair continued to engage with various key
and advises the Board on matters concerning the Group’s financial stakeholders, including regulators such as the UK’s PRA and the
reporting requirements. The Committee Chair reports on the key Financial Reporting Council, to understand their views, key themes
matters and discussions at the subsequent Board meeting, and the and areas of focus within the broader financial services sector. These
Board also receives copies of the Committee agendas and minutes. included trilateral meetings involving the Group’s external auditor,
This supports the Board's oversight of the work carried out by PwC, and the PRA.
management, Global Internal Audit and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
The Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Global
(‘PwC‘), as the Group’s statutory auditor.
Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Chief Risk
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has confirmed and Compliance Officer, Group Company Secretary and Chief
that each member of the Committee is independent according to the Governance Officer and other members of senior management
criteria from the US Securities and Exchange Commission; and the routinely attended meetings of the GAC. The external auditor
Committee and individual members continue to possess competence attended all meetings.
relevant to the banking and broader financial services sector in which
The Chair holds regular meetings with management, Global Internal
the Group operates. The Board has determined that David Nish,
Audit and PwC, as the external auditor, to discuss relevant items as
Brendan Nelson and Eileen Murray are the audit committee ‘financial
they had arisen during the year outside the formal Committee
experts’ for the purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
process. The Committee also regularly meets with the internal and
and have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of
external auditors, without management present. Private discussions
the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
are also held with relevant members of senior management, including
the Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Risk and
Compliance Officer.
Matters considered during 2023
Jan Feb Apr Jun Jul Sep Oct Dec
Reporting
Financial reporting matters including:
– review of financial statements, ensuring that disclosures are fair, balanced and understandable
– significant accounting judgements l l l l l l l l
– going concern assumptions and viability statement
– supplementary regulatory information
ESG and climate reporting l l l l l l l l
Regulatory reporting-related matters including:
– oversight of the Group's engagement with PRA-requested skilled person reviews
– reports from the principal subsidiaries on progress and learnings in relation to their local
l l l l l l l l
remediation efforts
– adequacy of resources across Finance and other SME teams to deliver the Group-wide
remediation programme
Certificates from principal subsidiary audit committees ô l ô ô l ô ô ô
Control environment
Control enhancement programmes l l l l l l l l
Group transformation ô ô ô ô l l ô ô
Review of deficiencies and effectiveness of internal financial controls l l l l l l l l
Internal audit
Reports from Global Internal Audit l l l ô l ô l l
Audit plan updates, independence and effectiveness l l l ô l ô l l
External audit
Reports from external audit, including external audit plan l l l l l l l l
Appointment, remuneration, non-audit services and effectiveness l l l l ô l l l
Compliance
Accounting standards and critical accounting policies ô l ô ô l ô l l
Corporate governance codes and listing rules ô l ô ô l ô ô ô
Whistleblowing
Whistleblowing arrangements and effectiveness ô l ô ô ô l ô l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Financial, ESG and climate reporting
The GAC is responsible for reviewing the Group’s financial reporting – challenged and evaluated management’s application of critical
during the year, including the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim accounting policies and material areas in which significant
Report, quarterly earnings releases, analyst presentations and Pillar 3 accounting judgements were applied;
disclosures.
– gave particular regard to the analysis and measurement of IFRS 9
Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported ECL, including the key judgements and management adjustments
by the executive-level ESG Committee, provided close oversight of made in relation to the forward economic guidance, underlying
the disclosure risks in relation to ESG and climate reporting, amid economic scenarios and reasonableness of the weightings, as well
rising stakeholder expectations. as modelling and adjustments;
As part of its review, the GAC: – focused on preparation for disclosures to ensure these were
consistent, appropriate and acceptable under the relevant financial
– reviewed the narrative commentary on our financial and non-
and governance reporting requirements;
financial performance to ensure it remained fair, balanced and
understandable;
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 267
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
– tracked and monitored developments relating to the strategy and The Committee approved the Integrity of Regulatory Reporting
scope of ESG and climate disclosures, in particular the assurance programme, management’s strategy for remediation of deficiencies in
related to the Group’s net zero transition plan, which was relation to the Group's regulatory reporting governance, process and
published at the end of January 2024. The GAC also focused on controls. The Committee also provided oversight of the Group's
internal and external assurance within ESG reporting in line with engagement with PRA-requested skilled-persons reviews including
wider market developments to ensure ESG and climate the initiation of a review of the sustainability of the Group’s ongoing
disclosures were materially accurate and consistent; remediation efforts for regulatory reporting, which commenced in
2023 for an initial period to 31 December 2025. Regular updates will
– tracked and monitored the delivery against the external audit plan;
be provided to the Committee by the skilled person throughout the
– provided advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the course of their review.
long-term viability statement; and
Management provided updates on the status of ongoing HSBC-
– considered the key performance metrics related to strategic specific external reviews, and discussed the issues and themes
priorities, and ensured that the performance and outlook identified from the increased assurance work and focus on regulatory
statements reflected the risks and uncertainties appropriately. reporting. The GAC also discussed root cause themes, remediation of
In addition to its work on the Group’s financial disclosures, PwC also known issues and new issues identified through the increased
provided limited standalone assurance on the Group’s climate assurance work and focus on regulatory reporting. The Committee
reporting. Further details can be found in ’Assurance relating to ESG challenged management on remediation plans, to ensure there was a
data’ on page 43. sustainable reduction in issues and that dependencies with other key
programmes were well understood.
In conjunction with the GRC, the GAC considered the current position
of the Group, along with the emerging and principal risks, and carried The Committee Chair initiated a schedule under which certain
out a robust assessment of the Group’s prospects. This assessment principal subsidiary audit committee chairs, chief executive officers
informed the GAC’s recommendation to the Board on the Group’s and chief financial officers attended GAC meetings to share progress
long-term viability. The GAC also undertook a detailed review before and learnings in relation to their local remediation efforts.
recommending to the Board that the Group continues to adopt the Further details can be found in the ‘Principal activities and significant
going concern basis in preparing the annual and interim financial issues considered during 2023’ table on page 271.
statements. Further details can be found on page 40.
Adequacy of resources
Fair, balanced and understandable
The Committee is responsible, under the Hong Kong Listing Rules, to
Following review and challenge of the disclosures, the Committee annually assess the adequacy of resources of the accounting, internal
recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, audit, financial reporting and ESG performance and reporting
taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable. These functions. It also monitored the legal and regulatory environment
provided the shareholders with the necessary information to assess relevant to its responsibilities.
the Group’s position and performance, business model, strategy and
The Committee determined that each of the functions provided
risks facing the business, including in relation to the increasingly
thorough information with regards to people capacity and capability
important ESG considerations.
and endorsed the annual update to the Board.
The Committee reviewed the draft Annual Report and Accounts 2023
In recognition that the enhancement of the Group’s regulatory
and results announcements to provide feedback and challenge to
reporting processes and controls was a priority for both the
management. It was supported by the work of the Group Disclosure
Committee and the Group’s regulators, the GAC also considered the
and Controls Committee, which also reviewed and assessed the
adequacy of regulatory reporting resources as part of the year-end
Annual Report and Accounts 2023 and investor communications.
activities.
This work enables the GAC to discharge its responsibilities and
Connectivity with principal subsidiary audit committees
support the Board in making the statement required under the UK and
Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes. The Committee recognises the importance of strong connectivity and
alignment with principal subsidiary audit committees. The
Internal controls
mechanisms to support this are well established and continued to
Regular updates and confirmations are provided to the GAC on the operate effectively during the year.
action management takes to remediate any failings or weaknesses
This included information sharing and targeted collaboration between
identified through the operation of the Group’s framework of internal
audit committee chairs and management to ensure there was
financial controls. This is supplemented by reviews of these controls
appropriate focus on the local implementation of programmes. During
by the second line of defence and internal audit, and the external
2023 this included a particular focus on regulatory reporting, with the
auditors, who provided additional comfort to the Committee on the
subsidiary audit committee chairs, chief executive officers and chief
effectiveness of these controls. These reviews confirmed that there
financial officers, attending Committee meetings to update on
were no material weaknesses as at the year-end.
progress, share local challenges, and areas of focus with the
These updates included the Group’s work on compliance with section Committee.
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Based on this work, the GAC
In addition to the Chair's regular meetings with the audit chairs of the
recommended that the Board support its assessment of the internal
Group’s UK, European, US and Asian principal subsidiaries, and their
controls over financial reporting.
attendance at Committee meetings for reference items, escalations
The GAC continues to focus on controls over the Group's insurance were received by the Committee for its information and action.
business following the implementation of the IFRS 17 ‘Insurance
On a half-year basis, principal subsidiary audit committees provided
Contracts‘ accounting standards. This will remain a focus through
certifications to the GAC that regarded the preparation of their
2024, with the GAC scheduled to receive further updates on the
financial statements, adherence to Group policies and escalation of
control environment for this business and in relation to the change
any issues that required the attention of the GAC. These certifications
programme more generally through the first half of 2024.
also included information regarding the governance, review and
For further details of how the Board reviewed the effectiveness of assurance activities undertaken by principal subsidiary audit
key aspects of internal control, see page 311. committees in relation to prudential regulatory reporting.
Regulatory reporting External auditor
Regulatory reporting has been a key priority for the Committee over The GAC has the primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship
recent years, and will continue to be a priority for 2024. The with the Group’s external auditor, PwC. The GAC undertook a formal
Committee is focused on monitoring the programme of work to competitive tender process for the Group’s statutory audit during
address the quality and reliability of regulatory reporting to meet 2022 following PwC’s appointment for the Annual Report and
regulatory expectations.
268 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Accounts 2015. This process concluded that PwC would remain as There were no breaches of the policy on hiring employees or former
the statutory auditor, which was announced in January 2023. As part employees of the external auditor during the year. The external
of the tender process, PwC committed to a number of initiatives to auditor attended all Committee meetings and the GAC Chair
enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the Group audit, and maintains regular contact with the senior audit partner and his team
progress against these is reported to the Committee on a regular throughout the year.
basis to allow these to be monitored.
The FRC’s Quality Review team routinely monitors the quality of the
PwC completed its ninth audit, providing robust challenge to audit work of certain UK audit firms through inspections of sample
management and sound independent advice to the Committee on audits and related quality processes. PwC was reviewed on the audit
specific financial reporting judgements and the control environment. of our financial reporting for the 2022 financial year. The Chair had
The senior audit partner is Scott Berryman who has been in the role discussions with the FRC as part of the process, and also discussed
since 2019. It was announced during 2023 that Matthew Falconer the outcome of the inspection with the Senior Audit Partner and the
would become the senior audit partner from 2024 as part of the other members of the Committee. The Committee was pleased with
rotation of auditors. The Committee reviewed the external auditor’s the outcome of the inspection, which reported no key findings as well
approach and strategy for the annual audit and received regular as a number of specific examples of good audit practice.
updates on the audit, including observations on the control
Independence and objectivity
environment. Key audit matters discussed with PwC are set out in its
report on page 318. The Committee assessed any potential threats to independence that
were self-identified or reported by PwC. The GAC considered PwC to
Following the publication of the Financial Reporting Council's (‘FRC’)
be independent and PwC, in accordance with professional ethical
Audit Committee and the External Audit: Minimum Standard (’the
standards and applicable rules and regulations, provided the GAC with
Standard’) during 2023, the Committee confirmed that all
written confirmation of its independence for the duration of 2023.
requirements of the standard have been complied with.
The Committee confirms it has complied with the provisions of The
External audit plan
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation
The GAC reviewed the PwC external audit approach, including the (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit
materiality, risk assessment and scope of the audit. PwC highlighted Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the financial statements.
the changes being made to its approach to enhance the quality and
Following the recommendation to reappoint PwC as the auditor, the
effectiveness of the audit. PwC’s plan supports its, and the GAC's,
associated resolutions concerning the reappointment and the audit
focus on audit quality through standardisation, centralisation and the
fee for 2023 were approved at the 2023 AGM by the shareholders of
use of technology. The GAC has questioned PwC on its plans to
the Group.
utilise more digital solutions on the HSBC audit, and updates on this
will be provided through 2024. Non-audit services
Effectiveness of external audit process The Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and monitoring
the appropriateness of the provision of non-audit services by the
The GAC assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the Group’s external
external auditor. It also applies the Group’s policy on the award of
auditor, using a questionnaire that focused on the overall audit
non-audit services to the external auditor. The non-audit services are
process, its effectiveness and the quality of output.
carried out in accordance with the external auditor independence
In addition, the GAC Chair, certain principal subsidiary audit chairs and policy to ensure that services do not create a conflict of interest. All
members of the Group Executive Committee met with the Senior non-audit services are either approved by the GAC, or by Group
Audit Partner to discuss findings from the questionnaire and provide Finance when acting within delegated limits and criteria set by the
in-depth feedback on the interaction with the PwC audit team. GAC.
PwC highlighted the actions being taken in response to the HSBC The non-audit services carried out by PwC included 64 engagements
effectiveness review, including the development of audit quality approved during the year where the fees were over $100,000 but less
indicators. These provide a balanced scorecard and transparent than $1m. Global Finance, as a delegate of the GAC, considered that
reporting to the GAC on the work of both HSBC teams and PwC it was in the best interests of the Group to use PwC for these
during the course of the audit. These audit quality indicators focused services because they were:
on the following areas: – audit-related engagements that were largely carried out by
– findings from inspections across the Group and regulators on PwC members of the audit engagement team, with the work closely
as a firm; related to the work performed in the audit;
– the hours of audit work delivered by senior PwC audit team – engagements covered under other assurance services that require
members, the extent of specialist and expert involvement, delivery obtaining appropriate audit evidence to express a conclusion
against agreed timetable and milestones and the use of designed to enhance the degree of confidence of the intended
technology; users other than the responsible party about the subject matter
information;
– any new control deficiencies in Sarbanes-Oxley locations,
proportion of management identified deficiencies and delivery of – other permitted services such as advisory attestation reports on
audit deliverables to agreed timelines; and internal controls of a service organisation primarily prepared for
and used by third-party end users; or
– matters occurring in PwC's global network that could be relevant
to the audit of HSBC. – required or permitted by local regulators to be performed by the
external auditor.
Specifically in 2023, PwC reported to the GAC on the recommended
actions taken in response to the independent review of governance, Eight engagements during the year were approved where the fees
culture and accountability that was undertaken by Dr Ziggy exceeded $1m. These were mainly engagements required by the
Switkowski AO, as well as further detail on audit quality controls regulator and incremental fees related to previously approved
across PwC’s global operations. engagements, including the provision of independent assurance
reports on global controls for 2023.
The GAC receives regular updates from PwC and management on
performance across the audit quality indicators, which provides wider 2023 2022
visibility of ongoing and emerging issues. The GAC requested that Auditors‘ remuneration $m $m
these indicators included metrics in relation to PwC's IT security, Total fees payable 155.9 148.1
reflecting the significant volume of information that is shared of which fees for non-audit services 46.1 50.5
between HSBC and PwC as part of the audit activity. Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees1 42.0% 51.7%
1 The calculation is on a simple ratio and is not based on FRC guidance
on non-audit fees ratio thresholds.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 269
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Whistleblowing and speak-up culture of this assessment are combined with a top-down analysis of risk
themes by risk category to ensure that themes identified are
An important part of HSBC’s values is speaking up when something
addressed in the annual plan. Audit coverage is achieved using a
does not feel right. HSBC remains committed to ensuring colleagues
combination of business and functional audits of processes and
have confidence to speak up and acting when they do. A wide variety
controls, risk management frameworks and major change initiatives,
of channels are provided for colleagues to raise concerns, including
as well as regulatory audits, investigations and special reviews. In
the Group’s whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential (see page 94
addition to the ongoing importance of regulatory-focused work, key
for further information).
risk theme categories for 2024 audit coverage remain as: strategy,
The Board has delegated responsibility to the GAC to oversee the governance and culture; financial crime, conduct and compliance;
effectiveness of HSBC’s whistleblowing procedures. The Chair of the financial resilience; and operational resilience. A quarterly continuous
GAC is a Group Senior Manager (SMF7), and has a prescribed monitoring assessment of key risk themes will form the basis of
responsibility as the whistleblowers’ champion, to ensure integrity of thematic reporting and plan updates and will ultimately drive the 2025
HSBC’s policies on whistleblowing and protecting those who report planning process.
concerns. As part of his responsibility, the GAC Chair reports to the
In 2024, Global Internal Audit’s new or heightened areas of coverage
Board on the GAC’s oversight of whistleblowing as part of his regular
are: transformation including regulatory change; people capacity and
reporting updates.
capability; ESG; material regulatory obligations; Consumer Duty
The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance regularly updates the GAC implementation; retail and wholesale credit risk management;
on whistleblowing effectiveness, including controls assessments and Basel III; regulatory reporting; treasury; operational resilience;
internal audit findings. The Committee is briefed on culture and enterprise-wide risk management; model risk management; machine
conduct risks from whistleblowing cases and actions taken. learning and artificial intelligence; data management and technology.
In 2023, the GAC received updates on topics such as cultural insights In addition, Global Internal Audit will continue its programme of
from internal HR-led investigations relating to matters reported culture audits to assess the extent that behaviours reflect HSBC’s
through HSBC Confidential. Reports were also provided on the purpose, ambition, values and strategy, and expand its coverage of
actions taken to support different functional areas collaborate post- franchise audits for locally significant countries. The annual audit plan
investigation. The Chair met with the Group Head of Conduct, Policy and material plan updates made in response to changes in the
and Whistleblowing for briefings on significant whistleblowing Group’s structure and risk profile are approved by the GAC.
matters. In 2024, the GAC will continue to receive briefings on these The results of audit work, together with an assessment of the
actions and the ongoing efficiency of the HSBC Confidential channel. Group’s overall governance, risk management and control framework
and processes are reported to the GAC, GRC and local audit and risk
Global Internal Audit
committees, as appropriate. This reporting highlights key themes
The primary role of the Global Internal Audit function is to help the identified through audit activity, and the output from continuous
Board and management protect the assets, reputation and monitoring. This includes business and regulatory developments and
sustainability of the Group. Global Internal Audit does this by providing an independent view of emerging and horizon risk, together with
independent and objective assurance on the design and operating details of audit coverage and any required changes to the annual audit
effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk management and plan. Based on regular internal audit reporting to the GAC, private
control framework and processes, prioritising the greatest areas of sessions with the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Global
risk. The independence of Global Internal Audit from day-to-day line Professional Practices annual assessment and quarterly quality
management responsibility is critical to its ability to deliver objective assurance updates, the GAC is satisfied with the effectiveness of the
audit coverage by maintaining an independent and objective stance. Global Internal Audit function and the appropriateness of its
Global Internal Audit is free from interference by any element in the resources.
organisation, including on matters of audit selection, scope,
Executive management is accountable for addressing the matters
procedures, frequency, timing, or internal audit report content. The
raised by Global Internal Audit, which must be addressed within an
Group Head of Internal Audit reports to, and meets frequently with,
appropriate and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect must be
the Chair of the GAC. In addition, in 2023, there was more interaction
provided to Global Internal Audit, which validates closure on a risk
between Global Internal Audit senior management and the members
basis.
of the GAC, aimed at increasing knowledge and awareness of the
audit universe and existing and emerging risks identified by Global Global Internal Audit maintains a close working relationship with
Internal Audit. Global Internal Audit adheres to The Institute of Internal HSBC’s external auditor, PwC. The external auditor is kept informed
Auditors’ mandatory guidance. of Global Internal Audit’s activities and results, and is afforded free
access to all internal audit reports and supporting records.
Consistent with previous years, the 2024 audit planning process
includes assessing the inherent risks and strength of the control
environment across the audit entities representing the Group. Results
270 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Environmental, social and governance The Committee considered ESG disclosures for the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 in
(‘ESG’) reporting detail, to ensure these were fair and balanced, and were also transparent on the
The Committee considered challenges faced and aligned with the Group's progress in the embedding of sustainable
management’s efforts to enhance ESG and climate-related policies across the business.
disclosures and associated verification and The Committee also focused on the evolution of the control environment for ESG
assurance activities, with a specific focus disclosures, particularly data sourcing and policy adherence. Management provided
on the net zero transition plan and climate- updates on additional assurance performed over these disclosures while the control
related disclosures made in the Annual environment matures and the progress of the sustainability enhancement programme (to
Financial and Report and Accounts 2023. upgrade our capabilities in this growing area).
regulatory
Regulatory reporting The Committee reflected on the continued focus on the quality and reliability of regulatory
reporting
The GAC monitored the progress of the reporting by the PRA and other regulators globally. The GAC reviewed management’s
regulatory reporting assurance proposals on remediation efforts, and endorsed the strategy for the remediation of the
programme to enhance the Group’s errors in the Group’s reporting submissions to regulators globally.
regulatory reporting, impact on the control The chief executive officers, chief financial officers and audit committee chair of the US,
environment and oversight of regulatory UK ring-fenced bank, European and Asian subsidiaries attended Committee meetings
reviews and engagement. during the year to report on the remediation activities and priorities with regards to
regulatory reporting in their respective markets.
We continue to keep the PRA and other relevant regulators informed of our progress.
Expected credit losses The Committee reviewed economic scenarios for the key countries and territories in
The measurement of expected credit which the Group operates and challenged management’s judgements on the weightings
losses involves significant judgements, assigned to the scenarios. The Committee also challenged management’s judgemental
particularly under current economic adjustments to account for uncertainty in specific sectors and geographies, including the
conditions. There remains uncertainty controls underpinning the adjustments process and conditions under which the
over ECL estimation due to sustained high adjustments would be reduced or removed.
inflation, a high interest rate environment The Committee continued to monitor management’s updates on areas of particular focus,
and weaker economic growth in the including downside risk on mainland China and Hong Kong commercial real estate.
Group’s key operating markets.
Tax-related judgements The Committee considered the recoverability of deferred tax assets, in particular in the
HSBC has recognised deferred tax assets US, the UK and France.
to the extent that they are recoverable The Committee also considered management’s judgements relating to tax positions in
through expected future taxable profits. respect of which the appropriate tax treatment is uncertain, open to interpretation or has
Significant judgement continues to be been challenged by the tax authority.
exercised in assessing the probability and
sufficiency of future taxable profits, future
reversals of existing taxable temporary
differences and expected outcomes
relating to uncertain tax treatments.
Valuation of defined benefit pension The GAC has considered the effect of changes in key assumptions on the HSBC UK Bank
obligations plc section of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pensions Scheme, which is the principal plan of HSBC
Significant The valuation of defined benefit pension Group. Details of key assumptions can be found on pages 366 to 368 of the ’Notes on the
accounting obligations involves highly judgemental financial statements’.
inputs and actuarial assumptions which
judgements
includes rate, inflation rate, mortality rates
and other demographic assumptions.
Management considered these
assumptions in consultation with actuarial
experts to determine the valuation of the
defined benefit obligations.
Valuation of financial instruments The Committee considered the key valuation metrics and judgements involved in the
During 2023, management continuously determination of the fair value of financial instruments, and agreed with the judgements
refined its methodology and approach to applied by management, which were validated through appropriate governance and
valuing the Group’s portfolio in relation to control forums.
investments, trading assets and liabilities
and derivatives.
Investment in subsidiaries The Committee reviewed the judgements in relation to the impairment review of HSBC
Management has reviewed investments Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited and the key inputs such as projected profits, underpinning
in subsidiaries for indicators of impairment the recoverable amounts of its subsidiaries.
and conducted impairment reviews where
relevant. These involve exercising
significant judgement to assess the
recoverable amounts of subsidiaries, by
reference to projected future cash flows,
discount rates and regulatory capital
assumptions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 271
Corporate
governance
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Sustainable control environment The Committee received regular updates on the control environment, and broader change
The GAC will oversee the impact on the framework, to review the impact on financial reporting and tax risk within the Group, with
risk and control environment. particular focus on the implementation of IFRS 17 in the year.
In these updates the Committee monitored the assessment of the financial reporting risk,
Control tax risk and progress made on remediation of Sarbanes Oxley significant deficiencies. This
environment oversight helped the Committee to understand the progress being made by management
to set out strategic actions to remediate identified issues and uplift the control
environment to enable a sustainable reduction in risk.
Management’s updates were supplemented by further focus and assurance work from
Global Internal Audit, including audits of significant programmes of activity during 2023.
Basel III Reform The Committee received updates on the progress and impact of the Basel III programme
on the Group.
The GAC considered the implementation
of the Basel III Reform and the impact on Management discussed the delayed implementation dates due to ongoing uncertainty
the capital requirements and RWA over the final definition of the rules by regulators, and the work undertaken to mitigate
assurance. This was considered in the delivery risks given the concentration of delivery during 2024. The discussion highlighted
Regulatory context of the strategy and structure of the dependencies of the Basel III programme with data and management. Management
change the balance sheet. focus was on ensuring that the data required and evolving internal standards were
delivered by the end of 2023 to allow for integrated testing in the first quarter of 2024.
The Committee reviewed the ongoing management of risks, issues and dependencies
and challenged management to prioritise deliverables across each jurisdiction in line with
regulatory timelines. The Committee discussed focus on ensuring, in each case, solutions
were delivered to the minimum required standards.
Collaboration with GAC/GRC/ Given that all material remediation plans within the Group rely heavily on data, the
Technology Governance Working committees held joint meetings to develop an understanding of the HSBC data strategy
Group and execution plan. The joint meetings discussed:
The GAC and GRC worked closely to – the review undertaken of data within the Group and the associated baseline
ensure there were procedures to manage established as part of the review;
Committee risk and oversee the internal control – actions taken to prioritise execution to deliver key capabilities and remediate data
connectivity framework. The Chairs are members of quality, including pilots to provide clarity around scale, key milestones and expected
both committees and engage on the execution timelines; and
agendas of each other’s committees to
– the three-year Group data programme delivery roadmap including detailed plans to
further enhance connectivity, coordination
address data quality issues, improve the data control landscape, engage with
and flow of information.
colleagues to actively mature data culture, and build sustainable capabilities that meet
a growing global trend towards localisation of data.
Committee evaluation and effectiveness Committee priorities
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board committees, At its meeting in December 2023, the Committee agreed a number of
including the GAC, was conducted by IBE, Independent Board priorities for 2024. These included:
Evaluation during 2023. The review determined that the GAC
– Regulatory reporting: Given the criticality of accurate and timely
continued to operate effectively.
regulatory reporting to the Group’s licence to operate, the
Positive feedback was noted on the leadership of the Committee Committee will have a key focus on delivery of the Integrity of
Chair, the composition of the Committee and the focus and balance Regulatory Reporting programme during 2024.
of time dedicated to discussion at Committee meetings. The review
– ESG: As competent authorities in the markets in which the Group
highlighted the continued importance of strong interaction between
operates launch market-specific disclosure requirements under
the GAC, GRC, Technology Governance Working Group and the
new regulation, the Committee will continue to focus on the
Board, on key issues including ESG.
assurance of reporting and disclosure at both a Group and
Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee subsidiary level, as well as the effectiveness of the supporting
effectiveness can be found on pages 260 to 261. control environment and governance.
– Data: The Committee plans to monitor and provide input into the
data strategy, remediation, and controls for the purposes of
financial and regulatory reporting, including that data management
strategies are embedded across the Group.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 273
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Group Risk Committee
"The Committee takes continuous and active steps to safeguard the Group's capital and liquidity positions,
keeping it secure in the face of macroeconomic headwinds, enabling it to effectively deploy capital dynamically
to take advantage of opportunities"
James Forese
Chair
Group Risk Committee
Membership Key responsibilities
Meeting attendance The GRC has overall non-executive responsibility for the oversight
Member since in 20231 of risk-related matters and the risks impacting the Group. The
James Forese (Chair)2 Jun 2022 10/10 GRC’s key responsibilities include:
Geraldine Buckingham Jun 2022 10/10 – overseeing and advising the Board on all risk-related matters,
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn3 Sep 2021 7/10 including financial and non-financial risks;
Steven Guggenheimer4 May 2020 9/10 – advising the Board on risk appetite-related matters, and key
Kalpana Morparia5 Jul 2020 7/8 regulatory submissions;
Brendan Nelson6 Sep 2023 3/3 – reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management
framework and internal controls systems (other than internal
David Nish Feb 2020 10/10
financial controls overseen by the GAC);
Jackson Tai7 Sep 2016 4/4
– reviewing and challenging the Group’s stress testing exercises;
Swee Lian Teo8 Oct 2023 2/2
and
1 These included six scheduled meetings, three ad hoc meetings and – overseeing the Group’s approach to conduct, fairness and
one joint meeting with the Group Audit Committee and the preventing financial crime.
Technology Governance Working Group.
2 James Forese was appointed Chair of the Committee on 5 May
2023.
3 Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was unable to attend three meetings due to
prior commitments.
4 Steven Guggenheimer was unable to attend one meeting due to a
prior commitment.
5 Kalpana Morparia joined the GRC on 1 March 2023. She was unable
to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment.
6 Brendan Nelson joined the GRC on 1 September 2023.
7 Jackson Tai stepped down from the GRC on 5 May 2023.
8 Swee Lian Teo joined the GRC on 1 October 2023.
I am pleased to present my first Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) banking book strategy, prudential sensitivity analysis and capital and
report, having taken over the role of Chair of the Committee in May liquidity adequacy. Throughout the year, the GRC reviewed and
2023. I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere challenged management on the Group’s regulatory submissions,
gratitude to Jackson Tai for his service to GRC, and the Group more including the Bank of England’s requirements for the Resolvability
broadly, prior to stepping down as Committee Chair. I am also Assessment Framework, internal capital adequacy assessment
pleased to welcome Kalpana Morparia, Brendan Nelson and Swee process (‘ICAAP’) and internal liquidity adequacy assessment process
Lian Teo, all of whom joined as members of the GRC during 2023, (‘ILAAP’). The GRC had primary non-executive responsibility for
and each of whom brings unique skills and experience to the business reviewing the outcomes of regulatory stress tests, including the 2023
of the Committee. annual cyclical scenario hybrid mortgage models update and the post-
wind-down business restructuring analysis.
Geopolitical risks and the macroeconomic environment continued to
dominate the landscape in 2023, with turmoil in the financial markets Non-financial risks were also a key focus of the GRC in 2023. The
leading to the collapse of several banks in the US and Europe in the GRC carefully considered the Group’s regulatory remediation and
first half of the year. Commercial real estate in both the US and Asia change programmes, and worked closely with management to better
also came under increasing pressure due to the high interest rate prioritise and understand where there are key interdependencies. In
environment, inflationary trends and recessionary concerns. Central particular, the Committee reviewed and challenged the Group’s data
banks’ efforts to lower inflation by rapidly raising interest rates also strategy and other key areas of regulatory focus, including oversight
had a wide-ranging impact on retail borrowers as the cost of living of the operational resilience enhancements, conduct and financial
increased globally. The GRC has closely monitored the Group’s credit crime, technology and cyber risk. The GRC also provided oversight
exposures, market risk and settlement limits in response to these and support to risk transformation activities to develop stronger risk
events, and has endorsed management’s proactive execution in management capabilities and outcomes across the Group. Climate
reducing high risk exposures and accelerating portfolio also continues to be a priority area of oversight with regular reports on
transformation. areas of risk, such as greenwashing, compliance with regulatory
requirements, and ESG policy changes.
Oversight of financial risks has been critical against this external
backdrop, and the GRC has paid close focus to the Group’s ongoing Further details on these and other areas of GRC oversight during the
treasury, capital and liquidity risk management activities, including year are set out below.
early warning indicators, delivery of the interest rate risk in the
274 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Committee governance
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief Financial reaffirmed the ownership and accountability of risks in the first line of
Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Company Secretary and defence.
Chief Governance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer, and Group Head
The Chair meets regularly with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance
of Internal Audit are standing attendees at GRC meetings. The Chair
Officer, and, where appropriate, members of senior management, to
and members of the GRC also hold private meetings with the Group
discuss priorities and track progress on key actions. The Chair also
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit
meets regularly with the GRC Secretary to ensure the GRC addresses
and the external auditor, PwC, following scheduled GRC meetings.
its governance responsibilities. A summary of coverage is set out in
The participation of our senior business leaders, including the Group the ’Matters considered during 2023’ table.
Chief Executive who attended five scheduled GRC meetings in 2023,
and the chief executive officers of the three global businesses
Matters considered during 2023
Jan Feb Mar May Jun Jul Sep Dec
Holistic enterprise risk monitoring including
l l l l l l l l
Group risk profile1
Risk framework and policies l l ô ô ô l ô ô
Treasury and traded risk l l l l l l l l
Wholesale/retail credit risk l l ô l l l l ô
Financial reporting risk ô l ô ô ô l ô ô
Resilience risk (including IT and operational risk) ô ô ô l l ô l l
Financial crime risk l l l l l l l l
People and conduct risk ô ô ô l l ô l l
Regulatory compliance risk ô ô l l ô l l l
Legal risk ô l ô l l l l l
Model risk ô ô ô ô ô l ô l
Climate risk ô l ô l l ô l l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
1 The GRC receives updates on all risk types through the Group risk profile, which is presented to the majority of meetings. The Committee also met
with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Risk and Compliance Executive Committee members in October 2023 to review matters
relating to risk transformation, wholesale credit risk, treasury risk, model risk, operational risk, data and climate risk.
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Activities outside formal meetings During the engagement meeting, the GRC developed a better
understanding of the efforts to strengthen our capabilities across the
The GRC held a number of meetings outside its regular schedule to
Group Risk and Compliance function. There were also in-depth
facilitate deeper and more effective oversight of the risks impacting
discussions on the progress and remediation of key regulatory
the Group. Areas covered included capital management, stress
concerns. The engagement promoted a healthy working relationship
testing, ICAAP and ILAAP preparations, as well as briefings on the
between GRC members and executive management.
Resolvability Assessment Framework. Further details of these
sessions are included in the ’Principal activities and significant issues Collaborative oversight by the GRC, GAC and Technology
considered during 2023’ table starting on page 276. Governance Working Group
Connectivity with principal subsidiary risk committees The GRC worked closely with the GAC and the Technology
Governance Working Group to address any areas of significant
During 2023, the GRC continued to actively engage with principal
overlap, and to oversee risk more comprehensively through inter-
subsidiary risk committees through the scheduled participation of
committee communications and joint meetings.
principal subsidiary risk committee chairs at relevant GRC meetings,
and through a quarterly connectivity meeting with the principal The GRC, GAC and the Technology Governance Working Group
subsidiary risk committee chairs. This meeting is also attended by the Chairs convened on two occasions to consider the Group's data
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. This participation and strategy and ambitions. Further details of these sessions can be
connectivity promoted the sharing of information and best practices found under ’Collaboration with GAC/GRC/Technology Governance
between the GRC and principal subsidiary risk committees. Working Group’ in the GAC report on page 271.
The GRC also received reports at its regular meetings on the key risks The committees and working group worked closely to ensure
facing principal subsidiaries including escalations and certifications appropriate alignment in the review, discussion, challenge and
from the principal subsidiary risk committees. The certifications conclusions on topics including risk and control issues relating to
confirmed that the principal subsidiary risk committees had digital assets and currencies, and the transition of core Finance
challenged management on the quality of the information provided, capabilities to the Cloud. This ensured that the committees benefited
reviewed the actions proposed by management to address any from each other’s expertise and challenge.
emerging issues and that risk management and internal control
Coordination between the GRC, GAC and the Technology Governance
systems had been operating effectively.
Working Group is supported by cross-membership. The GRC and GAC
These interactions furthered the GRC’s understanding of the risk Chairs are members of both committees, and this strengthened
profile of the principal subsidiaries, leading to more comprehensive connectivity and the flow of information between the committees.
review and challenge by the GRC. Each of the co-chairs of the Technology Governance Working Group
are members of the GRC and GAC, respectively.
Engagement with the Risk and Compliance Executive
Committee
During 2023, the GRC met with the Risk and Compliance Executive
Committee to promote information sharing, meet and assess the
Group Risk and Compliance function leadership team, and encourage
active engagement with executive management.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 275
Corporate
governance
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023 (continued)
Risk areas Key issues Conclusions and actions
HSBC faces risk from the possibility of losses The GRC reviewed updates on the strategy and approach to managing credit risk
resulting from the failure of a counterparty to and credit risk capabilities. The GRC received regular updates on the Group’s
meet its agreed obligations to pay the Group. expected credit losses and provisions, and the credit risk arising from the
wholesale portfolio and mortgage books. Throughout the year, the GRC focused
on oversight of management’s enhancement objectives for wholesale credit risk
management, in particular to improve the Group’s approach to country and
Wholesale/
industry concentration risks.
retail credit risk
The GRC continued its emphasis on building even stronger credit capabilities for
specialty sectors, the development of stronger portfolio management capabilities
and further improving the Group’s credit risk culture. A key focus area continued to
be offering support to our retail customers experiencing financial difficulty, by
maintaining appropriate tools and treatments and ensuring that conduct and good
customer outcomes was a priority.
HSBC is exposed to risks where controls While the GAC maintains primary responsibility in relation to internal financial
supporting the reporting of its financial control systems, with further detail on pages 266 to 271, the GRC receives reports
Financial statements are not effective, resulting in material on entity level control assessments to enable the oversight of the effectiveness of
reporting risk error or misstatement. such controls in support of the Group’s financial reporting. The GRC also receives
relevant audit reports that provide an assessment of control effectiveness for
financial reporting risks.
Resilience risks could lead to a situation where The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s implementation of operational
we may be unable to provide our customers with resilience capabilities in line with PRA and FCA policies. The GRC reviewed and
critical business services due to significant challenged the operational resilience self-assessment against regulatory
disruption. expectations, and worked with management to ensure that ownership and the
Technology risks could cause unmanaged delivery of resilience outcomes were embedded within the business and with
disruption to any IT system within HSBC, as a function leaders. The GRC also received reports on system incidents and outages
result of malicious acts, accidental actions or experienced across the Group, including reports on immediate actions being taken
poor IT practice, or IT system failure. to enhance system continuity for, and communicate with customers, and
measures being implemented to improve resilience-related controls to prevent
reoccurrence.
Resilience risk
(and The GRC regularly reviewed reports on the Group’s technology risk profile, as well
as receiving bi-annual updates in relation to the risk and control environment, as
operational
well as the current threat landscape and emerging risks. The GRC (working with
risk)
the newly-created Group Technology Committee as appropriate) will consider
further the risks and opportunities inherent in the use of AI (generative and
advanced) in 2024.
The GRC maintained a strong focus on understanding the Group’s data risk
landscape, its data strategy and data management programme. The GRC
collaborated with the GAC and the Technology Governance Working Group on data
strategy, the execution plan and timeline for data remediation, the governance
approach and the investment model. Further details on the joint meetings are
included in the 'Collaboration with GAC/GRC/Technology Governance Working
Group’ section on page 275.
There is a risk that HSBC’s products and services The GRC reviewed the Group’s approach to managing its financial crime risk
could be exploited for criminal activity, including across geographies and businesses. This included reviewing updates to the
fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion, Group’s financial crime policy, enhancing the approach to insider risk, and
sanctions and export control violations, money monitoring the fraud landscape and strategies for managing fraud risk.
Financial crime
laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation The ongoing Russia-Ukraine war has necessitated continued oversight of the ever-
risk financing. changing and increasingly complex international sanctions landscape in which the
Group and its customers operate, as well as the Group’s approach to managing its
compliance with multiple and differing sanctions regimes globally.
People are central to everything HSBC does and The GRC monitored people risk and employee conduct, with support from the
it is essential to manage the risk of not having Group Chief Human Resources Officer and Group Chief Risk and Compliance
the right people with the right skills, and to Officer. The GRC considered people risk issues with a focus on the four 'c’s:
ensure staff always have the customer’s interest capacity, capability, culture and conduct. It also considered remuneration risks, and
at the forefront. strategies to retain talent and acquire new capabilities in key areas.
People and
Of key importance, the GRC placed strong emphasis on policies and practices
conduct risk
relating to conduct and fairness to customers, especially vulnerable customers
given heightened macroeconomic pressures and stress on customers across
markets.
The GRC met in November to review the Group’s risk and reward alignment
framework to promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and
FCA remuneration rules and expectations.
As a result of operating in multiple jurisdictions The GRC and its members actively engage with regulators and act on feedback.
globally, HSBC is exposed to risks associated The Committee closely monitors the progress of any regulatory remediation
Regulatory with inappropriate market conduct or breaching activities, with support from the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer as well
compliance related financial services regulatory standards or as principal subsidiary risk committee chairs. Throughout the year, the GRC had
risk expectations. oversight over reports providing feedback from regulators, including a summary of
regulatory deliverables to ensure HSBC remains in line with regulatory standards
and expectations.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 277
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2023 (continued)
Risk areas Key issues Conclusions and actions
HSBC is exposed to the risk of financial loss, The GRC oversees and receives regular updates on key legal developments and
legal or regulatory action resulting from material legal issues from the Group Chief Legal Officer. The updates also cover
Legal risk contractual risk, dispute management risk, material litigation and regulatory enforcement matters and an overview of the legal
breach of competition law or intellectual property risk profile of HSBC.
risk.
If models have been inadequately designed, The GRC continued to oversee the Group’s progress in managing model risk
implemented or used, or do not perform in line through the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer’s Group risk profile report.
with expectations and predictions, then HSBC The GRC oversaw the progress in achieving our model risk vision, strengthening
can face risks from inappropriate or incorrect our model risk management capabilities and addressing regulatory requirements
Model risk business decisions arising from their use. across global jurisdictions. In particular, the GRC reviewed the PRA Supervisory
Statement 1/23 and the impact on the Group. The GRC reviewed the new
guidance, potential resource implications and the planned programme of changes
across all three lines of defence. It also noted the enhanced governance
expectations in relation to model oversight.
Environmental, social and governance risks The GRC remained focused on climate risk and greenwashing risk. The GRC
present significant risks to organisations both in received reports on climate risk management and energy policies, while
terms of their own operations and how they maintaining oversight of delivery plans to ensure that the Group develops robust
engage with stakeholders and communities. climate risk management capabilities.
Climate risk
The GRC approved the 2023 internal climate scenario analysis and nature scenario
analysis pilot in July 2023. The outcomes will be used to respond to multiple
regional regulatory climate exercises as well as meeting regulatory expectations on
incorporating climate change within the Group’s strategic plans and ICAAP.
Committee evaluation Focus of future activities
2022/2023 The GRC’s focus for 2024 will include the following activities:
During 2023, the GRC implemented the recommendations of the – oversee risk transformation activities to develop even stronger risk
2022 committee evaluation conducted by Lintstock in consultation management capabilities, including the continued enhancement of
with the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer and the Group's risk appetite and risk management framework,
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. This included the need for especially in light of continued geopolitical and macroeconomic
continued focus on the quality of reporting, the importance of headwinds;
focusing limited agenda time to the most critical issues, and further
– continue to assess the Group’s operational resilience capability
clarity in roles and coordination between the GRC and other Board
and the implementation of enhancements to the operating model;
committees. The outcomes of the evaluation were reported to the
Board, and progress was tracked by the GRC through the year. – continue to oversee treasury risk to strengthen our capital and
liquidity management capabilities;
2023/2024
– monitor delivery against our climate ambitions and the
During the year, the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board development of appropriate data and model management tools
committees, including the GRC, was conducted externally by and capabilities;
Independent Board Evaluation. The review determined that the GRC
continued to operate effectively. – continue the oversight of recovery and resolution planning
activities to assess our resolvability capabilities if such situation
Areas for enhancement were identified, including the need for: arises;
increased focus on the most significant enterprise risks recognising
the breadth of the risk agenda; continued close engagement with – continue the oversight of the delivery of technology-related
subsidiaries; and enhancement of induction programmes for new programmes including the data remediation programme, and
members given the complexity of much of the subject matter under enhancement of the Group’s IT systems/platform;
discussion. A review of escalation parameters and filters will also be – continue to oversee financial crime risk and the strengthening of
undertaken by the GRC in 2024. the financial crime control framework, including proactive
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board and management by the business; and
the GRC will track progress in implementing recommendations during – assess our strategic opportunities and risks including exposures to
2024. digital currencies or assets and use of timely application of
Further details of the annual review of effectiveness can be found on technology such as machine learning or artificial intelligence.
pages 260 to 261.
The Committee will continue to monitor progress to deliver
enhancements in response to feedback from the evaluations in 2024.
278 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
As part of its deliberations, the Committee reflected on the overall Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery will each receive a 2024–2026 LTI
risk management in the year, and in respect of the PRA Notice: the award of 320% of base salary in respect of their performance for
nature of the failings identified; the regulator’s finding that the 2023 (Noel Quinn: £4,275,000; Georges Elhedery: £2,496,000).
breaches identified were not deliberate or reckless; fines levied; and Subject to performance over the next three years, awards will vest
the tenure and specific responsibilities of the executive Directors in over a further five years with a one-year retention period on vesting
relation to the issues covered. shares. Further details on our targets can be found on page 286.
Taking into account inputs from the GRC and the overall accountability Fixed pay for 2024
of the Group Chief Executive for the performance and risk
We have increased the base salary of our executive Directors by 3%,
management of the Group in 2023, the Committee used its
effective from 1 March 2024. The increase is lower than the overall
judgement and applied a downward adjustment of 7.50% to Noel
fixed pay increase of 4.4% for our wider workforce.
Quinn’s scorecard outcome.
Remuneration in 2024
This results in a final scorecard outcome of 70.24% of the maximum
opportunity for Group Chief Executive Noel Quinn (2022: 75.35%) and The Committee welcomes the change announced by the PRA and the
an annual incentive of £2,018,000, which is 7% lower than Financial Conduct Authority ('FCA') to remove the existing limits on
£2,164,000 in 2022. the ratio between fixed and variable pay.
The scorecard for Group Chief Financial Officer Georges Elhedery was The announcement, together with the wider considerations on the
76.75%, resulting in an annual incentive of £1,287,000. overall competitiveness of the UK capital markets, provides us an
opportunity to consider the competitiveness of our remuneration
The Committee considered that these final outcomes were a
arrangements for our executive Directors and wider workforce.
balanced and appropriate reflection of Group and individual
performance delivered in 2023, and appropriate in the context of the At the 2024 AGM, we will seek shareholder approval to provide the
pay decisions made for the wider workforce. Committee with discretion, where regulations allow, to set an
appropriate variable to fixed pay ratio considering all relevant factors,
2021–2023 long-term incentive ('LTI') vesting
including our business activities and associated prudential and
Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson (the former Group Chief Financial conduct risks.
Officer) participated in the 2021–2023 LTI that will vest in March
This will improve flexibility in the structure of remuneration to
2024. As disclosed in our 2020 Directors’ remuneration report, the
increase the amount of pay that is variable, subject to the delivery of
Committee considered windfall gains at the time of award and
performance. It will also strengthen our ability to recruit and retain
determined no adjustment was appropriate.
people in competitive markets where many of our international
The maximum RoTE and relative total shareholder return (‘TSR’) competitors do not have similar restrictions.
targets were exceeded. The capital reallocation to Asia measure was
We remain very supportive of the use of deferral mechanisms and the
not met and the environment and sustainability measures were
requirements to deliver a substantial portion of variable remuneration
assessed to be 100% met. Overall, 75.00% of the original award will
in shares to ensure alignment between shareholders, good risk
vest on a pro-rata basis over the next five years. Ewen Stevenson’s
management and individual reward.
awards have been pro-rated for time in employment.
For our executive Directors, we have started early engagement with
As this is the first LTI vesting for Noel Quinn, his single figure of
institutional shareholders and proxy advisory bodies ahead of the
remuneration for 2023 is materially changed. The 2023 single figure of
renewal of our Directors' remuneration policy in 2025. Over several
remuneration for Noel Quinn is £10,641,000 (compared with
years, the Committee has expressed concerns around the
£5,562,000 for 2022). The value of the LTI award reflects the Group's
competitiveness of the executive Director remuneration opportunity
improvement in performance, shareholder returns and share price
and indicated that our preference would be to operate a policy with a
over 2021 to 2023, and Noel Quinn's leadership in reshaping the
higher proportion of the package based on variable pay linked to
Group to deliver more sustainable returns to shareholders.
performance. The Committee continues to believe in a more
Noel Quinn's LTI vesting also means that the pay ratio measuring the performance-based structure, and we will seek shareholder approval
total pay of the Group Chief Executive against the median pay of our for a new Directors' remuneration policy at the 2025 AGM in line with
UK employees has increased to 169:1 compared with 95:1 last year. the normal three-year cycle after engaging with shareholders through
Excluding the LTI vesting in respect of the year, the median ratio 2024.
remained broadly in line with prior years at 86:1. This is consistent
Conclusion
with the pay and progression policies for our UK workforce,
considering the diverse mix of employees, the pay mix for various On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank our shareholders
roles and the differences in pay structure compared with executive for the time taken to engage with us during the year. We welcome
Directors. the feedback on our approach to remuneration and I look forward to
engaging with you further in the year ahead as we continue our
2024–2026 LTI awards
review of the Directors’ remuneration policy, in advance of the 2025
We have reviewed the performance measures for LTI awards AGM.
considering the next phase of our strategy over 2024 to 2026. We will
As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support the 2023
retain Group RoTE, relative TSR and environment targets, reflecting
Directors’ remuneration report and the resolution to remove the 2:1
our strategic commitments, and to measure relative performance
cap on variable pay for our Material Risk Takers at this year's AGM.
compared with peers. The capital reallocation to Asia measure was
previously included to retain focus on repositioning the Group’s capital
base through the transformation of the business. While our
operations in Asia continue to be of significant strategic importance to
the Group, it was the Committee’s view that this measure no longer
appropriately incentivises the delivery of sustainable returns
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
achievable across wider markets in which HSBC operates. We are
simplifying the 2024–2026 LTI by removing this metric and increasing Chair
the weighting of RoTE and relative TSR.
Group Remuneration Committee
The relative TSR peer group was amended for 2023 to include more
21 February 2024
Asian peers to better reflect our growth and investment focus. We do
not propose to make any changes for 2024 other than the removal of
the Credit Suisse Group following its acquisition by UBS Group.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 281
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Annual report on Directors’ remuneration
This section sets out how our approved Directors’ remuneration policy was implemented during 2023.
Determining executive Directors’ incentive outcomes
(Audited)
For any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director measures were set based on maintaining or improving when
must achieve a minimum standard of conduct and values-aligned compared with 2022 performance and/or market benchmarks.
behaviour. Both executive Directors met this requirement for 2023.
The Inclusion index in our employee Snapshot survey exceeded
The award is determined by applying the outcome of their annual target, and was significantly above the financial services benchmark.
scorecard to the maximum opportunity, set at 215% of base salary.
We met or exceeded our senior leadership diversity representation
The financial measures, weightings and targets were set at the start targets. Our customer net promoter score ('NPS') performance was
of the financial year to align with our reported financial performance largely positive relative to our competitors in most areas of our
and before significant changes in the interest rate environment. They business.
considered the 2023 financial plan, data from 2022, external
The Committee considered that the scorecard outcome for personal
commitments, scenario testing of upside and downside risks in the
measures for both Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery was appropriate
plan, and analyst consensus where relevant.
against the targets set at the start of the year.
The Committee considered carefully the wider context in which
Overall, this resulted in a formulaic scorecard outcome of 75.93% of
performance was delivered and the impact of strategic transactions
the maximum for Noel Quinn and 76.75% for Georges Elhedery.
and one-offs on the Group's financial performance in 2023, including
the favourable year-on-year impact of $4.1bn relating to the sale of The Committee discussed at length whether the risk and compliance
our retail banking operations in France and the provisional gain on the modifier should be applied for 2023 for the Group’s performance
acquisition of SVB UK, balanced with the $3.0bn impairment charge against key risk metrics, including the historical failings identified by
relating to the investment in BoCom. the PRA in its Notice of 29 January 2024.
Consistent with the approach in prior years, the Committee judged As part of its deliberations, the Committee reflected on the overall
that it was appropriate to assess financial performance for the risk management in the year, and in respect of the PRA Notice: the
purpose of the annual scorecard excluding these items, to ensure that nature of the failings identified; the regulator’s finding that the
out-turns were not impacted by one-offs. The assessment of RoTE breaches identified were not deliberate or reckless; fines levied; and
and profit before tax measures therefore excluded strategic the tenure and specific responsibilities of the executive Directors in
transactions and the BoCom impairment. relation to the issues covered.
The Committee also considered the impact of interest rates on Taking into account inputs from the Group Risk Committee and Noel
performance and noted that macroeconomic fluctuations remain a Quinn's overall accountability for the performance and risk
frequent driver of the Group’s business outcomes for our executives management of the Group in 2023, the Committee used its
to manage. In recent years these factors have not led to discretionary judgement and applied a downward adjustment of 7.50% to his
scorecard adjustments for our executive Directors, either positive or scorecard outcome.
negative, which the Committee continues to believe is appropriate. This results in a final outcome of 70.24% of the maximum opportunity
Performance was above the maximum targets for Group profit before for Noel Quinn (2022: 75.35%) and an annual incentive of £2,018,000,
tax, Group RoTE and Asia RoTE. On our cost target basis, growth was which is 7% lower than £2,164,000 in 2022.
6% versus our target of approximately 3% compared with 2022 and No risk and compliance modifier was applied for Georges Elhedery
below the performance range. who was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer on 1 January
For strategic measures, diversity representation targets were set 2023, after all underlying issues identified by the PRA had been fully
based on a trajectory to meet our external commitments. Other remediated. Georges Elhedery's scorecard outcome of 76.75%
results in an annual incentive of £1,287,000.
Annual incentive scorecard assessment
(Audited)
Summary assessment
Minimum Maximum Noel Quinn Georges Elhedery
(25.0% (100.0% Weighting Assessment Outcome Weighting Assessment Outcome
payout) payout) Performance2 (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%)
Profit before tax1 ($bn) 25.8 30.3 31.6 15.0 100.00 15.00 15.0 100.00 15.00
Target basis operating
expenses ($bn) 31.0 30.5 31.6 15.0 — — 15.0 — —
Group RoTE1 12.0% 14.5% 15.6% 15.0 100.00 15.00 15.0 100.00 15.00
Asia RoTE1 12.8% 15.0% 16.8% 5.0 100.00 5.00 5.0 100.00 5.00
Fee income ($bn) 11.8 13.1 11.84 5.0 25.55 1.28 5.0 25.55 1.28
Growth in Total (ex
net new Hong Kong) 36.6 56.8 55.1 2.5 93.73 2.34 2.5 93.73 2.34
invested
assets ($bn) Total 58.8 79.0 84.3 2.5 100.00 2.50 2.5 100.00 2.50
Customer satisfaction 15.0 91.67 13.75 15.0 91.67 13.75
Employee experience See following tables for commentary 15.0 93.75 14.06 15.0 93.75 14.06
Personal objectives 10.0 7.00 10.0 7.81
Total 100.0 75.93 100.0 76.75
Scorecard outcome (000) £2,181 £1,287
7.50% risk adjustment per
Committee judgement (000) £(163) £0
Annual incentive (000) £2,018 £1,287
1 Assessed excluding strategic transactions and BoCom impairment.
2 The CET1 capital ratio underpin was met.
284 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Stakeholder measures for Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery
Measures Weighting (%) Assessment considerations by the Committee Assessment (%) Outcome (%)
Customer Maintain and 15.0% – NPS is sourced from our strategic NPS surveys with results gathered 91.67% 13.75%
satisfaction improve NPS through independent third-party research agencies. The assessment is
in the UK against quantitative targets set based on the level of improvement from the
and Hong prior year and in rank position.
Kong, in – In the UK and Hong Kong, we met our maximum NPS target and largely met
digital the target in digital markets. Across other growth markets we met our
markets, and maximum NPS target.
in key – In WPB, our NPS increased in five of our six key markets (Hong Kong,
growth mainland China, Mexico, India and Singapore). In the UK, the slight decline
markets of our NPS was driven by mass affluent customers. We ranked among the
top three banks in three of our six key markets. In Hong Kong, we remained
in first place overall, leading the market with our mobile app performance.
Our rank remained in the top three in mainland China, and rose to the top in
India.
– In CMB, we ranked among the top three banks in four of our six key
markets. We were first place in Hong Kong and within the top three in
mainland China, Singapore and Mexico.
– In GBM, we ranked in first place globally for NPS and digital satisfaction.
Employee Improve 15.0% – The Inclusion index in our employee Snapshot survey increased by two 93.75% 14.06%
experience diversity and percentage points and exceeded the maximum target of 77%. The score is
inclusion seven points above the external financial services benchmark.
– The percentage of Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership roles
increased by 0.5 percentage points to 3.0%, meeting the maximum target
and on track to meet our external commitment of 3.4% by 2025.
– We made a 3.8 percentage point year-on-year net gain in senior leadership
representation of colleagues with Asian heritage, against a 2022 year-end
baseline of 34.0%
– The percentage of women in senior leadership roles increased by
0.8 percentage points to 34.1%, meeting the target, and below the
maximum. The targets excluded the Canada business held for sale.
Including colleagues in HSBC Canada, gender representation in senior
leadership is 34.2%.
Personal objectives for Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery
For each executive Director, personal objectives were set at the start of the year and measured by the Committee against agreed targets and key performance
indicators.
Noel Quinn Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Technology 4.0% 50.00% – Our Cloud adoption rate, which is the percentage of our technology services on the private or public Cloud,
transformation increased to 43% (2022: 35%). At the end of 2023, about 54% of our WPB customers were 'mobile active'
users (2022: 49%) and the proportion of WPB sales completed digitally increased to 49% (2022: 43%).
– The Committee's assessment balanced strong progress automating our organisation at scale against the
targets set, and progress to deliver our wider multi-year technology strategy.
Progress on 4.0% 100.00% – Several strategic investments were made in Asia including Meditrust, a unicorn start-up, which will support
innovation HSBC Life’s Pinnacle proposition in mainland China. Investments were made in a joint venture with
programmes Tradeshift, an existing Ventures investment, which will support the trade finance business to deploy a range
of technology solutions.
– In 2023, Zing, our new international payments business aimed at non-HSBC customers, was launched, and
a digital currency capability with eHKD was piloted in Hong Kong. We became the first bank to pioneer
quantum protection for foreign exchange trading, and were one of the first international banks to participate
in China’s eCNY programme.
– Progress was made on several generative AI use cases including developer productivity, knowledge
management and content generation. Our first AI patent to be used to detect cyber threats, was filed.
Simplification of 2.0% 50.00% – Strong progress was made with the completion of the exit from Greece, merger in Oman, and sale of the
processes and New Zealand WPB mortgage portfolio.
organisation – The sale of our retail banking portfolio in France was completed on 1 January 2024 and we remain on track
to sell our retail banking operations in Canada in the first quarter of 2024.
– The timing of our planned exit from our business in Russia was impacted by dependency on the regulatory
and government approval process, which is outside of HSBC’s control.
– Exits from our WPB business in Mauritius and our hedge fund administration business were announced.
Total 7.00% out of 10.00%
Georges Elhedery Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Deliver activities 2.5% 58.33% – The Integrity of Regulatory Reporting programme continues to remediate against known gaps to deliver
relating to improvements in quality of regulatory returns.
regulatory priorities – The Bank of England Resolvability Assessment Framework self-assessment was submitted, demonstrating
an uplift in the Group’s capabilities.
– Certain climate considerations have been assessed and incorporated into the annual financial planning cycle.
We also enhanced our climate scenario analysis capabilities in line with plan.
Deliver Finance 2.5% 62.50% – For the remediation of interest rate risk in the banking book, all 2023 targeted actions were completed from
change a first line of defence perspective, subject to second and third line of defence review and confirmation in
transformation and early 2024 as planned.
digitisation – Identified Finance change transformation activities have been deployed in line with plans.
More energised 2.5% 100.00% – Global Finance employee engagement index increased to 79% (2022: 74%), exceeding the target set.
Finance workforce – Global Finance career index increased to 69% (2022: 65%), exceeding the target set.
Drive liquidity and 2.5% 91.67% – The Group’s CET1 capital ratio was delivered above our target operating range.
capital management – Planned liquidity optimisation outcomes were successfully met.
across the Group – Targets relating to earnings stabilisation were assessed as met.
Total 7.81% out of 10.00%
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 285
Corporate
governance
Assessment of the 2021–2023 LTI awards
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (weighting)1 (25.0% payout) (50.0% payout) (100.0% payout) Actual Assessment Outcome
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2
8.0% 9.0% 10.0% 14.6% 100.0% 25.00%
(25.0%)
Capital reallocation to Asia with CET1
45.0% 47.0% 50.0% 43.4% 0.0% 0.00%
capital ratio underpin3 (25.0%)
Carbon reduction
42.0% 48.0% 51.0% 57.3% 100.0% 12.50%
Transition to net (own emissions)
zero4 (25.0%) Sustainable finance
$200.0bn $240.0bn $260.0bn $294.0bn 100.0% 12.50%
and investment
Straight-line
At median of the vesting between At upper quartile Above upper
Relative TSR5 (25.0%) 100.0% 25.00%
peer group minimum and of the peer group quartile
maximum
Total 75.00%
1 Awards vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set out in this table.
2 Assessed based on RoTE in the 2023 financial year. The CET1 capital ratio underpin was met.
3 Assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December 2023,
which was not met.
4 Carbon reduction assessed on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2023 using 2019 as the baseline.
Sustainable finance and investment assessed on cumulative financing provided over the performance period.
5 The peer group was: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds
Banking Group, Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. Credit Suisse Group was removed from the peer group following its acquisition
by UBS Group in June 2023.
LTI awards over 2024 to 2026 performance period
After taking into account performance for 2023, the Committee – Our emissions reduction targets have been set based on meeting
decided to grant Noel Quinn an LTI award of £4,275,000 and Georges our commitments to procure 90% renewable energy by 2025 and
Elhedery an LTI award of £2,496,000 (both 320% of base salary). halve energy consumption and travel emissions by 2030.
The awards will have a three-year performance period starting on – Our sustainable finance and investments measure is based on our
1 January 2024. ambition announced in 2020 to provide $750bn to $1tn of
The Committee has reviewed the performance measures considering financing and investment by 2030. Although the target range is
feedback from shareholders and the next phase of our strategy. We lower than for the 2023–2025 LTI awards, we are on track to meet
are simplifying and improving the focus on shareholder returns by our 2030 ambition, with changing market conditions slightly
assessing performance on three measures, including RoTE and impacting our year-on-year trajectory.
relative TSR which are equally-weighted financial measures, and a The LTI is subject to a risk and compliance modifier, which gives the
third measure linked to our climate ambitions. Committee the discretion to ensure performance targets are delivered
The capital reallocation to Asia measure was previously included to with appropriate risk management.
retain focus on repositioning the Group’s capital base through the The RoTE measure is subject to a CET1 capital ratio underpin. If the
transformation of the business. While our operations in Asia continue CET1 capital ratio at the end of the performance period is below the
to be of significant strategic importance to the Group, it was the CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the
Committee’s view that this measure no longer appropriately assessment for this measure will be reduced to nil.
incentivised the delivery of sustainable returns achievable across
The number of shares to be awarded will be adjusted to reflect the
wider markets in which HSBC operates.
expected dividend yield of the shares over the vesting period, as
Targets have been set to balance stretch and achievability so that awards are not entitled to dividend equivalents in accordance with
awards act as an effective incentive for management, and incentivise regulatory requirements.
outperformance, aligned to our external strategic commitments.
To the extent performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the
– The minimum threshold for the RoTE measure is aligned to our three-year performance period, the awards will vest in five equal
external commitment of mid-teens RoTE over the medium term. annual instalments commencing from around the third anniversary of
the grant date. On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of
– The relative TSR peer group was amended for 2023 to include
shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and
more Asian peers to better reflect our growth and investment
social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one
focus. No changes have been made for 2024 other than the
year, or such period as required by regulators.
removal of the Credit Suisse Group following its acquisition by
UBS Group.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 287
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Performance conditions for the 2024–2026 LTI awards
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (weighting)1 (25.0% payout) (50.0% payout) (100.0% payout)
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 (37.5%) 14.0% 16.0% 17.0%
Carbon reduction
66.0% 70.0% 74.0%
(own emissions)
Environment3 (25.0%)
Sustainable finance
$539.0bn $641.0bn $693.0bn
and investment
Straight-line vesting
At the median of the peer At the upper quartile of the
Relative TSR4 (37.5%) between minimum and
group peer group
maximum
Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account performance against risk and compliance
factors during the performance period.
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period, subject to the CET1 capital ratio underpin.
3 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2026 using 2019 as
the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending
31 December 2026.
4 The peer group for the 2023 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings,
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
Annual incentive measures for 2024
The 2024 annual incentive scorecard measures for our executive
2024 annual incentive performance measures Weighting
Directors have been set to incentivise the delivery of the next phase
Financial (all measures subject to CET1 capital ratio 60.0%
of our strategy.
underpin, and excluding notable items)
We have reduced the number of financial measures, reflecting
Profit before tax 15.0%
feedback from shareholders to simplify our approach and ensure
Operating expenses 15.0%
focus on our key strategic commitments. The weighting of Group
Group RoTE 25.0%
RoTE has increased to 25% (from 15% in 2023). The overall
Asia RoTE 5.0%
weighting of financial measures remains at 60%.
Stakeholders 30.0%
Financial measures will be assessed on a reported basis excluding Customer satisfaction
notable items so that the outcome reflects performance excluding the Improvement in NPS scores/rank 15.0%
impact of one-off and items not controlled by management.
Employee experience
10.0%
Our first net zero transition plan was launched in January 2024 setting Gender and ethnicity representation and Inclusion index score
out our approach to net zero and the actions we are taking. To Execution of our sustainability commitments against Board
5.0%
support our ambition, a sustainability measure has been added to the approved plans
annual scorecard, which will be assessed based on the execution of
Personal measures
our sustainability commitments against Board approved plans. – Group Chief Executive: Technology transformation and
enhanced Board information
Personal measures have been set to ensure meaningful weighting for
the most critical objectives for each executive Director. – Group Chief Financial Officer: Delivery of regulatory change 10.0%
programmes (including regulatory reporting), enhancement of
The Committee will continue to retain discretion to adjust the
external disclosures and robust liquidity and capital
formulaic outcomes of scorecards, taking into account factors such as
management
Group profits, wider business performance and stakeholder
experience, to ensure executive reward is aligned with underlying Subject to risk and compliance modifier
Group performance and the broader stakeholder experience. The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to
revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account
The weightings and performance measures for the 2024 annual performance against risk and compliance factors during the
incentive scorecard for executive Directors are in the adjacent table. performance period.
The targets have been set to reflect the Group’s 2024 plan, while
considering macroeconomic uncertainty, including the interest rate
environment and inflation. The performance targets are commercially
sensitive and it would be detrimental to the Group’s interests to
disclose them at the start of the financial year. Subject to commercial
sensitivity, we will disclose the targets in the 2024 Directors’
remuneration report.
288 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Committee governance
The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Risk and Compliance from stakeholders when finalising meeting agendas and track
Officer, the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, progress on actions and Committee priorities. The Committee
the Group Chief Human Resources Officer, and the Group Head of Secretary will continue to support the Chair in ensuring that the
Performance, Reward and Employee Relations routinely and Committee has fulfilled its governance responsibilities.
selectively attend Committee meetings. As detailed below, the Chair
A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference can be found on our
of the Group Remuneration Committee held regular meetings with
website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/
management, and Committee advisers to discuss specific issues as
board-committees.
they arose during the year outside the formal Committee process.
The Committee Secretary regularly met with the Chair to ensure the
Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities, to consider input
Matters considered during 2023
Jan Feb May Jun Jul Sep Dec
Remuneration framework and governance
Group variable pay pool, workforce performance and pay matters, pay gap report, and employee insights l l l l l l l
Directors’ remuneration policy design ô ô ô l l l l
Executive Director remuneration policy implementation, scorecards and pay proposals l l l ô l l l
Remuneration for other senior executives of the Group l l l ô l ô l
Directors’ remuneration report l l ô ô ô ô l
Regulatory, risk and governance
Material risk and audit events, and performance and remuneration impacts for individuals involved l l l ô l l l
Regulatory updates, including approach and outcomes for the identification of Material Risk Takers l l l l l l l
Governance matters l l l l l l l
Principal subsidiaries
Matters from subsidiary committees l ô l l ô l l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
Advisers – Bob Hoyt, Group Chief Legal Officer; and
– Aileen Taylor, Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance
The Committee received input and advice from different advisers on
Officer.
specific topics during 2023. Deloitte provided independent advice to
the Committee. Deloitte also provided tax compliance and other The Committee also received feedback and input from the Group Risk
advisory services to the Group in 2023. Deloitte is a founding member Committee and Group Audit Committee on risk, conduct and
of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates compliance-related matters relevant to remuneration.
under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration
No Director is present at Committee meetings when their own
consulting in the UK.
remuneration is discussed.
The Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson on
In addition to the meetings above, the Chair took the opportunity to
market data and remuneration trends. Willis Towers Watson also
meet with the Chair of the Group Risk Committee and Group Audit
provides actuarial support to Global Finance, benchmarking data for
Committee to consider the Group’s risk and reward alignment
the wider workforce and services related to benefits administration
framework, which is designed to promote sound and effective risk
for our Group employees. The Committee was satisfied the advice
management in meeting PRA and FCA remuneration rules and
provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson was objective and
expectations.
independent in 2023.
Committee effectiveness
For 2023, total fees of £292,800 and £51,492 were incurred in relation
to remuneration advice provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers In 2023, the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board
Watson, respectively. This was based on pre-agreed fees and a time- committees, including the Group Remuneration Committee, was
and-materials basis. conducted externally by Ffion Hague, Independent Board Evaluation.
Attendees and interaction with other Board The review determined that the Committee continued to operate
effectively.
committees
Areas for enhancement were identified, including continued focus on
During the year, Noel Quinn as the Group Chief Executive provided the relationship between the Group and its subsidiary entities,
regular briefings to the Committee. In addition, the Committee building on the efforts taken under the direction of the Committee
engaged with, and received updates from, the following: Chair, which will be kept under review in 2024.
– Mark Tucker, Group Chairman; The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board, and
the Committee will track the progress in implementing
– Elaine Arden, Group Chief Human Resources Officer;
recommendations during 2024.
– Georges Elhedery, Group Chief Financial Officer;
As highlighted in the Board effectiveness review disclosure on
– Jenny Craik, Group Head of Performance, Reward and Employee page 261, the Board considered that further improvement is required
Relations; to ensure reporting is succinct and supported by relevant key
performance indicators. Further details of the annual review of the
– Pam Kaur, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer;
Board effectiveness review can be found on pages 260 to 261.
292 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Additional remuneration disclosures
This section provides further information and disclosure in relation to For the purpose of the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures, executive
executive Director and wider workforce remuneration as required Directors and non-executive Directors are considered to be members
under the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations, the UK of the management body. Members of the Group Executive
Corporate Governance Code, Hong Kong Ordinances, Hong Kong Committee other than the executive Directors are considered as
Listing Rules and the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures. senior management.
Policy alignment with UK Corporate Governance Code
The table below details how the Group Remuneration Committee addresses the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code in
respect of the Directors' remuneration policy:
Provision Approach
Clarity – The Committee regularly engages and consults with major shareholders to take into account
Remuneration arrangements should be shareholder feedback and to ensure there is transparency on our policy and its implementation.
transparent and promote effective engagement – Details of our remuneration practices and our remuneration policy for Directors are published and
with shareholders and the workforce. available to all our employees.
Simplicity – Our Directors' remuneration policy has been designed so that it is easy to understand and
Remuneration structures should avoid complexity transparent, while complying with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code
and their rationale and operation should be easy and the remuneration rules of the UK's PRA and FCA, as well as meeting the expectations of our
to understand. shareholders. The objective of each remuneration element is explained and the amount paid in
respect of each element is clearly set out.
Risk – In line with regulatory requirements, our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk
Remuneration structures should identify and management while supporting our business objectives.
mitigate against reputational and other risks from – The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer attends Committee meetings and updates the
excessive rewards, as well as behavioural risks Committee on the overall risk profile of the Group. The Committee also seeks inputs from the
that can arise from target-based incentive plans. Group Risk Committee when making remuneration decisions.
– Risk and conduct considerations are taken into account in setting the variable pay pool, from
which any executive Director variable pay is funded.
– Executive Directors' annual incentive and LTI scorecards include a mix of financial and non-
financial measures. Financial measures are subject to a CET1 underpin to ensure CET1 remains
within risk tolerance levels while achieving financial targets. In addition, the overall scorecard
outcome is subject to a risk and compliance modifier.
– The deferred portion of any awards granted to executive Directors is subject to a seven-year
deferral period during which our malus policy can be applied. All variable pay awards that have
vested are subject to our clawback policy for a period of up to seven years from the award date
(extending to 10 years where an investigation is ongoing).
Predictability – The charts set out in our shareholder approved policy report (available in our Annual Report and
The range of possible values of rewards to Accounts 2021) show how the total value of remuneration and its composition vary under different
individual Directors and any other limits or performance scenarios for executive Directors.
discretions should be identified and explained at
the time of approving the policy.
Proportionality – The annual incentive and LTI scorecards reward achievement of our financial and resource plan
The link between individual awards, the delivery targets, as well as long-term financial and shareholder value creation targets.
of strategy and the long-term performance of the – The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the annual incentive and LTI payout based on the
Group should be clear and outcomes should not outcome of the relevant scorecards, if it considers that the payout determined does not
reward poor performance. appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance
period.
Alignment with culture – In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve a
Incentive schemes should drive behaviours required behaviour rating, which is assessed by reference to the HSBC Values.
consistent with the Group's purpose, values and – Annual incentive and LTI scorecards contain non-financial measures linked to our wider social
strategy. strategy. These include measures related to reducing the environmental impact of our operations,
improving customer satisfaction, diversity and inclusion.
– Each year senior employees participate in a 360 survey, which gathers feedback on values-aligned
behaviours from peers, direct reports, skip level reports and managers.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 293
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Link between risk, performance and reward
Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk management to support our business objectives and the delivery of our strategy.
We set out below the key features of our framework, which enable us to align between risk, performance and reward, subject to compliance
with local laws and regulations:
Framework
elements Application
Variable pay – The Group variable pay pool is expected to reflect Group performance, based on a range of financial and non-financial factors. We
pool use a countercyclical funding methodology, with both a floor and a ceiling, with the payout ratio generally reducing as performance
increases to avoid pro-cyclicality. The floor recognises that even in challenging times, remaining competitive is important. The ceiling
recognises that at higher levels of performance it is not always necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool, thereby
limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance.
– The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include:
– Group and business unit financial performance, considering contextual factors driving performance, and capital requirements;
– current and future risks, taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite, financial and resourcing plan and global
conduct outcomes; and
– fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress, which are automatically included in the Committee’s definition of profit for
determining the pool.
– In the event that the Group was unable to distribute dividends to shareholders for reasons such as capital adequacy, then the Group
may determine that as a year of weak performance. In such a year, the Group may withhold some, or all, variable pay for
employees including unvested share awards, using the metrics outlined above as a basis for that determination.
Individual – Assessment of individual performance is made with reference to clear and relevant financial and non-financial objectives. Objectives
performance for senior management take into account appropriate measures linked to sustainability risks, such as: reduction in carbon footprint;
facilitating financing to help clients with their transition to net zero; employee diversity; and risk and compliance measures.
– A mandatory global risk and compliance objective is included for all other employees. Employees receive a behaviour rating as well
as a performance rating, which ensures performance is assessed not only on what is achieved but also on how it is achieved.
Control – Group policy is for control functions staff to report into their respective function. Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles
function staff are made by the global function head.
– The performance and reward of individuals in control functions, including risk and compliance colleagues, are assessed according to
a balanced scorecard of objectives specific to the functional role they undertake.
– Their remuneration is determined independent of the performance of the business areas they oversee.
– Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
– The Committee is responsible for approving the remuneration for the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Group Head of
Internal Audit.
Variable pay – Variable pay awards may be adjusted downwards in circumstances including:
adjustments – detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute;
and conduct – involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause
recognition significant harm to HSBC; and
– non-compliance with the values-aligned behaviours and other mandatory requirements or policies.
– Rewarding positive conduct may take the form of use of our global recognition programme, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to
variable pay awards.
Malus – Malus can be applied to unvested deferred awards (up to 100% of awards) granted in prior years in circumstances including:
– detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
– past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
– restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
– improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback – Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 (and awards granted to non-MRTs
on or after 1 January 2022) for a period of seven years, extended to 10 years for employees in PRA and FCA designated senior
management functions in the event of ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Clawback may
be applied in circumstances including:
– participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
– failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
– reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a
contract of employment; and
– a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk-management standards,
policies and procedures.
– Clawback can also be applied to vested or paid awards granted to designated Executive Officers as defined by the US Securities
and Exchange Commission ('SEC') for a period of three years in the event of an accounting restatement due to material non-
compliance with any financial reporting requirement under the US securities laws.
Sales – We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans, unless aligned with local market practice and with appropriate
incentives safeguards to avoid incentivising inappropriate sales behaviours.
Identification – We identify individuals as MRTs based on qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the PRA's and FCA's Remuneration Rules.
of MRTs Our identification process is underpinned by the following key principles:
– MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank (consolidated) and HSBC UK Bank level.
– MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as required by the regulations.
– When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers a colleague’s role within its matrix management structure. The global business and
function that an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
– We also identify additional MRTs based on our own internal criteria, which include compensation thresholds and individuals in
certain roles and grades who otherwise would not be identified as MRTs under the Remuneration Rules.
294 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Scheme interests awarded during 2023
(Audited)
The table below sets out the scheme interests granted to executive Directors during 2023 in respect of the 2022 performance year, as
disclosed in the 2022 Directors’ remuneration report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year. The below
table includes details of immediate shares and fixed pay allowances in compliance with Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of
Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
Scheme awards in 2023
(Audited)
Face Percentage
value receivable for Number of End of
Type of interest Basis on which awarded minimum shares performance
awarded award made Date of award £000 performance awarded period
Noel Quinn LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary 27 February 2023 5,476 25 861,422 31 December 2025
Immediate shares2 % of base salary 27 February 2023 1,082 N/A 170,206 31 December 2022
15 May 2023 300 N/A 50,080 N/A
Fixed pay allowance3 N/A 21 August 2023 300 N/A 51,435 N/A
7 November 2023 300 N/A 49,291 N/A
Georges Elhedery LTI deferred shares1 % of base salary 27 February 2023 1,599 25 251,474 31 December 2025
Immediate shares2 % of base salary 27 February 2023 716 N/A 112,568 31 December 2022
15 May 2023 192 N/A 31,962 N/A
Fixed pay allowance3 N/A 21 August 2023 192 N/A 32,827 N/A
7 November 2023 192 N/A 31,459 N/A
1 In accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 320% of base salary for
Noel Quinn and 160% of base salary for Georges Elhedery. The number of shares to be granted was determined by taking HSBC’s closing share price
of £6.357 taken on 24 February 2023, and applying a discount based on HSBC’s expected dividend yield of 5% per annum for the vesting period
(£4.963). LTI awards are conditional share awards subject to a three-year forward-looking performance period and vest in five equal annual
instalments, between the third and seventh anniversary of the award date, subject to performance achieved. Awards are subject to malus and
clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award and are not eligible for dividend equivalents.
2 Immediate share awards are granted based on the previous years' performance as part of the annual incentive and are not subject to forward-looking
performance conditions. On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period. The face value of the immediate share awards have been
computed using HSBC’s closing share price of £6.357 taken on 24 February 2023. Awards are subject to clawback for a maximum period of 10 years
from the date of the award.
3 Fixed pay allowance awards are granted in instalments in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, and
are not subject to forward-looking performance conditions. Individual tax liabilities were satisfied in cash, therefore the face value awarded represents
the net of tax value of the shares and the number of shares awarded reflects the net of tax number of shares. The fixed pay allowance awards have
been computed using HSBC's closing share price of £5.997 taken on 12 May 2023, £5.839 taken on 18 August 2023 and £6.093 taken on
6 November 2023. These awards vest immediately and are subject to a retention period and released annually on pro-rata basis over five years,
starting in March 2024.
Performance conditions for the 2023–2025 LTI awards
(Audited)
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (weighting)1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout)
RoTE (with CET1 capital ratio underpin)2 (25.0%) 13.0% 14.3% 15.5%
Capital reallocation to Asia (with CET1 capital ratio underpin)3
49.0% 50.5% 52.0%
(25.0%)
Carbon reduction 64.0% 68.0% 72.0%
Environment and
sustainability4 (25.0%) Sustainable finance and $588.0bn $700.0bn $756.0bn
investment
At median of the Straight-line vesting At upper quartile of
Relative TSR5 (25.0%) peer group between minimum and peer group
maximum
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period.
3 To be assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December
2025.
4 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2025 using 2019 as
the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending
31 December 2025.
5 The peer group for the 2022 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings,
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
298 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
6 Relates to the allocation of dividend equivalent shares in relation to eligible awards.
Emoluments
£000s Five highest paid employees Senior management
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 13,357 38,960
Pension contributions 100 640
Performance-related pay paid or receivable1 24,259 59,286
Inducements to join paid or receivable — —
Compensation for loss of office — —
Total 37,716 98,886
Total ($000) 46,877 122,906
1 Includes the value of deferred share awards at grant.
Emoluments by bands
Hong Kong dollars US dollars Number of highest paid employees Number of senior management
$19,000,001 – $19,500,000 $2,426,967 – $2,490,834 — 1
$22,500,001 – $23,000,000 $2,874,040 – $2,937,907 — 1
$25,000,001 – $25,500,000 $3,193,377 – $3,257,245 — 1
$38,000,001 – $38,500,000 $4,853,933 – $4,917,801 — 1
$41,000,001 – $41,500,000 $5,237,139 – $5,301,006 — 1
$42,000,001 – $42,500,000 $5,364,874 – $5,428,741 — 1
$42,500,001 – $43,000,000 $5,428,741 – $5,492,609 — 2
$48,000,001 – $48,500,000 $6,131,284 – $6,195,152 — 1
$49,000,001 – $49,500,000 $6,259,019 – $6,322,887 — 1
$51,500,001 – $52,000,000 $6,578,357 – $6,642,224 — 1
$56,000,001 – $56,500,000 $7,153,165 – $7,217,032 — 2
$59,000,001 – $59,500,000 $7,536,370 – $7,600,238 — 1
$61,000,001 – $61,500,000 $7,791,840 – $7,855,708 1 1
$63,500,001 – $64,000,000 $8,111,178 – $8,175,046 1 1
$72,500,001 – $73,000,000 $9,260,794 – $9,324,661 1 1
$75,000,001 – $75,500,000 $9,580,132 – $9,643,999 1 1
$94,000,001 – $94,500,000 $12,007,098 – $12,070,966 1 1
Non-executive Directors
(Audited)
The following table shows the total fees and benefits of non-executive Directors for 2023, together with comparative figures for 2022.
Fees and benefits
(Audited) Fees1 Benefits2 Total
(£000) 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
Geraldine Buckingham 244 155 5 — 249 155
Rachel Duan 244 225 — 5 244 230
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn 279 265 — 1 279 266
James Forese3 759 689 1 — 760 689
Ann Godbehere4 68 — — — 68 —
Steven Guggenheimer 264 262 1 10 265 272
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña 244 242 4 14 248 256
Kalpana Morparia5 170 — — — 170 —
Eileen Murray6 290 262 3 — 293 262
Brendan Nelson7 81 — 12 — 93 —
David Nish 479 477 19 22 498 499
Jackson Tai8 132 377 19 25 151 402
Swee Lian Teo9 51 — — — 51 —
Mark Tucker 1,500 1,500 51 113 1,551 1,613
Total (£000) 4,805 4,454 115 190 4,920 4,644
Total ($000) 5,972 5,536 143 236 6,115 5,772
1 Fees are in line with the Directors’ remuneration policy that was approved at the 2022 AGM. Non-executive Directors receive a pro-rata payment of
£4,000 travel allowance per annum.
2 Benefits include taxable expenses such as accommodation, travel and subsistence relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC
Holdings' registered offices. Tax for non-executive Director benefits is met by HSBC, therefore amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax
rate of 47%, where relevant.
3 Appointed as Chair of the Group Risk Committee on 5 May 2023. Stepped down as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee and joined the
Group Audit Committee as a member on 5 May 2023. Includes fee of £443,000 (2022: £447,000) in relation to his role as Chair of HSBC North
America Holdings, Inc.
4 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and Group Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2023.
5 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and Group Risk Committee on 1 March 2023.
6 Appointed as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee on 5 May 2023.
7 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee, Group Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee on 1 September 2023.
8 Retired from the Board and retired as Chair of the Group Risk Committee and member of the Group Audit Committee and member of the Nomination
& Corporate Governance Committee on 5 May 2023.
9 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2023.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 301
Corporate
governance
Directors’ interests – shares and debentures
At 31 Dec 2023 or date of cessation, if earlier
At 1 Jan 2023, or Jointly
date of Child with
appointment, Beneficial under 18 another Total
if later owner or spouse person Trustee interests
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Geraldine Buckingham1 15,000 15,000 — — — 15,000
Rachel Duan1 15,000 15,000 — — — 15,000
Georges Elhedery2 (appointed to the Board on 1 Jan 2023) 572,575 753,467 — — — 753,467
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn 15,000 15,000 — — — 15,000
James Forese1 115,000 115,000 — — — 115,000
Ann Godbehere1 (appointed to the Board on 1 Sep 2023) 15,000 — 15,000 — — 15,000
Steven Guggenheimer1 15,000 — 15,000 — — 15,000
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña1 15,000 15,000 — — — 15,000
Kalpana Morparia1 (appointed to the Board on 1 Mar 2023) — 15,000 — — — 15,000
Eileen Murray1 75,000 75,000 — — — 75,000
Brendan Nelson (appointed to the Board on 1 Sep 2023) — — — — — —
David Nish 50,000 — 50,000 — — 50,000
Noel Quinn2 1,422,650 1,721,465 — — — 1,721,465
Jackson Tai1,3(retired on 5 May 2023) 66,515 32,800 11,965 21,750 — 66,515
Swee Lian Teo (appointed to the Board on 1 Oct 2023) — 15,200 — — — 15,200
Mark Tucker 307,352 307,352 — — — 307,352
1 Geraldine Buckingham has an interest in 3,000, Rachel Duan has an interest in 3,000, James Forese has an interest in 23,000, Ann Godbehere has an
interest in 3,000, Steven Guggenheimer has an interest in 3,000, José Antonio Meade Kuribreña has an interest in 3,000, Kalpana Morparia has an
interest in 3,000, Eileen Murray has an interest in 15,000 and Jackson Tai has an interest in 13,303 listed American Depositary Shares (’ADS’), which
are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares.
2 Executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK) and the
HSBC Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Scheme interests in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 279. At 31 December 2023, the aggregate
interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, including interests arising through employee
share plans and the interests above were: Noel Quinn – 4,993,390; and Georges Elhedery – 1,942,938, representing approximately 0.03% and 0.01%
of the shares in issue respectively.
3 Jackson Tai has a non-beneficial interest in 11,965 shares of which he is custodian.
There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the Conflicts of interest
current Directors from 31 December 2023 to the date of this report.
The Board has an established policy and set of procedures to ensure
Listing Rule 9.8.4 and other that the Board’s management of Directors’ conflicts of interest is
effective. The Board has the power to authorise conflicts where they
disclosures
arise, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and HSBC
Holdings’ Articles of Association. Details of all Directors’ conflicts of
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 forms part of – interest are recorded in the register of conflicts. Upon appointment,
and includes certain disclosures required – in the Report of the
new Directors are advised of the policy and procedures for managing
Directors incorporated by cross-reference, including under Listing
conflicts. Directors are required to notify the Board of any actual or
Rule 9.8.4 and otherwise as applicable by law.
potential conflicts of interest and to update the Board with any
changes to the facts and circumstances surrounding such conflicts.
Content Page references
Directors are requested to review and confirm their own and their
Long-term incentives 286
respective closely associated persons’ outside interests and
Dividend waivers 307
appointments twice each year. The Board has considered, and
Dividends 307 authorised (with or without conditions) where appropriate, potential
Share buy-back 306 conflicts as they have arisen during the year in accordance with its
Emissions 45 conflicts policy and procedures. All non-executive Directors are
Energy efficiency 45, 49, 51 subject to re-vetting by the Group's compliance team on a triennial
Principal activities of HSBC 11, 30, 110, 395 basis following appointment. As part of this re-vetting process, all
Business review and future developments 11–40, 42, 137, 145, 426 conflicts checks are refreshed.
Joint Company Secretary
Board governance
Aileen Taylor is the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance
Appointment and re-election of Directors Officer.
Hannah Ashdown (47) was appointed as Deputy Group Secretary in
For details on the processes governing the appointment and re-
December 2021 and for administrative purposes, in October 2022,
election of Directors, see the Nomination & Corporate Governance
was appointed as Joint Company Secretary. She is a Fellow of the
Committee report from page 262.
Chartered Governance Institute UK and Ireland. Hannah has over 20
Commitments years’ governance and regulatory experience across multiple sectors
including financial services, asset management, energy, leisure and
For details on the processes governing Director commitments, see
retail.
the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee report from
page 262.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 309
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Directors’ indemnity Director is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that
cannot be resolved or for which the normal channels would not be
The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings contain a qualifying appropriate. They can be contacted via the Group Company Secretary
third-party indemnity provision, which entitles Directors and other and Chief Governance Officer at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
officers to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against
The results of the poll vote at the 2023 AGM were published on
claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities.
5 May 2023 and showed that on resolutions 2, 3(l), 6, 7, 14 and 15 we
HSBC Holdings has granted, by way of deed poll, indemnities to the received votes of between 20.04% to 23.30% against the Board’s
Directors, including former Directors, against certain liabilities arising recommendations. In our statement of 5 May 2023, it was noted that
in connection with their position as a Director of HSBC Holdings or of our largest shareholder, Ping An, voted against the Board’s
any Group company. Directors are indemnified to the maximum recommendations on the above resolutions and a number of others.
extent permitted by law. Ping An’s votes accounted for approximately 18% to 19% of all votes
cast at the 2023 AGM based on a turnout of around 50%. The Board
The indemnities that constitute a ’qualifying third-party indemnity
was pleased that a large majority of shareholders voting at the 2023
provision’, as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006,
AGM supported HSBC’s strategy and since the AGM there have been
remained in force for the whole of the financial year (or, in the case of
no concerns expressed by shareholders regarding the above
Directors appointed during 2023, from the date of their appointment).
resolutions. As referenced in the announcement released on 3
The deed poll is available for inspection at the registered office of
November 2023, we continue to have constructive dialogue and
HSBC Holdings.
provide corporate access to all our institutional shareholders, including
Additionally, Directors and pension trustees have the benefit of both Ping An and respect and listen to their views.
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and pension trustees’ liability
Annual General Meeting
insurance.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to the The AGM in 2024 is planned to be held in London, UK at 11:00am on
trustees of the Group’s pension schemes, which were in force for the Friday, 3 May 2024. Information on how to vote and participate, both
whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the date of this in advance and on the day, can be found in the Notice of the 2024
report. AGM, which will be sent to shareholders on 22 March 2024 and be
Contracts of significance available on www.hsbc.com/agm. A live webcast will be available on
www.hsbc.com. A recording of the proceedings will be available on
During 2023, none of the Directors had a material interest, directly or www.hsbc.com shortly after the conclusion of the AGM.
indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC company. Shareholders should monitor our website and announcements for any
During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in changes to these arrangements. Shareholders may send enquiries to
respect of transacting in HSBC securities and following specific the Board in writing via the Group Company Secretary and Chief
enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with Governance Officer, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London
their obligations. E14 5HQ or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
Shareholder engagement and General meetings and resolutions
communication Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting
other than an AGM, as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. A
The Board is directly accountable to, and gives high priority to
valid request to call a general meeting may be made by members
communicating with, HSBC’s shareholders. Information about HSBC
representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings as
and its activities is provided to shareholders in its Interim Reports and
carries the right of voting at its general meetings (excluding any paid-
the Annual Report and Accounts as well as on www.hsbc.com. up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general
The Board seeks to understand investor needs through ongoing nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may
dialogue between members of the Board and institutional investors include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is
throughout the year. For examples of such engagement, see 'Board intended to be moved at the meeting. At any general meeting
engagement with shareholders' on page 256 and the Group convened on such request, no business may be transacted except
Remuneration Committee Chair’s letter on page 279. During 2023, that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board.
approximately 643 meetings were held with institutional investors and
Shareholders may request the Directors to send a resolution to
analysts globally.
shareholders for consideration at an AGM, as provided by the UK
Our shareholder communications policy summarises how we Companies Act 2006. A valid request must be made by
communicate with our shareholders, including through financial (i) members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC
reporting, general shareholder meetings, investor and analyst Holdings as carries the right of voting at its general meetings
meetings and our website. The policy is reviewed annually by the (excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares), or (ii) at least
Board, and in 2023 the Board confirmed that it was satisfied with its 100 members who have a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM
implementation and effectiveness. The policy can be found at in question and hold shares in HSBC Holdings on which there has
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board- been paid up an average sum, per member, of at least £100.
responsibilities. The request must be received by HSBC Holdings not later than (i) six
We also publish our current and past financial results, investor weeks before the AGM in question; or (ii) if later, the time at which
presentations and shareholder information such as dividend payments the notice of AGM is published.
and shareholder meeting details. Stock exchange announcements are A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must
also accessible on our website along with information for fixed be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may
income investors. For further details, see www.hsbc.com/investors. be made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK address, referred to in
Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of the paragraph above or by sending an email to
shareholders. Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
shareholdings and HSBC’s business are welcomed. Articles of Association
Any individual or institutional investor can make an enquiry by
The Articles of Association were last approved at the 2022 AGM. The
contacting the investor relations team, Group Chairman, Group Chief
Articles of Association can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Company
leadership-and-governance/board-responsibilities.
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Our Senior Independent
310 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Events after the balance sheet date overseeing emerging risks and potential risks arising from new
products and offerings.
For details of events after the balance sheet date, see Note 39 on the To support the work of the Board, the GRC and the GAC in
financial statements. discharging their responsibilities in this regard, assurance was also
Change of control provided by executive management confirming that a risk assessment
had been undertaken and controls were in place to mitigate the risks
arising from the Group’s key activities. Necessary actions will be
The Group is not party to any significant agreements that take effect,
taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified from these
alter or terminate following a change of control of the Group. The
activities and included the implementation of additional assurance
Group does not have agreements with any Director or employee that
procedures including in relation to the Group's externally driven ESG
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment
and climate-related disclosures, change programmes and regulatory
resulting from a takeover bid.
reporting.
Branches
The key risk management and internal control procedures include the
following:
The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services
through branches and offices in the UK and overseas. Global Principles
Research and development activities The Group’s Global Principles set an overarching standard for all
policies and procedures and are fundamental to the Group’s risk
During the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new management structure. They inform and connect our purpose, values,
products and services within the global businesses. strategy and risk management principles, guiding us to do the right
thing and treat our customers and our colleagues fairly at all times. In
Political donations
2024, the Global Principles will be replaced by a more concise and
targeted version of the document, known as the HSBC Book.
HSBC does not make any political donations or incur political
Risk management framework
expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words. We have no
intention of altering this policy. However, the definitions of political The risk management framework supports our Global Principles, and
donations, political parties, political organisations and political going forward, our HSBC Book. It outlines the key principles and
expenditure used in the UK Companies Act 2006 are very wide. As a practices that we employ in managing material risks. It applies to all
result, they may cover routine activities that form part of the normal categories of risk and supports a consistent approach in identifying,
business activities of the Group and are an accepted part of engaging assessing, managing and reporting the risks we accept and incur in
with stakeholders. To ensure that neither the Group nor any of its our activities.
subsidiaries inadvertently breaches the UK Companies Act 2006,
Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board
authority is sought from shareholders at the AGM to make political
donations. Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group Chief
Executive has been delegated authority limits and powers within
HSBC provides administrative support to two political action
which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the Group. A new
committees (’PACs’) in the US funded by voluntary political
delegation of authorities framework was implemented in April 2023
contributions by eligible employees. We do not control the PACs, and
with the aim of providing a simpler Group structure within which the
all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are
Board and its subsidiaries can manage their delegated powers. These
directed by a voluntary Board Finance Committee, which consists of
delegated authorities can be used for the approval, signing and
contributing eligible employees. The PACs recorded combined
execution of specific written agreements and documents such as
political donations of $110,004 during 2023 (2022: $100,250).
procurement contracts.
Charitable contributions
The delegation of authorities framework is either granted via a
separate board resolution or power of attorney or is set out in the
For details of charitable contributions, see page 86.
relevant Group policy with clear systems of control that are
Internal control appropriate to the business or function. Authorities to enter into credit
and market risk exposures are delegated with limits to line
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the management of Group companies in line with Group policy. Credit
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control and market risks are measured and reported at subsidiary company
systems, and for determining the level and type of risks the Group is level and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a Group-wide
willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. basis.
To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under the Risk identification and monitoring
FCA Handbook and the PRA Rulebook, procedures have been
Systems and procedures are in place to identify, assess, control and
designed: for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use or
monitor the material risk types facing HSBC as set out in the risk
disposal; for maintaining proper accounting records; and for ensuring
management framework. The Group‘s risk measurement and
the reliability and usefulness of financial information used within the
reporting systems are designed to help ensure that material risks are
business or for publication.
captured with all the attributes necessary to support well-founded
These procedures provide reasonable assurance against material decisions, that those attributes are accurately assessed and that
misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. They are designed to provide information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks to be
effective internal control within the Group and accord with the successfully managed and mitigated.
Financial Reporting Council‘s guidance for Directors, issued in 2014,
Changes in market conditions/practices
on risk management, internal control and related financial and
business reporting. The procedures have been in place throughout the Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in
year and up to 21 February 2024, the date of publication of the Annual market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which could
Report and Accounts 2023. expose the Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage.
The Board, the GRC and the GAC monitored the effectiveness of the The Group employs both a top and emerging risks process to provide
Group’s system of risk management and internal control throughout forward-looking views of issues with the potential to threaten the
the year. In particular, this focused on the Group’s regulatory execution of our strategy or operations over the medium to long term.
remediation and change programmes, and involved working closely We remain committed to investing in the reliability and resilience of
with management to better prioritise and understand where there are our IT systems and critical services, including those provided by third
key interdependencies. In 2024, continued focus will be placed on parties, that support all parts of our business. We do so to help
protect our customers, affiliates and counterparties, and to help
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 311
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
ensure that we minimise any disruption to services that could result in the effective oversight of end-to-end business processes, and
reputational and regulatory consequences. In our approach to defend management continued to identify opportunities for enhancing key
against these threats, we invest in business and technical controls to controls, such as through the use of automation technologies.
help us detect, manage and recover from issues, including data loss,
Financial reporting controls
in a timely manner.
The Group’s financial reporting process is controlled using
We continue our focus on the quality and timeliness of the data used
documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported by
to inform management decisions, through measures such as early
detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements, issued
warning indicators, prudent active risk management of our risk
to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each reporting
appetite, and ensuring regular communication with our Board and
period end. The submission of financial information from each
other key stakeholders.
reporting entity is supported by a certification by the responsible
Responsibility for risk management financial officer and analytical review procedures at reporting entity
and Group levels.
All employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk within
the scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence model. Group Disclosure and Controls Committee
This is an activity-based model to delineate management
Chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group Disclosure
accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the
and Controls Committee supports the discharge of the Group’s
control environment. The second line of defence sets the policy and
obligations under relevant legislation and regulation including the UK
guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides advice and
and Hong Kong listing rules, the UK Market Abuse Regulation and US
guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the first line of defence
Securities and Exchange Commission rules. In so doing, the Group
(the risk owners) on effective risk management.
Disclosure and Controls Committee is empowered to determine
The Board delegated authority to the GAC to annually review the whether a new event or circumstance should be disclosed, including
independence, autonomy and effectiveness of the Group’s policies the form and timing of such disclosure, and review certain material
and procedures on whistleblowing, including the procedures for the disclosures made or to be made by the Group. The membership of
protection of staff who raise concerns of detrimental treatment. the Group Disclosure and Controls Committee consists of senior
management, including the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief
Strategic plans
Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer, and Group
Strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global functions Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. The Group’s
and geographical regions within the framework of the Group’s overall brokers, external auditors and its external legal counsel also attend as
strategy. Financial resource plans, informed by detailed analysis of required. The integrity of disclosures is underpinned by structures and
risk appetite describing the types and quantum of risk that the Group processes within the Global Finance and Group Risk and Compliance
is prepared to take in executing its strategy, are prepared and adopted functions that support rigorous analytical review of financial reporting
by all major Group operating companies and set out the key business and the maintenance of proper accounting records. As required by the
initiatives and the likely financial effects of those initiatives. Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief
Internal control over financial reporting Financial Officer have certified that the Group’s disclosure controls
and procedures were effective as at the end of the period covered by
HSBC is required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanes- the Annual Report and Accounts 2023.
Oxley Act of 2002 and assess its effectiveness of internal control over The annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk
financial reporting at 31 December 2023. In 2014, the GAC endorsed management and internal control over financial reporting was
the adoption of the principles of the Committee of Sponsoring conducted with reference to the COSO 2013 framework. Based on
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (’COSO’) 2013 the assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the year
framework for the monitoring of risk management and internal control ended 31 December 2023, the Group’s internal control over financial
systems to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes- reporting was effective.
Oxley Act.
PwC has audited the effectiveness of HSBC’s internal control over
The primary mechanism through which comfort over risk financial reporting and has given an unqualified opinion.
management and internal control systems is achieved is through
Other information included in the Annual
annual assessments of the effectiveness of controls to manage risk,
and the reporting of issues on a regular basis through the various risk Report and Accounts 2023
management and risk governance forums.
The key risk management and internal control procedures over We include other non-statutory information in the Annual Report and
financial reporting include the following: Accounts to enable a broader perspective of our performance for the
period, including ESG and regulatory capital and liquidity information.
Entity level controls We highlight on pages 43 and 267 that we are seeking to enhance our
Entity level controls are a defined suite of internal controls that have a governance, process, systems and controls capabilities in both areas,
pervasive influence over the entity as a whole and meet the principles although the scale and nature of the challenges differ between
of the COSO framework. They include controls related to the control reporting areas. Our improvements in regulatory reporting are
environment, such as the Group's values and ethics, the promotion of intended to strengthen our global processes, improve consistency
effective risk management and the overarching governance exercised and enhance controls in order to meet regulatory expectations. ESG
by the Board and its non-executive committees. The design and reporting continues to evolve, with a lack of globally consistent
operational effectiveness of entity level controls are assessed on an metrics, taxonomies and best practices and a high reliance on
ongoing basis. If issues are significant to the Group, they are external data. The GAC provides oversight to our reporting
escalated to the GRC and also to the GAC, if concerning financial improvements in both areas, and is also focused on increasing the
reporting matters. level of internal and external assurance in these areas, in line with
wider market developments (set out on page 267).
Process level transactional controls
Going concern
Key process level controls that mitigate the risk of financial
misstatement are identified, recorded and monitored in accordance The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, is satisfied that the
with the risk framework. This includes the identification and Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue operations for a
assessment of relevant control issues against which action plans are period of at least 12 months from the date of this report, and it
tracked through to remediation. Further details of HSBC’s approach to therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
risk management can be found on page 136. The GAC has continued financial statements.
to receive regular updates on HSBC’s ongoing activities for improving
For further details, see page 40.
312 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Employees
At 31 December 2023, HSBC had a total workforce equivalent to Employment of people with a disability
221,000 full-time employees compared with 219,000 at the end of
2022. Our main centres of employment were India with We strongly believe in providing equal opportunities for our
approximately 42,000 employees, the UK with 33,000, mainland employees. The employment of people with a disability is included in
China with 33,000, Hong Kong with 26,000, Mexico with 17,000 and this commitment. We are committed to retaining disabled employees
France with 6,000. in the workplace and to providing reasonable adjustments to enable
this.
Our business spans many cultures, communities and continents. We
aspire to provide a high-performing environment where our Employee development
colleagues can fulfil their potential by building their skills and
capabilities while focusing on the development of a diverse and We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where the best want to
inclusive culture. We use employee surveys to assess progress and develop the skills and experiences that help them fulfil their potential.
make changes. We want to provide an open culture, where our This determines how we develop our people and recruit, identify and
colleagues feel connected and supported to speak up, and where our nurture talent. A range of resources bring this to life including:
leaders encourage and use feedback. Where we make organisational – HSBC University, our platform for learning and development with
changes, we support our colleagues, in particular where there are job specific business and technical academies;
impacts.
– our My HSBC Career portal, which offers career development
Employee relations information and resources; and
– HSBC Talent Marketplace, our online platform that uses AI to
We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee
provide opportunities to learn as we work.
representative bodies where we have them. It is our policy to
maintain well-developed communications and consultation Everyone at HSBC annually completes global mandatory training. It
programmes with all employee representative bodies. There have plays a critical role in shaping our culture by ensuring everyone is
been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes focused on issues that are fundamental to working at HSBC, from
during the past five years. sustainability, to financial crime risk, to our intolerance of bullying and
harassment.
We are committed to complying with the applicable employment laws
and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including in As the opportunities we face change, we provide development to key
relation to working hours and rest periods. HSBC’s global groups of colleagues through business and technical academies. This
employment practices and relations policy provides the framework includes our risk academy, which helps us to develop broad
and controls through which we seek to uphold that commitment. capabilities in traditional areas of risk like financial crime but also in
emerging risk issues like climate risk and the ethics of AI and data.
Diversity and inclusion
Our approach to learning is skills based. Our academies work with our
Our customers, colleagues and communities span many cultures and businesses to identify the key skills and capabilities we need in the
continents. We value difference and believe that diversity makes us future. Alongside this, we help colleagues identify, assess and
stronger. We are dedicated to building a diverse and connected develop the skills that match their ambition and aspirations.
workforce where everyone feels a sense of belonging.
Our platform for learning content is Degreed. This helps colleagues
Our Group People Committee, which is made up of Group Executive
identify, assess and develop key skills through internal and external
Committee members, governs our diversity and inclusion agenda. It
training materials in a way that suits them. Content can range from
meets regularly to agree actions to improve diverse representation
quick videos, articles or podcasts to packaged programmes or
and build a more inclusive culture. Members of our Group Executive
learning pathways.
Committee are held to account for the actions they take on diversity
via aspirational goals contained within their performance scorecards. Effective people management and impactful leadership remain critical
to our ability to energise for growth. In 2023 we have continued to
We expect all colleagues at HSBC to treat each other with dignity and
focus on equipping our management population with the skills they
respect to ensure an inclusive environment. Our policies make it clear
need to lead the organisation and energise our colleagues. We have
that we do not tolerate unlawful discrimination, bullying or
continued to run our Enterprise Leadership Programme for our most
harassment on any grounds.
senior leaders and developed the Managing Director Leadership
To align our approach to inclusion best practices, we participate in Programme further following the launch in 2022. We have also
global diversity benchmarks that help us to identify improvement refreshed our People Management Excellence programme which is
opportunities. We also track a large number of diversity and inclusion available to leaders at all levels of the organisation to help them
metrics, including those included in the Group executive scorecards, manage colleagues and nurture a productive team.
which enable us to identify inclusion barriers and take action where
required. Our approach to diversity and inclusion is set out on page 76
alongside our goals and progress.
Further details of our diversity and inclusion activity, alongside our
Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap Reports 2023, can be found at
www.hsbc.com/diversitycommitments.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 313
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Health and safety
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working – Protection of our colleagues and operations is of critical
environment for everyone. We have adopted global policies, importance, and we have effective controls in place to protect our
mandatory procedures, and incident and information reporting people from natural disasters (such as storms and earthquakes). In
systems across the organisation that reflect our core values and are 2023, there were 27 named storms that passed over 2,010 of our
aligned to international standards. Our global health and safety buildings, resulting in no injuries. Only five buildings in Mexico
performance is subject to ongoing monitoring and assurance to were affected with minor business impact following Storm Otis.
ensure we are compliant with relevant laws and regulations.
Employee health and safety
Our chief operating officers have overall responsibility for engendering
a positive health and safety culture and ensuring that global policies, 2023 2022 2021
procedures and systems are put into practice locally. They also have Rate of workplace fatalities per 100,000 employees — — —
responsibility for ensuring all local legal requirements are met. Number of major injuries to employees1 12 7 14
All injury rate per 100,000 employees 110 70 64
We delivered a range of programmes in 2023 to help us understand
Lost days due to work injury 594 485 358
and manage our health and safety risks:
– We reinforced our advice and risk assessment and control 1 Fractures, dislocation, concussion, loss of consciousness, overnight
methodology on working from home for employees adopting a admission to hospital.
hybrid work style, providing more awareness and best practices on
Remuneration
good ergonomics and well-being.
– We delivered health and safety training and awareness to 235,000 HSBC’s pay and performance strategy is designed to reward
of our employees and contractors globally, ensuring roles and competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance
responsibilities were clear and understood. and attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender,
– We completed the annual safety inspection on all of our buildings ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance
globally, to ensure we were meeting our standards and or experience with the Group, while performing their role in the long-
continuously improving our safety performance. term interests of our stakeholders.
– We maintained measures in our workplaces globally to minimise For further details of the Group’s approach to remuneration, see
the risks from the spread of respiratory disease, including through page 290.
the provision of hand sanitiser, improved ventilation, and guidance
Employee share plans
on good hygiene practices.
– We continued to focus on enhancing the safety culture in our
Summaries of the share options and share awards granted, exercised/
supply chain through our SAFER Together programme, covering
vested or lapsed during the year and other details required to be
the five key elements of best practice safety culture, including
disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing
speaking up about safety, and recognising excellence.
of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, including
– We continued to provide our guidance and training programme for detailed summaries of the HSBC share plans, are available on our
our construction partners, focusing on our key markets globally to website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/
reduce the likelihood of accidents occurring by helping them remuneration and on the website of The Stock Exchange of Hong
understand and deliver industry-leading health and safety Kong Limited at www.hkex.com.hk, or can be obtained upon request
performance. More than 7,500 construction workers received from the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, 8
safety passport training across 20 countries. Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
– In 2023, our Eat Well Live Well programme continued to promote Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out
healthier and more sustainable diets among our colleagues with on page 299.
30% of global food sales from HSBC catering outlets comprising
Note 5 on the financial statements gives details of share-based
healthy options. We also extended the reach of our programme
payments, including discretionary awards of shares granted under
through the launch of increased plant-based offers, monthly
HSBC share plans.
events dedicated to Eat Well Live Well, and virtual teaching
kitchens accessible to all our employees.
314 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Statement of compliance
The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages Under the Hong Kong Code, the audit committee should be
238 to 316 and the information referred to therein constitutes the responsible for the oversight of all risk management and internal
’Corporate governance report’ and ’Report of the Directors’ of HSBC control systems. HSBC’s Group Risk Committee is responsible for
Holdings. The websites referred to do not form part of this report. oversight of internal control, other than internal control over financial
reporting, and risk management systems. This is permitted under the
Relevant corporate governance codes, role profiles and policies UK Corporate Governance Code.
UK Corporate Governance Code www.frc.org.uk HSBC Holdings has codified obligations for transactions in Group
Hong Kong Corporate www.hkex.com.hk securities in accordance with the requirements of the UK Market
Governance Code (set out in Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of securities on
Appendix 14 to the Rules HKEx. The Group has been granted certain waivers by HKEx from
Governing the Listing of strict compliance with the rules that take into account accepted
Securities on the Stock practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans.
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in
('HKEx')) respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities. Following specific
enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with
Descriptions of the roles and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
their obligations.
responsibilities of the: leadership-and-governance/board-
responsibilities
– Group Chairman The Group Audit Committee has reviewed and provided assurance to
the HSBC Holdings Board on the publication of the Annual Report and
– Group Chief Executive
Accounts 2023.
– Senior Independent Director
– Board
Board and senior management www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance
Roles and responsibilities of the www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
Board’s committees leadership-and-governance/board-
committees On behalf of the Board
Board’s policies on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
Mark E Tucker
leadership-and-governance/board-
– diversity and inclusion
responsibilities Group Chairman
– shareholder communication
HSBC Holdings plc
– human rights
Registered number 617987
– remuneration practices and
governance 21 February 2024
Global Internal Audit Charter www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/
corporate-governance-codes/
internal-control
HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both the UK
and Hong Kong. During 2023, HSBC complied with the provisions and
requirements of both the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance
Codes.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 315
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the
Accounts 2023, the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial ‘Report of the Directors: Corporate governance report’ on pages 239
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. to 243 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2023, confirms that, to the
best of their knowledge:
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared – the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
the parent company (‘Company’) and the Group financial statements accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards,
in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to
The company has also prepared financial statements in accordance Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union
with international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to and IFRS Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. In assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss of the Group;
preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also elected and
to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by
– the management report represented by the Report of the
the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS Accounting
Directors includes a fair review of the development and
Standards). Under company law, the Directors must not approve the
performance of the business and the position of the Group,
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group, and of the
that it faces.
profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that period. In
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Group Audit Committee has responsibility, delegated to it from
the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external financial
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
reporting. The Group Audit Committee report on page 266 sets out
consistently;
how the Group Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities.
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable
Disclosure of information to auditors
and prudent;
– state whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the
standards, international financial reporting standards adopted Directors’ report includes a statement, in the case of each Director in
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved, that:
European Union and IFRS Accounting Standards have been
– so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
explained in the financial statements; and
– they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it
Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit
is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are
continue in business.
aware of that information.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration On behalf of the Board
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
Annual Report and Accounts 2023 as they appear on the Company’s HSBC Holdings plc
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
Registered number 617987
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation
in other jurisdictions. 21 February 2024
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2023,
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s
position and performance, business model and strategy.
316 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Our audit approach
Overview
Audit scope
– This was the fifth and final year that it has been my responsibility to form this opinion on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who you
first appointed on 31 March 2015 in relation to that year‘s audit. In addition to forming this opinion, in this report we have also provided
information on how we approached the audit, how it changed from the previous year and details of the significant discussions that we had
with the GAC.
Key audit matters
– Expected credit losses - Impairment of loans and advances (group)
– Impairment of investment in associate - Bank of Communications Co., Ltd (‘BoCom‘) (group)
– Investments in subsidiaries (parent company)
– Valuation of defined benefit pension obligations (group)
Materiality
– Overall group materiality: US$1.6bn (2022: US$1bn) based on 5% of profit before tax adjusted for notable items.
– Overall parent company materiality: US$1.5bn (2022: US$950m) based on 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall materiality of
US$2.1bn and was therefore reduced below the group materiality.
– Performance materiality: US$1.2bn (2022: US$750m) (group) and US$1.1bn (2022: US$712m) (parent company).
The scope of our audit
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud)
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit;
and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Held for sale accounting (group), which was a key audit matter last year, is no longer included because the risk has reduced following the
completion of the sale of the retail banking operations in France. Otherwise, the key audit matters below are consistent with last year.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 319
Financial
statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Expected credit losses – Impairment of loans and advances (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
Determining expected credit losses (‘ECL’) involves management judgement and is subject to a high degree of estimation uncertainty.
Management makes various assumptions when estimating ECL. The significant assumptions that we focused on in our audit included those with
greater levels of management judgement and for which variations had the most significant impact on ECL. These included assumptions made in
determining economic scenarios and their probability weightings (specifically the central and downside scenarios given these have the most material
impact on ECL) and estimating discounted cash flows for material credit impaired exposures in relation to the mainland China commercial real estate
portfolio.
The level of estimation uncertainty and judgement has remained high during 2023 as a result of the uncertainties in the macroeconomic and
geopolitical environment, persistently high levels of inflation in some territories and the rising global interest rate environment, as well as
developments in mainland China’s commercial real estate sector and economy more broadly.
Macroeconomic conditions vary between territories and industries, leading to uncertainty around judgements made in determining the severity and
probability weighting of economic scenarios used in ECL models.
The modelling methodologies used to estimate ECL are developed using historical experience. The impact of the prevailing macroeconomic conditions
has resulted in certain limitations in the reliability of these methodologies to forecast the extent and timing of future customer defaults and therefore
estimate ECL. In addition, modelling methodologies do not incorporate all factors that are relevant to estimating ECL, such as the differentiated impact
of economic conditions on certain industry sectors. These limitations are addressed with management judgemental adjustments, the measurement of
which is inherently judgemental and subject to estimation uncertainty.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We held discussions with the GAC covering governance and controls over ECL, with a significant focus on the uncertain prevailing macroeconomic
conditions and developments in mainland China’s commercial real estate sector. We discussed a number of areas, including:
– the severity of economic scenarios, and their related probability weightings, across territories;
– significant assumptions used to estimate the discounted cash flow projections for defaulted exposures in relation to the mainland China commercial
real estate portfolio;
– assumptions made in determining judgemental management adjustments; and
– the disclosures made in relation to ECL.
How our audit addressed our key audit matter
We assessed the design and effectiveness of governance and controls over the estimation of ECL. We observed management’s review and challenge
in governance forums for (1) the determination of economic scenarios and their probability weightings, and (2) the assessment of ECL for Retail and
Wholesale portfolios, including the assessment of management judgemental adjustments.
We also tested controls over:
– model validation and monitoring;
– the identification of credit impaired triggers;
– the input of critical data into source systems and the flow and transformation of critical data from source systems to impairment models and
management judgemental adjustments;
– the calculation and approval of management judgemental adjustments to modelled outcomes; and
– approval of significant individual impairments.
We involved our economic experts in assessing the significant assumptions made in determining the severity and probability weighting of economic
scenarios. These assessments considered the sensitivity of ECL to variations in the severity and probability weighting of economic scenarios. We
involved our modelling specialists in assessing the appropriateness of the significant assumptions and methodologies used for models and certain
management judgemental adjustments. We independently re-performed the calculations for a sample of those models and certain management
judgemental adjustments. In respect of the mainland China commercial real estate portfolio, we involved our business recovery experts in assessing
the discounted cash flows for a sample of credit impaired exposures. We further considered whether the judgements made in selecting the significant
assumptions would give rise to indicators of possible management bias.
In addition, we performed substantive testing over:
– the compliance of ECL methodologies and assumptions with the requirements of IFRS 9;
– a sample of critical data used in ECL models and to estimate management judgemental adjustments; and
– assumptions and critical data for a sample of credit impaired wholesale exposures.
We evaluated and tested the audited Credit Risk disclosures made in the Annual Report.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023
– Audited credit risk disclosures
– Group Audit Committee Report
– Note 1.2(d):Financial instruments measured at amortised cost
– Note 1.2(i): Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets
320 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Investments in subsidiaries (parent company)
Nature of the key audit matter
Management reviewed investments in subsidiaries for indicators of impairment and indicators that impairment charges recognised in prior periods may
no longer exist or may have decreased in accordance with IAS 36 as at 31 December 2023. Where indicators have been identified management
estimated the recoverable amount using the higher of value in use (‘VIU‘) or fair value less cost to sell.
The methodology used to estimate the recoverable amount is dependent on various assumptions, both short term and long term in nature. These
assumptions, which are subject to estimation uncertainty, are derived from a combination of management’s judgement, experts engaged by
management and market data. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of management judgement
and for which variations had the most significant impact on the recoverable amount. Specifically, these included:
– HSBC’s business plan for 2024 to 2028 focusing on revenue, cost and expected credit loss forecasts;
– regulatory capital requirements;
– long term growth rates; and
– discount rates.
Management’s assessment resulted in an impairment charge of US$5.5bn in relation to the investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited
(‘HOHU’), which is an intermediate holding company of certain businesses in North America. This resulted in investment in subsidiaries of US$159bn
at 31 December 2023.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We discussed the impairment charge for HOHU, the appropriateness of methodologies used and significant assumptions with the GAC, giving
consideration to the macroeconomic outlook and HSBC’s strategy.
How our audit addressed our key audit matter
We assessed the design and tested the effectiveness of controls in place over significant assumptions and the model used to determine the
recoverable amounts. We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, to
estimate the recoverable amounts.
In respect of the significant assumptions, our testing included the following:
– challenging management’s business plan and the prospects for HSBC’s businesses, as well as considering the achievement of historic forecasts;
– obtaining and evaluating evidence relating to significant assumptions, from a combination of historical experience and external market and other
financial information;
– assessing whether the cash flows included in the model were in compliance with the relevant accounting standard;
– assessing the sensitivity of the recoverable amount to reasonable variations in significant assumptions, both individually and in aggregate; and
– determining a reasonable range for the discount rate used within the model, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and comparing it to the
discount rate used by management.
We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report in relation to investment in subsidiaries.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023
– Group Audit Committee Report
– Note 1.2(a): Investments in subsidiaries
– Note 19: Investments in subsidiaries
Valuation of defined benefit pensions obligations (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
The group has a defined benefit obligation of US$27.0bn, of which US$19.8bn relates to HSBC Bank (UK) pension scheme (‘the principal plan’).
The valuation of the defined benefit obligation for the principal plan is dependent on a number of actuarial assumptions. Management uses an actuarial
expert to determine the valuation of the defined benefit obligations. The valuation methodology uses a number of market based inputs and other
financial and demographic assumptions. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of management
judgement and for which variations had the most significant impact on the liability. Specifically, these included the discount rate, inflation rate and
mortality rate.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We discussed with the GAC the methodologies and significant assumptions used by management to determine the value of the defined benefit
obligation.
How our audit addressed our key audit matter
We assessed the design and tested the effectiveness of governance and controls in place over the methodologies and the significant assumptions,
including those in relation to the use of management’s experts. We also evaluated the objectivity and competence of management’s expert involved in
the valuation of the defined benefit obligation of the principal plan.
We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used, and tested the accuracy of the calculation, to estimate the liability. In respect of the
significant assumptions, we used our actuarial experts to understand the judgements made by management and their actuarial expert in determining
the significant assumptions and compared these assumptions to our independently compiled expected ranges based on market observable indices and
the knowledge and opinions of our actuarial experts.
We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report in relation to the defined benefit pension obligation.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023
– Group Audit Committee Report
– Note 1.2(k): Post-employment benefit plans
– Note 5: Employee compensation and benefits
322 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a
whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which
they operate.
The risks that HSBC faces are diverse, with the interdependencies between them being numerous and complex. In performing our risk
assessment we engaged with a number of stakeholders to ensure we appropriately understood and considered these risks and their
interrelationships. This included stakeholders within HSBC and our own experts within PwC. This engagement covered external factors across
the geopolitical, macroeconomic and regulatory and accounting landscape, the impact of climate change risk as well as the internal environment
at HSBC, driven by strategy and transformation.
We evaluated and challenged management‘s assessment of the impact of climate change risk, which is set out on page 44, including their
conclusion that there is no material impact on the financial statements. In making this evaluation we considered management’s use of stress
testing and scenario analysis to arrive at the conclusion that there is no material impact on the financial statements. We considered
management's assessment on the areas in the financial statements most likely to be impacted by climate risk, including:
– the impact on ECL on loans and advances to customers, for both physical and transition risk;
– the forecast cashflows from management’s five year business plan and long term growth rates used in estimating recoverable amounts as
part of impairment assessments of investments in subsidiaries, goodwill and intangible assets;
– the impact of climate related terms on the solely payments of principal and interest test for classification and measurement of loans and
advances to customers; and
– climate risks relating to contingent liabilities as HSBC faces increased reputational, legal and regulatory risk as it progresses towards its
climate ambition.
HSBC’s progress on their ESG targets is not included within the scope of this audit. We were engaged separately to provide independent
limited assurance to the Directors over the following ESG data:
– the 2021 and 2022 on-balance sheet financed emissions for 6 sectors (page 61);
– the 2020 thermal coal financing drawn balance exposure (page 67) and the 2020 thermal coal mining on-balance sheet financed emissions
(page 61);
– the 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 off balance facilitated emissions for 2 sectors (page 61);
– the cumulative progress made by HSBC on providing and facilitating sustainable financing and investments (page 49); and
– HSBC’s own operations scope 1, 2 and 3 (limited to business travel) greenhouse gas emissions data for 2023 (page 64); and supply chain
greenhouse gas emissions for purchased goods and services, and capital goods for 2023 (page 64).
The work performed for a limited assurance report is substantially less than the work performed for our financial audit, which provides
reasonable assurance.
Scoping
Through our risk assessment, we tailored our determination as to which entities and balances we needed to perform testing over to support our
group opinion, taking into consideration the complex and disaggregated group structure, the accounting processes and controls as well as the
industry in which they operate. The risks of material misstatement can be reduced to an acceptable level by testing the most financially
significant entities within the group and those that drive particular significant risks identified as part of our risk assessment. This ensures that
sufficient coverage has been obtained for each financial statement line item (’FSLI’). We continually assessed risks and changed the scope of
our audit where necessary.
Our risk assessment and scoping identified certain entities (collectively the ’Significant Subsidiaries’) for which we obtained audit opinions. We
obtained full scope audit opinions for the consolidated financial position and performance of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Limited, HSBC Bank plc, and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. We also obtained full scope audit opinions for the company financial position
and performance of HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC Mexico S.A. Banco. We obtained audit opinions over specific balances
for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited - UAE Operations and the HSBC UK Bank plc group. The audits for HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc
were performed by other PwC teams in the UK. All other audits were performed by other PwC network firms.
Group-wide audit approach
HSBC has entity level controls that have a pervasive influence across the group, as well as other global and regional governance and controls
over aspects of financial reporting, such as those operated by the Global Risk function for expected credit losses. A significant amount of IT and
operational processes and controls relevant to financial reporting are undertaken in operations centres run by Digital Business Services (‘DBS‘).
Whilst these operations centres are not separate components, the IT and operational processes and controls are relevant to the financial
information of the Significant Subsidiaries. Financial reporting processes and controls are also performed centrally in HSBC‘s Group Finance
function and finance operation centres (‘Finance Operations’), including the impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, held for
sale classifications and the consolidation of the group‘s results, the preparation of financial statements, and management‘s oversight controls
relevant to the group‘s financial reporting.
Group-wide processes or processes in DBS and Finance Operations are subject to specified audit procedures or an audit over specific FSLIs.
These procedures primarily relate to testing of IT general controls, IT dependencies, forward looking economic scenarios for ECL, operating
expenses, intangible assets, valuation of financial instruments, existence testing of financial instruments, intercompany eliminations,
reconciliations and consolidation as well as payroll. For these areas, we either performed audit work ourselves, or directed and provided
oversight of the audit work performed by PwC teams in the UK, Poland, China, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, India, Mexico and the Philippines. Some of
this work was relied upon by the PwC teams auditing the Significant Subsidiaries. This audit work, together with analytical review procedures
and assessing the outcome of local external audits, also mitigated the risk of material misstatement for balances in entities that were not part of
a Significant Subsidiary.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 323
Financial
statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Significant Subsidiaries audit approach
In March 2023, we held a meeting in Hong Kong with the partners and senior staff from the group audit team and certain PwC teams who
undertake audits of the Significant Subsidiaries and the operations centres. The meeting focused primarily on our approach to auditing HSBC’s
businesses, changes at HSBC and in our PwC teams, and how we continue to innovate and improve the quality of the audit with a focus on
technology and our global delivery model. We also discussed our significant audit risks.
We asked the partners and teams reporting to us on the Significant Subsidiaries to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size of the
operations they audited. The overall materiality levels ranged from US$107m to US$1.0bn. Certain Significant Subsidiaries were audited to a
local statutory audit materiality that was a lower level than our allocated group materiality.
We designed global audit approaches for the products and services that substantially make up HSBC's global businesses, such as lending,
deposits and derivatives. These approaches were provided to the partners and teams performing audit testing for the Significant Subsidiaries.
We were in active dialogue throughout the year with the component auditors of the Significant Subsidiaries, including consideration of how they
planned and performed their work. Senior members of our team undertook at least one in-person site visit where a full scope audit was
requested and we had oversight over certain areas of audit work performed. We attended Audit Committee meetings for some of the
Significant Subsidiaries. We also attended meetings with management for each of these Significant Subsidiaries at the year end.
The audit of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited in Hong Kong relied upon work performed by other teams in Hong Kong
and the PwC network firms in India, mainland China and Singapore. Similarly, the audit of HSBC Bank plc in the UK relied upon work performed
by other teams in the UK and the PwC network firms in France and Germany. We considered how the audit partners and teams for the
Significant Subsidiaries instructed and provided oversight to the work performed in these locations. Collectively, Significant Subsidiaries covered
83% of total assets and 74% of total operating income.
Using the work of others
We have continued our use of evidence provided by others through our reliance on management assurance testing of certain controls across
the group. This included testing of controls performed by management themselves in certain low risk areas including reconciliations and
footnote disclosure controls. We re-performed a portion of the testing to ensure appropriate quality of testing, as well as assessing the
competence and objectivity of those performing the testing.
We also used the work of PwC experts, for example economic experts for our work around the severity and probability weighting of
macroeconomics variables as part of the expected credit loss allowance and actuaries on the estimates used in determining pension liabilities.
An increasing number of controls are operated on behalf of HSBC by third parties. We obtained audit evidence from work that is scoped and
provided by other auditors that are engaged by those third parties. For example, we obtained a report evidencing the testing of external systems
and controls supporting HSBC's payroll and HR processes.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the
financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Financial statements – group Financial statements – parent company
Overall materiality US$1.6bn (2022: US$1bn). US$1.5bn (2022: US$950m).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax adjusted for notable items (2022: 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall
adjusted profit before tax). materiality of US$2.1bn and was therefore reduced below
the group materiality.
Rationale for benchmark We believe a standard benchmark of 5% of profit before A benchmark of total assets has been used, as the parent
applied tax adjusted for notable items is an appropriate quantitative company‘s primary purpose is to act as a holding parent
indicator of materiality, although certain items could also be company with investments in the group‘s subsidiaries, not
material for qualitative reasons. This benchmark is to generate operating profits and therefore a profit based
consistent with our approach for listed entities. measure is not relevant.
We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected
misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the nature
and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes. Our
performance materiality was 75% (2022: 75%) of overall materiality, amounting to US$1.2bn (2022: US$750m) for the group financial
statements and US$1.1bn (2022: US$712m) for the parent company financial statements.
In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors - the history of misstatements, risk assessment and aggregation
risk and the effectiveness of controls - and concluded that an amount at the upper end of our normal range was appropriate.
We agreed with the GAC that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$80m (group audit) (2022: US$50m)
and US$80m (parent company audit) (2022: US$50m) as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for
qualitative reasons.
324 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Conclusions relating to going concern
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group's and the parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting included:
– performing a risk assessment to identify factors that could impact the going concern basis of accounting, including both internal risks (i.e.
strategy execution) and external risks (i.e. macroeconomic conditions);
– understanding and evaluating the group’s financial forecasts;
– understanding and evaluating the group’s stress testing of liquidity and regulatory capital, including the severity of the stress scenarios that
were used;
– understanding and evaluating credit rating agency ratings and actions; and
– reading and evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements in relation to going concern.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or
collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group's and the parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least
twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the
financial statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the group‘s and the parent
company's ability to continue as a going concern.
In relation to the directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or draw
attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the
going concern basis of accounting.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report.
Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to
conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on
the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Report of the Directors, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act
2006 have been included.
Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain opinions and matters as
described below.
Strategic report and Report of the Directors
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Report of the Directors
for the year ended 31 December 2023 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did
not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Report of the Directors.
Directors’ Remuneration
In our opinion, the part of the Directors‘ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
2006.
Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the corporate
governance statement relating to the parent company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our
review. Our additional responsibilities with respect to the corporate governance statement as other information are described in the Reporting
on other information section of this report.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate governance
statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit, and we have nothing material to
add or draw attention to in relation to:
– The directors’ confirmation that they have carried out an appropriate assessment of the emerging and principal risks;
– The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and an
explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;
– The directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s and parent company’s ability to continue to
do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements;
– The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the group's and parent company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and
why the period is appropriate; and
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 325
Financial
statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
– The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the parent company will be able to continue in operation and
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary
qualifications or assumptions.
Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term viability of the group and parent company was substantially less in scope than
an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statement; checking that the statement is
in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering whether the statement is consistent with the
financial statements and our knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of
the audit.
In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
– The directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the
information necessary for the members to assess the group’s and parent company's position, performance, business model and strategy;
– The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems; and
– The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the GAC.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when the directors’ statement relating to the parent company’s compliance
with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing Rules for review by the
auditors.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibility statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in
accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also responsible for such
internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors
either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but
is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) and ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities,
outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of
detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.
Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related
to breaches of financial crime laws and regulations and regulatory compliance, including regulatory reporting requirements and conduct of
business, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We also considered
those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and relevant tax legislation.
We evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override
of controls), and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries in relation to cost targets, and
management bias in accounting estimates. The group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they
could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work. Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team
and/or component auditors included:
– review of correspondence with and reports from regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority (’PRA’) and Financial Conduct
Authority (’FCA’);
– reviewed reporting to the GAC and GRC in respect of compliance and legal matters;
– enquiries of management and review of internal audit reports, insofar as they related to the financial statements;
– obtain legal confirmations from legal advisors relating to material litigation and compliance matters;
– assessment of matters reported on the group‘s whistleblowing programmes and the results of management‘s investigation of such matters,
insofar as they related to the financial statements;
– challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to the
determination of expected credit losses, the impairment assessment of the investment in BoCom, valuation of defined benefit pensions
obligations, the impairment assessment of investment in subsidiaries and valuation of financial instruments;
– obtaining confirmations from third parties to confirm the existence of a sample of transactions and balances; and
– identifying and testing journal entries, including those posted with certain descriptions, posted and approved by the same individual,
backdated journals or posted by infrequent and unexpected users.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance with
laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a
material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment
by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing techniques.
However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We will often seek to
326 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
target particular items for testing based on their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to enable us to draw a
conclusion about the population from which the sample is selected.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements in accordance with ISAs (UK) is located on the FRC’s
website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We
also:
– identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
– obtain an understanding of internal controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s and parent company’s internal controls;
– evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by
management;
– conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained,
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the group’s and parent company’s
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause
the group to cease to continue as a going concern;
– evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the
consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; and
– obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group and
parent company to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
performance of the group and parent company audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence,
and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit
of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine
that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Use of this report
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
Other required reporting
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
– we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or
– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment
Following the recommendation of the GAC, we were appointed by the members on 31 March 2015 to audit the financial statements for the
year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is nine years, covering the years
ended 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2023.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 327
Financial
statements
(d) Foreign currencies
HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency
bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business. The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency because the US dollar and
currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as
well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, except non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at
historical cost, which are translated using the rate of exchange at the initial transaction date. Exchange differences are included in other
comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying item is recognised. Except for
subsidiaries operating in hyperinflationary economies (see Note 1.2(p)), in the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of
branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into the Group’s presentation
currency at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, while their results are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for
the reporting period. Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange
differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
(e) Presentation of information
Certain disclosures required by IFRS Accounting Standards have been included in the sections marked as (‘Audited’) in the Annual Report and
Accounts 2023 as follows:
– Disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in the ‘Risk
review’ on pages 135 to 237.
– The ‘Own funds disclosure’ is included in the ‘Risk review’ on page 207.
HSBC follows the UK Finance Disclosure Code. The UK Finance Disclosure Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’
disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance agreed in 2010. In line with the principles of the UK
Finance Disclosure Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters,
and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
(f) Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions. In view of the inherent
uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items, highlighted as the ‘critical estimates and
judgements’ in section 1.2 below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which management’s
estimates are based. This could result in materially different estimates and judgements from those reached by management for the purposes of
these financial statements. Management’s selection of HSBC’s accounting policies that contain critical estimates and judgements reflects the
materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved.
Management has considered the impact of climate-related risks on HSBC’s financial position and performance. While the effects of climate
change are a source of uncertainty, as at 31 December 2023 management did not consider there to be a material impact on our critical
judgements and estimates from the physical, transition and other climate-related risks in the short to medium term. In particular management
has considered the known and observable potential impacts of climate-related risks of associated judgements and estimates in our value in use
calculations.
(g) Going concern
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of
information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, liquidity, capital requirements and capital
resources.
These considerations include stressed scenarios that reflect the uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment following rising inflation, slower
Chinese economic activity, and disrupted supply chains as a result of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars. They also included
other top and emerging risks, including climate change, as well as the related impacts on profitability, capital and liquidity.
1.2 Summary of material accounting policies
(a) Consolidation and related policies
Investments in subsidiaries
Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when it holds – directly or indirectly – the necessary voting rights to pass
resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors,
including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct relevant activities, and whether power is held as agent or principal.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or
at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. This election is made for each business
combination.
HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses.
Impairment testing is performed where there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant investment to
its carrying amount. Indicators of impairment include both external and internal sources of information. Similarly, assessments are made as to
whether an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer exist or may have decreased. Where this is the case, such an impairment
loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine the relevant recoverable amount since the last impairment loss
was recognised, and to the extent that it does not increase the carrying amount above that had no impairment loss been previously recognised.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 343
Financial
statements
Notes on the financial statements
The aggregate positions at the reporting date and the performance indicators of both live and de-designated hedges are summarised below.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations
Carrying amount Amounts Hedge ineffectiveness
Derivative Derivative Nominal recognised Change in recognised in income
assets liabilities amount in OCI1 fair value2 statement
Description of hedged risk $m $m $m $m $m $m
2023
Pound sterling-denominated structural foreign exchange (404) 16,415 604 (843) —
Swiss franc-denominated structural foreign exchange (23) 526 49 (62) —
Hong Kong dollar-denominated structural foreign exchange — 5,792 — 2 —
Other structural foreign exchange3 (96) 11,042 477 102 —
Total — (523) 33,775 1,130 (801) —
2022
Pound sterling-denominated structural foreign exchange 264 — 14,000 1,447 1,573 —
Swiss franc-denominated structural foreign exchange — (21) 727 111 10 —
Hong Kong dollar-denominated structural foreign exchange — (19) 4,597 (2) (7) —
Other structural foreign exchange3 — (117) 10,819 375 369 —
Total 264 (157) 30,143 1,931 1,945 —
1 Amount recognised in OCI for Swiss franc includes $110m (2022: $110m) related to de-designated hedge.
2 Used in effectiveness assessment, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3 Other currencies include euro, New Taiwan dollar, Singapore dollar, Canadian dollar, Omani rial, South Korean won, UAE dirham, Indian rupee, Chinese
renminbi, Kuwaiti dinar, Qatari riyal, Saudi riyal, Indonesian rupiah and Philippine peso.
Interest rate benchmark reform: Amendments to IFRS 9 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’
HSBC has applied both the first set of amendments (‘Phase 1’) and the second set of amendments (‘Phase 2’) to IFRS 9 and IAS 39 applicable
to hedge accounting. The hedge accounting relationships that are affected by Phase 1 and Phase 2 amendments are presented in the balance
sheet as ‘Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through other comprehensive income’, ‘Loans and
advances to customers’, ‘Debt securities in issue’ and ‘Deposits by banks’. The notional value of the derivatives impacted by the Ibor reform,
including those designated in hedge accounting relationships, is disclosed in Note 32. For further details of Ibor transition, see ‘Ibor transition’
on page 139.
For some of the Ibors included under the ‘Other’ header in the table below, judgement has been needed to establish whether a transition is
required, since there are Ibor benchmarks that are subject to computation methodology improvements and insertion of fallback provisions
without full clarity being provided by their administrators on whether these Ibor benchmarks will be demised.
The notional amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in hedge accounting relationships do not represent the extent of the risk exposure
managed by the Group but they are expected to be directly affected by market-wide Ibor reform and in scope of Phase 1 amendments and are
shown in the table below. The cross-currency swaps designated in hedge accounting relationships and affected by Ibor reform are not
significant and have not been presented below.
Hedging instrument impacted by Ibor reform
Hedging instrument
Not impacted
Impacted by Ibor reform by Ibor Notional
€1 £ $ Other2 Total reform amount3
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Fair value hedges 16,907 — — 4,384 21,291 151,694 172,985
Cash flow hedges 10,850 — — 3,504 14,354 173,973 188,327
At 31 Dec 2023 27,757 — — 7,888 35,645 325,667 361,312
Fair value hedges 12,756 — 2,015 12,643 27,414 134,648 162,062
Cash flow hedges 8,865 — — 27,830 36,695 77,832 114,527
At 31 Dec 2022 21,621 — 2,015 40,473 64,109 212,480 276,589
1 The notional contract amounts of euro interest rate derivatives impacted by Ibor reform consist of hedges with a Euribor benchmark.
2 Other benchmarks impacted by Ibor reform consist mainly of Emirates interbank offered rate, Mexican interbank equilibrium interest rate (‘TIIE’) and
Korean won-related derivatives. In 2022, the Hong Kong interbank offered rate (‘HIBOR’) was included in ‘Other‘ given that reform in the benchmark
was considered possible. At 31 December 2023, HIBOR was no longer expected to be directly affected by Ibor reform following the successful
transition of all Libor settings and the HKMA’s affirmation that there are no plans to discontinue HIBOR. As a result HIBOR has been moved from
‘Other‘ to ‘Not impacted by Ibor reform‘.
3 The notional contract amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of
transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date and they do not represent amounts at risk.
388 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Notes on the financial statements
At 1 October 2023, aggregate goodwill of $1,599m (1 October 2022: $1,464m) had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually
significant. The Group’s CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than
goodwill.
Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill in the next financial year,
but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on forecast profitability
plans approved by the Board and minimum capital levels required to support the business operations of a CGU. The Board challenges and
endorses planning assumptions in light of internal capital allocation decisions necessary to support our strategy, current market conditions and
macroeconomic outlook. For the 1 October 2023 impairment test, cash flow projections until the end of 2028 were considered, in line with our
internal planning horizon. Key assumptions underlying cash flow projections reflect management’s outlook on interest rates and inflation, as well
as business strategy, including the scale of investment in technology and automation. Our cash flow projections include known and observable
climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model. As required by IFRS Accounting
Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring initiatives
before an entity has a constructive obligation to carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring costs.
Discount rate
The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of equity assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a capital asset pricing
model (‘CAPM’) and market implied cost of equity. CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including
the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s
assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. The discount rates for each CGU are refined to reflect the rates of
inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management
supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with the cost of equity rates produced
by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable
in discount rates and asset prices.
Long-term growth rate
The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of business
units making up the CGUs. These growth rates reflect inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates or from which it derives
revenue.
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU
At 1 October 2023, given the extent by which VIU exceeds carrying amount, the HBUK WPB CGU was not sensitive to reasonably possible
adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions,
management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of discount rates
observable, historical performance against forecast and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections. None of the
remaining CGUs are individually significant.
Other intangible assets
Impairment testing
Impairment of other intangible assets is assessed in accordance with our policy explained in Note 1.2(n) by comparing the net carrying amount
of CGUs containing intangible assets with their recoverable amounts. Recoverable amounts are determined by calculating an estimated VIU or
fair value, as appropriate, for each CGU. No significant impairment was recognised during the year.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of other intangible assets in the next
financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in
accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:
– Management’s judgement in estimating future cash flows: We considered past business performance, current market conditions and our
macroeconomic outlook to estimate future earnings. As required by IFRS Accounting Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude
estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to
carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring costs. For some businesses, this means that the benefit
of certain strategic actions may not be included in the impairment assessment, including capital releases. Our cash flow projections include
known and observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model.
– Long-term growth rates: The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective
of the businesses within the Group.
– Discount rates: Rates are based on a combination of CAPM and market-implied calculations considering market data for the businesses and
geographies in which the Group operates. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable in discount rates
and asset prices.
Sensitivity of estimates relating to non-financial assets
As explained in Note 1.2(a), estimates of future cash flows for CGUs are made in the review of goodwill and non-financial assets for impairment.
Non-financial assets include other intangible assets shown above, and owned property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets (see
Note 22). The most significant sources of estimation uncertainty are in respect of the goodwill balances disclosed above. There are no non-
financial asset balances relating to individual CGUs which involve estimation uncertainty that represents a significant risk of resulting in a
material adjustment to the results and financial position of the Group within the next financial year.
Non-financial assets are widely distributed across CGUs within the legal entities of the Group, including Corporate Centre assets that cannot be
allocated to CGUs and are therefore tested for impairment at consolidated level. The recoverable amounts of other intangible assets, owned
property, plant and equipment, and right-of-use assets cannot be lower than individual asset fair values less costs to dispose, where relevant. At
31 December 2023 none of the CGUs were sensitive to reasonably possible adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable
amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of
each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast and risks
attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.
400 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Notes on the financial statements
32 Interest rate benchmark reform
Financial instruments yet to transition to alternative benchmarks, by main
benchmark
USD Libor GBP Libor3 JPY Libor CDOR TIIE Others1
At 31 Dec 2023 $m $m $m $m $m $m
Non-derivative financial assets2 2,644 45 — 2,132 3,961 1,941
Non-derivative financial liabilities 905 2,054 558 181 1,323 9
Derivative notional contract amount 12,013 — — 134,636 32,836 11,821
At 31 Dec 2022
Non-derivative financial assets2 54,348 304 — 1,695 3,635 4,144
Non-derivative financial liabilities 25,564 1,804 1,179 176 — —
Derivative notional contract amount 2,348,412 68 — 119,832 17,698 56,759
1 Comprises financial instruments referencing other significant benchmark rates yet to transition to alternative benchmarks (euro Libor, SOR, THBFIX,
MIFOR, Sibor and Johannesburg interbank average rate (‘JIBAR’)). An announcement was made by the South African regulator during the first half of
2023 on the cessation of the JIBAR. Therefore, JIBAR is also included in ‘Others‘ during the current period.
2 Gross carrying amount excluding allowances for expected credit losses.
3 Non-derivative assets exposure relates to contracts for clients requiring additional time for loan restructuring or repayment. The limited number of
remaining contracts are expected to be transitioned prior to cessation of ‘synthetic’ GBP Libor from 31 March 2024. Non-derivative financial liabilities
relate to MREL instruments that include references to GBP Libor in their contractual terms but are currently using a fixed interest rate. HSBC remains
committed to seeking to remediate and/or mitigate the risks associated with these contracts by the relevant interest rate calculation dates.
The amounts in the above table relate to HSBC’s main operating entities where HSBC has material exposures impacted by Ibor reform,
including in the UK, Hong Kong, France, the US, Mexico, Canada, Singapore, the UAE, Bermuda, Australia, Qatar, Germany, Thailand, India and
Japan. The amounts provide an indication of the extent of the Group’s exposure to the Ibor benchmarks that are due to be replaced. Amounts
are in respect of financial instruments that:
– contractually reference an interest rate benchmark that is planned to transition to an alternative benchmark;
– have a contractual maturity date beyond the date by which the reference interest rate benchmark is expected to cease; and
– are recognised on HSBC’s consolidated balance sheet.
33 Called up share capital and other equity instruments
Called up share capital and share premium
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of $0.50 each, issued and fully paid
2023 2022
Number $m Number $m
At 1 Jan 20,293,607,410 10,147 20,631,520,439 10,316
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 10,778,479 5 10,226,221 5
Shares issued in lieu of dividends — — — —
Less: shares repurchased and cancelled 716,384,289 358 348,139,250 174
Less: treasury shares cancelled 325,273,407 163 — —
At 31 Dec1 19,262,728,193 9,631 20,293,607,410 10,147
HSBC Holdings share premium
2023 2022
$m $m
At 31 Dec 14,738 14,664
Total called up share capital and share premium
2023 2022
$m $m
At 31 Dec 24,369 24,811
1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting.
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of £0.01
The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of £0.01 (‘sterling preference share’) has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held
by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. Dividends are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. The sterling preference share
carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no right to attend or vote at shareholder meetings of HSBC Holdings.
These securities can be redeemed by HSBC Holdings at any time, subject to prior approval by the PRA.
414 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Notes on the financial statements
38 Effects of adoption of IFRS 17
On 1 January 2023, the Group adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, and as required by the standard applied the requirements retrospectively,
with comparatives restated from the transition date, 1 January 2022. The tables below provide the transition restatement impact on the Group’s
consolidated balance sheet as at 1 January 2022, as well as the Group consolidated income statement and the Group consolidated statement of
comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2022.
Further information about the effect of the adoption of IFRS 17 is provided in Note 1 ‘Basis of preparation and material accounting policies’ on
page 341.
IFRS 17 transition impact on the Group consolidated balance sheet at 1 January 2022
Recognition
Removal of Remeasure- Recognition of IFRS 17
PVIF and ment effect of IFRS 17 contractual
Under IFRS 4 of IFRS 9 re- fulfilment service Under Total
IFRS 4 balances designations cash flows margin Tax effect IFRS 17 movements
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Assets
Financial assets designated and otherwise
mandatorily measured at fair value through
profit or loss 49,804 — 60,991 — — — 110,795 60,991
Loans and advances to banks 83,136 — (569) — — — 82,567 (569)
Loans and advances to customers 1,045,814 — (1,280) — — — 1,044,534 (1,280)
Financial investments 446,274 — (54,269) — — — 392,005 (54,269)
Goodwill and intangible assets 20,622 (9,453) — — — — 11,169 (9,453)
Deferred tax assets 4,624 — — — — 808 5,432 808
All other assets 1,307,665 (4,468) — 4,198 (105) — 1,307,290 (375)
Total assets 2,957,939 (13,921) 4,873 4,198 (105) 808 2,953,792 (4,147)
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities
Insurance contract liabilities 112,745 (112,745) — 109,393 9,914 — 119,307 6,562
Deferred tax liabilities 4,673 — — — — (1,379) 3,294 (1,379)
All other liabilities 2,633,744 78 — 1,102 (51) — 2,634,873 1,129
Total liabilities 2,751,162 (112,667) — 110,495 9,863 (1,379) 2,757,474 6,312
Total shareholders’ equity 198,250 92,738 4,558 (99,631) (8,847) 1,947 189,015 (9,235)
Non-controlling interests 8,527 6,008 315 (6,666) (1,121) 240 7,303 (1,224)
Total equity 206,777 98,746 4,873 (106,297) (9,968) 2,187 196,318 (10,459)
Total liabilities and equity 2,957,939 (13,921) 4,873 4,198 (105) 808 2,953,792 (4,147)
Transition drivers
Removal of PVIF and IFRS 4 balances
The PVIF intangible asset of $9,453m previously reported under IFRS 4 within ‘Goodwill and intangible assets’ arose from the upfront
recognition of future profits associated with in-force insurance contracts. The PVIF intangible asset is no longer reported following the transition
to IFRS 17, as future profits are deferred within the CSM. Other IFRS 4 insurance contract assets (shown above within ‘All other assets’) and
insurance contract liabilities are removed on transition, to be replaced with IFRS 17 balances.
Remeasurement effect of IFRS 9 re-designations
Loans and advances of $1,849m and debt securities of $53,201m, both supporting associated insurance liabilities, were re-designated from an
amortised cost classification to fair value through profit and loss. Debt securities supporting the associated insurance liabilities of $1,068m were
reclassified from fair value through other comprehensive income to fair value through profit or loss. The re-designations were made in order to
more closely align the asset accounting with the valuation of the associated insurance liabilities. The re-designation of amortised cost assets
generated a net increase to assets of $4,873m because the fair value measurement on transition was higher than the previous amortised cost
carrying amount.
Recognition of the IFRS 17 fulfilment cash flows
The measurement of the insurance contracts liabilities under IFRS 17 is based on groups of insurance contracts and includes a liability for
fulfilling the insurance contracts, such as premiums, directly attributable expenses, insurance benefits and claims including policyholder returns
and the cost of guarantees. These are recorded within the fulfilment cash flow component of the insurance contract liability, together with the
risk adjustment for non-financial risk.
Recognition of the IFRS 17 contractual service margin
The CSM is a component of the insurance contract liability and represents the future unearned profit associated with insurance contracts that
will be released to the profit and loss over the expected coverage period.
Tax effect
The removal of deferred tax liabilities primarily results from the removal of the associated PVIF intangible asset, and new deferred tax assets are
reported, where appropriate, on temporary differences between the new IFRS 17 accounting balances and their associated tax bases.
422 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Notes on the financial statements
Introduction of IFRS 17 income statement
Insurance finance income/(expense)
Insurance finance income/(expense) of $13,799m for the year ended 31 December 2022 represents the change in the carrying amount of
insurance contracts arising from the effect of, and changes in, the time value of money and financial risk. For variable fee approach contracts,
which represent more than 90% of HSBC’s insurance contracts, the insurance finance income/(expense) includes the changes in the fair value
of underlying items (excluding additions and withdrawals). It therefore has an offsetting impact to investment income earned on underlying
assets supporting insurance contracts. This includes an offsetting impact to the gains and losses on assets re-designated on transition to fair
value through profit or loss, and which is now included in ‘Net expense from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related
derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss’.
Contractual service margin
Revenue is recognised for the release of the CSM associated with the in-force business, which was allocated at a rate of approximately 9%
during 2022. The CSM release is largely impacted by the constant measure allocation approach for investment services, but may vary over time
primarily due to changes in the total amount of CSM reported on the balance sheet from factors such as new business written, the Group’s
share of investment experience, or changes to assumptions.
Onerous contracts
Losses on onerous contracts are taken to the income statement as incurred.
Experience variance and other
‘Experience variance and other’ represents the expected expenses, claims and recovery of acquisition cash flows, which are reported as part of
the insurance revenue. This is offset with the actual expenses and claims incurred in the year and amortisation of acquisition cash flows, which
are reported as part of insurance service expense.
Attributable expenses
Directly attributable expenses are the costs associated with originating and fulfilling an identified portfolio of insurance contracts. These costs
include distribution fees paid to third parties as part of originating insurance contracts together with appropriate allocations of fixed and variable
overheads, which are included within the fulfilment cash flows and are no longer shown on the operating expenses line, whereas non-
attributable expenses remain in the operating expenses.
IFRS 17 transition impact on the Group comprehensive income
Year ended 31 Dec 2022
Under Under
IFRS 17 IFRS 4
$m $m
Total equity at 1 Jan 196,318 206,777
of which
– retained earnings 135,236 144,458
– financial assets at FVOCI reserve 49 (634)
– insurance finance reserve (696) —
Profit for the period 16,249 16,670
Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income (7,232) (5,468)
Equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income 107 107
Insurance finance income recognised in other comprehensive income 1,775 —
Other comprehensive expense for the period, net of tax (11,892) (11,940)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the period (993) (631)
Other movements (10,128) (10,118)
Total equity at 31 Dec 185,197 196,028
Transition drivers
Insurance finance reserve
The insurance finance reserve reflects the impact of the adoption of the other comprehensive income option for our insurance business in
France. Underlying assets supporting these contracts are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Under this option, only
the amount that matches income or expenses recognised in profit or loss on underlying items is included in finance income or expenses,
resulting in the elimination of income statement accounting mismatches. The remaining amount of finance income or expenses for these
insurance contracts is recognised in OCI. At the transition date an insurance finance reserve of $696m was recognised and following transition,
gains net of tax of $1,775m were recorded in the year ended 31 December 2022. An offsetting fair value through other comprehensive income
reserve of $683m recorded on transition represents the accumulated fair value movements on assets supporting these insurance contract
liabilities, with associated losses net of tax of $1,898m recorded within the fair value through other comprehensive income reserve for the year
ended 31 December 2022.
424 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Based on the company’s audited financial statements and relevant backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with
market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not believe that it applicable certification procedures to establish that they are not US
was a passive investment company for its 2023 taxable year and does persons in order to avoid the application of such US information
not anticipate becoming a passive foreign investment company in reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments
2024 or the foreseeable future. Accordingly, dividends paid on the received within the US or through certain financial intermediaries.
shares or ADSs generally should be eligible for qualified dividends
Approach to ESG reporting
treatment.
Taxation of capital gains The information set out in the ESG review on pages 41 to 98, taken
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of together with other information relating to ESG issues included in this
shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless at Annual Report and Accounts 2023, aims to provide key ESG
the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, information and data relevant to our operations for the year ended
profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or 31 December 2023. The data is compiled for the financial year
permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have been 1 January to 31 December 2023 unless otherwise specified.
used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, Measurement techniques and calculations are explained next to data
vocation, branch or agency or permanent establishment. Such gains tables where necessary. There are no significant changes from the
will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term previous reporting period in terms of scope, boundary or
capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one year. measurement of our reporting of ESG matters. Where relevant,
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual US holder generally rationale is provided for any restatement of information or data that
will be subject to US tax at preferential rates. has been previously published. We have also considered our
obligations under the Environmental, Social and Governance
Inheritance tax Reporting Guide contained in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is determined to the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
be the US for the purposes of the United States–United Kingdom (‘ESG Guide’) and under LR9.8.6R(8) of the Financial Conduct
Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes (the Authority’s (‘FCA’) Listing Rules. We will continue to develop and
‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such purposes a national of the refine our reporting and disclosures on ESG matters in line with
UK will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has feedback received from our investors and other stakeholders, and in
been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual’s death view of our obligations under the ESG Guide and the FCA’s Listing
or on a lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain cases Rules.
where the shares or ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at ESG Guide
the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and
was not a national of the UK), (ii) are part of the business property of a We comply with the ‘comply or explain’ provisions in the ESG Guide,
UK permanent establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) pertain to a UK save for certain items, which we describe in more detail below:
fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent
– A1(b) on relevant laws/regulations relating to air and greenhouse
personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally
gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of
provides a credit against US federal tax liability for the amount of any
hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and on emissions: taking into
tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or ADSs are subject to
account the nature of our business, we do not believe that there
both UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate or gift tax.
are relevant laws and regulations in these areas that have
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – ADSs significant impacts on our operations. Nevertheless, we are fully
compliant with our publication of information regarding scope 1
If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American
and 2 carbon emissions, while we only partially publish information
Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will include a transfer of
on scope 3 carbon emissions, as the data required for that
shares to the depositary) UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve
publication is not yet fully available.
tax will be payable unless the UK Finance Bill 2023-24 is enacted in
the form it stands as at the date hereof and the transfer is, or is – A1.3 on total hazardous waste produced, A1.4 on total non-
treated as being, in the course of a capital raising arrangement. The hazardous waste produced: Taking into account the nature of our
stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the business, we do not consider hazardous waste to be a material
consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of issue for our stakeholders. As such, we report only on total waste
1.5%. produced, which includes hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will – A1.6 on handling hazardous and non-hazardous waste: Taking into
be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to be
transfer. a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we
continue to focus on the reduction and recycling of all waste.
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to
Building on the success of our previous operational environmental
transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument
strategy, we are continuing to seek to identify key opportunities
of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times
where we can lessen our wider environmental impact, including
outside the UK, and provided further that any such transfer or written
waste management. For further details, please see our ESG
agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK. No stamp duty
review on page 63.
reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer,
an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR. – A2.4 on sourcing water issue and water efficiency target: Taking
into account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to
US information reporting and backup withholding tax
be a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we
Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale of have implemented measures to further reduce water consumption
shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain through the installation of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or
financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to US information zero flush sanitary fittings and continue to track our water
reporting and may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax. consumption.
General exceptions to this rule happen when the US holder:
– A2.5 on packaging material, B6(b) on issues related to health and
establishes that it is a corporation (other than an S corporation) or
safety and labelling relating to products and services provided,
other exempt holder; or provides a correct taxpayer identification
B6.1 on percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to number, certifies that no loss of exemption from backup withholding
recalls for safety and health reasons and B6.4 in recall procedures:
has occurred and otherwise complies with the applicable
Taking into account the nature of our business, we do not consider
requirements of the backup withholding rules. Holders that are not US
these to be material issues for our stakeholders.
persons (as defined in the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended) generally are not subject to US information reporting or This is aligned with the materiality reporting principle that is set out in
the ESG Guide. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ on page 43
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 439
Additional
information
Additional information
for further information on how we determine what matters are addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes
material to our stakeholders. available and technology solutions are implemented.
TCFD recommendations and recommended Strategy (b) related to transition plan: We published our Group-wide
net zero transition plan in January 2024. In this plan, we provided an
disclosures
overview of our approach to net zero and the actions we are taking to
help meet our ambitions. We want to be clear about our approach,
As noted on page 17, we have considered our ‘comply or explain’
the change underway today and what we plan to do in the future. We
obligation under both the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing
also want to be transparent about where there are still unresolved
Rules and Sections 414 CA and 414CB of the UK Companies Act
issues and uncertainties. We are still developing our disclosures,
2006, and confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with the
including considerations of possible additional data in relation to our
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures, including
financial plans, budgets, and related financial approach for the
its annexes and supplemental guidance, save for certain items, which
implementation of the transition plan in the medium term (e.g.
we summarise below:
amount of capital and other expenditures supporting our
Targets setting decarbonisation strategy).
Metrics and targets (c) relating to short-term targets: For financed Metrics and targets (a) relating to internal carbon prices and climate-
emissions we do not plan to set 2025 targets. We set targets in line related opportunities metrics: We do not currently disclose internal
with the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (‘NZBA‘) guidelines by setting carbon prices due to transitional challenges such as data challenges.
2030 targets. While the NZBA define 2030 as intermediate, we use But we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario
different time horizons for climate risk management. We define short analysis exercise. In addition, we do not currently fully disclose the
term as time periods up to 2025; medium term is between 2026 and proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital deployment or
2035; and long term is between 2036 and 2050. In 2023, we disclose other business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities,
interim 2030 financed emissions targets for seven sectors comprising including revenue from products and services designed for a low-
five on-balance sheet and two combined financed emissions targets, carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with our
as we outline on page 18. For the shipping sector, we have taken a business or strategic planning time horizons. In relation to sustainable
decision not to set a standalone financed emissions target. The finance revenue and assets we are disclosing certain elements. We
decision follows a reduction in our exposure to the sector after the expect the data and system limitations related to financial planning
strategic sale of part of our European shipping portfolio. This aligns and performance, and climate-related opportunities metrics to be
with NZBA guidelines on sector inclusion for target setting. We have addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes
now set combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and available and technology solutions are implemented. We expect to
facilitated emissions targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil further enhance this disclosure in the medium term.
and gas, and power and utilities, and report the combined progress
Impacts of transition and physical risk
for both sectors. We intend to review the financed emissions
baselines and targets annually and restate where relevant, to help Strategy (c) relating to quantitative scenario analysis: We do not
ensure that they are aligned with market practice and current climate currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk
science. For further details on the restatements and targets and quantitatively, due to transitional challenges including data limitations
progress of financed emissions, see section ’Our approach to and evolving science and methodologies. In 2023, we have disclosed
financed emissions recalculations’ and ’Targets and Progress’ on page the impairment impacts for our wholesale, retail and commercial real
56 and 57. estate portfolios in different climate scenarios. In addition, we have
disclosed losses on our retail mortgage book under three scenarios
Metrics and targets (c) relating to capital deployment target: We do
and flood depths for specific markets. For our wholesale book, we
not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In relation to
have disclosed potential implications on our expected credit losses for
capital deployment, since 2015, we have issued more than $2bn of
11 sectors under two scenarios. We have also disclosed a heat map
our own green bonds and structured green bonds with the capital
showing how we expect the risks to evolve over time.
invested into a variety of green projects, including: green buildings,
renewable energy and clean transportation projects. In 2023, we Metrics and targets (a) relating to detailed climate-related risk
further progressed our internal review and enhancement of the green exposure metrics for physical and transition risks: We do not fully
bond framework, with further refinement including internal and disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related physical
external review to be undertaken in 2024. This will be subject to (chronic) and transitions (policy and legal, technology and market)
continuous review and monitoring to ensure that they remain up to risks on retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and other financial
date and reflect updated standards, taxonomies and best practices. intermediary business activities (specifically credit exposure, equity
Any such developments in standards, taxonomies and best practices and debt holdings, or trading positions, each broken down by industry,
over time could result in revisions in our reporting going forward and geography, credit quality and average tenor). We are aiming to
lead to differences year-on-year as compared to prior years. See the develop the appropriate systems, data and processes to provide
HSBC Green Bond Report for further information. these disclosures in future years. We disclose the exposure to six
high transition risk wholesale sectors and the flood risk exposure and
Metrics and targets (c) relating to internal carbon pricing target: We do
Energy Performance Certificate breakdown for the UK portfolio.
not currently disclose internal carbon pricing target due to transitional
challenges such as developing the appropriate systems and Metrics and targets (c) on targets related to physical risk: We do not
processes, but we considered carbon prices as an input for our currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk.
climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance the This is due to transitional challenges including data limitations of
disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available. physical risk metrics. For retail, we do not use targets to measure and
manage physical risk. In 2023 we introduced internally a global ‘soft
Impacts on financial planning and performance
trigger’ monitoring and review process for physical risk exposure
Strategy (b) relating to financial planning and performance: We have where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures
used climate scenarios to inform our organisation’s business, strategy markets are actively considering their balance sheet risk exposure to
and financial planning. In 2023, we continued to incorporate certain peril events. We also consider physical and transition risk as an input
aspects of sustainable finance and financed emissions within our for our climate scenario analysis exercise.
financial planning process. We do not fully disclose impacts from
We expect to further enhance our disclosures as our data,
climate-related opportunities on financial planning and performance
quantitative scenario analysis, risk metrics and physical risk targets
including on revenue, costs and the balance sheet, quantitative
evolve, and technology solutions are implemented in the medium
scenario analysis, detailed climate risk exposures for all sectors and
term.
geographies or physical risk metrics. This is due to transitional
challenges in relation to data limitations, although nascent work is
ongoing in these areas. We expect these data limitations to be
440 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
Scope 3 emissions disclosure prospectuses, press releases and other written materials, and in oral
statements made by HSBC’s directors, officers or employees to third
Metrics and targets (b) relating to scope 3 emissions metrics: We
parties, including financial analysts. Forward-looking statements
currently disclose partial scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions including
involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a
business travel, supply chain and financed emissions. We currently
number of factors could cause actual results to differ, in some
disclose four out of 15 categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas
instances materially, from those anticipated or implied in any forward-
emissions including business travel, supply chain and financed
looking statement. These include, but are not limited to:
emissions. In relation to financed emissions, we publish on-balance
sheet financed emissions for a number of sectors as detailed on page – changes in general economic conditions in the markets in which
18. We also publish facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and we operate, such as new, continuing or deepening recessions,
power and utilities sectors. Future disclosures on financed emissions prolonged inflationary pressures and fluctuations in employment
and related risks are reliant on our customers publicly disclosing their levels and the creditworthiness of customers beyond those
greenhouse gas emissions, targets and plans, and related risks. We factored into consensus forecasts; the Russia-Ukraine war and the
recognise the need to provide early transparency on climate Israel-Hamas war and their impact on global economies and the
disclosures but balance this with the recognition that existing data markets where HSBC operates, which could have a material
and reporting processes require significant enhancements. adverse effect on (among other things) our financial condition,
results of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital position and
Other matters
credit ratings; deviations from the market and economic
Strategy (b) relating to access to capital: We have considered the assumptions that form the basis for our ECL measurements
impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy and (including, without limitation, as a result of the Russia-Ukraine war
financial planning. Our access to capital may be impacted by and the Israel-Hamas war, inflationary pressures, commodity price
reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In changes, and ongoing developments in the commercial real estate
addition, if we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on our business sector in mainland China); potential changes in HSBC’s dividend
activities or if we fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we policy; changes and volatility in foreign exchange rates and interest
could face reputational damage, impacting our revenue-generating rates levels, including the accounting impact resulting from
ability and potentially our access to capital markets. We expect to financial reporting in respect of hyperinflationary economies;
further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data volatility in equity markets; lack of liquidity in wholesale funding or
becomes available. capital markets, which may affect our ability to meet our
obligations under financing facilities or to fund new loans,
To manage these risks we have integrated climate risk into our
investments and businesses; geopolitical tensions or diplomatic
existing risk taxonomy, and incorporated it within the risk
developments producing social instability or legal uncertainty, such
management framework through the policies and controls for the
as the Russia-Ukraine war or the Israel-Hamas war (including the
existing risks where appropriate.
continuation and escalation thereof) and the related imposition of
Metrics and targets (c) relating to water usage target: We have sanctions and trade restrictions, supply chain restrictions and
described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate- disruptions, sustained increases in energy prices and key
related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. commodity prices, claims of human rights violations, diplomatic
However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do not tensions, including between China and the US, the UK, the EU,
consider water usage to be a material target for our business and, India and other countries, and developments in Hong Kong and
therefore, we have not included a target in this year’s disclosure. Taiwan, alongside other potential areas of tension, which may
With respect to our obligations under LR9.8.6R(8) of the FCA’s Listing adversely affect HSBC by creating regulatory, reputational and
Rules, as part of considering what to measure and publicly report, we market risks; the efficacy of government, customer, and HSBC’s
perform an assessment to ascertain the appropriate level of detail to actions in managing and mitigating ESG risks, in particular climate
be included in the climate-related financial disclosures that are set out risk, nature-related risks and human rights risks, and in supporting
in our Annual Report and Accounts. Our assessment takes into the global transition to net zero carbon emissions, each of which
account factors such as the level of our exposure to climate-related can impact HSBC both directly and indirectly through our
risks and opportunities, the scope and objectives of our climate- customers and which may result in potential financial and non-
related strategy, transitional challenges, and the nature, size and financial impacts; illiquidity and downward price pressure in
complexity of our business. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ national real estate markets; adverse changes in central banks’
on page 43 for further information. policies with respect to the provision of liquidity support to
financial markets; heightened market concerns over sovereign
Cautionary statement regarding
creditworthiness in over-indebted countries; adverse changes in
the funding status of public or private defined benefit pensions;
forward-looking statements
societal shifts in customer financing and investment needs,
including consumer perception as to the continuing availability of
This Annual Report and Accounts 2023 contains certain forward-
credit; exposure to counterparty risk, including third parties using
looking statements with respect to HSBC’s financial condition; results
us as a conduit for illegal activities without our knowledge; the
of operations and business, including the strategic priorities; financial,
discontinuation of certain key Ibors and the transition of the
investment and capital targets; and ESG targets, commitments and
remaining legacy Ibor contracts to near risk-free benchmark rates,
ambitions described herein.
which continues to expose HSBC to some financial and non-
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about financial risks; and price competition in the market segments we
HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. serve;
Words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘targets’, ‘anticipates’, – changes in government policy and regulation, including the
‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and
‘reasonably possible’, or the negative thereof, other variations thereon other regulatory authorities in the principal markets in which we
or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking operate and the consequences thereof (including, without
statements. These statements are based on current plans, limitation, actions taken as a result of the impact of the Russia-
information, data, estimates and projections, and therefore undue Ukraine war on inflation); initiatives to change the size, scope of
reliance should not be placed on them. Forward-looking statements activities and interconnectedness of financial institutions in
speak only as of the date they are made. HSBC makes no connection with the implementation of stricter regulation of
commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements to financial institutions in key markets worldwide; revised capital and
reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of liquidity benchmarks, which could serve to deleverage bank
any forward-looking statements. Written and/or oral forward-looking balance sheets and lower returns available from the current
statements may also be made in the periodic reports to the US business model and portfolio mix; changes to tax laws and tax
Securities and Exchange Commission, summary financial statements rates applicable to HSBC, including the imposition of levies or
to shareholders, proxy statements, offering circulars and taxes designed to change business mix and risk appetite; the
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 441
Additional
information
Additional information
practices, pricing or responsibilities of financial institutions serving our portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions
their consumer markets; expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation set forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy
of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership; policy, and increase the risk of greenwashing. Effective risk
the UK’s relationship with the EU, which continues to be management depends on, among other things, our ability through
characterised by uncertainty and political disagreement, despite stress testing and other techniques to prepare for events that
the signing of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the cannot be captured by the statistical models it uses; our success
UK and the EU, particularly with respect to the potential in addressing operational, legal and regulatory, and litigation
divergence of UK and EU law on the regulation of financial challenges; and other risks and uncertainties we identify in ‘Top
services; changes in government approach and regulatory and emerging risks’ on pages 140 to 144.
treatment in relation to ESG disclosures and reporting
This Annual Report and Accounts 2023 contains a number of images,
requirements, and the current lack of a single standardised
graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case studies and
regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors and markets;
credentials which aim to give a high-level overview of certain
changes in UK macroeconomic and fiscal policy, which may result
elements of our disclosures and to improve accessibility for readers.
in fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling; general changes
These images, graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case
in government policy that may significantly influence investor
studies and credentials are designed to be read within the context of
decisions; the costs, effects and outcomes of regulatory reviews,
the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 as a whole.
actions or litigation, including any additional compliance
requirements; and the effects of competition in the markets where Additional cautionary statement
we operate including increased competition from non-bank
regarding ESG data, metrics and
financial services companies; and
– factors specific to HSBC, including our success in adequately forward-looking statements
identifying the risks we face, such as the incidence of loan losses
or delinquency, and managing those risks (through account The Annual Report and Accounts 2023 contains a number of forward-
management, hedging and other techniques); our ability to achieve looking statements (as defined above) with respect to HSBC’s ESG
our financial, investment, capital and ESG targets, commitments targets, commitments, ambitions, climate-related pathways,
and ambitions (including the positions set forth in our thermal coal processes and plans, and the methodologies and scenarios we use,
phase-out policy and our energy policy and our targets to reduce or intend to use, to assess our progress in relation to these (‘ESG-
our on-balance sheet financed emissions and, where applicable, related forward-looking statements’).
facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected high-emitting
In preparing the ESG-related information contained in the Annual
sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve any of the
Report and Accounts 2023, HSBC has made a number of key
expected benefits of our strategic priorities; evolving regulatory
judgements, estimations and assumptions, and the processes and
requirements and the development of new technologies, including
issues involved are complex. We have used ESG (including climate)
artificial intelligence, affecting how we manage model risk; model
data, models and methodologies that we consider, as of the date on
limitations or failure, including, without limitation, the impact that
which they were used, to be appropriate and suitable to understand
high inflationary pressures and rising interest rates have had on
and assess climate change risk and its impact, to analyse financed
the performance and usage of financial models, which may require
emissions - and operational and supply chain emissions, to set ESG-
us to hold additional capital, incur losses and/or use compensating
related targets and to evaluate the classification of sustainable finance
controls, such as judgemental post-model adjustments, to address
and investments. However, these data, models and methodologies
model limitations; changes to the judgements, estimates and
are often new, are rapidly evolving and are not of the same standard
assumptions we base our financial statements on; changes in our
as those available in the context of other financial information, nor are
ability to meet the requirements of regulatory stress tests; a
they subject to the same or equivalent disclosure standards, historical
reduction in the credit ratings assigned to us or any of our
reference points, benchmarks or globally accepted accounting
subsidiaries, which could increase the cost or decrease the
principles. In particular, it is not possible to rely on historical data as a
availability of our funding and affect our liquidity position and net
strong indicator of future trajectories in the case of climate change
interest margin; changes to the reliability and security of our data
and its evolution. Outputs of models, processed data and
management, data privacy, information and technology
methodologies are also likely to be affected by underlying data quality,
infrastructure, including threats from cyber-attacks, which may
which can be hard to assess and we expect industry guidance,
impact our ability to service clients and may result in financial loss,
market practice, and regulations in this field to continue to change.
business disruption and/or loss of customer services and data; the
We also face challenges in relation to our ability to access data on a
accuracy and effective use of data, including internal management
timely basis, lack of consistency and comparability between data that
information that may not have been independently verified;
is available and our ability to collect and process relevant data.
changes in insurance customer behaviour and insurance claim
Consequently, the ESG-related forward-looking statements and ESG
rates; our dependence on loan payments and dividends from
metrics disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023 carry an
subsidiaries to meet our obligations; changes in our reporting
additional degree of inherent risk and uncertainty.
frameworks and accounting standards, which have had and may
continue to have a material impact on the way we prepare our Due to the unpredictable evolution of climate change and its future
financial statements; our ability to successfully execute planned impact and the uncertainty of future policy and market response to
strategic acquisitions and disposals; our success in adequately ESG-related issues and the effectiveness of any such response,
integrating acquired businesses into our business, including the HSBC may have to re-evaluate its progress towards its ESG
integration of SVB UK into our CMB business; changes in our ambitions, commitments and targets in the future, update the
ability to manage third-party, fraud, financial crime and reputational methodologies it uses or alter its approach to ESG (including climate)
risks inherent in our operations; employee misconduct, which may analysis and may be required to amend, update and recalculate its
result in regulatory sanctions and/or reputational or financial harm; ESG disclosures and assessments in the future, as market practice
changes in skill requirements, ways of working and talent and data quality and availability develop.
shortages, which may affect our ability to recruit and retain senior
No assurance can be given by or on behalf of HSBC as to the
management and diverse and skilled personnel; and changes in
likelihood of the achievement or reasonableness of any projections,
our ability to develop sustainable finance and ESG-related products
estimates, forecasts, targets, commitments, ambitions, prospects or
consistent with the evolving expectations of our regulators, and
returns contained herein. Readers are cautioned that a number of
our capacity to measure the environmental and social impacts
factors, both external and those specific to HSBC, could cause actual
from our financing activity (including as a result of data limitations
achievements, results, performance or other future events or
and changes in methodologies), which may affect our ability to
conditions to differ, in some cases materially, from those stated,
achieve our ESG ambitions, targets and commitments, including
implied and/or reflected in any ESG-related forward-looking statement
our net zero ambition, our targets to reduce on-balance sheet
or metric due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors
financed emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in
(including without limitation those referred to below):
442 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
– Climate change projection risk: this includes, for example, the – we may not be able to achieve our ESG targets, commitments and
evolution of climate change and its impacts, changes in the ambitions (including with respect to the positions set forth in our
scientific assessment of climate change impacts, transition thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy, and our
pathways and future risk exposure and limitations of climate targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed emissions and,
scenario forecasts; where applicable, facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected
high-emitting sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve
– ESG projection risk: ESG metrics are complex and are still subject
some or all of the expected benefits of our strategic priorities; and
to development. In addition, the scenarios employed in relation to
them, and the models that analyse them have limitations that are – we may not be able to develop sustainable finance and ESG-
sensitive to key assumptions and parameters, which are related products consistent with the evolving expectations of our
themselves subject to some uncertainty, and cannot fully capture regulators, and our capacity to measure the environmental and
all of the potential effects of climate, policy and technology-driven social impacts from our financing activity may diminish (including
outcomes; as a result of data and model limitations and changes in
methodologies), which may affect our ability to achieve our ESG
– Changes in the ESG regulatory landscape: this involves changes in
targets, commitments and ambitions, including our net zero
government approach and regulatory treatment in relation to ESG
ambition, our targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed
disclosures and reporting requirements, and the current lack of a
emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in our
single standardised regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors
portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions set
and markets;
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and energy policy, and
– Variation in reporting standards: ESG reporting standards are still increase the risk of greenwashing.
developing and are not standardised or comparable across all
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of HSBC speak
sectors and markets, new reporting standards in relation to
only as of the date they are made. HSBC expressly disclaims any
different ESG metrics are still emerging;
obligation to revise or update these ESG forward-looking statements,
– Data availability, accuracy, verifiability and data gaps: our other than as expressly required by applicable law.
disclosures are limited by the availability of high quality data in
Written and/or oral ESG-related forward-looking statements may also
some areas and our own ability to timely collect and process such
be made in our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange
data as required. Where data is not available for all sectors or
Commission, summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy
consistently year on year, there may be an impact to our data
statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases and
quality scores. While we expect our data quality scores to improve
other written materials, and in oral statements made by HSBC’s
over time, as companies continue to expand their disclosures to
Directors, officers or employees to third parties, including financial
meet growing regulatory and stakeholder expectations, there may
analysts.
be unexpected fluctuations within sectors year on year, and/or
differences between the data quality scores between sectors. Any Our data dictionaries and methodologies for preparing the above ESG-
such changes in the availability and quality of data over time, or our related metrics and third-party limited assurance reports can be found
ability to collect and process such data, could result in revisions to on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reported data going forward, including on financed emissions, reporting-centre.
meaning that such data may not be reconcilable or comparable
Certain defined terms
year-on year;
– Developing methodologies and scenarios: the methodologies and Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ means HSBC
scenarios HSBC uses to assess financed emissions and set ESG- Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to
related targets may develop over time in line with market practice, HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this document
regulation and/or developments in science, where applicable. Such the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s
developments could result in revisions to reported data, including Republic of China is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’.
on financed emissions or the classification of sustainable finance
When used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total
and investments, meaning that data outputs may not be
shareholders’ equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC
reconcilable or comparable year-on year; and
Holdings ordinary shares and those preference shares and capital
– Risk management capabilities: global actions, including HSBC’s securities issued by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The
own actions, may not be effective in transitioning to net zero and abbreviations ‘$m’, ‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ represent millions, billions
in managing relevant ESG risks, including in particular climate, (thousands of millions) and trillions of US dollars, respectively.
nature-related and human rights risks, each of which can impact
HSBC both directly and indirectly through our customers, and
which may result in potential financial and non-financial impacts to
HBSC. In particular:
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 443
Additional
information
Additional information
Abbreviations
Currencies DPD Days past due
£ British pound sterling DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and
investment contracts
CA$ Canadian dollar
€ Euro DVA¹ Debit valuation adjustment
HK$ Hong Kong dollar E
MXN Mexican peso EAD¹ Exposure at default
RMB Chinese renminbi EBA European Banking Authority
SGD Singapore dollar EC European Commission
$ United States dollar ECB European Central Bank
A ECL Expected credit losses. In the income statement, ECL is
recorded as a change in expected credit losses and other
ABS¹ Asset-backed security
credit impairment charges. In the balance sheet, ECL is
ADR American Depositary Receipt
recorded as an allowance for financial instruments to which
ADS American Depositary Share only the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
AGM Annual General Meeting EEA European Economic Area
AI Artificial intelligence Eonia Euro Overnight Index Average
AIEA Average interest-earning assets EPC Energy performance certificate
ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee EPS Earnings per ordinary share
AML Anti-money laundering ESG Environmental, social and governance
AML DPA Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US EU European Union
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012
Euribor Euro interbank offered rate
ANP Annualised new business premium
EVE Economic value of equity
ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations
F
AT1 Additional tier 1
FAST-Infra Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable Transition-
B
Infrastructure
Basel Basel Committee on Banking Supervision FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
Committee
FDIC Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Basel II¹ 2006 Basel Capital Accord
FFVA Funding fair value adjustment estimation methodology on
Basel III¹ Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and
derivative contracts
liquidity rules
FPA Fixed pay allowance
Basel 3.1 Outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel
FRB Federal Reserve Board (US)
III reforms
FRC Financial Reporting Council
BEPS Base Erosion and Profit Shifting
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
BGF Business Growth Fund, an investment firm that provides
FTE Full-time equivalent staff
growth capital for small and mid-sized businesses in the UK
and Ireland FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange index
FVOCI¹ Fair value through other comprehensive income
BoCom Bank of Communications Co., Limited, one of China’s
largest banks FX Foreign exchange
BoE Bank of England G
Bps¹ Basis points. One basis point is equal to one-hundredth of a GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles
percentage point
GAC Group Audit Committee
BVI British Virgin Islands
GBM Global Banking and Markets, a global business
C GDP Gross domestic product
CAPM Capital asset pricing model GEC Group Executive Committee
CDS¹ Credit default swap GFANZ Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero
CEA Commodity Exchange Act (US) GMP Guaranteed minimum pension
CET1¹ Common equity tier 1 GPS Global Payments Solutions, the business formerly known as
CGUs Cash-generating units Global Liquidity and Cash Management
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business GPSP Group Performance Share Plan
CMC Capital maintenance charge GRC Group Risk Committee
CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
COSO 2013 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the GTRF Global Trade and Receivables Finance
Treadway Commission (US) H
Corporate Corporate Centre comprises Central Treasury, our legacy
Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks
Centre businesses, interests in our associates and joint ventures,
HKEx The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
central stewardship costs and consolidation adjustments
HKMA Hong Kong Monetary Authority
CP¹ Commercial paper
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs
CRD IV¹ Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive
Holdings ALCO HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee
CRR¹ Customer risk rating
Hong Kong Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s
CRR II¹ The regulatory requirements of the Capital Requirements
Republic of China
Regulation and Directive, the CRR II regulation and the PRA
Rulebook HQLA High-quality liquid assets
CSA Credit support annex HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
CSM Contractual service margin HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank plc, also known as the non-ring-fenced bank
CVA¹ Credit valuation adjustment HSBC Bank HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
Middle East
D
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank USA, N.A., HSBC’s retail bank in the US
Deferred shares Awards of deferred shares define the number of HSBC USA
Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will HSBC Canada The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company
become entitled, generally between one and seven years Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada and HSBC
from the date of the award, and normally subject to the Securities Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes
individual remaining in employment
444 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023
HSBC HSBC Continental Europe O
Continental
Europe OCI Other comprehensive income
HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance OECD Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development
company (formerly Household International, Inc.) OTC¹ Over-the-counter
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC P
HSBC Private HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in
PBT Profit before tax
Bank (Suisse) Switzerland
PCAF Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials
HSBC UK HSBC UK Bank plc, also known as the ring-fenced bank
PD¹ Probability of default
HSBC USA The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of
Performance Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee
HSBC Bank USA) and HSBC Bank USA, consolidated for
shares¹ share plans that are subject to corporate performance
liquidity purposes
conditions
HSI HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.
Ping An Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the
HSSL HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg)
second-largest life insurer in the PRC
I POCI Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
IAS International Accounting Standards PRA Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
IASB International Accounting Standards Board PRC People’s Republic of China
IBE Independent Board Evaluation Principal plan HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
Ibor Interbank offered rate PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business and
ICAAP Internal capital adequacy assessment process long-term investment contracts with DPF
ICMA International Capital Market Association PwC The member firms of the PwC network, including
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
IEA International Energy Agency
IFRS Accounting International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the R
Standards International Accounting Standards Board
RAS Risk appetite statement
ILAAP Internal liquidity adequacy assessment process Repo¹ Sale and repurchase transaction
IMA Internal model approach Revenue Net operating income before ECL
IMM Internal model method Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell
IRB¹ Internal ratings-based RNIV Risk not in VaR
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association RoE Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
ISSB International Sustainability Standard Board RoTE Return on average tangible equity
JV Joint venture RWA¹ Risk-weighted asset
K S
KMP Key Management Personnel SAB Saudi Awwal Bank
L SAPS Self-administered pension scheme
SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
LCR Liquidity coverage ratio
SBTi Science Based Targets initiative
LGBTQ+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer. The plus
sign denotes other non-mainstream groups on the SDG United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
spectrums of sexual orientation and gender identity SEC Securities and Exchange Commission (US)
LGD¹ Loss given default ServCo group Separately incorporated group of service companies
Libor London interbank offered rate established in response to UK ring-fencing requirements
Long term For our financial targets, we define long term as five to six Sibor Singapore interbank offered rate
years, commencing 1 January 2024 SIC Securities investment conduit
LTI Long-term incentive SME Small and medium-sized enterprise
LTV¹ Loan to value Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed
by HSBC
M
SPE¹ Special purpose entity
Mainland China People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong and SVB UK Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited, now HSBC Innovation Bank
Macau Limited
Medium term For our financial targets, we define medium term as three
T
to four years, commencing 1 January 2024
MENAT Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye TCFD¹ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
MREL Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities THBFIX Thai Baht Interest Rate Fixing
MRT¹ Material Risk Taker TNFD Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
MSS Markets and Securities Services, HSBC’s capital markets TSR¹ Total shareholder return
and securities services businesses in Global Banking and U
Markets
UAE United Arab Emirates
N
UK United Kingdom
Net operating Net operating income before change in expected credit UN United Nations
income losses and other credit impairment charges US United States of America
NGO Non-governmental organisation V
NII Net interest income
VaR¹ Value at risk
NIM Net interest margin
VIU Value in use
NPS Net promoter score
NSFR Net stable funding ratio W
NYSE New York Stock Exchange WEF World Economic Forum
NZBA Net-Zero Banking Alliance WPB Wealth and Personal Banking, a global business
1 A full definition is included in the glossary to the Annual Report and
Accounts 2023 which is available at www.hsbc.com/investors.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 445
Additional
information