HSBC Holdings plc
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement
Supporting sustainable growth
November 2017
Cover image: Situ Patenggang, West Java, Indonesia
(image is a submission in an HSBC Group-wide
employee competition held in 2016).
Photography: Nurwata Yuda Pradana, HSBC Indonesia, Jakarta
Contents
1 About this Document 4
2 Introduction by Stuart Gulliver 5
3 HSBC at a Glance 6
4 Supporting Sustainable Growth 8
5 Financial Crime Risk Management 15
6 Our Approach to Tax 17
7 Update on Corporate Governance 18
8 Further Information 19
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc 3
About this Document
The purpose of this document is to provide information to stakeholders
about HSBC’s approach to key environmental, social and governance
(‘ESG’) issues.
It is designed to serve as an extension of, and be read in conjunction
with, our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update of
April 2017, which was the first such report we issued. This additional
document provides further or updated material, reflecting our efforts to
continue to improve our ESG reporting, as well as outlining our updated
sustainability strategy, described on pages 8 through 14.
It also complements our Annual Report and Accounts 2016, which
contains details of our organisational structure, global footprint,
governance, strategy, financial performance and risk management.
Where appropriate, we have provided links to further information in our
Annual Report and Accounts 2016, and on our website, www.hsbc.com.
In our ESG reporting, we focus on the issues that we consider are
material to our business. These issues are identified through an ongoing
programme of investor, analyst and NGO engagement.
Certain defined terms: Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’
means HSBC Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to
HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this document, the Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China is referred
to as ‘Hong Kong’. When used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total
shareholders’ equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC Holdings ordinary
shares and those preference shares and capital securities issued by HSBC
Holdings classified as equity. The abbreviations ‘$m’, ‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ represent
millions, billions (thousands of millions) and trillions of US dollars, respectively.
4 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc
Introduction
As well as being the right thing to do, we firmly strategy makes a series of new commitments,
believe that sharing this information will help us including a target to provide $100bn of sustainable
build stronger relationships with our customers, finance. Taken together, these commitments
employees and the communities we serve. It is reflect the scale of the challenge of delivering
key to our ability to achieve sustainable success. the Paris Agreement and UN Sustainable
Development Goals. They also demonstrate the
The additional information provided in this
heights of our ambition to be a leading global
supplement builds on our first ESG update,
partner to the public and private sectors in the
published in April 2017.
transition to a low carbon economy.
We are also publishing our strategy to support
The views of our various stakeholders continue
sustainable growth. Responding to the forces of
to be invaluable to us as we adapt our reporting
climate change, technological advancement and
processes. We will continue to listen and take
globalisation presents new risks and significant
account of them ahead of our next ESG update,
opportunities for countries and businesses around
which will be published in the first half of 2018.
the world.
I hope you find this supplement useful and
For more than a decade, HSBC has been at the
informative.
forefront of the sustainable finance market. Our
Stuart Gulliver
Group Chief Executive
November 2017
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc 5
tseB
selrahC
:tiderc
otohP
This ESG supplement is part of HSBC’s commitment to being
open and transparent about how we are progressing against
environmental, social and governance criteria.
[STG Approval pending, in process]
HSBC at a Glance
Our purpose is to be where the growth is, enabling businesses
to thrive and economies to prosper, and ultimately helping
people fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions.
Connecting customers to opportunities
Today, we serve around 38 million customers worldwide, through our international
network of around 3,900 offices in 67 countries and territories. Our aim is to be
acknowledged as the world’s leading and most respected international bank.
The HSBC Values
At HSBC, how we do business is as important as what we do. We seek to build
trust-based and lasting relationships with our many stakeholders to generate value
in society and deliver long-term shareholder returns.
Our values define who we are as an organisation and what makes us distinctive.
We believe in acting with courageous integrity. We are:
Open Connected Dependable
Open to different Connected to customers, Dependable
ideas and cultures communities, regulators
and each other
• Communicating openly, • Building connections, being • Standing firm for what is right,
honestly and transparently, aware of external issues, and delivering on commitments, and
welcoming challenge, and collaborating across boundaries. being resilient and trustworthy.
learning from mistakes. • Caring about individuals • Taking personal accountability,
• Listening, treating people fairly, and their progress, showing being decisive, using judgment
being inclusive, and valuing respect, being supportive and and common sense, and
different perspectives. responsive. empowering others.
6 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc
HSBC at a Glance
Our business model
Our business model comprises of four global businesses and our Corporate Centre, as follows:
Retail Banking and Wealth Commercial Banking Global Banking and Global Private Banking
Management (‘RBWM’) (‘CMB’) Markets (‘GB&M’) (‘GPB’)
We help close to 36 million We support approximately We serve approximately We help high net worth
people worldwide to manage 1.7 million business 4,100 clients in more than 50 individuals and their families
their finances, buy their customers in 54 countries countries and territories. We to grow, manage and
homes, and save and invest and territories with banking support major government, preserve their wealth.
for the future. Our Insurance products and services to help corporate and institutional
Corporate Centre
and Asset Management them operate and grow. Our clients worldwide. Our
Corporate Centre
businesses support all our customers range from small product specialists continue
comprises Central Treasury
global businesses in meeting enterprises focused primarily to deliver a comprehensive
(including Balance Sheet
their customers’ needs. on their domestic markets, range of transaction
Management), our legacy
through to corporates banking, financing, advisory,
businesses, interests in our
operating globally. capital markets and risk
associates and joint ventures,
management services.
central stewardship costs,
and the UK bank levy.
Our strategy and performance
We have a two-part long-term strategy: Headline results for the first half of 2017 (‘1H17’) are set out below, and reflect a
strong performance across our major businesses. For details of 1H17 performance
– Develop our international network
and third quarter of 2017, please visit our investor website at
To facilitate international trade and
www.hsbc.com/investor-relations/group-results-and-reporting.
capital flows and serve our clients,
with potential to help them grow
For the half-year to 30 June 2017:
from small enterprises into large
multinationals.
Reported profit before tax Adjusted profit before tax
– Invest in wealth and retail
$10.2bn $12.0bn
businesses with local scale
To make the most of global social
mobility, wealth creation and long-term
demographic changes in our priority At 30 June 2017
markets.
Risk-weighted assets Total assets
$876.1bn $2,492bn
Find out more
For significant items look at 1H17
Presentation to Analysts and Investors
at www.hsbc.com/investor-relations/
group-results-and-reporting
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc 7
Supporting Sustainable Growth
Each and every one of us has a stake in developing a sustainable economic system. It is the
combined responsibility of all players in society to respond to climate change, rapid technological
change and continuing globalisation to secure a prosperous future.
Since its foundation in 1865, HSBC has and provide a reporting criteria to and continuous training and
adapted to and helped serve the needs position HSBC as the world’s leading engagement around sustainability
of a changing world. It has financed international bank, and leading global trends (see Spotlight 2).
economic growth, fostered international bank for sustainable finance.
Sustainable finance
trade and overcome events such
HSBC is already working with our The Paris Agreement of 2015 was a
as economic crises. We recognise
customers and clients to help deliver milestone moment in the fight against
that governments, corporations, the
the extra $2.4tn of investment that climate change. The agreement aims
financial system and civil society are
will be required annually to achieve to limit the risk of an increase in global
all stakeholders of climate change and
the SDGs1. We recently supported the average temperature to 2°C above
sustainability challenges.
publication of The Earth Security Report pre-industrial times. With almost
Now more than ever, there is a need to 2017: Sustainable Development Goals 200 national climate commitments
develop the skills, business innovation for Business Diplomacy and Growth in place, governments have set out
and low-carbon solutions needed to to provide a blueprint for businesses a roadmap for low-carbon transition.
secure long-term prosperity for all. to navigate risk and opportunities. Meanwhile, global temperatures
For HSBC, these are the key elements We will continue to consult with our continue to rise, with the effects felt
of sustainable growth which we can stakeholders and will report on HSBC’s on every continent, and 16 of the 17
influence. approach to contributing towards the warmest years on record occurring
SDGs in 2018, building on our initiatives since 2001. Private sector finance is
Our network covers the world’s largest
and commitments that enable a critical to tackle climate change and
and fastest growing trade corridors
sustainable future. other sustainability challenges. At
and economic zones. As such, we
HSBC, we aim to address the funding
are uniquely positioned to provide Our new sustainability approach
gap and meet client demand via
the connections needed to foster focuses on three main areas:
financing and investment activities to
sustainable growth across borders and sustainable finance; sustainable
support these sustainability priorities.
geographies. networks and entrepreneurship; and
We have comitted to provide $100bn
future skills, the principles of which are
We have a proud record of supporting of sustainable financing and investment
outlined in the following pages. These
the communities and environments by 2025 (see page 10).
are enabled by our ongoing standards,
in which we operate, and our global
commitments and practices embedded We are establishing our Centre of
sustainability strategy builds on this
in our sustainability policies (see Sustainable Finance (‘Centre’) to shape
legacy (see Figure 1 and Figure 2).
Progress to date section), our and share thinking and innovation both
HSBC and the Sustainable initiatives towards sustainable and within HSBC and across the financial
Development Goals ethical operations (see Spotlight 1), sector. This will help unlock the capital
The Sustainable Development
FIGURE 1
Goals (‘SDGs’), were agreed by the
HISTORICAL CHARITABLE DONATIONS AND EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEER HOURS
United Nations in partnership with
governments, business and civil
HISTORICAL CHARITABLE DONATIONS NUMBER OF VOLUNTEER HOURS
society, therefore creating the world’s
agenda for sustainable development. $m 000’s
The 17 goals and 169 targets to be 2016 128 210116 40
49
achieved by 2030 are a call to action
to protect the planet, end poverty, and 46
2015 136 2210011155 0 10 20 30 40 50 60
ensure peace and prosperity. 44
136
51
HSBC has a responsibility to contribute 2014 104 210114
60
to this globally agreed framework for
action. By aligning our values, conduct Working hours Own time 104
and business activity, the SDGs set
1 Investment Needs to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, SDSN Working Paper
the context for our long-term ambition (unsdsn.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/151112-SDG-Financing-Needs.pdf)
8 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) SSuEpNpIlOemR eEnMt PHLSOBCY EHEoSldings plc ALL EMPLOYEES
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 75% 2016 25% 48% 2016 52%
6,551 2,230 116,077 125,230
6,937 2,235 127,586 139,357
76% 2015 24% 48% 2015 52%
60% 52%
DESCRIPTOR/LABEL DESCRIPTOR/LABEL
CMYK 641105 71 MYK C 6131 2 9 7 8 CMYK 5883 9 44 CMYK 2375 15 CMYK 5322 8887 CMYK 66713 36 CMYK 076270 Aperi ut id maionsequunt que sus Aperi ut id maionsequunt que sus
#547da7 #269792 #588942 #edb343 #677b88 #716196 #e54d58
moluptate coribust re praessi moluptate coribust re praessi
mporum verspiet elibus, volore et mporum verspiet elibus, volore et
omnimus arum rem verum quas omnimus arum rem verum quas
am, ut volorerum am, ut volorerum
Supporting Sustainable Growth
FIGURE 2
HSBC Sustainable Finance Highlights
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
– Published standalone – HSBC joined the Task Force on Climate-related Financial – Pledged $1bn for – Introduced Equator – Adopted new
ESG update Disclosure (TCFD) green, social or Principles 3 green bond
– Ranked #1 for climate – Launched the first sovereign green bond for Poland sustainable bonds – Signed three issuance principles
change and SRI and – Founding writer of Social Bond Guidance, which – Issued first green bond power purchase – Won Rio BRT
Sustainability Research became Social Bond Principles via HSBC France agreements with bid and worked
by institutional – HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme announced the – Trained 1000th renewable energy with Embarq, the
investors in Extel transfer of GBP1.85bn into a new fund that excludes sustainability leader generators in the World Resources
Survey UK and India Institute
companies which fail to meet minimum environmental – Additional $150m
- Joined Cambridge standards, including relating to climate change charitable donation to – Commissioned programme
I S n u s s ti t t a u in te a b fo il r it y – I e m m p i r s o s v io e n d s d , i e s . c g lo . r s e u c r e e iv o e f d c l ‘ i A m ’ a r t a e t in st g r a b t y e g C y D a P nd carbon m an a n r i k v e H rs S a B r C y ’s 150th r B e o p n o d r t I n w it i i t a h t i C ve lim ate f u o r r b s a u n s t t r a a i n n s a p b o le r t
Leadership Banking (State of the and planning,
Environment Initiative – Joined Catalytic Finance Initiative, directing – HSBC Global Asset Market) to research the
$8bn to sustainability projects Management signed environmental,
– Appointed Global Head – Received Green Climate Fund (accountable to UNFCCC) up to Montreal Pledge – Issued revised social and
of Sustainable Finance Forestry Policy,
accreditation as an implementing entity – Signatory to World economic impacts
and created the HSBC Agricultural
Centre of Sustainable – HSBC Water Programme extended until Dec 2019 with Economic Forum’s Commodities of BRT systems
Finance total commitment of $150m over eight years CEO Climate Leaders Policy, and a World on cities
– Established sustainable (see Spotlight 3) Group’s open letter Heritage Sites and
finance forums in key – HSBC Climate Change Centre of Excellence, voted by – Group Chief Ramsar Wetlands
markets Extel as Number 1 provider of Climate Change research, Executive, Stuart Policy
for the fourth year in a row Gulliver, attended and
– Further update to – Mining and Metals Policy updated – HSBC no longer gave keynote speech
standards on palm oil finances new thermal coal mines or new customers at COP21
– Joined RE100 dependent on thermal coal mining
– Issued Statement on Climate Change
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
– Led one of the largest project financings in Latin – Established Sustainable Operations – Established – Supported – Set four-year
America in the renewables sector 2020 Strategy Climate Business first targets for
– Participated in the largest offshore wind project – Energy Sector Policy issued, effectively Council project reducing
financing in the world, a 75-turbine offshore wind ceasing the finance of new coal-fired – Launched Group- finance energy, water,
project in England power plants in developed countries, wide paper offshore waste and
– Structured finance transactions for 267 low-emission including specific criteria for oil sands sourcing policy wind farm carbon dioxide
buses in Santiago, Chile, and 300 in Manaus, Brazil and nuclear energy – Led Equator – HSBC
– Signed up to the UN’s Principles for Sustainable – Completed sixth major financing for Principles’ represented
Insurance eco-bus system Governance Rules for the first
time at COP
– Launched new policy requiring all equity and credit – HSBC and Earthwatch won – Led largest at Poznan
analysts to incorporate ESG into their fundamental International Green Award fundraising in
research – Built Social Finance portfolio clean tech sector
with $125m
– Launched HSBC Water Programme ($100m to deliver – Committed five more years of funding
investment
water provision, protection, information and education) to Future First
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000
– Launched – Chaired Equator – Issued – Launched – Formed – Issued – Launched – Joined
ground-breaking Principles and adopted Chemicals Environmental Corporate Sustainability $50m UN Global
$100m HSBC version two of Equator Policy and Action Plan Responsibility Risk partnership Compact
Climate Principles Freshwater and issued Committee of Standards ‘Investing in – Launched
Partnership – Issued Energy Sector Policy Environmental HSBC Nature’ with Defence
– Established Policy – Set three-year Risk Strategy Holdings plc three leading Equipment
Climate Change – HSBC Global Asset environmental – Issued Board conservation Policy
Centre of Management signed targets Forestry – Adopted charities
Excellence up to the United – Published first Sector Policy Equator
– Issued Mining Nations Principles for Sustainability – Completed Principles
and Metals Responsible Investment Report financing of
Policy – Launched Future First (independently two Scottish
– Established and Teach for All for assured) Wind Farms &
Group disadvantaged children – Arranged first UK wind
Sustainability – Won Financial Times financing for the sector tax
Department ‘Sustainable Bank of the world’s largest lease
Year’ Award eco-bus system
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc 9
Supporting Sustainable Growth
HSBC’s Sustainable Finance Commitments:
1 Provide $100bn of sustainable financing and investment by 2025:
– Provide $100bn of financing and investments to develop clean – Support our 1.7 million corporate and institutional clients in
energy, lower-carbon technologies, and projects that contribute recognising and managing risks associated with the transition to
to the delivery of the Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable a low carbon economy.
Development Goals2. – Enhance and promote sustainable investment products for our
– Lead the development of transparent and liquid debt and equity 36 million retail banking and private banking customers as well as
markets for clients advancing renewable energy and low-carbon institutional clients. Engage with investee companies to ensure
business activities. that they are minimising and disclosing the risks and maximising
the opportunities presented by the transition to a low carbon
economy.
2 Source 100% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2030, with an interim target of 90% by 2025
– Source 100% renewable electricity via direct investment or – It is our policy to not make use of unbundled Renewable Energy
purchases via Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) that directly Certificates (‘RECs’) or other instruments that do not represent a
help the financing of new renewable electricity assets. Our direct investment or purchase of renewable electricity.
priority will be to build on the current 24% of our global electricity – Improve the efficiency of our operations to reduce electricity
consumption provided by HSBC’s PPAs, and source 100% consumption per FTE by 20% by 2020.
renewable electricity in all countries where PPA structures exist.
– Actively collaborate with RE1003, governments and regulators to
open up renewable energy markets where PPAs or similar are
not currently available, and support the decentralization of power
generation across our operational centres, thereby enabling HSBC
and the corporate sector to develop PPAs globally.
3 Reduce our exposure to thermal coal and actively manage the transition path for other high carbon sectors
– Discontinue financing of new thermal coal mines or new – Actively engage with clients in high carbon sectors to support
customers dependent on thermal coal mining. and influence their transition strategies, review their approach to
– Discontinue financing of new coal-fired power plants in reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and assess their exposure to
developed countries and continuously reinforce lending criteria potential stranded assets.
in developing countries, taking into account the state of climate – Regularly review our policies in light of technological change and
transition and access to alternative sources of energy in individual the commercial viability of low carbon technologies.
countries.
4 Adopt the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to improve transparency
– Report according to the governance, strategy and risk – Engage with academia, industry associations and civil society
management recommendations of the task force in the 2017 networks to support robust climate scenario analysis to
annual report, public in February 2018. Our disclosure will address price transition and physical risk. Promote uptake of these
climate-related risks and opportunities across our businesses, recommendations across our global network.
including descriptions of impacted ‘transition risk’ industry sectors
and related customer engagement. We will publish quantitative
data on the impacted industry sectors in our 2018 annual report
using a materiality-based approach. Further detailed climate
metrics and scenario analysis will be provided over the coming
years in accordance with the recommendations of the task force.
5 Lead and shape the debate around sustainable finance and investment
– Establish a Centre of Sustainable Finance to provide thought – Drive the sustainable finance agenda by promoting the
leadership about climate change and the role of the financial development of sector activities (such as industry-wide
services sector. definitions, standards, tools and metrics) to enhance market
analysis of sustainability issues and impacts.
2 Reporting against this commitment will cover 2017 activity.
3 RE100 is a collaborative, global initiative uniting more than 100 influential businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity, working to massively increase demand for –
and delivery of - renewable energy.
10 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc
Supporting Sustainable Growth
consumption 24%
flows needed to address the world’s
(in smaller print like the paper note)
major sustainability challenges. The
Spotlight 1: Sustainable and Ethical Operations
Centre will have three main priorities:
• Develop proprietary content from HSBC continues to improve its
both in-house and external partners environmental performance. HSBC’s Renewable electricity
as a resource to inform sector activity. IT, Real Estate, Procurement, consumption 2244
Marketing, and Operations Functions increased to
• Act as a resource centre for our
%
have improved HSBC’s environmental
global businesses to support client from 2011 baseline
performance across all goals.
engagement.
Year on year (Q3 to Q3) performance
As part of our commitment to
• Drive the sustainable finance agenda highlights:
decarbonise our own electricity
through HSBC’s influence across
consumption and support the Product
industries and wider networks. global renewable power purchase Energy fees and
consumption 1133 charges
Through our Climate Business Council agreement (PPA) market, we have
reduced by
(‘CBC’), senior executives represent committed to sourcing 100% of our %
electricity from renewables. We will
each business segment and provide a
continue to focus on mature PPA
co-ordinated and strategic approach to Paper
markets and actively collaborate consumption 77
increasing our support for customers to
with RE1003, governments, reduced by
mitigate or adapt to climate change. We and regulators to open up new %
have established dedicated sustainable renewable energy markets. with 95% procured from certified sources
finance forums in key markets. These
Our operational sustainability
include a regional forum in Asia and efforts resulted in us scoring an Carbon
country forums in Canada, China, emissions 99
A- (leadership score) with CDP
France, Hong Kong, India, Singapore, down by
(previously known as the Carbon %
the UK and the US. We will encourage Disclosure Project), a not-for-profit
our clients to reduce carbon emission organisation that rates companies
by improving energy efficiency, using and governments on how they Water 999
more renewables and enhancing are tackling the climate change reduced by
resilience of their operations and supply challenge. %
chains. Dedicated teams have been
set up to deliver solutions to finance
Impressive Bank in Asia Pacific Green/ research to survey corporate issuers
initiatives such as the roll out of electric
SRI Capital Markets, #2 for EMEA, and institutional investors globally on
vehicles, smart metering, and energy
#3 for Americas. We were the only their attitudes to sustainable finance to
efficiency in buildings, etc.
bank to be ranked in the top three for provide the financial interconnectivity
As of 11 October 2017, HSBC was all global markets by Global Capital to solve global climate change and
ranked second in the global green, (awarded in September, 2017). HSBC sustainability challenges. We continued
social, sustainability bond league was also awarded Best Underwriter in our sponsorship of the Climate Bonds
tables in 2017 YTD, demonstrating our the Environmental Finance Green Bond Initiative’s annual State of the Market
consistent performance in executing Awards 2017 (awarded in April, 2017). Report. We joined the newly formed
and underwriting sustainable finance UK Government’s Green Finance
We continue to develop the ecosystem
transactions. Additionally, HSBC has Taskforce to help accelerate the growth
for sustainable finance. Our CEO,
acted as joint lead manager on 30 of sustainable finance.
Stuart Gulliver, has played a leading
(28%) more inaugural green/social/
role on The Global Commission on To grow green finance, we issued our
sustainability bond deals than any other
the Economy and Climate, and The own green bond in 2015. We are now
bank this year, expanding into new
Energy Transitions Commission, approaching the second anniversary of
geographies such as Italy, Singapore,
helping establish a roadmap for HSBC’s inaugural €500m green bond,
South Korea, UK and sectors such
public and private actors transitioning and as such, will soon be releasing our
as water, insurance, sub-sovereign
to a low carbon future. Our Global second green bond report. This report
issuers (KDB, Anglian Water). During
Research team continues to provide will be available on our green bond
the last 12 months, we worked on the
industry leading climate change and webpage (www.hsbc.com/investor-
following type of bonds: first sovereign
ESG analysis to our GB&M clients. relations/fixed-income-investors/
green (Poland), the first green hybrid
As a key member of the Green Bond green-bonds) and again give details
(TenneT), the first sustainable Tier 2
Principles Executive Committee, on the allocation and impact of the
(TSKB), the first green from an Italian
under the New Markets Taskforce, investments made from the green
bank (Intesa), the first UK corporate
we worked jointly with another bank bond proceeds.
GBP green utility (Anglian Water) and
to translate the Green Bond Principles
the first green from the insurance Our Global Asset Management
into 19 different languages, facilitating
sector (QBE). business has increased its range
the global use of the standards, which
of socially responsible investment
In recognition of this work, HSBC was are publicly available. In September
funds as the momentum of climate-
announced as Global Capital’s #1 Most 2017, we commissioned industry
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc 11
Supporting Sustainable Growth
related investments is continuing to
build, especially in Europe and North
Spotlight 2: Training and Education
America, with institutional investors
planning to increase their low carbon
In order to support our clients’ response to climate change and sustainability
investments in the years ahead. In
risks and opportunities, we continue to develop the knowledge of our employees
early October 2017, HSBC Global Asset
via training and engagement. As we continue to embed sustainability in our
Management launched two lower
organisation, we are rolling out several programmes:
carbon funds that meet the needs of
clients who seek to address climate • In 2017, approximately 9,000 employees within our businesses completed
an e-learning module on sustainability risk.
change investment risk in their core
global equity and credit allocation: • Since its launch in 2009, our Sustainability Leadership Programme, an
intense, hands-on training, focused on the impact of climate change and
• The HSBC GIF Global Lower
opportunities to drive sustainable change in business, has allowed us to
Carbon Equity Fund seeks a lower
engage over 1,500 senior managers, clients and suppliers.
portfolio carbon footprint than its
reference benchmark by reducing • We will run specific climate-change training to several hundreds of relationship
managers.
total exposure to securities with the
highest greenhouse gas emissions.
• The HSBC GIF Global Lower Carbon 80% of global trade passing through An example of this is the HSBC
Bond Fund looks for a lower portfolio supply chains, they are one of the most Living Business Programme (LBP’),
carbon footprint than its reference important levers for businesses to a partnership between CMB and
benchmark by better understanding create positive impact in the world4. the Sustainability function in Hong
the impact of individual issuers and Kong. This programme helps SMEs
Companies face social and
sectors on total greenhouse gas become more competitive and
environmental challenges within their
emissions. productive by incorporating socially and
supply chains, an increased demand
environmentally sustainable practices
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme for sustainability criteria by consumers
into their business operations. The
announced the transfer of GBP1.85bn to aid their purchasing decisions, and
programme provides a learning platform
into a new fund that excludes technology aiding transparency and
for SMEs to understand the best
companies which fail to meet minimum traceability in their supply chains. We
practices in corporate sustainability
environmental standards, including aim to support clients by collaborating
and offers recognition to SMEs
those relating to climate change. to develop sustainable solutions.
with outstanding performance. In
For example, we have taken steps
Every member of the Group 2016, LBP received approximately
to engage with NGOs and corporate
Management Board has sustainability 1,660 applications from SMEs. The
partners to promote sustainability in
metrics built into their annual and annual Living Business Awards
the palm oil industry, as detailed under
long-term performance scorecard, showcase SMEs that improve their
Progress to date (see page 13). We
which is used to determine any variable competitiveness and productivity
have committed funding for the Apparel
pay award at the discretion of the by incorporating environmentally
Impact Institute of the Sustainable
independent non-executive directors on sustainable practices into their
Apparel Coalition, established to
the Group Remuneration Committee. operations. Since 2015, the programme
improve the environmental and social
focused to promote best practice in
Sustainable networks impacts of the apparel and footwear
supply chain.
and entrepreneurship industry.
Future skills
Recognised as the Best Trade Finance
SMEs, entrepreneurs and mid-
Bank and Most Innovative Bank by Emerging new technologies expose
market companies play a key role in
Global Trade Review (GTR) magazine, the skills gap of future generations as
contributing to sustainable economic
we continuously work with a wide activities are relying more on robotics
growth and job creation. As they
range of customers, from small and artificial intelligence. In addition,
too face challenges arising from
enterprises to mid-market companies research indicates that only 33% of
climate change, digitalisation and
and large corporates, providing them adults worldwide are financially literate5
globalisation, we are positioned to help
with the tools they need to function and an estimated one third of wealth
these companies grow sustainable
efficiently. We aim to support the inequality is attributed to a lack of
businesses and prosper in this rapidly
sustainable development of our financial information and awareness6.
changing economy. In addition to
clients’ supply chains and foster new
supporting entrepreneurs via current Our work relating to future skills
business development and sustainable
or new banking propositions provided focuses on two areas: increasing
international growth of small and
by Commercial Banking and Retail financial capability and employability.
medium-sized enterprises (‘SMEs’)
Business Banking, we intend to partner
and entrepreneurs. 4 UN Global Compact Decent Work in Global Supply
with key organisations, including Chain (www.unglobalcompact.org/take-action/action/
decent-work-supply-chains)
To help increase sustainability in supply NGOs to collaborate on research and
5 S&P FinLit Survey (gflec.org/initiatives/sp-global-
chains, we will further our work with other support mechanisms to foster finlit-survey/)
NGOs and corporate partners. With sustainable businesses. 6 knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/three-
questions-major-implications-financial-well/
12 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc
Supporting Sustainable Growth
Financial capability is when people
have the power to make the most
Spotlight 3: The HSBC Water Programme
of their money and use it to improve
their lives. We will help customers,
Water is a resource that is both essential to life and a fundamental driver of socio-
employees and community members
economic growth. It is vital to help build healthy communities and develop national
build financial capability to help secure economies. It is estimated that every $1 invested in water provision and sanitation
their financial futures. provides related returns of just under $5 to the economy overall8.
An example of this is our long running However, this finite resource is under constant strain from population growth,
partnership with Junior Achievement climate change and urbanisation, and by 2025 1.8 billion people are expected to
Worldwide (‘JA’). Research7 shows be living in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity9.
that those taught the financial basics
Launched in 2012, the HSBC Water Programme has been working in partnership
at an early age are more likely to be with Earthwatch, WaterAid, WWF, and local project partners to help tackle the
employable and successful later in life, global water crisis through protecting water sources, educating communities,
obtaining higher levels of education, supporting sustainable businesses, and providing opportunities for employees to
career satisfaction, financial capability, engage with local environmental issues.
and entrepreneurial activity. The JA
Extended for three years until December 2019, the programme continues to
More than Money programme, which protect five of the world’s most important river basins, and to date has provided
includes digital and hands-on learning 1.65 million people with clean water and 2.5 million people with sanitation in six
activities, is uniquely suited to provide countries across two continents.
both teachers and students with the
support they need to build up basics
in financial capability, while inspiring Progress to date unsustainably can lead to deforestation,
young people to dream big and HSBC values and welcomes resulting in environmental damage,
become future savings and investment- constructive engagement with its threats to endangered species and
minded entrepreneurs who will go on stakeholders, including NGOs and social conflict. In our April ESG Update,
to positively impact our economy. wider civil society. We expect the we outlined our approach to palm oil
and changes we have made to our
depth and range of stakeholder
Another area of focus includes policies, and our engagement with
dialogue at all levels within HSBC,
providing more financial awareness for the industries that produce and use
including at a board level, to grow and
our customers, such as the HSBC Beta it. We have progressively raised the
become an increasingly important
app. This app allows UK customers sustainability standards we apply to our
factor informing business decisions
to view bank accounts they have with banking relationships, and as a result
that are taken. We have formalised our
different providers. The HSBC Beta have withdrawn from relationships
internal structures, including identifying
app will give our customers a complete (see Figure 3). At the same time, we
senior-level relationship owners for
and joined-up view of their financial support the development of sustainable
our more frequent NGO contacts,
life, helping them track their spending palm oil production. For further details,
to ensure civil society feedback is
habits, and “nudge” them if they see page 24 of the April ESG update.
considered in our decision-making
exceed their spending limits.
and in reviewing our sustainability risk The value of engagement
Employability is a set of achievements, policies. We expect the depth and Since 2015, a growing number of
understandings and attributes that range of this stakeholder dialogue to companies in the palm oil sector
make individuals more likely to gain grow in coming years. have made commitments to No
employment and be successful in Deforestation, No Peat and No
Our sustainability risk policies cover
their chosen occupations. Our aim Exploitation (‘NDPE’).
agricultural commodities, chemicals,
is to help people prepare for the
defence, energy, forestry, freshwater We have made our own commitment
changing world of work by supporting
infrastructure, mining and metals, in this respect, incorporating NDPE
employment related skills development
UNESCO World Heritage Sites and requirements into our agricultural
in partnership with NGOs, our
Ramsar-designated wetlands. This commodities policy in February 2017,
employees, and our clients.
supplement highlights our progress on making our NDPE commitment at that
We run many graduate programmes palm oil since our April ESG Update and time. We also required our customers
internationally, with an aim to employ, showcases our lending and investment to make an NDPE commitment by
develop and promote employees based defence policy. For further details June 2017.
on merit, and provide a supportive and please visit our policies.
As a result of adopting our updated
inclusive working environment. Our
Palm oil palm oil policy in February 2017, in
apprenticeship schemes are one of
Palm oil, the world’s main vegetable addition to those already compliant, 12
the main ways we bring new talent
oil, is used in a wide range of additional customers have made public
into the UK business today. As the
products, from margarine and biscuits, NDPE commitments. This is a direct
first major UK bank to introduce a
to detergents and cosmetics. Its
national programme, we have enrolled 7 “Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services Global Financial
production can bring economic Literacy Survey,” 2014.
over 2,700 candidates into our
benefits, but when practised 8 Frontier Economics
apprenticeship scheme since 2011. 9 UNESCO, 2012 www.unwater.org/water-facts/scarcity/
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc 13
Supporting Sustainable Growth
result of our engagement and support clients that do not comply with our our potential impacts on communities
in this area. updated February 2017 requirements. and on the environment are managed
31DEC16 30JUN17
sensitively. In 2000, HSBC decided
WhReetna ienn gaCgleomsee nt dTooetasl not wReotraki na nd ClosDee fenTcoeta Pl olicyR etain Close Total
104 176 80 28 108 75 37 112 to withdraw progressively from the
customers do not meet our criteria, we HSBC’s engagement with the defence
financing of the manufacture and sale
withdraw from relationships. We are equipment industry is underpinned by
of weapons. As detailed in our Defence
currently ending banking relationships the principles and values which drive
Equipment Sector Policy, HSBC will not
with 37 customers in the palm oil our overall approach to business. We
provide financial services to customers
sector. These are comprised of clients take a long-term and responsible view
who solely or primarily manufacture or
we had already decided to exit and of our activities and seek to ensure that
sell weapons. In 2010, HSBC further
explicitly excluded cluster bombs and
FIGURE 3
Trends in HSBC customers in the palm oil sector anti-personnel mines. We will not
HSBC CONFIDENTIAL CASES
finance customers involved in any way
by global business & function [check wording]
200 Retain = Customers meeting HSBC policy requirements. with these indiscriminate weapons. The
Close = Customers not meeting HSBC policy requirements policy has undergone internal review
Total176 where we will end our banking relationship.
and was again approved in 2014.
CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS
150 HSBC Global Asset Management has
Complaint types (RBWM) excluded investment in companies
linked to the production and/or
Close104 108 369 40 69 615 9
marketing of cluster munitions, anti-
Product Product 112 Total
features 2244 111 fees and 100 personnel3 m3%ines4 %and 6d%eple5t6e%d ur1a%nium
and policy charges 28 37 Close from all of its active fundamental equity
% %
and fixed income strate1g,i1e0s2 since
Other 2010. We exteTnOdeTAdL this exclusion
100%
product
3311 3344 50 to our index and systematic active
related
complaints Retain 72 80 75 Retain strategies in 2015. This applies to all
% %
third party asset managers as well. The
exclusioGn lopboalil cBya naklsinog c&o vMearrsk eHtsSBC’s
0 passively managed funds which track
Commercial Banking
31 DEC 2014 31 DEC 2016 30 JUNE 2017 HSBC proprietary indices, or which
Retail Banking & Wealth Management
use an optimised replication approach.
HSBC ends relationships with customers not meeting policy as soon as is possible when we are no longer
Private Bank
Number of Adjusted Adjusted contractually committed to loans not yet due to be repaid. There is an increase in palm oil customers from Since 2016, the policy also covers
Customers Profit Before Revenue December 2016 due to our re-defined scope in our policy to include conglomerates of palm oil subsidiaries. index funOdthse wr hich fully replicate the
Tax ($m) ($m)
index (i.e. buying all of the underlying
CASE STUDY
index constituents) and Exchange
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 36m 5,333 18,925 Traded Funds managed by HSBC.
Corporate Knights: Best 50 Corporate Citizens Full disinvestment by these funds is
approx
expected to have been completed in
Commercial Banking 2m 6,052 12,887
In June, HSBC Bank Canada using publicly disclosed data verified 2017. The list of companies is compiled
celebrated a significant rise in by each company. with assistance from a leading third-
Global Banking & Markets 4,100 5,597 14,919 the Best 50 Corporate Citizens in party research partner and is reviewed
Canada, a league table compiled A key factor in HSBC Bank Canada’s semi-annually, in addition to conducting
Global Private Bank a 5 pp 0 r k ox 289 1,757 by Corporate Knights, a Toronto- environmental performance our own due diligence.
score was its progress as part
based media, research and financial
of the Group’s global operational The policy does not apply to
products company focused on clean
For further detail, see Annual Report and Accounts 2016, (page 43 and 48). sustainability strategy to reduce investments where HSBC acts on behalf
capitalism.
environmental impact. “Being in the of customers and where, consequently,
Our Canadian bank, which we wholly top three makes us all so proud. For the underlying investment decision is
own, was ranked third overall for us, sustainability is about always not made by us.
corporate citizenship, up from 23rd improving and building our business
the previous year. for the long term – doing what’s right
Find out more
for the bank, our customers and the
The league table measures Toronto
communities we serve.” Sandra For further information
Stock Exchange listed Canadian
Stuart, President and Chief Executive
enterprises with revenues of more Sustainability at HSBC
Officer, HSBC Bank Canada.
than CAD $2bn using a suite of 14 Sustainability Risk and Policies
key performance indicators, including For more information about
Sustainable Finance ESG Investing
greenhouse gas productivity, taxes Corporate Knights’ Best 50 Corporate
Green Bonds & Global Banking
paid, health and safety performance, Citizens visit:
and Markets
and pension fund quality. It applies a www.corporateknights.com/
rules-based, transparent approach, reports/2017-best-50/. Global Research/Climate Change
Center of Excellence
14 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc
Financial Crime Risk Management
Today’s connected world creates new challenges. HSBC is
committed to helping protect the integrity of the financial system
on which millions of people depend.
in one place. By mid-October, more
Our scale and global footprint put us
in a unique position, where we can In the first ha lf of 2017, we invested than 222,000 employees had taken
make a positive contribution and be $1.6 bn the training. In July 2017, we launched
the latest stage in our multi-year
at the forefront of the fight against
financial crime. in regulatory and compliance employee campaign on financial
programmes, up $168m compared crime risk. The campaign focuses on
We have significantly stepped up our with the same period the previous year. helping employees understand the role
efforts to keep fraud and financial everyone has to play in the fight against
crime out of the financial system, financial crime.
and continue to invest heavily. Our At the core of our approach are
Investing in technology
total investment in regulatory and having the right expertise, investing in
compliance programmes in the first technology and working in partnership We have substantially improved our
half of 2017 was $1.6bn, up $168m or with other organisations. Progress in IT infrastructure to help identify and
12% compared with the same period these areas is detailed below. analyse financial crime, having invested
the previous year. $1bn in new and upgraded systems
Having the right expertise
since 2015. Innovation has an important
Under the terms of our US deferred Our employees play an important role role to play, and we constantly explore
prosecution agreement and related in the fight against financial crime. We technologies to help us build on our
agreements and consent orders, we have built a dedicated team of financial existing capabilities.
continue to take concerted action to crime specialists and consistently
remediate anti-money laundering and encourage all employees to speak up Working with, or investing in, financial
sanctions compliance deficiencies, when something does not meet the technology (fintech) firms is one
including implementing our Global high standards we set, either internally way to achieve this. In May 2017,
Standards programme to safeguard or for our customers. we announced that we had made an
the bank and our customers against early stage investment in Quantexa, a
financial crime. (For more information This year we have implemented a new technology company that analyses data
on this, see HSBC’s Annual Report and target operating model for the Financial to create a single view of a customer
Accounts 2016, page 66.) Crime Risk function which puts in place and identify their associated network to
a sustainable structure at a global, detect and prevent money laundering.
In August 2017, we completed a regional and country level, and across With Albion Ventures, a venture capital
country-by-country assessment against all lines of business. We continue to firm, we co-led a $3.3m investment
the core capabilities set out in our supplement the function’s leadership round. Quantexa’s system aims to spot
financial crime risk framework. This team at the most senior levels by hiring potential money laundering by analysing
gives us a clear view of our progress candidates experienced in areas such internal and publicly available data
and priorities to help us to embed the as law enforcement and regulation. within a customer’s wider network,
capabilities and integrate them fully into This includes recently appointing the including on social media and news
our day-to-day operations. former CEO of AUSTRAC, Australia’s channels. After a successful pilot within
Protecting a world of opportunity financial intelligence agency, and HSBC we are planning a wider rollout
the former U.S. Homeland Security in 2018.
We have set out our commitment to
Attaché to the European Union.
fighting financial crime in a new film Another example of our involvement
for employees and customers at We have invested significantly to with fintech companies is our
www.hsbc.com/financial-crime-risk, ensure employees are properly work with Ayasdi, a Silicon Valley-
and on the HSBC channel on YouTube. equipped to combat financial crime. based company specialising in
The film highlights our responsibility to This summer we relaunched and artificial intelligence, to improve our
help protect the financial system for the refreshed our global mandatory learning understanding of the behaviour of the
benefit of our customers and society. for all employees with a new training people and companies transacting
Its message of ‘together protecting package called ‘My financial crime risk with our customers. This helps
a world of opportunity’ aligns with responsibilities’, that brings together with unusual activity detection in
HSBC’s purpose of connecting anti-money laundering, sanctions and transaction monitoring. A successful
customers to opportunities. anti-bribery and corruption training pilot last year reduced the number
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc 15
Financial Crime Risk Management
CASE STUDY
How asking the right questions strengthened a customer relationship
An Australian company had been a Commercial Banking customer since 2012.
But its increasingly complex business structure, which included nominee
companies with links to high-risk jurisdictions, became a concern for us.
It was important for our relationship manager to understand why the business
had been structured in such a way and uncover whether any criminal activity had
taken place beneath the complexity of the business.
We engaged with the customer, explaining the bank’s commitment to protecting
its customers and society from financial crime.
Carrying out a Customer Due Diligence (CDD) review helped us to understand the
rationale for the structure and allowed us to obtain the necessary documentation
to validate the company’s activities and mitigate any risks.
The CDD exercise also helped us understand our client and their needs better.
Our relationship with the client deepened and we were able to provide them
with financial solutions in new markets and support them during their overseas
expansion.
of initial investigations by 20%, To share best practice and accelerate
with no reduction in the number of the development of such partnerships,
cases referred for more specialist we co-sponsored a major public report
investigation. This increases our into the future of financial intelligence
efficiency and allows us to target sharing, which was released in
potential criminal activity more October. Titled The Role of Financial
effectively. In 2017, we have begun Information-Sharing Partnerships in the
to implement the software into our Disruption of Crime, it was published
systems in North America, with plans by the Future of Financial Intelligence
to roll it out on a region by region basis Sharing programme, part of the
over the coming quarters. RUSI Centre for Financial Crime and
Security Studies. The report is the first
Working in partnership
international and comparative study
Governments, law enforcement
of public/private financial information
agencies and banks all have critical
sharing partnerships to tackle
roles to play in detecting, deterring and
financial crime. It is available at
preventing financial crime. By sharing
www.future-fis.com.
complementary information, they
can better focus efforts to safeguard
society.
HSBC is a strong proponent of public- Find out more
private partnerships and information-
For further information about HSBC
sharing initiatives. We play an active or
and financial crime risk, please see
founding member role in partnerships
www.hsbc.com/financial-crime-risk
in six countries, with three such
See videos that explain our work in
partnerships formally commencing
fighting financial crime:
since March 2017 – in Australia,
Singapore and Hong Kong – joining Fighting Financial Crime: Fraud
similar existing ones in the UK, the US Fighting Financial Crime: Human
and Canada. trafficking
16 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc
Call out box 3 – Percentage of Snapshot+ survey respondents,
by gender, which believe ‘the senior leadership in my area
makes decisions that take people like me into consideration’.
Our Approach to Tax
We apply the spirit and the letter of the law in all territories where we operate.
HSBC seeks to maintain open and We have adopted the UK Code of HSBC manages tax risk by:
transparent relationships with tax Practice for the Taxation of Banks. As • identifying the risks.
authorities in all territories in which a consequence, we pay our fair share
• ensuring the right controls are in
it operates and continues to support of tax in the countries in which we
place to prevent, manage and
global initiatives to improve tax operate. We continue to strengthen our
reduce risk.
transparency, including: processes to ensure that our banking
• The US Foreign Account Tax services are not associated with • setting policies and guidelines
Compliance Act (‘FATCA’). any services known or suspected to for managing tax risks.
facilitate tax evasion. We do not expect • providing support and guidance
• The OECD Standard for Automatic
BEPS or similar initiatives adopted by to staff to support the above
Exchange of Financial Account
national governments to adversely policies.
Information (the ‘Common Reporting
impact HSBC’s financial results.
Standard’). • employing an experienced,
• The Capital Requirements Directive Tax governance professionally qualified in-house
tax team, supported by advice from
IV (‘CRD IV’) Country by Country We manage tax risk in accordance
external advisers where required.
Reporting; for detail view website. with a formal tax risk management
framework, which itself forms
• The OECD Base Erosion and Profit
part of an overarching operational
Shifting (‘BEPS’) initiative.
risk management framework. Find out more
• The UK legislation on the corporate ProcessP raoncde sPsr oacneddP Pruorrocece :es 3sd6 ua%nred : P3r6o%cedure : 36%
The operational risk management
criminal offence (‘CCO’) of failing to framework defines minimum For further information, please see Fees anFde eCsh aanrgde Csh :F a1er2eg%se as n: d1 2C%harges : 12%
prevent the facilitation of tax evasion. Tax transparency:
standards and processes, and provides ServiceS :e 2rv7i%ce : 27%Service : 27%
a governance structure for the www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
ProducPtr Foedautcutr eFse aaPtnrudor deBsue cantne Fdfie tBase t:u n3re%efist as n: d3% Benefits : 3%
Asia Asia Asia management of operational risk. responsibility/tax-transparency
OthersO : 2th2e%rs : 22%Others : 22%
FIGURE 4 F IGURE 4 FIGURE 4 FIGURE 5 F IGURE 5 FIGURE 5 FIGURE 6 F IGURE 6 FIGURE 6
Taxes paTida xines 2 p01a6id in 2T0a1x6es paid in 2016 Taxes paTida xbeys rpeagiido nby rTeagxieosn paid by region Taxes coTllaexcetesd c oblyle rcetgeidoT nabx yien rs e2 cg0oi1ol6lne cinte 2d0 b1y6 region in 2016
Total $7.4Tbontal $7.4bn Total $7.4bn Total $7.4Tbontal $7.4bn Total $7.4bn Total $7.7Tbontal $7.7bn Total $7.7bn
$0.1bn $0.1bn $0.1bn $0.2bn $0.2bn $0.2bn $0.2bn $0.2bn $0.2bn
$0.6bn $$03.6.4bbnn $3.4bn$0.6bn $3.4bn $0.3bn $$02.3.8bbnn $2.8bn$0.3bn $2.8bn $0.8bn $$02.8.2bbnn $2.2bn$0.8bn $2.2bn
$0.9bn $$01.9.2bbnn $1.2bn$0.9bn $1.2bn $0.8bn $$02.8.4bbnn $2.4bn$0.8bn $2.4bn $1bn $$21.b1nbn $2.1bn$1bn $2.1bn
$1.2bn $1.2bn $1.2bn $0.9bn $0.9bn $0.9bn $1.4bn $1.4bn $1.4bn
Tax on proTfaitxs on profits Tax on profits Asia Asia Asia Asia Asia Asia
UK bank leUvKy bank levy UK bank levy UK UK UK Latin AmeLraictain America Latin America
IrrecoveraIbrrlee cVoAvTerable VATIrrecoverable VAT Latin AmeLraictain America Latin America UK UK UK
Employer Etamxpelsoyer taxes Employer taxes Rest of EuRreospte of Europe Rest of Europe North AmNeroicrtah America North America
Other Other Other North AmNeroicrtah America North America Rest of EuRreospte of Europe Rest of Europe
WitholdingW tiathxeoslding taxesWitholding taxes Middle EaMsti dadnlde NEoarstth a Anfdr iNMcaoidrtdhl eA Efraicsat and North Africa Other Other Other
Taxes paid by HSBC relate to HSBC’s own tax liabilities including tax on profits earned, employer taxes, bank levy and other duties/levies such as stamp duty.
Taxes collected by HSBC relate to certain taxes HSBC has collected on behalf of governments, including employee taxes and withholding taxes. For further detail visit ARA, 2016.
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc 17
Update on Corporate Governance
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance,
and are subject to corporate governance requirements in both
the UK and Hong Kong.
A comprehensive report on our In April 2017, Rachel Lomax and Sam
corporate governance practices is set Laidlaw retired from the Board at
out on pages 132 to 182 of our 2016 the conclusion of the 2017 Annual
Annual Report and Accounts 2016. General Meeting, while Paul Walsh
also resigned from the Board to focus
The Board of Directors of HSBC
on other commitments. Jonathan
Holdings plc (‘the Board’) aims to
Symonds, who serves as Chairman
promote the long-term success of the
of the Audit Committee, succeeded
company and deliver sustainable value
Rachel Lomax as Senior Independent
to its shareholders. Led by the Group
Director. Jonathan also replaced Sam
Chairman, the Board sets the strategy
Laidlaw as interim chairman of the
and risk appetite for the Group,
Nomination Committee, a role which
and approves capital and operating
he relinquished to Mark Tucker in
plans presented by management
September 2017.
for the achievement of the strategic
objectives. Implementation of the Also in April 2017, Pauline Van der Meer
strategy is delegated to the Group Mohr was appointed chair of the Group
Chief Executive. Remuneration Committee, and as chair
of the Conduct & Values Committee.
The Board comprises a majority of
Jackson Tai was appointed as chair of
independent non-executive Directors.
the Group Risk Committee, succeeding
Its role is to constructively challenge
Joachim Faber who remains a
management and help develop
Committee member.
proposals on strategy. The Board
also reviews the performance of On 12 October, we announced that
management in meeting agreed John Flint, Chief Executive of Retail
goals and objectives and monitors the Banking and Wealth Management, will
Group’s risk profile. succeed Stuart Gulliver as Executive
Director and Group Chief Executive.
During 2017, HSBC announced a
This will be effective from 21 February
number of changes to the Board,
2018 after Stuart has stepped down
most notably the retirement of Group
from both roles and retired from HSBC.
Chairman, Douglas Flint, after a career
spanning 22 years with HSBC. This Directors’ biographies, which include
included 15 years serving as Group their skills and experience, can
Finance Director and seven years be found on our website at
serving as Chairman of the Board. www.hsbc.com/about-hsbc/leadership.
Douglas was succeeded by Mark Terms of Reference for each of the
Tucker, who joined the Board as an Board’s Committees can also be
independent non-executive director on found at www.hsbc.com/about-
1 September and assumed the role of hsbc/corporate-governance/board-
non-executive Group Chairman from 1 committees.
October. Mark is a former Group Chief
Executive and President of AIA Group
Limited and has a long track record
of successful leadership of complex
financial services businesses in both
Asia and the UK.
18 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc
Further Information
In this section, we have provided further information on HSBC’s approach to ESG issues. It contains a quick guide to links
to videos, further content, policies, and topics discussed in this document. Please visit the links to obtain a more in depth
understanding of our initiatives covering the ESG issues that may be of interest to you.
Environmental, Social and Governance Update, Social
April 2017 www.hsbc.com/our-approach
Environment - Board Diversity Policy
Environmental Policy - Community Investment Programmes
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/measuring-our-impact - Diversity and Inclusion Policy
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/sustainability/finance, - Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct for Suppliers
www.gbm.hsbc.com/solutions/sustainable-financing, - Health and Safety Policy
www.global.assetmanagement.hsbc.com/about-us/ - Remuneration Practices and Governance
responsible-investment - Statement on Human Rights
- Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
Transition to low-carbon economy
- Tax Transparency
- HSBC’s Green Bond Report
- Our Charter
- Global Asset Management Climate Change Policy
- Whistleblowing Policy
- Global Asset Management Responsible Investing
- Global Equity Portfolio Carbon Footprint (Montreal Pledge) Visit HSBC Now YouTube Channel for stories from our
- Global Banking and Markets Sustainable Financing colleagues around the world.
- Global Research / Climate Change Centre of Excellence ‘Adrienne’s big game’
- Statement on Climate Change ‘Five ways we support our well-being at HSBC’
- UN Principles of Responsible Investment ‘Saving the planet, one tree at a time’
- UN Principles of Sustainable Insurance ‘Through the eyes or our people’
‘Our leaders share their career stories’
Managing Risk
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility Governance
- Environmental Policy www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility and
- Sustainability Risk Policies www.hsbc.com/our-approach/measuring-our-impact
- Equator Principles - Anti-Money Laundering Policy Statement
- Introduction to Sustainability Risk Policies - Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
- Statement on Climate Change - Political Engagement Statement
- Sanctions Policy Statement
Operational Impact
- Statement of Anti-bribery Principles
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/sustainability/operations
- Statement on Conduct
- Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct for Suppliers
- Statement on Public Policy Engagement
- Key Facts (External benchmarks and environmental figures)
Visit HSBC Safeguarding on YouTube for videos on data
- PwC Assurance Report
protection and financial crime.
- Paper Sourcing Policy
- Why do I need to provide more information about my
business to HSBC?
- What is financial crime and why should I be concerned?
- How does proving where my money comes from help
HSBC make banking safer?
Awards and recognitions
www.hsbc.com/news-and-insight/awards
To the extent that we have not complied with the relevant provisions in the ESG Guide it is because we have chosen to focus on the issues
which we consider are material to our stakeholders and on which we can have an impact. We will continue to develop and refine our reporting
and disclosures on ESG issues in line with feedback received from stakeholders and in order to comply with the ESG Guide.
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement HSBC Holdings plc 19
© Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2017
All rights reserved
No part of this publication may be
reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
transmitted, in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, or otherwise, without the prior
written permission of HSBC Holdings plc.
Published by Investor Relations,
HSBC Holdings plc, London
Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com
Issued by HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7991 8888
www.hsbc.com