Contents
Strategic report
2 Highlights
4 Who we are
6 Group Chairman’s statement
8 Group Chief Executive’s review
12 Our strategy
15 How we do business
21 Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders
25 Remuneration
26 Financial overview
30 Global businesses
37 Risk overview
41 Long-term viability and going
concern statement
We have changed how we provide the
Environmental, social and disclosures against the Task Force on
governance ('ESG') review Climate-related Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
framework by embedding the content
43 Our approach to ESG previously provided in our stand-alone
45 Environmental TCFD Update within this Annual Report and
66 Social Accounts 2021. The summary TCFD disclosure
79 Governance can be found on page 19.
Financial review
This Strategic Report was approved by the
90 Financial summary Board on 22 February 2022.
98 Global businesses and
geographical regions
117 Reconciliation of alternative
performance measures
Risk review Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman
121 Our approach to risk
124 Top and emerging risks
131 Areas of special interest A reminder
135 Our material banking risks The currency we report in is US dollars.
Corporate governance report Adjusted measures
We supplement our IFRSs figures with
218 Group Chairman’s governance statement non-IFRSs measures used by management
220 Biographies of Directors and internally that constitute alternative
senior management performance measures under European
237 Board committees Securities and Markets Authority guidance
254 Directors’ remuneration report and non-GAAP financial measures defined
in and presented in accordance with US
Financial statements Securities and Exchange Commission rules
and regulations. These measures are
298 Independent auditors’ report highlighted with the following symbol:
308 Financial statements
318 Notes on the financial statements Further explanation may be found on page 28.
Additional information None of the websites referred to in this Annual
Report and Accounts 2021 for the year ended
397 Shareholder information 31 December 2021 (including where a link is
405 Abbreviations provided), and none of the information
contained on such websites, are incorporated
by reference in this report.
HAAnc S cnB ouC ua nlH Rts oe 2 lpd 0oi 2 nrt1 g asn pdl c Cover image: Opening up
a world of opportunity
We connect people, ideas
and capital across the world,
opening up opportunities for
our customers and the
communities we serve.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
Opening up a world of opportunity
Our ambition is to be the preferred international financial partner for our clients.
Our purpose, ambition and values reflect our strategy and support our focus on execution.
Read more on our values, strategy and purpose on pages 4, 12 and 15.
Key themes of 2021
The Group continued to make progress on our strategic aims, although challenges remain:
Financial performance Strategic transformation Climate ambition
Performance reflected an improvement in We have made progress in areas of strength We are helping to mobilise the transition to a
global economic conditions, which resulted and expanded our digital capabilities across net zero global economy. Since 2020, we have
in releases of expected credit loss allowances, key products. During the year, we announced supported our customers’ transition to net zero
the impact of lower interest rates, and a number of strategic transactions including and a sustainable future by providing and
continued cost discipline. All of our regions the planned sale of our retail banking business facilitating sustainable finance and investment.
were profitable, and our Asia operations in France and our exit of mass market retail in We have published our thermal coal phase-out
continued to perform strongly. The outlook the US. We also announced acquisitions in policy and have set targets to reduce our
for net interest income is now significantly Singapore and India to develop our wealth on-balance sheet financed emissions of two
more positive. capabilities across Asia. priority sectors: oil and gas, and power and
utilities by 2030.
Read more on pages 2 and 26. Read more on page 12.
Read more on page 18.
Delivery against our financial targets
Return on average tangible equity Gross RWA reduction Dividend per share
8.3% $104bn $0.25
Target: ≥10% over the medium term. Since the start of the programme. 2021 payout ratio: 40.3%
(2020: 3.1%) Updated target: >$110bn by end of 2022. Target: sustainable cash dividends
with a payout ratio of 40% to 55%
Adjusted operating expenses Common equity tier 1 capital ratio from 2022 onwards.
$32.1bn 15.8%
For our financial targets, we define medium
term as three to four years and long term as
Updated target: 2022 adjusted operating Target: >14%, managing in the range of five to six years, commencing 1 January 2020.
expenses in line with 2021. Previous target: 14% to 14.5% in the medium term; and
≤$31bn in 2022 (at December 2020 foreign manage the range down further long term. Further explanation of performance against
exchange rates). (2020: $32.4bn) (2020: 15.9%) Group financial targets may be found on page 26.
ESG performance indicators and targets
Gender diversity Sustainable finance and investment Net zero in our own operations
31.7% $126.7bn 50.3%
Women in senior leadership roles. Cumulative total provided and facilitated Cumulative reduction in absolute greenhouse
(2020: 30.3%) since January 2020. (2020: $44.1bn) gas emissions from 2019 baseline
Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction Financed emissions targets by 2030
6 out of 10 4 out of 13 34% 0.14
Mt CO2e reduction in Mt CO2e/TWh
Wealth and Personal Banking markets that Commercial Banking markets that
oil and gas absolute power and utilities
sustained top-three rank and/or improved sustained top-three rank and/or improved
on-balance sheet on-balance sheet
in customer satisfaction. in customer satisfaction.
financed emissions financed emissions
Read more on how we set and define our environmental, social and governance metrics on page 17. intensity, representing
Read more on our financed emissions scope, methodology and terminology on page 47 and our 75% reduction
definition of sustainable finance and investment on page 53. from 2019
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 1
Strategic report
Highlights
Financial performance reflected improved global economic conditions, and we continued
to make progress against our four strategic pillars.
Financial performance (vs 2020)
– Reported profit after tax up $8.6bn to manufacturing, and Global Trade and – Customer lending balances in 2021
$14.7bn and reported profit before tax Receivables Finance (‘GTRF’). Adjusted up $8bn on a reported basis and $23bn
up $10.1bn to $18.9bn. The increase was revenue down 3% to $50.1bn. on a constant currency basis, primarily
driven by a net release of expected credit – Net interest margin (‘NIM’) of 1.20%, driven by growth in mortgage balances,
losses and other credit impairment charges down 12 basis points (‘bps’) from 2020, mainly in the UK and Hong Kong.
(‘ECL’) and a higher share of profit from our with stabilisation in the second half of 2021. – Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital
associates. Adjusted profit before tax – Reported ECL were a net release of ratio of 15.8%, down 0.1 percentage
up 79% to $21.9bn. $0.9bn, compared with an $8.8bn points. Capital generation was more than
– All regions were profitable in 2021, charge in 2020, reflecting an improvement offset by dividends, the up to $2bn share
notably HSBC UK Bank plc, where in economic conditions relative to 2020, and buy-back announced in October, foreign
reported profit before tax increased by better than expected levels of credit exchange movements and other deductions.
$4.5bn to $4.8bn. Our Asia operations performance. In the fourth quarter of 2021, Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) reduced
contributed $12.2bn to reported profit before we recognised a net ECL charge of $450m, despite new Pillar 1 requirements for
tax and all other regions reported a material which included an increase in allowances to structural foreign exchange, reflecting
recovery in profitability, reflecting favourable reflect recent developments in China’s actions under our transformation
ECL movements. commercial real estate sector. programme.
– Reported revenue down 2% to $49.6bn, – Reported operating expenses broadly – The Board has approved a second
primarily reflecting the impact of lower global unchanged at $34.6bn. Adjusted interim dividend of $0.18 per share,
interest rates and a decrease in revenue in operating expenses down 1% to $32.1bn, making a total for 2021 of $0.25 per
Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS’) despite inflationary pressures, as the impact share. We also intend to initiate a further
compared with a strong comparative period. of our cost-saving initiatives and a reduction share buy-back of up to $1bn, to commence
Notwithstanding these factors, we saw in the UK bank levy charge absorbed higher after the existing up to $2bn buy-back
revenue growth in areas of strategic focus, performance-related pay and continued has concluded.
including Wealth, in part due to favourable growth in technology investment.
market impacts in life insurance
Strategic progress
– In our wealth business in Asia, we – In line with our climate change resolution, – We continued the transformation of our
attracted net new invested assets of we published our thermal coal phase- US business and HSBC Bank plc, our UK
$36bn in 2021. We also announced out policy and have set on-balance sheet non-ring-fenced bank and Europe, reducing
acquisitions in Singapore and India to financed emission targets for our oil and costs and RWAs. Furthermore, we
develop our wealth capabilities across gas, and power and utilities sectors. announced the exit of mass market
the region. – In 2021, we continued to support our retail in the US, and the planned sale of
– Our cost-reduction programme continues customers in the transition to net zero and a our retail operations in France. During
to progress with $2.2bn of cost savings sustainable future. Since 1 January 2020, 2022, we expect to recognise a pre-tax loss,
recognised in 2021. Since the start of the we have provided and facilitated excluding transaction costs, of around
programme in 2020, we have delivered $126.7bn towards our ambition of $2.7bn upon the classification of our France
savings of $3.3bn, with costs to $750bn to $1tn by 2030. retail operations as ‘held for sale’.
achieve of $3.6bn.
Outlook
We carry good business momentum into 2022 We continue to target 2022 adjusted operating growth, together with capital returns are
in most areas and expect mid-single-digit expenses in line with 2021, despite inflationary expected to normalise our CET1 position to
lending growth over the year. However, we pressures, with cost to achieve spend of be within our 14% to 14.5% target operating
expect a weaker Wealth performance in Asia $3.4bn expected to generate over $2bn of cost range during 2022.
in the first quarter of 2022. savings in 2022. In 2023, we intend to manage
growth in adjusted operating expenses to Our net interest income outlook is now
We expect ECL charges to normalise towards within a range of 0% to 2%, compared with significantly more positive. If policy rates were
30bps of average loans in 2022, based on 2022 (on an IFRS 4 basis), with cost savings to follow the current implied market
current consensus economic forecasts and of at least $0.5bn from actions taken in 2022 consensus, we would expect to deliver a RoTE
default experience, noting we retain $0.6bn helping to offset inflation. of at least 10% for 2023, one year ahead of our
of Covid-19-related allowances as at the end previous expectations.
of 2021. Uncertainty remains given recent We expect mid-single-digit RWA growth in
developments in China’s commercial real 2022 through a combination of business We continue to target dividends within our
estate sector, while inflationary pressures growth, acquisitions and regulatory changes, 40% to 55% dividend payout ratio range.
persist in many of our markets. partly offset by additional RWA savings. This
2 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
Who we are
Our global reach Multi-award winning
We aim to create long-term value for our shareholders and capture opportunity. One of our goals We have won industry awards around
is to lead in wealth, with a particular focus on Asia and the Middle East. Taking advantage of our the world for a variety of reasons – ranging
international network, we aspire to lead in cross-border banking flows, and to serve mid-market from the quality of the service we provide to
corporates globally. We continue to maintain a strong capital, funding and liquidity position with customers, to our efforts to support diversity
a diversified business model. and inclusion in the workplace.
Value of customer accounts by geography
North America UK Rest of Europe Mainland China
10% 31% 8% 3%
Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2021
– Best Bank for Sustainable Finance in Asia
– Best Bank for Sustainable Finance in the
Middle East
– Best Bank for Transaction Services in Asia
– Best Bank for Transaction Services in the
Middle East
– Western Europe’s Best Bank for SMEs
Euromoney Trade Finance Survey 2021
– Number 1 Trade Finance Bank in the UK
Latin America
2% Middle East and North Africa
The Banker, Transaction Banking Awards 2021
2% Rest o f Asia Hong Kong
– Transaction Bank of the Year for Asia-Pacific
11% 33%
– Transaction Bank of the Year for Middle East
See page 97 for further information on our customers and approach to geographical information. Asiamoney Global RMB Poll 2021
– Best overall bank for global, onshore and
offshore RMB products and services
Engaging with our stakeholders
Customers Employees Investors
Asian Private Banker Awards for Distinction
2021
Communities Regulators and Suppliers – Best Private Bank – Asia Pacific
governments – Best Private Bank – Wealth Continuum
Payments Awards 2021
Building strong relationships with our stakeholders helps enable us to deliver our strategy in line – B2B Payments Innovation of the Year
with our long-term values, and operate the business in a sustainable way. Our stakeholders are
the people who work for us, bank with us, own us, regulate us, and live in the societies we serve
and the planet we all inhabit. These human connections are complex and overlap. Many of our
employees are customers and shareholders, while our business customers are often suppliers.
We aim to serve, creating value for our customers and shareholders. Our size and global reach
mean our actions can have a significant impact. We are committed to doing business
responsibly, and thinking for the long term. This is key to delivering our strategy.
Our section 172 statement, detailing our Directors’ responsibility to stakeholders, can be found on page 21.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 5
Strategic report
Group Chairman’s statement
The progress we made in 2021 means that HSBC is well
placed to open up a world of opportunity for our customers
as economic recovery continues.
investors all continued along their ESG
journeys in 2021, as public awareness
grew and activism around climate change
in particular increased. HSBC has long
understood that good ESG performance goes
hand-in-hand with good financial performance,
and it is now abundantly clear that the action
businesses take on sustainability is an
important lens through which they are being
viewed and assessed by their stakeholders.
Progress
HSBC delivered a good financial performance
in 2021. Reported profit before tax was
$18.9bn, an increase of $10.1bn as compared
with 2020, while adjusted profit before tax was
$21.9bn, up 79%. All of our regions were
profitable in 2021, supported by the global
economic recovery, demonstrating the value
of our global network. There was also good
growth in focus areas such as Asia wealth
and trade. In line with the dividend policy
announced in February 2021, the Board
approved a second interim dividend for 2021
of $0.18, meaning the full year dividends for
2021 are $0.25.
Good progress has been made in executing
our strategic plan. A number of key milestones
Mark E Tucker 2021 was another challenging year. were reached in 2021 – including resolving the
Group Chairman While Covid-19 vaccines were rolled future of our retail businesses in France and
out globally, some countries dealt with the US, the organic build-out of HSBC
very significant outbreaks and many Personal Wealth Planning in mainland China,
more operated under various restrictions and acquisitions in Singapore and India to
at different points. As in 2020, this took accelerate the development of our wealth
a huge toll on our customers, our capabilities across Asia. At the same time, our
people, the communities we serve work to digitise HSBC and to play a leading
and our shareholders. role in the net zero transition has continued
at pace. There is more to do – and it will be
My colleagues once again demonstrated their important to see successive consecutive
resilience, their professionalism and, above all, quarters of growth – but good momentum
their exceptional commitment to serving our exists across our businesses.
customers. Our purpose as an organisation is
to open up a world of opportunity. Our people Board of Directors
have brought this to life in the way they have Due to ongoing travel restrictions and safety
supported our customers and each other. On concerns, the Board has not been able to meet
behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them in person for two years. We look forward to
warmly for everything they have done, and reconnecting with each other and welcoming
continue to do. those Board members we are yet to meet in
person. At the same time, we have come to
ESG was another major theme of 2021. The appreciate the benefits of this new way of
pandemic has exposed the fragility of the working – which include more regular
planet and society as a whole. It has also dialogue, less travel and reduced costs –
created a catalyst for change and highlighted and we will therefore use a hybrid model
the associated commercial opportunities. going forward.
Businesses, governments, regulators and
6 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
Group Chairman’s statement
” HSBC has long understood that good
ESG performance goes hand-in-hand
with good financial performance.”
We were pleased to hold our first hybrid Global trade performed well in 2021, with and value. For our suppliers, it can mean
AGM in May 2021, which the majority of volumes rising above pre-pandemic levels supporting them to grow their businesses
shareholders attended virtually. It is a matter despite ongoing supply chain disruptions. and strengthen their own supply chains.
of deep regret to me, and to the Board as a Looking forward, trade growth could be And for the communities we serve, it can
whole, that we have been unable to meet our further boosted by the lifting of restrictions mean being a responsible citizen and leading
loyal Hong Kong shareholders face-to-face. on movement that remain in place in some the net zero transition.
We look forward to doing so again as soon countries. There are also signs that supply
as it is practicable and safe. In the meantime, chain bottlenecks will ease as the year Stakeholder engagement has been a priority
a hybrid meeting does at least allow for goes on, although when and how remains for the Board in 2021. For example, the Board
constructive engagement and discussions uncertain. The Regional Comprehensive oversaw HSBC’s continuing work in support
with shareholders, which we continue to Economic Partnership is expected to of our ambition to align our financed emissions
value highly. reinforce Asia’s central role in global trade. to net zero by 2050 or sooner. This included
Along with the bilateral trade deals being engaging shareholders and leading NGOs
At the 2021 AGM, Laura Cha, Henri de struck by some countries, it also shows that ahead of the 2021 AGM, when our special
Castries and Heidi Miller all retired from the trade liberalisation continues to advance in resolution on the next steps in relation to
Board. We also recently announced that Irene some parts of the world. our climate ambition was overwhelmingly
Lee and Pauline van der Meer Mohr will step approved. We also reviewed and approved
down from the Board at the conclusion of our Although there is currently no long-term a new thermal coal phase-out policy, which
2022 AGM in April. I am enormously grateful agreement between the UK and the EU on we announced in December 2021 and is
to them all for their important and valuable access to financial services, we have worked designed to allow HSBC to help facilitate the
contributions to the Board, the committees for a number of years to ensure we will be able transition to net zero in both developed and
and the subsidiary entities on which they have to maintain a full service for our clients under developing markets.
served. We welcomed Dame Carolyn Fairbairn all potential scenarios. Ideally, the temporary
and Rachel Duan to the Board on 1 September. arrangements on access to financial services Thank you
Both Carolyn and Rachel bring a wealth of will be retained so as to minimise disruption Finally, I would like to reiterate how grateful
skills and expertise that will be of great value and enable the UK financial services industry I am to all my colleagues for the great
to the Board’s discussions. to continue to offer the many benefits dedication and care they have shown to our
it brings to the UK and EU economies. customers and to each other over the past
External environment However, we are well prepared for a broad year. Their tremendous efforts have, above
The roll-out of vaccines around the world and range of outcomes. everything else, made us what we are today
a robust global economic recovery mean we – and will shape what we become tomorrow.
entered 2022 in a better state than we might As a global bank operating in more than
have expected a year ago. There are clearly 60 countries and territories, with a history
still significant challenges ahead, foremost stretching back more than 156 years, we
among which is the uncertainty caused by the always have experienced – and always will
spread of the Omicron variant, and potentially experience – geopolitical tensions. However,
other variants in the future. Supply chain we remain alive to the potential impact that
bottlenecks, high energy and food prices, geopolitics can have on our business, as well
surging consumer demand and higher wages as on our clients. The relationship between the Mark E Tucker
have combined to drive up inflation. Central US and China remains a prominent feature of Group Chairman
banks have already begun to respond by the external environment, but we do not
tightening monetary policy and this is likely currently expect it to change significantly in 22 February 2022
to continue in 2022. the near future. We also expect the mutual
economic benefits brought by the UK-China
Global economic growth forecasts are fairly relationship to outweigh any short-term
resilient – our own forecast is 4.1% global pressures. We continue to engage with all
GDP growth in 2022. However, there remains governments and remain focused on serving
a great deal of uncertainty given the wide the needs of our customers in both East and
range of responses from governments to West, and the many points in between.
the different challenges they face.
Stakeholder engagement
After China’s strong recovery, growth slowed Our purpose of opening up a world of
in the second half of 2021. As a result, we opportunity is equally applicable to our
expect China’s government to take action to different stakeholders. For our people, it
ease monetary and fiscal policies, with the can mean helping them to develop new skills
aim of shoring up growth. Meanwhile, India’s and advance in their careers, as well as being
economy is set to grow rapidly, but growth is diverse and inclusive. For our shareholders,
expected to be slower in the UK and the US. it can mean creating sustainable returns
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 7
Strategic
report
Group Chief Executive’s review
” The opportunities of the
good growth in mortgage balances and our
lending pipelines across both retail and
wholesale remain strong. Our insurance
future will be defined by
business also continues to perform well,
notably in Asia where we have seen strong
growth in value of new business, despite the
the single greatest challenge
border between Hong Kong and mainland
China remaining closed.
of our time – the need for
As a consequence, the Group delivered
$18.9bn of reported profit before tax, up
$10.1bn on the prior year, and $21.9bn of
everyone to make the
adjusted profits, up 79%. We were profitable
in every region, with Asia leading the way
and material increases in profits in the UK,
low-carbon transition.”
continental Europe, the US and the
Middle East.
Adjusted revenue was down 3%, due mainly
More than anything else, the opportunities to the impact of interest rate cuts. However,
of the future will be defined by the single trade balances grew by 23% overall, while
greatest challenge of our time – the need for loans and advances increased by $23bn for
everyone to make the low-carbon transition. the year.
To seize them, we must change, adapt,
invest and innovate. Since 2019, we have Our cost reduction programmes were able to
reduced greenhouse gas emissions across absorb increased technology investment and
our operations by more than half. We also higher performance-related pay, with adjusted
provided and facilitated $82.6bn of operating expenses down by 1%. Return on
sustainable finance and investment – tangible equity was 8.3%. If rates follow the
bringing the cumulative total since 1 January path currently implied by the market, we
2020 to $126.7bn, towards our ambition of would expect to reach a return on tangible
$750bn to $1tn by 2030. Furthermore, we equity of at least 10% for 2023, one year
have collaborated with other banks and ahead of our previous expectations.
financial institutions to help accelerate the
transition through initiatives including the In the fourth quarter of 2021, we took a charge
Net-Zero Banking Alliance, the Glasgow on expected credit losses, due to changing
Financial Alliance for Net Zero and the market conditions in the mainland China
Sustainable Markets Initiative’s Financial commercial real estate sector. Since the year
Services Taskforce. end, there has been some positive sentiment
as a consequence of new policy actions. They
Financial performance will take time to impact the market and we will
The global economic recovery supported our continue to support our clients, with whom we
2021 financial performance, as the release of have good and long-standing relationships.
expected credit losses resulted in an
improvement in the profitability of the Group Our funding, liquidity and capital all remain
and all global businesses. Our interest-rate strong. We grew deposits by $90bn on a
sensitive business lines continued to be constant currency basis, with growth in all
adversely impacted by low interest rates, but three global businesses. Our common equity
our net interest margin remained broadly tier 1 ratio was 15.8%. As a consequence,
stable during 2021 and the outlook is now we are able to announce a second interim
significantly more positive. After absorbing the dividend of $0.18, bringing the full-year
impact of low interest rates for some time, we dividends for 2021 to $0.25 per ordinary share.
believe we have turned the corner on revenue. This is within our target payout ratio, and our
We have also seen good fee income growth, aim is for a sustainable dividend in 2022.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 9
Strategic
report
Group Chief Executive’s review
” We were profitable in every
region, with Asia leading
the way and material
increases in profits in the
UK, continental Europe,
the US and the Middle East.”
In our most recent colleague survey, assets without hindering growth. HSBC 2022
our employee engagement index was was presented with the Terra Carta seal by We have good momentum coming into 2022
72%, which is unchanged on 2020 and HRH the Prince of Wales in recognition of the and are confident that we can continue to
4 percentage points above the average work that we are doing to create truly execute against our strategy. We also remain
for the financial services sector. sustainable markets. cognisant of the potential impact that further
Covid-19-related uncertainty and continued
Transition to net zero After also joining the Powering Past Coal inflation might have on us and our clients.
The industrial landscape of the world is being Alliance, we published a new thermal coal
transformed by the transition to net zero. I am policy to phase out the financing of coal-fired Throughout HSBC’s history, our people have
determined that HSBC will play a leading role power and thermal coal mining in EU and always demonstrated great professionalism
in driving this change. OECD markets by 2030, and globally by 2040. and commitment to those we serve, and that
This fulfilled the commitment approved by is as evident today as it has ever been. Despite
At the 2021 AGM, 99.7% of shareholders our shareholders and followed a period of the personal and professional challenges they
backed our special resolution on climate extensive engagement with our stakeholders. continue to face after two years of living with
change, providing a strong endorsement It has two clear objectives: to drive thermal the pandemic, I am proud of my colleagues,
of our climate plan and our commitment to coal phase-out within the timeframe required and the sense of duty and care they continue
support our customers on their transitions to to reach net zero by 2050; and to help enable to show towards our customers and each
a low-carbon future. However, we do not take the energy transition in developing economies. other. Our success – now and in the future – is
this support for granted, and we have taken testament to them and all they continue to do
a number of further steps to maintain our We are committed to working with our clients for our bank.
leadership role. to develop valid, science-based transition
plans to understand – sector-by-sector and
In September, we partnered with Temasek, client-by-client – how we will move to net zero
subject to regulatory approval, to launch a by 2050. These transition plans and the targets
new debt financing fund for sustainable within them must be predicated on the
infrastructure in south-east Asia, with $150m science relevant to the individual sectors.
of seed capital and the ambition to deploy We will use them as a basis for further Noel Quinn
$1bn of financing over five years. engagement and decision making, including Group Chief Executive
how we drive change within our portfolios.
At the COP26 meeting in Glasgow, HSBC As part of this process, we have disclosed 22 February 2022
was one of over 100 public and private interim targets for on-balance sheet financed
organisations behind the launch of FAST-Infra, emissions in the oil and gas, and power and
a labelling system that aims to increase utilities sectors. In the year ahead, we plan to
investor confidence in the sustainability set interim targets for financed emissions
credentials of projects in emerging markets. across a range of other sectors. We will also
We are also supporting the Energy Transition work on our climate transition plan, which will
Mechanism, a public-private partnership led be published in 2023 and will bring together
by the Asian Development Bank that aims in one place how we will embed our net zero
for the materially earlier retirement of coal targets into our strategy, processes, policies
and governance.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 11
Strategic report | Our strategy
Digitise at scale
We continue to invest in our technology and workforce to help equip our colleagues for digitally for HSBCnet grew from 83% to 94%
operational capabilities to drive operating the future of work. At the end of 2021, 15% in the 18 Asian markets where HSBCnet is
productivity across businesses and of our total technology workforce in the available for wholesale clients. Across all our
geographies and to offer better client global businesses and functions were aligned trade digital channels, 84% of transactions in
experience. In 2021, approximately $6.0bn, to at least one agile team per agile blueprint. 2021 were initiated digitally by our customers,
or 19%, of our overall adjusted operating This marks a significant improvement from compared with 69% of transactions in 2020.
expenses were dedicated to technology (net 5% in 2020. Seeing these improvements, we endeavour
of saves from our transformation programme), to continue investing in technology that helps
up from approximately $5.7bn in 2020. We Our digital engagement with customers also enhance our customers’ digital experiences.
aspire to progressively increase the share improved. At the end of 2021, 43% of our
to greater than 21% by 2025. customers active on our mobile services had Technology spend
logged onto a HSBC mobile app at least once as % of total adjusted operating expenses
We have made progress on automating our in the last 30 days, compared with 38% in
organisation at scale. Our Cloud adoption rate, 2020. Our wholesale clients executed over 2020 18
which is the percentage of our technology 9 million payments on HSBCnet’s mobile
services on the private or public Cloud, banking app, a 58% increase compared with 22002201 19
increased from approximately 20% in 2020 to 2020. During the same period, the percentage 22002251 ambition >21
27% in 2021. We are also promoting an agile of Commercial Banking transactions enabled
Energise for growth
In February 2021, we set out the case for Recruiting the right talent and diversifying our We continue to energise our colleagues
a more effective, agile and empowered workforce remain important to us. We had through initiatives that help develop their
organisation that could execute on our 31.7% of senior leadership roles held by future skills and learning opportunities,
ambitious journey. women, which are roles classified as those especially in areas including data, digital and
at band 3 and above in our global career sustainability. In 2021, the average hours of
In 2021, our employee engagement score, band structure. We are on track to meet training per full-time equivalent staff ('FTE')
a gauge of an employee’s propensity to our ambition of having more than 35% increased to 26.7 hours from 23.0 hours
recommend HSBC as a great place to work, representation of women in these roles in 2020.
was in line with 2020 at 72%, but notably up by 2025.
from 67% in 2019. This represents a strong We outline how we put our purpose and values
endorsement of various initiatives around our into practice in the following 'How we do
business' section. For further details on how
purpose and values in our organisation.
we plan to energise for growth, see the Social
section in the ESG review on page 66.
Transition to net zero
In November, we participated in COP26 to play a policy to phase out thermal coal financing in Unlocking new climate solutions
our part in bringing together the public and EU and OECD markets by 2030, and globally Scaled innovation in critical areas such as next
private sector to mobilise this transition. We by 2040. We have also set targets for our generation climate technologies, nature-based
also made good progress on our ambitions, on-balance sheet financed emissions for the solutions and sustainable infrastructure will be
including setting targets for our on-balance oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors. critical to tackling climate change. In
sheet financed emissions and launching On the journey to net zero, we recognise that September, we launched a new debt financing
innovative climate solutions and products individual markets have their own unique fund for sustainable infrastructure in south-
to support our customers in their transition circumstances that we intend to factor in east Asia in partnership (subject to regulatory
to a net zero future. when laying out our net zero approach. approval) with Temasek, with $150m of seed
capital and the ambition to deploy $1bn of
Becoming a net zero bank Supporting customers through transition financing over five years. We are leading the
We have set a climate ambition to become net Our ambition is to support our customers in FAST-Infra initiative, which we co-founded
zero in our operations and supply chain by their transition to net zero and a sustainable to establish a consistent, globally applicable
2030, and align our financed emissions to the future. In 2021, we provided and facilitated labelling system to identify and evaluate
Paris Agreement goal of net zero by 2050. In $82.6bn of sustainable finance and sustainable infrastructure assets. We are also
2021, we reduced our organisation’s absolute investment, taking the cumulative amount supporting the Energy Transition Mechanism,
greenhouse gas emissions in our operations to to $126.7bn since 1 January 2020, as part of a public-private partnership led by the Asian
341,000 tonnes, a decrease of 50.3% from the our $750bn to $1tn by 2030 ambition. This Development Bank, which endeavours to
2019 baseline (the data for 2019 and 2020 has comprised support including facilitation of accelerate the retirement of coal-fired power
been revised as we have updated our air travel capital flow and access to capital markets stations and increase demand and
reporting methodology to include the cabin for sustainability-linked outcomes, as well as investments in renewable energy.
class travel and the impact of radiative forces, financing and investments in environmental
and therefore, the percentage change from and social goals such as decarbonisation of For further details on our climate ambition, see
2019 baseline is based on the revised energy systems. the Environmental section in the ESG review
on page 45.
methodology). In December, we published
14 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
How we do business
H ow we do business
We conduct our business intent on supporting the sustained success of our customers,
people and other stakeholders.
Our approach
We recognise that it is important to be clear purpose and delivering our strategy. For Developing the skills of colleagues is critical
about who we are and what we stand for to further information on conduct, see page 83. to energising our organisation. We foster a
create long-term value for our stakeholders. For further details on our purpose-led conduct culture of learning through a range of
This will help us deliver our strategy and approach framework, see www.hsbc.com/ resources, providing colleagues with a breadth
operate our business in a way that is who-we-are. of educational materials and opportunities.
sustainable. Following an extensive
consultation with our people and customers, Our colleagues As we continue to reshape the organisation,
we refined our purpose and values. Our new Understanding the experience of colleagues we are committed to managing change well,
purpose is ‘Opening up a world of opportunity’ is central to our efforts to open up a world of and redeploying impacted colleagues. In 2021,
and our ambition is to be the preferred opportunity. Through our employee survey, 23% of colleagues impacted through
international financial partner for our clients. Snapshot, we capture their views on issues restructuring programmes found new jobs
from our strategy to their well-being to the within HSBC.
To achieve this in a way that is sustainable, we future of work. These views will guide our
are guided by our values: we value difference; approach as we embrace hybrid working. Our climate ambition
we succeed together; we take responsibility; We have set a climate ambition to become net
and we get it done. We value difference among our colleagues, zero in our operations and our supply chain by
which is why we continue to build an inclusive 2030, and align our financed emissions to the
Our Covid-19 actions workforce. Having surpassed our 2020 target Paris Agreement goal of net zero by 2050. We
Having a clear purpose and strong values has to reach 30% women in senior leadership have set on-balance sheet financed emissions
never been more important, with the Covid-19 roles – classified as those at band 3 and above targets for the oil and gas, and power and
pandemic testing us all in ways we could in our global career band structure – we have utilities sectors, aligned to the International
never have anticipated. Since the world made strong progress towards our goal to Energy Agency’s (‘IEA’) net zero scenario,
changed in 2020, we adapted to new ways of achieve 35% by 2025, with 31.7% achieved underpinned by a clear science-based
working and endeavoured to provide support in 2021. strategy. To support our goal of net zero
to our customers during this challenging financed emissions, it will be crucial to unlock
period. On the following page, we have set We expanded the ability for our colleagues to transition finance for our portfolio of clients.
out further ways that we continued to support share their diversity characteristics, with over
our stakeholders. 70% now able to self-identify their ethnic For further details of our ESG disclosures, see
heritage, gender identity, disability and sexual our ESG review on page 42.
Fair outcomes orientation. This will help us to set locally
Our conduct approach guides us to do the appropriate goals, reflective of our markets.
right thing and to focus on the impact we have In July 2020, we set out our early global race
for our customers and the financial markets in commitments, which included the goal of
which we operate. It complements our doubling the number of Black employees in
purpose and values and – together with more senior roles over the following five years. In
formal policies and the tools we have to do our 2021, we put in place important foundations
jobs – provides a clear path to achieving our to achieve this goal.
Update on our purpose and values
We relaunched our purpose in March 2021. – We facilitated $799bn of trade globally
We have been pleased to see how quickly to help economies grow and prosper.
our colleagues have embraced 'Opening up – We supported over 270,000 students
a world of opportunity’ as our purpose, and move internationally to study by providing
how they are delivering against it. You can key financial products including account
find some examples from 2021 below. openings, fund transfer and day-to-day
We have enabled the recognition of finance management in their new countries.
colleagues who have lived up to our
– Over 115,000 colleagues made use of
values, and there have been over 600,000
our new learning platform, Degreed,
recognitions made in 2021.
during 2021.
– We helped 268,771 people buy their first – We enabled over 30,000 colleagues to
home, lending $92.9bn in mortgages. progress their careers at the Group by
helping them move into new roles.
– We provided $47bn in loans to our
business banking customers to help
support, grow, internationalise and digitise
their businesses.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 15
Strategic report | How we do business
Engaging with our stakeholders and our material ESG topics
Engaging with our stakeholders is core to being a responsible business. To determine material topics that our stakeholders are interested in, we
conduct a number of activities throughout the year, including engagements outlined in the table below. Disclosure standards such as the TCFD,
World Economic Forum (‘WEF’) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’), as well as the ESG Guide
under the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing Rules and other applicable rules and regulations, are considered as part of the identification of
material issues and disclosures.
Our stakeholders How we engage Material topics highlighted by the engagement1
Customers Our customers’ voices are heard through our interactions with them, – Customer advocacy
surveys and by listening to their complaints – Cybersecurity
Communities We welcome dialogue with external stakeholders, including non- – Financial inclusion and community investment
governmental organisations (‘NGOs’) and other civil societies groups. We
engage directly on specific issues and by taking part in external forums and
working groups
Employees Our colleagues’ voices are heard through our employee Snapshot survey, – Diversity and inclusion, in particular gender and ethnicity
Exchange meetings and our ‘speak-up’ channels, including our global profile and pay gap
whistleblowing platform, HSBC Confidential – Employee training
Investors We engage with our shareholders through our AGMs, virtual and in-person – Coal financing policies
meetings, conferences and our annual investor survey – Becoming a net zero bank in our own operations and
financed emissions
Regulators and We proactively engage with regulators and governments to facilitate strong – Anti-bribery and corruption
governments relationships via virtual and in-person meetings, responses to consultations
individually and jointly via the industry bodies
Suppliers Our ethical and environmental code of conduct for suppliers of goods and – Supply chain management
services sets out how we engage with our suppliers on ethical and
environmental performance
1 Material topics highlighted through the engagement form part of our ESG disclosures suite together with other requirements and are not exhaustive or exclusive to
one stakeholder group. For further details on our disclosures, see our ESG review and ESG Data Pack, as well as our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Supporting our stakeholders through and our colleagues. However, with customers distancing and protection measures in line
Covid-19 doing more of their banking online, we have with local guidance. We firmly believe that
The Covid-19 pandemic continues to create a also deployed new technology to help enable helping our people to be healthy and happy
great deal of uncertainty and disruption for the them to engage with us in new ways. is a key enabler of our strategy, and benefits
people, businesses and communities we serve the people and communities we serve.
around the world. It is affecting everyone in Employee well-being remains a top priority
different ways, with markets at different as we transition to new ways of working and We continued to engage with our investors
stages of the crisis. continue to navigate through the pandemic. virtually and restarted face-to-face meetings
The support we provide is driven by the where local guidance allowed.
The pandemic continued to pose significant feedback from our people surveys. In 2021,
challenges for our customers. Our immediate we launched new tools and training to We also donated a further $11.5m towards
priority has been to do what we can to provide support mental, physical and financial health. Covid-19 relief efforts to support the
them with support and flexibility. We We are also enabling more colleagues to work communities in which we operate, primarily
continued to take steps to keep many of our flexibly and continue to follow social in India.
branches open while protecting customers
Our COP26 actions
COP26, the UN climate change conference a series of major announcements around
held in Glasgow, Scotland, in November, was finance, energy transition, sustainable
a critical moment for the financial sector, infrastructure and nature. This included
including HSBC, to demonstrate how we are joining the Powering Past Coal Alliance, a
helping to accelerate the transition to net global coalition of countries, cities, regions
zero. The Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net and businesses focused on tackling the
Zero, which we are part of, announced challenge of ending the world’s reliance on
potentially transformative measures for the coal. We also announced that we are
sector, including setting short-term supporting the Asian Development Bank in
science-based targets, annual reporting of the pioneering Energy Transition Mechanism
progress, embedding climate risk initiative, which is working with developing
management into businesses, and mobilising countries on early retirement of coal power
transition finance for emerging and assets and unlocking new investment in
developing countries. clean energy, while supporting reskilling of
workers in directly affected communities.
Our delegation, including our Group Chief
Sustainability Officer, Celine Herweijer
(pictured here at COP26) was involved in
16 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
How we do business
Our ESG ambitions, metrics and targets
We have established ambitions and targets that and employee measures linked to the outcomes 2030 and supporting our clients in their
guide how we do business, including how we that underpin the ESG metrics below. These transition to net zero and a sustainable future.
operate and how we serve our customers. carry a 30% weighting in the scorecards of the For a summary of how all financial and
These include targets designed to help us make Group Chief Executive and Group Chief non-financial metrics link to executive
our business – and those of our customers – Financial Officer. In addition, a 25% weighting remuneration outcomes, see pages 261
more environmentally and socially sustainable. is given to environment and sustainable finance to 273 in the Directors’ remuneration report.
They also help us to improve employee measures in the 2020 and 2021 long-term
advocacy and diversity at senior levels, as well incentive (‘LTI’) scorecards, which have The table below sets out how we have made
as strengthen our market conduct. three-year performance periods ending on progress against the following ESG-related
31 December 2023 and 31 December 2024, ambitions and targets.
The 2021 annual incentive scorecards of the respectively. The targets for these measures
Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial are linked to our climate ambition of achieving
Officer and Group Executives contain customer net zero in our operations and supply chain by
Ambition/target Progress to date
Environmental
Becoming a net zero bank Ambition to align our financed emissions Disclosed interim targets for the oil and gas,
to achieve net zero by 2050 or sooner and power and utilities sectors (for further
details, see page 47)
Published thermal coal phase-out policy
(for further details, see page 62)
Ambition to be net zero in our own 50.3% cumulative reduction in absolute
operations and supply chain by 2030 operational greenhouse gas emissions
or sooner from 2019 baseline1
Supporting our customers Ambition to support our customers in their Cumulative progress of $126.7bn
transition to net zero and a sustainable future since 20202
with $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance
and investment by 2030
Social
Customer satisfaction Target to be ranked top three and/or improve 6 out of 10 WPB markets sustained
customer satisfaction rank top-three rank and/or improved rank
in customer satisfaction3
4 out of 13 CMB markets sustained
top-three rank and/or improved rank
in customer satisfaction3
Employee engagement Target to maintain employee engagement Employee engagement score of 72%4
score at 72%
Employee gender diversity Target to reach 35% women in senior Women in senior leadership roles of 31.7%5
leadership roles by the end of 2025
Employee ethnicity diversity Target to at least double the number of Increased number of Black senior leaders
Black senior leaders by 2025 by 17.5% from 2020 baseline5
Governance
Global conduct Target to achieve at least 98% of employees 99% of staff completed training6
complete conduct and financial crime
training each year
1 This absolute greenhouse gas emission figure covers scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 (business travel) emissions. The data for 2019 and 2020 has been revised as we
have updated our air travel reporting methodology to include the cabin class travel and the impact of radiative forces. For further details, see the ESG review on
page 52. For further details on how this target links with the scorecards, see page 261.
2 In October 2020, we announced our ambition to provide and facilitate between $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For further details
and breakdown, see the ESG review on page 43. For details on how this target links with the scorecards, see page 261.
3 Rank position reported for markets where net promoter score (‘NPS’) is live. In WPB, markets comprised: the UK, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, mainland
China, Australia, UAE, Canada, Mexico and the US. In CMB, markets comprised: the UK, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Pearl River Delta, mainland China, India,
Indonesia, Australia, UAE, Canada, Mexico and the US. For further details on customer satisfaction, see the ESG review on page 67. For further details on how this
target links with the scorecards, see page 269.
4 For further details, see the ESG review on page 75. For details on how this target links with the scorecards, see page 269.
5 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 and above in our global career band structure. Ethnicity target progress tracked from 31 December 2020 baseline.
For further details, see the ESG review on page 72. For details on how this target links with the scorecards, see page 269.
6 The completion rate shown relates to the 2021 'Fighting financial crime' training module. The latest global regulatory conduct training has been launched in
January 2022 and will run through the first quarter of 2022.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 17
Strategic report | How we do business
How we measure our net zero progress
One of our strategic pillars is to support the indicated that we would provide further details In the year ahead we plan to set interim targets
transition to a net zero global economy. We on our approach to assessing financed for financed emissions across a wide range of
believe our most significant contribution will be emissions by the end of 2021. sectors, alongside a broad transformation
to align our financed emissions to the Paris programme to embed the climate transition
Agreement goal to achieve net zero by 2050 or We have set on-balance sheet financed into our core business and risk processes.
sooner. The Paris Agreement aims to limit the emissions 2030 targets for the oil and gas, and We will also begin work on our climate
rise in global temperatures to well below 2°C, power and utilities sectors, focusing on the transition plan, which will bring together –
preferably to 1.5°C, above pre-industrial levels. companies within these sectors which we in one place – how we plan to embed our net
To limit the rise in global temperatures to 1.5°C, believe account for the majority of emissions zero targets into the Group’s strategy,
the global economy would need to reach net in the sector. For further details including processes, policies and governance. We plan
zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. scope, methodology, assumptions and to publish this in 2023, and update on progress
limitations, see page 47. annually thereafter.
In May 2021, a climate change resolution
proposed by the Board was backed by more We continue to track our progress against our We know this is a journey and recognise that
than 99% of our shareholders at our AGM. ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to certain metrics and targets may need to be
The resolution included a commitment to set $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by revised as a result of changes or developments
out the next steps in our transition to net 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary, in methodology, climate science and
zero, including setting sector-based targets, and our transformation to a net zero bank by improvements in data quality. In the following
publishing a thermal coal phase-out policy and reducing our operations and our supply chain table, we set out our metrics and indicators
reporting annually on our progress. We also emissions to net zero by 2030. and assess our progress against them.
Ambition Metrics and indicators Progress to date
Becoming a net zero bank1 – Absolute emissions for oil and gas sector Set a Mt CO2e target of 34% reduction
Align our financed emissions to achieve net zero (Mt CO2e) in oil and gas absolute on-balance sheet
by 2050 or sooner financed emissions by 2030 from 2019
baseline (see page 47)
– Physical emissions intensity for power and Set a target for power and utilities on-
utilities sector (Mt CO2e/TWh) balance sheet financed emissions intensity
of 0.14 Mt CO2e/ TWh, representing 75%
reduction by 2030 from 2019 baseline
(see page 47)
– Percentage of wholesale loans and ≤20.0% of wholesale loans and
advances in high transition risk sectors advances to high transition risk sectors
at 31 December 2021
Expanded the transition risk questionnaire
to cover more sectors (see page 133)
– Thermal coal financing exposure ($) Published a thermal coal phase-out policy
incorporating a target to reduce exposure
to thermal coal financing by at least 25%
by 2025, and by 50% by 2030, using 2020
data as the baseline
– Illustrative impacts of climate scenarios Ran our first climate stress test, covering
our wholesale corporate lending,
commercial real estate, retail mortgages
and our own properties (see page 57)
Be net zero in our operations and supply chain – Absolute operational greenhouse gas 50.3% cumulative reduction in absolute
by 2030 or sooner emissions (tonnes CO2e) greenhouse gas emissions from
2019 baseline
– Percentage of renewable electricity Remained stable from 37.4% in 2020
sourced (GWh) to 37.5%
– Energy consumption (GWh) 20.6% cumulative reduction in energy
consumption from 2019 baseline
Supporting our customers – Sustainable finance and investment $126.7bn cumulative progress since 2020
Support our customers in their transition to net provided and facilitated ($bn) (for further breakdown see page 53)
zero and a sustainable future
Unlocking new climate solutions – Natural capital investment Climate Asset Management is one of the
Help transform sustainable infrastructure into three founding partners of Natural Capital
a global asset class, and create a pipeline Investment Alliance, which aims to
of bankable projects mobilise $10bn towards natural capital
themes (see page 55)
– Climate technology investment Lending commitments of $65m and raised
our target to $250m (see page 55)
– Philanthropic investment to climate Provided $28.4m to our NGO partners
innovation ventures, renewable energy, since 2020, as part of the Climate Solutions
and nature-based solutions Partnership (see page 77)
1 Our reported scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions of our own operations in 2021 is related to business travel. The data for 2019 and 2020 has been revised as we
have updated our air travel reporting methodology to include the cabin class travel and the impact of radiative forces. For further details on scope 1, 2 and 3, and
our progress on greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy targets, see page 51 and our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
18 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
How we do business
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on – We do not fully disclose impacts on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) financial planning and performance
recommendations set an important framework (including proportions of revenue, costs
for understanding and analysing climate- and balance sheet related to climate-related
related risks, and we are committed to regular, opportunities), quantitative scenario
transparent reporting to help communicate analysis, detailed climate risk exposures for
and track our progress. We will advocate the all sectors and geographies or physical risk
same from our customers, suppliers and the metrics. This is due to transitional challenges
industry. We recognise that further work lies in relation to data limitations. We expect
ahead as we develop our management and these data limitations to be addressed in
metrics capabilities. the medium term as more reliable data
becomes available and technology
The information set out on page 63 in this solutions are implemented.
Leading on an inaugural
Annual Report and Accounts 2021 aims to – We currently disclose partial scope 3
provide key climate-related information and greenhouse gas emissions. In relation to green bond
cross-references to where additional on-balance sheet financed emissions, we
information can be found. In this context, are disclosing our scope 3 greenhouse gas We were joint lead manager and
we have considered our ‘comply or explain’ emissions for oil and gas, and the power and bookrunner as Arab Petroleum
obligation under the UK’s Financial Conduct utilities sectors. Future disclosure on scope Investments Corporation (‘APICORP’) in
Authority’s Listing Rules, and confirm that we 3 financed emissions (customers) and September 2021 raised $750m with its
have made disclosures consistent with the supply chain emissions (suppliers), as well inaugural green bond. The multilateral
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended as related risks is reliant on both our development bank, founded in 1975 by
Disclosures in this Annual Report and customers and suppliers publicly disclosing the 10 Arab oil-exporting countries, has
Accounts 2021 save for certain items, which their carbon emissions and related risks. a strategic focus to promote the energy
we summarise below and describe in more We aim to disclose financed emissions for sector within the region to a more
detail in the information set out on page 63 additional sectors by 2023, as set out in sustainable future. As set out in its
and in the additional information section our Financed Emissions – Approach and green bond framework, APICORP will
on page 402. Methodology Update published in use the proceeds to finance or invest in
December 2021, which can be found at projects focused on renewable energy,
There are certain areas where we have not www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and- pollution prevention and control, and
included climate-related disclosures, a responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. green buildings.
summary of these are set out below:
– Given that climate scenarios are mainly
focused on medium- to long-term horizons,
rather than short-term, we have set interim
2030 targets for on-balance sheet financed
emissions for the oil and gas and power and
utilities sectors. HSBC intends to review the
financed emissions baseline and targets
annually, where relevant, to help ensure that
they are aligned with market practice and
current climate science.
Supporting renewable projects
through our operations
We are expanding our efforts to bring additional renewable
electricity in the markets where we operate, as part of our
ambition to source 100% renewable power across our operations
by 2030. In September 2021, we signed a power purchase
agreement that supported the development of the Sorbie Wind
Farm project in Ayrshire, south-west of Glasgow. This agreement
will create a new renewable electricity source that will benefit us,
as well as our customers and the wider communities we serve.
This power purchase agreement will be our fourth project in the
UK, supporting wind or solar projects, and will result in
approximately 90% of our UK electricity being sourced from
such renewable projects.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 19
Strategic report | How we do business
Responsible business culture
We have the responsibility to protect our self-identification capability. We will use this Human rights
customers, our communities and the integrity data to develop market-specific goals that are Our commitment to respecting human rights,
of the financial system. In this section, we connected to the communities we serve. While principally as they apply to our employees, our
outline our requirements under the Non- we know we need to do more, we have put in suppliers and through our financial services
Financial Reporting Directive. place important foundations in 2021 through lending, is set out in our Statement on Human
leadership development, inclusive hiring Rights. This statement, along with our
Employee matters practices and investing in the next generation of statements under the UK’s Modern Slavery
We are opening up a world of opportunity for high-performing, diverse talent. Act, is available on www.hsbc.com/who-we-
our colleagues through building an inclusive are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
organisation that values difference, takes The table below outlines high-level reporting-centre.
responsibility, and seeks different perspectives diversity metrics.
for the overall benefit of our customers. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
All employees We require compliance with all applicable
We want to encourage a dynamic culture where anti-bribery and corruption laws in all markets
our colleagues can expect to be treated with Male 48% and jurisdictions in which we operate. These
dignity and respect. We are an organisation that include the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign
Female 52%
takes action where we find behaviours that fall Corrupt Practices Act, the Hong Kong
short of this aspiration. We monitor our progress Senior leadership1 Prevention of Bribery Ordinance and France’s
through metrics that we value and have 'Sapin II' law. We have a global anti-bribery
benchmarked against peers. Male 68% and corruption policy, which gives practical
effect to these laws and regulations, but also
Female 32%
Listening to our colleagues is critical to the requires compliance with the spirit of laws and
business we conduct, and is reflected in our Directors regulations to demonstrate our commitment
purpose and values, which were established to ethical behaviours and conduct as part of
through the largest employee engagement Male 62% our environmental, social and corporate
programme in our history. governance.
Female 38%
We continue to seek innovative ways that Environmental matters
encourage and provide opportunities for our 1 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 For details of our climate ambition and
and above in our global career band structure
people to speak up. We recognise that at times carbon emission metrics, see the ESG review
people may not feel comfortable speaking up on page 45.
For further details on how we look after our
through the usual channels. HSBC Confidential
people, including our diversity targets,
is our global whistleblowing channel, allowing transformation employee metrics and how we
our colleagues past and present to raise encourage our employees to speak up, see the
concerns confidentially and, if preferred, Employees section of the ESG review on page 70. Non-financial information statement
anonymously (subject to local laws). This section primarily covers our non-
Social matters financial information as required by the
Having surpassed our 2020 target to reach 30% We have a responsibility to invest in the regulations. Other related information can
women in senior leadership roles (classified as long-term prosperity of the communities be found as follows:
those at band 3 and above in our global career where we operate. We recognise that
band structure), we aim to reach 35% by 2025, technology is developing at a rapid pace and For further details on our key performance
with 31.7% achieved in 2021. that a range of new and different skills are now indicators, see page 1.
needed to succeed in the workplace. For this For further details on our business model,
In July 2020, we set out our early global race reason, much of our focus is on programmes see page 4.
commitments, which included the goal of that develop employability and financial For further details on our principal risks and
how they are managed, see pages 37 to 40.
doubling the number of Black employees in capability. We also back climate solutions and
senior roles over the next five years. To support innovation, and contribute to disaster relief
our ambition, we have placed a strong focus on based on need. For further details of our
enhancing the quality and transparency of our programmes see 'Communities' on page 77.
ethnicity data through the expansion of our
Engaging colleagues in future skills
Our colleagues have explored digital, data, sustainability and
personal skills as part of our ‘Future Skills’ campaign. Colleagues
engaged with various tools, assessments and industry experts
over 44,000 times throughout the campaign, and learned how
these skills are critical for the future of our organisation.
Colleagues identified specific skills they wanted to develop and
assessed them through our skills platform to shape their
development plan.
We helped a number of colleagues to share their own skills with
others through our partnership with Ashoka. In 2021 we
launched the global Green Skills Innovation Challenge to support
innovations that connect people with the skills to support a green
transition. Out of 340 submissions, 12 winners were selected,
each receiving a prize of up to $20,000 alongside support and
mentoring from HSBC colleagues.
20 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders
The Board is committed to effective engagement with all our stakeholders and seeks
to understand the interests of and impacts on them when making decisions.
Section 172 (1) statement
This section, from pages 21 to 24 forms our section 172 statement. It describes how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the
success of the company, including how they have considered and engaged with stakeholders and, in particular, how they have taken account of
the matters set out in section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006.
Stakeholder engagement and key considerations for the Board
The Group continued to focus on its meeting had been in person. The exchanges Engaging during the Covid-19 pandemic
engagement with our key stakeholders, with the graduates gave the Directors a real The Covid-19 pandemic continued to underpin
acknowledging that this engagement is core appreciation of the challenges they had faced the need to ensure careful consideration of the
to being a responsible business. Our key in joining and working for HSBC during interests of the Group’s stakeholders.
stakeholders remain the same as last year, lockdown conditions. Throughout the year, the Board maintained
namely our customers, employees, investors, close interaction with management on its
communities, regulators and governments, As part of the engagement programme plans for a gradual return to office working
and suppliers. How the Group has engaged during the year, the Board continued to meet under safe conditions, and careful
with our stakeholders more generally is directly with many of its other stakeholders, consideration was given to our support for
explained on page 16. The Board recognises in particular our colleagues, regulators and colleagues’ mental and physical well-being.
the importance of building strong relationships investors. It was also kept informed of relevant Care was taken to include the views and
with our stakeholders to help broaden stakeholder matters through management opinions of our colleagues in developing new
understanding of their needs and concerns dialogue and reports. Where circumstances ways of working, including hybrid working
and ultimately to help us deliver our strategy. permitted, Board members gathered for solutions where appropriate. By engaging
In discharging its responsibilities, the Directors stakeholder meetings in person, including with colleagues, including graduates, the
sought to understand, and have regard to, the at our offices in the UK and Hong Kong, Board was able to discuss and reflect, both
interests and priorities of these stakeholders, with examples of these engagements in and outside of the boardroom, on the
including in relation to material decisions that detailed below. learnings gained from such sessions, including
were taken by the Board during the course on how to improve induction and ongoing
of the year. In May 2021, HSBC was pleased to be able to employee support programmes. It was also
host its first hybrid AGM and engage with its able to give its support to management to
Virtual and physical meetings investors despite the challenges at the time. continue these initiatives.
During 2021, despite the ongoing logistical Following focused discussions, the Board
challenges of meeting physically as a result committed to creating an opportunity to Doing business responsibly
of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Board was enable as much shareholder participation as Given the nature of our business, maintaining
determined to maintain an active engagement possible. This event allowed shareholders to a transparent and trusting relationship with
programme with as many stakeholders as either physically attend the meeting under our regulators is key to helping to ensure that
possible. The move to virtual meetings strict and safe conditions in line with the we do business responsibly and that we can
presented new and effective opportunities advice from the UK Government, or to attend respond to all challenges appropriately.
to engage. The Board met virtually with one virtually, together with all Board members The Group Chairman and the Group Chief
of our major suppliers of technology services who attended either physically or virtually. The Executive met with our regulators in the UK
on the US west coast, which provided virtual participation option offered through the and Hong Kong on a regular basis. As part of
insights into technological advances and the hybrid solution allowed shareholders to ask such meetings, our regulators were kept
growing importance of data management and questions of the Board in person, by telephone updated on our strategic plans and progress.
security. During this meeting, the participants and online, as well as vote live by electronic On certain occasions, the Group Chairman
shared their respective views on the net zero means during the meeting. While restrictions and the Group Chief Executive also met with
transition journey, and the Board was able meant, regrettably, it was not possible to hold government officials globally to foster good
to gain a clear understanding of the the annual Informal Shareholders’ Meeting in relations. Several Board members were – and
supplier’s plans. Hong Kong, the hybrid AGM helped facilitate continue to be – actively involved in climate
the connection of our Hong Kong-based initiatives and attend global events such as at
Several Board members were also able to shareholders directly to the Board. Given the the COP26 Summit in Glasgow. The Board
connect with our global graduate community success of the hybrid approach, we intend to also remained informed of management
on occasion, thanks to virtual facilities. host hybrid AGM meetings in the future. interaction with national governments, on
Meeting in this way meant a far broader set of matters such as forbearance schemes and
views was able to be shared than if the climate matters.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 21
Strategic report | Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement and key considerations for the Board continued
The Board and its committees reviewed and conscious of its responsibilities to support Adapting our engagement programme
considered regular reporting on emerging communities and help customers manage As restrictions are lifted, and when safe to
risks, performance, execution and actions financial challenges and changing demands. do so, the Board intends to meet regularly
being taken in response. This regular reporting The 'Principal decisions' disclosure below in person both as a Board, and with our
and an annual programme of learning served includes details on how the Board took the stakeholders globally. In the meantime, the
to inform the Board about stakeholder matters decision to introduce dividend payments in Board continues to remain agile in adapting
and supported its decision making. For further 2021. Further details are also provided in its ongoing engagement programme so that
details on the Board’s activities during the ‘Financial decisions’ on page 232 and it continues to be informed by a broad range
year, including training, see pages 229 to 234. ‘Dividends’ on page 287. of activities with stakeholders. This helps the
The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the Board fulfil its duties and support decision
Group and our stakeholders remained of To educate the Board on the broader impacts making as it oversees the execution of the
material concern. The impact of the decision of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Board invited a Group strategy in line with our purpose and
taken in 2020 to cancel the fourth interim leading immunologist to its meeting in values and strategic plans. Examples of how
dividend for 2019 and suspend dividends for December. Through this engagement, the the Board has engaged with stakeholders
2020 was a key consideration when the Board Board gained valuable independent insight are set out below, as well as in ‘Board
was deliberating on its approach to into what assistance may be required globally engagement with shareholders’ on page 228
distributions for 2021. The Board sought to in support of the recovery to our communities, and ‘Workforce engagement’ on page 233.
balance emerging risks, performance and its customers, suppliers and employees.
duties to shareholders, while remaining
Customers Employees Investors
Our business is centred around our customers We want our organisation to continue to be a We seek to understand investor needs
and clients. The greater the understanding we positive place to work and build careers. The through ongoing dialogue. Examples of
have of their needs and the challenges they success of the Group’s strategy is dependent the Board engaging with investors in
face, the better we can help support them to upon having motivated people with the 2021 included:
achieve their financial aims and succeed in our expertise and skills required to help deliver it.
purpose and strategy. Examples of Board Examples of the Board’s engagement with our – The Board discussed external market
engagement with customers in 2021 included: employees in 2021 included: sentiment and invited our corporate brokers
to share their thoughts and perceptions.
– The Group Chairman met on a very regular – Our Directors partnered with each of our – Directors held virtual and in-person
basis with customers, globally, for a variety employee resource groups, supporting and meetings with investors, ratings agencies
of reasons including to hear customer attending employee resource group events. and peers to understand evolving views,
feedback, build relationships, and These included sessions covering diversity, trends and sentiment.
strengthen connectivity between our inclusion, disability, ethnicity and gender,
customers, businesses and functions. the pandemic, climate, purpose and values, – The Group Chairman visited Hong Kong
– T to h a e G nu ro m u b p e C r h o a f i k rm ey a c n l i m en e t t s w in i t p h e a rs n o d n l i i s n t e t n h e e d a B n o d a r c d u , l i t n u r it e s . f F o o r l m lo a w l i m ng e e th ti e n s g e s , e d ve is n c t u s s , s th e e d its d w u it r h in s g e J v u e l r y a l a o n f d o A u u r g sh u a st r e w h h o e ld re e r h s e in s p p e e n rs t o ti n m . e
US, UK and Hong Kong. learnings and where further support could – The Chair of the Group Remuneration
be offered. Committee held meetings with key
– T t k o e h y t e h c G e u r B s o t o u o a p m r d C e , h r w i m e h f e i E c e x h ti e n c c g o u s n t , i t v s a e e in n p e t r i d o m v u e i p d n d e t, a d a t r e n e s d p o o n n r e t t s – T re w s i u c l e ts a o y f e S a n r, a t p h s e h B ot o s a u rd rv d e i y s s c , u w ss h e ic d h t h p e ro vide i r n e v m e u st n o e r r s a , t i i n o c n l u p d o i l n ic g y . to discuss the new
promoter scores for each global business. employee feedback, and which in 2021 – Investor Relations provided weekly updates
The net promoter score is a key focused on home working, culture, to the Board, including on market activity,
measurement of customer sentiment, behaviours and pay. investor engagement and sentiment.
satisfaction and areas of concern and – The Group Chairman visited Hong Kong in – Numerous investor and corporate
improvement. July and August, where he met with local governance roadshows, forums and
– Following an enhancement to digital leadership and took time to hear from a meetings with key investors took place and
chat services for customers in Bermuda, group of over 500 employees. were hosted by a combination of the Group
the Board requested feedback from – The Group Chief Executive reported to the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group
customers gained through a satisfaction Board on his engagement with colleagues, Chief Financial Officer and the Senior
survey and real-time customer prompts to including discussions about the return to the Independent non-executive Director, and
help shape improvements in automation office, culture, new joiners, purpose and often with management in attendance.
across the Group. values, female leadership and graduate
induction. His engagements also included
virtual exchange sessions and town halls
with employees globally, and in person in
Singapore and the US.
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance
Officer provided a weekly Board note on
risk matters relating to our response to
the Covid-19 pandemic and employee
support initiatives.
22 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement and key considerations for the Board continued
Communities Regulators and governments Suppliers
We seek to play an important role in Maintaining constructive dialogue and Our suppliers provide the Group with vital
supporting the communities in which we relations with the relevant authorities in the resources, expertise and services to help us
operate through our corporate social markets in which we operate helps support operate our business effectively and execute
responsibility and broader engagement the effective functioning of economies globally our strategy. We work with our suppliers to
activities. Examples of the Board’s and the achievement of our strategic aims. help ensure mutually beneficial relationships
engagement with communities in 2021 Examples of the Board’s engagement with on a global and local level. In some cases, our
included: regulators and governments in 2021 included: suppliers are also our customers. Plans have
been made to meet with more third-party
– The Board received ESG and climate-related –Executive and non-executive Directors providers of services once travel can safely
updates and policies, which detailed attended ‘continuous assessment’ meetings resume. Examples of the Board’s engagement
community engagement activity and with the UK’s Prudential Regulation with suppliers in 2021 included:
stakeholder sentiment. Authority ('PRA’) and other individual
regulatory meetings. – The Group Chief Operating Officer
– The Group Chairman and Group Chief
Executive both participated at COP26, and –The PRA attended a Board meeting for its provided reports to the Board, with
the Group Chairman presented at Chapter annual presentation to discuss the outcome updates on third-party suppliers and
Zero events. and progress of its periodic summary operational resilience.
meeting letter, and in a separate meeting, the – Directors held a virtual meeting with one
– The Group Chief Executive supported
UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) of our key technology suppliers to discuss
the World Economic Forum’s disclosures
attended to present its annual firm evaluation technology developments and
on climate.
letter. improvements and to better understand
– The Board supported employee resource –The Group Chairman led a meeting with the supplier’s net zero ambition and
group community initiatives, such as the supervisory college of regulators. transition plans.
introducing 'safe places' in selected HSBC
branches for the whole community as –Directors held regular dialogue and meetings – The Group Audit Committee Chair met
needed, and education in schools and with governments and regulators globally, with the four major accountancy firms and
universities on topics such as technology with some representing HSBC at challenger audit firms in preparation for
and climate. government-led forums. a future audit tender.
– A leading immunologist provided an update –The Group Chairman and Group Chief
to the Board on the impact of the Covid-19 Executive both participated at the G7 Climate
pandemic, providing insight into what conference and COP26.
assistance may be required from HSBC to
our communities, customers and
employees.
Principal decisions
The Board operates having regard to the duties of the Directors, including the relevant matters set out in section 172(1)(a)-(f) of the Companies Act
2006. Specific examples of key areas of focus and considerations affecting the Board’s decision-making process during 2021 are set out below.
Acquisitions and disposals activity for the Group’s wealth business in the ASEAN decision to approve the disposal was aligned
region. The Board considered a number of benefits to the Group’s strategic aim of being a leading
in making this investment, including synergies with wholesale bank in continental Europe, and took
the Group’s asset management and private wealth into account the impact on our shareholders and
solutions business, and the ability to materially scale other stakeholders.
During 2021, the Board took several key up the Group’s presence in the regional insurance
decisions to acquire and divest certain market, providing an excellent platform for future In this case, the Board considered there to be a
businesses in support of the Group’s growth and further opportunities for customers. The number of benefits to the disposal, including
strategic aims. proposed acquisition was subject to a combination simplifying the Group structure, helping to mitigate
of discussions with and approvals from various transformation risk of the business in Europe, and
In furtherance of the Group’s strategy and ambition, stakeholders, including UK, Singapore and Hong allowing management to focus on the completion of
the Board considered several material and strategic Kong regulators as well as pre-notifications to local the European wholesale transformation programme.
acquisition and disposal opportunities throughout union authorities. In order to support successful Several key stakeholders were consulted ahead of
2021. Two of these opportunities considered by the integration and transformation plans, management the decision. Consultation with relevant French
Board are highlighted below. In each case, in recommended to the Board that key employee talent works’ councils was undertaken alongside Director
discussing these proposals and taking its decisions, should be identified and secured. As part of this key and management engagement with French and UK
members of the Board exercised their statutory talent selection process, certain important skills and regulators to elicit their views on the proposed
duties including the duty to act in the way that they qualities were taken into account, including diversity disposal. The Board noted that completion of the
considered, in good faith, would be most likely to and inclusion, as well as culture, to form the right disposal would involve engagement with additional
promote the success of the company for the benefit leadership team for the acquired business to key stakeholders, including relevant regulators and
of its members as a whole. succeed. In making its final decision to approve the bondholders. In taking its decision, the Board
acquisition, the Board took these relevant considered all relevant factors including the Group’s
stakeholder considerations and other factors into strategic goals and the benefits of the transaction,
The first strategic acquisition opportunity the Board account, including an assessment of the financial while also taking into account the loss associated
considered in 2021 concerned the purchase of merits and risks of the transaction, and paid with the disposal, the interests of stakeholders and
AXA’s insurance business in Singapore. In its particular attention to the section 172 factors of the alternative proposals in respect of the retail business.
meeting, the Board discussed that this was a rare likely consequences of any decision in the long term As a result, the Board agreed to proceed with the
opportunity for inorganic growth and a key step in and the interests of the Group’s employees. disposal on the basis that it considered it to be in
helping to achieve the Group’s ambition of becoming
the best interests of the company’s members as
a leading wealth manager in Asia, by expanding its
The Board subsequently considered a separate a whole and would promote the long-term success
insurance and wealth franchise in Singapore, a
proposal for the disposal of the Group's non-core of the company.
strategically important scale market and a major hub
retail banking business in France. The Board’s
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 23
Strategic report | Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Principal decisions continued
Climate agenda stakeholders, in formulating the Group’s climate AGM. In Board meeting discussions, Directors
approach including its climate change resolution, considered long-term objectives including the
the Board took into consideration the role we seek responsibility of helping to ensure continued and
to play in setting and leading a standard for the expanding access to affordable electricity in the
financial services sector, as it collectively works to markets we serve, many of which are presently
In 2021 the Board was actively and tackle climate change. The Board was also mindful highly reliant on thermal coal. The Board also
directly engaged with the Group’s of the crucial importance of working with customers considered the need to phase out the financing
response to the climate change agenda, on their own transition and how the Group could of coal-fired power and thermal coal mining in
proposing a resolution and agreeing help support this outcome. The Board’s decision to recognition of the rapid decline in coal emissions
propose the HSBC climate change resolution and required for any viable pathway to 1.5˚C and the
relevant policies aligned to our ambition
recommendation that shareholders vote in favour of important role for HSBC to play in helping to finance
to support the transition to a net zero
it took account of these reasons, and gave due our clients’ transition to net zero. The Board noted
global economy. regard to section 172 factors, in particular the impact that the policy was a key part of executing the
of the decision on the environment and communities Group’s ambition to align its financed emissions to
Following the announcement of the Group’s climate the company serves, our valuable relationships with net zero by 2050 or sooner and would be reviewed
ambition in October 2020 and ahead of the 2021 customers and investors, and the long-term success annually based on evolving science and
AGM, the Board received a shareholder requisitioned of the company. internationally recognised guidance, given the fast
resolution from ShareAction, together with a number changing landscape. For further details on our
of other shareholders, in relation to the Group’s The climate change resolution was passed at the policy and approach, see page 62.
climate agenda. Selected Board members and senior 2021 AGM, with 99.7% of our shareholders
management engaged extensively with ShareAction, supporting our resolution, providing a strong Since publication of the thermal coal phase-out
certain co-filers and other shareholders, to endorsement of our climate plan and our policy, stakeholder engagement has continued,
understand their perspectives and rationale in commitment to support our customers on their including with key institutional investors to discuss
submitting the shareholder resolution. As a result transitions to a low-carbon future. The resolution with them the policy, its impacts and alignment with
of such engagements, the Board carried out further committed us to: setting out the next steps in our our ambition to help finance our clients’ transition to
discussions in its meetings to consider our approach transition, including through short- and medium- net zero. Extensive engagement also continues to
in terms of sectorial priorities and associated term sector-based targets; publishing a policy to take place among employees and with clients as
timelines, in order to help support the delivery of our phase out the financing of coal power and thermal we implement the policy.
climate ambition most effectively, while recognising coal mining by 2030 in EU and OECD countries, and
our responsibilities to our customers and by 2040 globally; and reporting annually on our In their respective roles as chair of Chapter Zero and
communities across the diverse range of markets progress. We also indicated that we would provide chair of the Financial Services Taskforce, both the
in which we operate. Ultimately, following further further details by the end of 2021 on our approach Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are
engagement and discussion, the Board welcomed to assessing financed emissions and setting targets. at the forefront of climate matters, demonstrating
and agreed the decision by ShareAction, on behalf their leadership and commitment to understanding
of the co-filers, to withdraw the requisitioned In December 2021 the Board approved the and collaborating on these critical matters, mirroring
resolution and in its place, support HSBC’s own publication of the thermal coal phase-out policy, and the Board’s and the Group’s commitment to the
climate change resolution at the 2021 AGM. The further details on our approach to assessing financed transition to net zero as a key part of delivering
HSBC resolution outlined the next phase of the emissions and setting targets. In doing so the Board our strategy.
Group’s net zero strategy, with a particular emphasis took into consideration the requirements of the
on how it would support its customers on their own climate resolution and the extensive engagement
transition journeys. As well as the engagement with with stakeholders, both before and after the 2021
Dividend payments and share buy-backs considered these factors and also taking into the UK and Hong Kong, as well as views and inputs
account its section 172 duty to consider the likely with regards to customer, employee, investor and
consequences of any decision in the long term, in community stakeholder considerations. Together,
its February meeting, the Board was pleased to these inputs enabled the Board to conclude that the
approve an interim dividend for the full-year ending share buy-back would likely be viewed positively by
Following the decision in 2020 to cancel 2020. In that same meeting, the Board considered the market and be considered to represent an
dividend payments, the Board took action and approved a revised dividend policy designed to appropriate balance between shareholder return and
in 2021 to consider dividend payments, provide sustainable dividends. In considering the investment. The Board’s assessment of our capital
the Group’s dividend policy and share revised dividend policy, the Board discussed and position took account of the company’s ability to
acknowledged the need to offer good income to our conduct its business and to support the communities
buy-backs.
investors while giving management the flexibility to in which it serves. Taking these stakeholder views
reinvest capital to grow the firm. These factors are and other relevant matters into account as
Following the PRA’s announcement in December important to the long-term success of the company. prescribed by section 172, including our strong
2020 that it was supportive of UK banks resuming During the year, engagement continued with the capital position and notwithstanding the growth
dividend payments under certain conditions, at its PRA for dividends in respect of the 2021 financial opportunities available to us at the time of the
first meeting in January 2021 the Board turned its year. In August 2021, the Board also agreed to decision, the Board considered that a return of
attention to whether it would be appropriate to approve an interim dividend for the first six months capital by way of share buy-back would be in the
restart dividend payments. In considering this, the of 2021 in line with the dividend policy, taking into best interests of investors as a whole having regard
Board reflected on the impact on the decision it took account the Group’s performance, market to the long-term success of the company and
in 2020 to suspend dividend payments and the views expectations and the shareholders’ interests. thereby approved the share buy-back.
of stakeholders in respect of the suspension. The
reactions and interests of our investors based on
In addition, having indicated in the Annual Report
feedback from our external brokers and meetings
and Accounts 2020 that the Group would consider
with investors by individual Board members and
share buy-backs over time, in October 2021 the
management were key considerations for the Board
Board approved the announcement of a share
in considering whether to restart dividend payments,
buy-back of up to $2bn. In reaching this decision,
especially given the impact of this decision on our
the Board considered our actual and potential
shareholders, including those based in Hong Kong,
financial performance during the year to date and
who rely heavily on the income derived from our
our capital position (including in light of regulatory
dividends. The Board also had regard to regulatory
requirements). The Board also considered expected
considerations, including the PRA’s requirements for
reactions and interests of our investors (including
banks resuming dividends and other relevant factors
based on feedback from our external brokers) and
such as our financial performance for 2020 and our
peer analysis. Regulatory approvals were sought in
earnings forecasts for 2021 and 2022. Having
24 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic report | Global businesses
Global Banking
and Markets
Contribution to Group adjusted profit We repositioned our capital and GBM adjusted profit before tax increased,
before tax resources in Global Banking and reflecting a net release in adjusted ECL in
Markets to create capacity for growth 2021. While adjusted revenue fell, there was
opportunities, mainly into Asia and the continued momentum in Equities, Capital
Middle East, and to serve international Markets and Advisory, as well as our
clients that are aligned to our strategy. Securities Services business, where during
Our product specialists deliver a 2021 assets under custody surpassed $10tn
comprehensive range of transaction for the first time. We also continued to invest
banking, financing, capital markets and in technology to support our clients and to
$5.3bn
advisory, as well as risk management improve our operational resilience.
services. Our products, combined with
(24%)
our expertise across industries, enable
us to help clients achieve their
sustainability goals.
2021 2020 2019 2021 vs 2020
Adjusted results $m $m $m $m %
Net operating income 15,002 15,768 15,282 (766) (5)
Change in expected credit 337 (1,289) (155) 1,626 126
losses and other credit
impairment charges
Operating expenses (10,006) (9,640) (9,891) (366) (4)
Share of profit in associates — — 1 — —
and JVs
Profit before tax 5,333 4,839 5,237 494 10
RoTE excluding significant 8.6 6.7 9.8
items (%)1
1 Since 1 January 2021, the UK bank levy has been included in the calculation of this measure. Comparative
data have not been re-presented.
Supporting customers to net zero
Etihad Airways has pledged to reduce CO2 emissions to 50% of
2019 levels by 2035 on the way to reaching net zero by 2050.
As part of this transition, we helped the UAE’s national airline raise
$1.2bn with the first sustainability-linked loan in the global aviation
industry to embed publicly disclosed environment, social and
governance targets. We held joint ESG structuring and coordinator
roles, as well as being joint bookrunner and mandated lead arranger.
The targets included the amount of carbon emissions Etihad cuts
from its passenger fleet, with financial penalties and incentives of
up to $5.5m.
The loan builds on a $600m sustainability-linked Islamic bond,
or sukuk, we helped arrange in October 2020.
34 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
Risk overview
Risk overview
Active risk management helps us to achieve our strategy,
serve our customers and communities and grow our
business safely.
Managing risk
The Covid-19 pandemic and its effect on the Key risk appetite metrics
global economy have continued to impact our
Risk
customers and our organisation. Despite the
Component Measure appetite 2021
successful roll-out of vaccines around the
world, a varying degree of uncertainty Capital CET1 ratio – end point basis ≥13.0% 15.8%
remained throughout 2021. This was caused
Change in Change in expected credit losses and other credit ≤0.50% (0.06)%
by new variants of Covid-19, varying vaccine
expected impairment charges as a % of advances: (WPB)
effectiveness rates and the need for the
credit losses
reimposition of government-imposed
and other credit
restrictions. While the global economic impairment Change in expected credit losses and other credit ≤0.45% (0.10)%
recovery in 2021 eased financial difficulties charges impairment charges as a % of advances:
for some of our customers, the future effects
wholesale (GBM, CMB)
remain uncertain.
Throughout the pandemic, we have continued balance of return for the risk assumed, while recovery and resolution planning to help
to support our customers and adapted our remaining within acceptable risk levels. enhance the Group’s financial stability under
operational processes. We maintained high Additionally, it supports senior management in various macroeconomic scenarios. The
levels of service as our people, processes and allocating capital, funding and liquidity selection of stress scenarios is based upon the
systems responded to the required changes. optimally to finance growth, while monitoring identification and assessment of our top and
exposure to non-financial risks. emerging risks identified and our risk appetite.
The financial performance of our operations
varied in different geographies, but our Capital and liquidity are at the core of our risk In 2021, the Bank of England (‘BoE’) required
balance sheet and liquidity remained strong. appetite framework, with forward-looking all major UK banks to conduct a solvency
This helped us to support our customers both statements informed by stress testing. We stress test to assess whether the capital
during periods of government-imposed continue to evolve our climate risk appetite to buffers that banks had built during the
restrictions and when these restrictions reflect the risks from climate change, setting Covid-19 pandemic were sufficient to deal
were eased. out the measures we intend to take to support with a prevailing stress period. This exercise
our climate ambition and our commitments to differed from previous BoE stress tests, which
Tensions between China and the US, the UK, regulators, investors and stakeholders. were used to determine the capital
the EU, India and other countries were requirements for participating banks. The 2021
heightened during 2021. In addition, the During 2021, metrics monitoring the change solvency stress test incorporated a ‘double
potential for an escalation of hostilities in expected credit losses and other credit dip’ scenario, whereby an economy faces a
between Russia and Ukraine further impairment charges returned to within their recession and then a partial or full recovery
complicates the geopolitical landscape. defined risk appetite thresholds. This was for a short period of time before entering a
The macroeconomic, trade and regulatory achieved by the release in allowances for second recessionary period. Additionally,
environments have become increasingly expected credit losses, reflecting: an it represented an intensification of the
fragmented through disruptions to supply improvement of the economic outlook; the macroeconomic shocks seen in 2020, with
chains, increasing inflationary pressures, and adaption of our strategy following the Covid-19 economic weaknesses persisting around the
market concerns regarding potential impacts pandemic; enhancements to how we monitor world, leading to ongoing weaknesses in
following instability in China’s commercial real risks; reviews of our portfolios that are highly global GDP.
estate sector. We continue to monitor the vulnerable to the economic environment; and
situation closely. the implementation of additional review We also conducted our own internal stress
measures for new credit requests. test, which explored the potential impacts of
We continued to focus on improving the key vulnerabilities to which we are exposed,
quality and timeliness of the data used to Stress tests including geopolitical issues and the Covid-19
inform management decisions, through We regularly conduct stress tests to assess pandemic. The internal stress test considered
measures such as early warning indicators, the resilience of our balance sheet and our the impacts of various risk scenarios across all
prudent active risk management of our risk capital adequacy, as well as to provide risk types and on capital resources. The results
appetite, and ensuring regular communication actionable insights into how key elements of of the internal stress test were shared with
with our Board and key stakeholders. our portfolios may behave during crises. We senior management, and showed that after
use the outcomes to calibrate our risk appetite taking appropriate actions, the Group would
Our risk appetite and to review the robustness of our strategic remain adequately capitalised.
Our risk appetite defines our desired forward- and financial plans, helping to improve the
looking risk profile, and informs the strategic quality of management’s decision making. In 2021, the Prudential Regulation Authority
and financial planning process. It provides an Stress testing analysis assists management in (‘PRA’) requested all major UK banks to run
objective baseline to guide strategic decision understanding the nature and extent of a climate-related stress test to explore the
making, helping to ensure that planned vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed. impacts of a set of scenarios: an early policy
business activities provide an appropriate The results from the stress tests also drive action, a late policy action and no additional
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 37
Strategic report | Risk overview
Managing risk continued
policy action. To support the requirements for Our operations We are making progress with the
assessing the impacts of climate change, we We remain committed to investing in the implementation of our business transformation
have developed a set of capabilities to execute reliability and resilience of our IT systems and plans, while seeking to ensure that we are able
climate stress testing and scenario analysis. critical services that support all parts of our to manage safely the risks of the restructuring,
These are used to improve our understanding business. We do so to help protect our which include execution, operational,
of our risk exposures for risk management and customers, affiliates and counterparties, and governance, reputational, conduct and
business decision making. In addition to the to help ensure that we minimise any disruption financial risks.
PRA requirements, we also delivered to services that could result in reputational and
regulatory climate change stress testing regulatory consequences. We continue to For further details on our risk management
exercises to a number of other regulators operate in a challenging environment in which framework and risks associated with our banking
and insurance manufacturing operations, see
including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority cyber threats are prevalent. We continue to
pages 135 and 136 respectively.
and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. invest in business and technical controls
These have provided us with insights to to help defend against these threats.
identify appropriate areas of further
development and actions to mitigate against
the impact of climate change.
Risks related to Covid-19
A global vaccination roll-out in 2021 helped Our ECL models continue to be impacted by Our operations have been resilient throughout
reduce the social and economic impact of the the pandemic, as a result of the continued the pandemic. However, the operational
Covid-19 pandemic, although there has been economic uncertainty caused by new support functions on which the Group relies
significant divergence in the speed at which Covid-19 variants. We continued to carry out are based in a number of countries worldwide,
vaccines have been deployed around the enhanced monitoring of model outputs and some of which have been particularly affected
world. By the end of 2021, high vaccination use of model overlays, including management by the Covid-19 pandemic during 2021. As a
rates had ensured that many Covid-19-related judgemental adjustments based on the expert result, business continuity responses have
restrictions on activity in developed markets judgement of senior credit risk managers. In been implemented and the majority of service
had been lifted and travel constraints were addition, we recalibrated certain key loss level agreements have been maintained in
easing. However, the emergence of the models to take into account the impacts of locations where the Group operates. We
Omicron variant in late 2021 demonstrated the Covid-19 on critical model inputs. We also continue to monitor the situation closely,
continued risk new variants pose. There responded to complex conduct considerations in particular in those countries and regions
remains a divergence in approach taken by and heightened risk of fraud related to the where Covid-19 infections are most prevalent
countries to the level of restrictions on activity varying government support measures and and/or where travel restrictions are in place.
and travel in response to the pandemic. Such restrictions. The continued economic
diverging approaches to future pandemic uncertainty resulting from the pandemic could For further details on our approach to the risks
waves could prolong or worsen supply chain adversely impact our revenue assumptions, related to Covid-19, see ‘Areas of special interest’
on page 131.
and international travel disruptions. A full notably volume growth.
return to pre-pandemic levels of social
interaction across all our key markets is
unlikely in the short to medium term.
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks
The macroeconomic, trade and regulatory instability in its commercial real estate sector. implements the model rules, as well as the
environment has become increasingly Such repercussions may occur directly through profitability and local tax liabilities of HSBC’s
fragmented, with the spread of new variants of financial exposures to the Chinese commercial operations in each tax jurisdiction from 2023.
Covid-19, alongside other factors, continuing to real estate sector, or indirectly through the Separately, potential changes to tax legislation
disrupt supply chains in several industries effect of a slowdown in economic activity in and tax rates in the countries in which we
globally. It remains to be seen how supply China and in the supply chain to the real estate operate could increase our effective tax rate
chains will be impacted by the Omicron or sector. According to the Chinese government’s in future as governments seek revenue to pay
other future variants. The mismatch between ‘three red lines’ framework used to govern the for Covid-19 support packages.
supply and demand has pushed up commodity real estate sector, at 31 December 2021 we
and other prices, particularly in the energy had no direct credit exposure to developers in Heightened tensions across the geopolitical
sector, creating further challenges for the 'red' category, noting that deteriorating landscape could also have implications for the
monetary authorities and our customers. operating performance and challenging Group and its customers. The relationship
Against the backdrop of both a vaccine-led liquidity conditions were seen more broadly between the UK and the EU may come under
economic recovery and increasing inflationary across the sector. We continue to monitor the further strain in 2022 with a number of
pressures, interest rates generally rose during situation closely, including potential indirect potential areas of tension, notably the Northern
2021. Central banks in developed markets have impacts, and seek to take mitigating actions Ireland Protocol, with possible repercussions
either begun, or are expected to soon begin, as required. for the operation of the EU-UK Trade and
to raise benchmark rates in order to help ease Cooperation Agreement. Diplomatic tensions
inflationary pressures, although rates are In December 2021, the OECD published model between China and the US, and extending to
expected to remain low by historical rules that provided a template for countries to the UK, the EU, India and other countries, and
standards, as uncertainties over the implement a new global minimum tax rate of developments in Hong Kong and Taiwan,
economic outlook continue. 15% from 2023. In January 2022, the UK may affect the Group, creating regulatory,
government opened a consultation on how the reputational and market risks. The US, the UK,
Market concerns remain about repercussions UK plans to implement the rules. The impact the EU, Canada and other countries have
for the Chinese domestic economy from recent on HSBC will depend on exactly how the UK imposed various sanctions and trade
38 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
Risk overview
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks continued
restrictions on Chinese individuals and Business sentiment in some sectors in Hong any military conflict, could impact global
companies. In response, China has announced Kong remains subdued, although the financial markets as well as the Group and its
sanctions, trade restrictions and laws that services sector has remained strong and has customers. We continue to monitor
could impact the Group and its customers. benefited from stable liquidity conditions. developments and seek to manage the
associated impacts on our customers
The financial impact on the Group of Additionally, the US, the UK and the EU have and business.
geopolitical risks in Asia is heightened owing to threatened to expand sanctions significantly
the strategic importance of the region in terms against Russia in response to an increasing risk For further details on our approach to geopolitical
of profitability and prospects for growth. of hostilities in Ukraine, which, together with and macroeconomic risks, see ‘Top and
emerging risks’ on page 124.
Climate risk
In 2021, the pace and volume of policy and pension plans, as well as from the activities our dedicated climate risk programme. While
regulatory changes and expectations of our asset management business. financed emissions and other climate risk
increased, amid a global focus on formalising reporting has improved over time, data
climate risk management, stress testing and Climate change can have an impact across our remains of limited quality and consistency.
scenario analysis and disclosures. We aim to risk taxonomy through both transition and Developments in data and methodologies are
manage climate risk across all our businesses physical channels. These have the potential to expected to continue to help improve and
in line with our Group-wide risk management cause both idiosyncratic and systemic risks, enhance our measurement and reporting of
framework. Our most material risks in terms of resulting in potential financial and non- climate risk and financed emissions.
managing climate risk relate to corporate and financial impacts for HSBC.
retail client financing within our banking For further details of our approach to climate
portfolio, but there are also significant We continue to monitor the impacts of climate risk management, see ‘Areas of special interest’
on page 131.
responsibilities in relation to asset ownership risk and accelerate the development of our
by our insurance business and employee climate risk management capabilities, through
Ibor transition
During 2021, our interbank offered rate (‘Ibor’) transitioned prior to 31 December 2021. For any ‘tough legacy’ contracts we continue
transition programme – which is tasked with The programme continues to support to work with our clients and investors with the
the development of new near risk-free rate customers with transitioning remaining aim of transitioning them to appropriate
(‘RFR’) products and the transition of legacy contracts linked to these rates, as well as products and interest rates at the earliest
Ibor products – continued to facilitate customers whose contracts are utilising opportunity. In the meantime, these contracts
engagement with our clients, and finalise IT ‘synthetic’ sterling or Japanese yen Libor rates. will be valued using the appropriate interest
and operational changes necessary to enable In 2022, the programme will focus on the rate methodology.
an orderly transition from Ibors to RFRs, or transition of these remaining contracts in
alternative benchmarks, such as policy interest addition to the wider portfolio of US dollar The key risks associated with Ibor transition
rates. Following the announcement by ICE Libor legacy contracts. beyond 2021 are unchanged and include
Benchmark Administration Limited in March regulatory compliance risk, resilience risk,
2021 that the publication of the US dollar At 31 December 2021, our exposure to financial reporting risk, legal risk and market
London interbank offer rate (‘Libor’) would be contracts referencing rates that were demised risk. For ‘tough legacy’ contracts, we closely
extended to 30 June 2023, the Group’s from the end of 2021 included: contracts that monitor legal, resilience and regulatory
transition programme focused mainly on client have been transitioned but are yet to reach the compliance risks. For the US dollar legacy
engagement for sterling, Swiss franc, euro and next subsequent relevant interest payment portfolio these risks continue to be actively
Japanese yen Libor interest rates, as well as date; contracts where the Ibor rate exposure managed and mitigated with a focus on
Euro Overnight Index Average (‘Eonia’). These only arises at a future date; legacy Ibor ensuring that fair outcomes for our clients
interest rate benchmarks were all demised contracts that included robust industry are achieved.
from the end of 2021 although six sterling and fallback provisions that were invoked after
Japanese yen settings are currently being 31 December 2021; and a small proportion of For further details on our approach to Ibor
published under an amended methodology, so-called ‘tough legacy’ contracts which will transition, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on
page 124.
commonly known as ‘synthetic’ Libor. Over either use a ‘synthetic’ Libor or a contractual
90% of legacy contracts referencing rates that fallback rate.
were demised from the end of 2021 were
Top and emerging risks
Our top and emerging risks identify forward- of the Group. We actively manage and take forums. In December 2021, we amended our
looking risks so that they can be considered actions to mitigate our top risks, Emerging top and emerging risks. ‘Environmental, social
in determining whether any incremental action risks are those that while they could have a and governance’ replaced ‘Climate-related
is needed to either prevent them from material impact on our risk profile were they risks’ to cover the wider scope of climate,
materialising or to limit their effect. to occur, are not considered immediate and nature and human rights risks. ‘Digitalisation
are under regular review. and technological advances’ was added as a
Top risks are those that have the potential to new risk to capture the emerging strategic and
have a material adverse impact on the Our suite of top and emerging risks is subject operational risks associated with the
financial results, reputation or business model to regular review by senior governance advancement of technology.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 39
Strategic report | Risk overview
Risk Trend Mitigants
Externally driven
Geopolitical and We monitor macroeconomic risks and risks posed by heightened tensions across the geopolitical landscape.
macroeconomic We adopt procedures and controls based on an assessment of the potential impacts on our portfolios. We
risks maintain heightened monitoring activities to identify sectors and customers experiencing financial difficulties
from the Covid-19 pandemic. In light of geopolitical tensions, we assess those sectors likely to be particularly
impacted by laws and regulatory actions resulting from such tensions.
Cyber threat and We help protect our customers and organisation by investing in our cybersecurity capabilities, helping us to
unauthorised execute our business priorities and grow safely. We focus on controls to prevent, detect and mitigate the impacts
access to systems of persistent and increasingly advanced cyber threats. We closely monitor the continued dependency on
widespread remote working and online facilities.
Regulatory We monitor regulatory and wider industry developments closely and engage with regulators, as appropriate, to
compliance risk help ensure new regulatory requirements are implemented effectively and in a timely way, adjusting our policies,
environment, procedures and relevant controls as required. We keep abreast of the emerging regulatory compliance and conduct
including conduct agenda. Current areas of focus include developments in areas such as ESG, operational resilience, digital and
technology changes (including payments), how we are ensuring good customer outcomes (including addressing
customer vulnerabilities), regulatory reporting and employee compliance.
Financial crime We continued to support our customers as our financial crime landscape evolved due to the Covid-19 pandemic,
risk environment and as geopolitical, socioeconomic and technological shifts occurred across our markets. We continued to make
improvements to our financial crime controls as emerging risks were identified, and to invest in advanced analytics
and artificial intelligence as key elements of our next generation of tools to fight financial crime.
Ibor transition We remain focused on completing the system and product updates to support additional geographies in the
transition of demising Libor benchmarks, in particular US dollar Libor. We continue to support the transition of all
legacy contracts referencing demised and demising Ibor benchmarks, including from any sterling or Japanese
yen contracts using ‘synthetic’ Libor. Throughout 2022, there will be an increasing focus on customer
engagement for US dollar Libor-related transition activities.
Environmental, ESG risk has increased owing to the pace and volume of regulatory developments globally, with the focus on
social and formalising climate risk management, enhanced disclosures, and integration of other ESG risks such as nature-
governance related risks and human rights. Some stakeholders are also placing more emphasis on financial institutions’
actions and investment decisions in respect of ESG matters. We continue to develop our approach and engage
with our stakeholders on ESG risk.
Digitalisation and We monitor advances in technology to understand how changes may impact our customers and business.
technological We closely monitor and assess the potential for consequent financial crime and the resulting impact on
advances payment transparency and architecture.
Internally driven
IT systems We monitor and improve IT systems and network resilience to minimise service disruption and improve customer
infrastructure experience. To support the business strategy, we continue to strengthen our end-to-end service management,
and resilience build and deployment controls and system monitoring capabilities.
Risks associated We monitor workforce capacity and capability requirements in line with our published growth strategy. We have
with workforce measures to support our people to work safely during the Covid-19 pandemic, and to integrate them back into
capability, capacity the workplace as government restrictions ease. We monitor people risks that may arise due to business
and environmental transformation to help manage redundancies sensitively and support impacted employees.
factors with potential
impact on growth
Risks arising from the We continually enhance our third-party risk management framework as our supply chain evolves, and to stay
receipt of services aligned to the latest regulatory expectations. We closely monitor for Covid-19-related impacts on the delivery
from third parties of services to the Group, with businesses and functions taking appropriate action where needed.
Model risk We continue to strengthen our oversight of models and model risk controls. We are redeveloping our capital
management models to reflect the evolving regulatory requirements, and in some cases the potential effects from the Covid-19
pandemic. Ibor models impacted by the switch to new alternative risk-free rates are also being redeveloped. We
enhanced the oversight of models used in financial reporting processes in light of the potential impacts from the
uncertain external environment.
Data management We protect our customers and organisation by making focused investments in capabilities that manage data risk.
We focus on controls that manage data governance, usage, integrity, privacy and retention. During 2021, we
refreshed our data strategy and continued to improve our approach to data risk management and reporting.
Change execution We continue to monitor and manage our change execution risk, including our capacity and resources to meet
risk the increased levels of change associated with the delivery of our strategic priorities and regulatory
requirements. We are working to deliver sustainable change efficiently and safely, through the embedding of
a change framework launched in May 2021.
Risk heightened during 2021 Risk remained at the same level as 2020
40 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Strategic
report
Long-term viability and going concern statement
Long-term viability and going
concern statement
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the principal risks are the Group’s top and – reports and updates regarding regulatory
the Directors are required to provide a viability emerging risks as set out on page 40. These and internal stress testing. During 2021,
statement that must state whether the Group include risks related to geopolitical and the Bank of England (‘BoE’) mandated an
will be able to continue in operation and meet macroeconomic risks (including in relation to industry-wide solvency stress test exercise,
its liabilities, taking into account its current Covid-19), which have remained at the same which incorporated a ‘double dip’ scenario
position and the principal risks it faces. They level as 2020. Environmental, social and and represented an intensification of the
must also specify the period covered by, and governance risk has replaced the former macroeconomic shocks seen in 2020. The
the appropriateness of, this statement. Climate-related risks theme to cover the wider outcomes of the stress test showed that
scope of climate, nature and human rights, taking account of strategic management
The Directors have specified a period of three and digitalisation and technological advances actions, the Group would remain
years to 31 December 2024. They are satisfied has been added as a new theme to capture adequately capitalised;
that a forward-looking assessment of the the emerging strategic and operational risks – the results of our 2021 climate stress testing
Group for this period is sufficient to enable a associated with the advancement of and scenario analysis exercise. No issues
reasonable statement of viability. In addition, technology. Both of these risks were at a were identified around the going concern
this period is covered by the Group’s stress heightened level during 2021. status of the Group. Further details of the
testing programmes, and its internal insights from the 2021 climate stress test
projections for profitability, key capital ratios The Directors assessed that all of the top and are explained from page 57;
and leverage ratios. Notwithstanding this, emerging risks identified are considered to
– reports and updates from management
our stress testing programmes also cover be material and, therefore, appropriate to be
on risk-related issues selected for in-depth
scenarios out to five years and our classified as the principal risks to be
consideration;
assessment of risks are beyond three years considered in the assessment of viability.
where appropriate: They also appraised the impact that these – reports and updates on regulatory
principal risks could have on the Group’s risk developments;
– This period is representative of the time profile, taking account of mitigating actions – legal proceedings and regulatory matters
horizon to consider the impact of ongoing planned or taken for each, and compared this set out in Note 34 on the financial
regulatory changes in the financial with the Group’s risk appetite as approved statements; and
services industry. by the Board.
– reports and updates from management
– Our updated business plan covers on the operational resilience of the Group.
In carrying out their assessment of the
2022–2026.
principal risks, the Directors considered a wide
Aileen Taylor
range of information including:
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, Group Company Secretary and
is satisfied that the Group as a whole has Chief Governance Officer
adequate resources to continue operations for – details of the Group’s business and
a period of at least 12 months from the date of operating models, and strategy; 22 February 2022
this report, and it therefore continues to adopt – details of the Group’s approach to managing
the going concern basis in preparing the risk and allocating capital;
financial statements. – a summary of the Group’s financial position
considering performance, its ability to
Based upon their assessment, the Directors maintain minimum levels of regulatory
have a reasonable expectation that the capital, liquidity funding and the minimum
Group will be able to continue in operation and requirements for own funds and eligible
meet liabilities as they fall due over the next liabilities over the period of the assessment.
three years. Notable are the risks which the Directors
believe could cause the Group’s future
In making their going concern and viability results or operations to adversely impact
assessments, the Directors have considered any of the above;
a wide range of detailed information relating
– enterprise risk reports, including the Group’s
to present and potential conditions, including
risk appetite profile (see page 121) and top
projections for profitability, cash flows, capital
and emerging risks (see page 124);
requirements and capital resources.
– the impact on the Group due to the Covid-19
The Directors carried out a robust assessment pandemic including the emergence of the
of the emerging and principal risks facing the Delta and Omicron variants; recent
Group to determine its long-term viability, instability in China’s commercial real estate
including those that would threaten its sector; and strained economic and
solvency and liquidity. They determined that diplomatic tensions between China and the
US, the UK, the EU and other countries;
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 41
Environmental, social
and governance review
Our ESG review sets out our approach to our environment, customers, employees
and governance. It also explains how we aim to achieve our purpose and deliver
our strategy in a way that is sustainable and how we build strong relationships
with all of our stakeholders.
43 Our approach to ESG
45 Environmental
66 Social
79 Governance
42 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Our approach to ESG
Our approach to ESG
We are on a journey to incorporate environmental, social and governance
principles throughout the organisation, as we have taken material steps
to embed sustainability into our purpose and corporate strategy.
About the ESG review
Our purpose is: ‘Opening up a world of Environmental
opportunity’.
– Since 2020, we have provided and facilitated $126.7bn of sustainable finance and
investment towards our ambition of $750bn to $1tn by 2030.
To achieve our purpose and deliver our
strategy in a way that is sustainable, we are – In line with the climate change resolution, we published our thermal coal phase-out policy.
guided by our values: we value difference; For the oil and gas sector, we target a 34% Mt CO2e reduction in oil and gas absolute
we succeed together; we take responsibility; on-balance sheet financed emissions by 2030, from a 2019 baseline. For the power and
and we get it done. utilities sector, we target a 0.14 Mt CO2e/TWh power and utilities on-balance sheet
financed emissions intensity, representing a 75% reduction from 2019.
We also need to build strong relationships
with all of our stakeholders, who are the Read more in the Environmental section on page 45.
people who work for us, bank with us, own
us, regulate us, and live in the societies we Social
serve and the planet we all inhabit.
– We aim to be a top-three bank for customer satisfaction. Even though our performance,
We continue to make progress on our climate using the net promoter score, improved in many markets in which we operate, we still
ambition to support our customers in their have work to do to improve our rank position against competitors, as some have
transition to net zero and a sustainable future, accelerated their performance faster than us.
including through providing and facilitating
sustainable finance and investment, as we Read more in the Customers section on page 67.
set out on the following pages.
– In 2021, 31.7% of women occupied senior leadership roles, with a target to achieve 35% by
2025. We have put in place important foundations to support our goal of doubling the number
In May 2021, a climate change resolution
of Black employees in senior leadership roles by 2025.
proposed by the Board was backed by more
than 99% of our shareholders at our Annual – Employee engagement, which is our headline measure, remained unchanged in 2021
General Meeting (‘AGM’), including a at 72% following a five-point increase from 2019 and was four points above benchmark.
commitment to set, disclose and implement a
strategy with short- and medium-term targets Read more in the Employees section on page 70.
to align our provision of finance with the goals
and timelines of the Paris Agreement. It also Governance
included a commitment to publish a policy
to phase out the financing of coal-fired power – Governance activities are managed through a combination of specialist governance
and thermal coal mining, by 2030 in the infrastructure, and regular meetings and committees, where appropriate. We expect that
EU/OECD, and 2040 in all other markets. our ESG governance approach will continue to develop, in line with our evolving approach
to ESG matters and stakeholder expectations.
We have disclosed our baseline financed – In seeking to safeguard the financial system, we monitor on average over 1.1 billion
emissions for two priority sectors – oil and transactions each month for signs of financial crime.
gas, and power and utilities – and set targets
to reduce on-balance sheet financed Read more in the Governance section on page 79.
emissions in these sectors. In assessing
financed emissions, we are focusing our
analysis on those parts of the sectors
that we believe are most material in terms how our colleagues work, considering to focus on those aspects of the employee
of greenhouse gas emissions. what worked well during the pandemic, experience that we know to have the
and what challenges they face. Our future greatest impact on employee sentiment:
We are also working with peers and industry of work strategy will provide a framework fostering a healthy work-life balance, trust
bodies to mobilise the financial system to through which we will implement hybrid towards leadership, career progression
take action on climate change, biodiversity working principles and adopt new opportunities and confidence in the
and nature. technologies and working practices company’s future.
to enhance productivity, engagement
Through a series of surveys, we aim to listen and well-being. We are on a journey to embed ESG
to our customers to put them at the centre of principles across the organisation,
our decision making. If things do go wrong, We run a Snapshot survey every six including incorporating climate change-
we aim to take action in a timely manner. months and report insights to our Group related risks within the risk framework,
Executive Committee and the Board. We training our workforce, incorporating
Our colleagues have needed to adapt at pace received 272,718 responses to our two climate-related targets within executive
due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Snapshot surveys in 2021, with record scorecards, and engaging with customers
This has offered us the opportunity to rethink response rates. We will look to continue and suppliers.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 43
ESG review | Our approach to ESG
How we decide what to measure
We listen to our stakeholders in a number of Under the ESG Guide, ’materiality’ is Consistent with the scope of financial
different ways, which we set out in more detail considered to be the threshold at which ESG information presented in our Annual Report
within the ESG review. We use the information issues become sufficiently important to our and Accounts, the ESG review covers the
they provide us with to identify the issues that investors and other stakeholders that they operations of HSBC Holdings plc and its
are most important to them and consequently should be publicly reported. We are also subsidiaries. Given the relative immaturity
also matter to our own business. informed by stock exchange listing and of the ESG data in general, we are on a
disclosure rules globally. We know that what continuous journey to ensure completeness
Our ESG Committee (previously the ESG is important to our stakeholders evolves over and robustness.
Steering Committee) and other relevant time and we plan to continue to assess our
governance bodies regularly discuss the new approach to ensure we remain relevant in For further information on our approach to
and existing themes and issues that matter to what we measure and publicly report. reporting, see the ‘Additional information’
section on page 401.
our stakeholders. Our management team then
uses this insight, alongside the framework of Recognising the need for a consistent and
the ESG Guide (which refers to our obligations global set of ESG metrics, we started to report
under the Environmental, Social and against the core World Economic Forum
Governance Reporting Guide contained in (‘WEF’) ‘Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics’
Appendix 27 to The Rules Governing the within the Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of for the first time.
Hong Kong Limited), and other applicable laws
and regulations to choose what we measure
and publicly report in this ESG review.
Our reporting around ESG
We report on ESG matters within this ESG review and throughout our Annual Report and Accounts, including the 'How we do business' section of
the Strategic Report (pages 15 to 20), this ESG review (pages 43 to 88), and the ‘Climate-related risks’ section of our Risk review (pages 131 to 135).
In addition, we have other supplementary materials, including our ESG Data Pack, which provides a more granular breakdown of ESG information.
Detailed data Additional reports Indices
ESG Data Pack UK Pay Gap Report 2021 SASB Index 2021
Modern Slavery and Human WEF Index 2021
Trafficking Statement 2021
For further details of our supplementary materials, see our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/esg.
We have changed how we are presenting our TCFD disclosures
Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 19 and additional information is included on page 63. Further details, which last year
were presented in a separate supplement, have been embedded in this section and the Risk review section on pages 131 to 135.
Assurance relating to ESG data
We recognise the importance of ESG on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance – our progress towards our ambition to
disclosures and the quality of data engagements on greenhouse gas statements’, provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn
underpinning it. Certain aspects of our issued by the International Auditing and of sustainable finance and investment
ESG disclosures are subject to independent Assurance Standards Board, on the following (see page 53).
assurance and we will continue to specific ESG-related metrics:
enhance our approach in line with Our data dictionaries and methodologies for
external expectations. –our Green Bond Report 2021 (published in preparing the above ESG-related metrics and
December 2021); PwC’s assurance reports can be found on:
For 2021, PwC provided stand-alone limited –our 2019 baseline for financed emissions www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
assurance reports in accordance with related to our climate change resolution (see responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
International Standard on Assurance page 48);
Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance
–our own operations' scope 1, 2 and 3
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews
(business travel) greenhouse gas emissions
of Historical Financial Information’ and, in
data (see page 52); and
respect of the greenhouse gas emissions,
in accordance with International Standard
44 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Environmental
We are accelerating new solutions to the climate crisis and
supporting the transition of industries and markets to a net
zero future, moving to net zero ourselves as we help our
customers do so too.
At a glance
Our climate ambition Our approach to climate risk Impact on financial statements
Our net zero ambition represents one of our We recognise that to achieve our climate We have assessed the impact of climate
four strategic pillars. At the core of it is an ambition we need to further enhance our risk on our balance sheet and have concluded
ambition to support our customers on their approach to managing climate risk. We have that there is no material impact on the financial
transition to net zero, so that the greenhouse established a dedicated programme to develop statements for the year ended 31 December
gas emissions from our portfolio of clients a strong climate risk management capability. 2021. We considered the impact on expected
reaches net zero by 2050. We also aim to credit losses, classification and measurement
be net zero in our operations and supply We manage climate risks in line with our risk of financial instruments, our owned properties,
chain by 2030. management framework and three lines of as well as our long-term viability and
defence model. We also use stress testing and going concern.
We aim to provide and facilitate $750bn to scenario analysis to assess how these risks
$1tn of sustainable finance and investment will impact our customers, business and During the year we also conducted a stress
to support our customers in their transition infrastructure. This approach gives the test to understand the impact of climate risk.
to net zero and a sustainable future by 2030. Board and senior management visibility and While the focus of the exercise was solely
To support our ambition of net zero financed oversight of the climate risks that could have on banking book impairments and RWAs,
emissions, unlocking transition finance for our the greatest impact on HSBC, and helps us no issues were identified regarding the going
portfolio of clients will be crucial. identify opportunities to deliver sustainable concern status of the Group. For further details
growth in support of our climate ambition. on how climate risk can impact HSBC in the
As we describe in the following pages, we For further details on our approach to climate medium to long term, including credit risk,
have set on-balance sheet financed emissions risk management, see Environmental, social see page 131.
targets for the oil and gas, and power and and governance risk on page 125 and
utilities sectors, aligned to the IEA’s net zero Climate-related risks on page 131.
scenario, underpinned by a clear science-
based strategy.
In this section
Our climate Becoming a net zero bank We aim to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, Page 46
ambition and in our own operations and supply chain by 2030.
Measuring our In delivering our financed emissions ambition, we have initially P age 47
financed emissions focused on the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors.
Our approach to our We aim to reduce energy consumption by 50% by 2030, against Page 51
own operations a 2019 baseline.
Supporting customers Our ability to finance the transformation of businesses and Page 53
through transition infrastructure is key to building a sustainable future for our
customers and society.
Unlocking climate We are working closely with a range of partners to accelerate Page 55
solutions and innovations investment in natural resources, technology and sustainable
infrastructure.
Biodiversity and natural By addressing nature-related risks and investing in nature, Page 55
capital strategy we have an opportunity to accelerate the transition to net zero.
Our approach Managing risk for our We manage climate risk across all our businesses in line with our Page 56
to climate risk stakeholders Group-wide risk management framework.
Insights from scenario Enhancing our climate change stress testing and scenario analysis Page 57
analysis capability is crucial in identifying and understanding climate-
related risks and opportunities.
Our approach to Our sustainability risk policies seek to ensure that the financial Page 62
sustainability policies services that we provide to customers do not contribute to
unacceptable impacts on people or the environment.
Our approach Task Force on Climate- Our TCFD index provides our responses to each of the 11 Page 63
to climate related Financial recommendations and summarises where additional information
reporting Disclosures (‘TCFD’) can be found.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 45
ESG review | Environmental
Our climate ambition
Becoming a net zero bank
We are committed to a net zero future. As an asset manager, we will work towards
We recognise that our planet urgently needs the target of net zero emissions across all
drastic and lasting action to protect our assets under management by 2050 or sooner.
communities, businesses and the natural
environment from the damaging effects of Our ambition is to become net zero in our
climate change. operations and supply chain. This covers our
direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions,
The Paris Agreement aims to limit the rise known as scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. As well
in global temperatures to well below 2°C, as transforming our own operations and
preferably to 1.5°C, compared with pre- supply chain to net zero across our own
Supporting an energy
industrial levels. To limit the rise in global organisation by 2030, we are asking our
temperatures to 1.5°C, the global economy suppliers to do the same. provider through
would need to reach net zero greenhouse gas
emissions by 2050. Our ability to steer finance The next two sections provide further details the transition
for the transformation of businesses and on how we are measuring our progress on our
infrastructure will be key in helping to enable financed emissions ambition and the progress In March 2021, Air Liquide S.A., a
the transition to a net zero global economy. made to date on our own operations and French multinational specialised in
supply chain. gases, technologies and services,
We believe we can make the most significant presented its plan to achieve carbon
impact by working with our customers to The diagram below shows how these neutrality by 2050. The company has
support their transition to a net zero future. We ambitions map to our scope 1, 2 and 3 placed the use of a competitive
aim to align our financed emissions to net zero emissions. low-carbon hydrogen offering at the
by 2050 or sooner. cornerstone of its energy transition
ambition, while aiming to decarbonise
We intend to set targets on a sector by sector its production assets. We aim to
basis that are consistent with net zero support our clients through the
outcomes by 2050. In assessing financed transition. In May, we acted as a joint
emissions, we focus on those parts of the bookrunner for Air Liquide Finance’s
sector that are most material in terms of inaugural green bond and helped them
greenhouse gas emissions, and where we to raise €500m, which will be dedicated
believe engagement and climate action have to eligible sustainable projects including
the greatest potential to effect change, taking hydrogen, biogas, carbon capture, air
into account industry and scientific guidance. gases, energy efficiency and green
buildings in accordance with its
sustainable finance framework.
Explaining scope 1, 2 and Our own Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 3 Our financed
3 emissions operations and Indirect Indirect Direct Indirect emissions
supply chain
To measure and manage our carbon
emissions, we follow the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol global framework, which
identifies three scopes of emissions.
Scope 1 represents the direct emissions Electricity,
we create. Scope 2 represents the hea s t t i e n a g m a nd Company
indirect emissions resulting from the cooling facilities
use of electricity and energy to run a
business. Scope 3 represents indirect
Company
emissions attributed to upstream and vehicles
downstream activities taking place to
provide services to customers. Our Employee
upstream activities include business Supply Business commuting1 Investments and
chain travel financed emissions
travel and emissions from our supply
chain including transport, distribution
and waste. Our downstream activities
include those related to investments Upstream activities HSBC Holdings Downstream activities
and financed emissions.
For further details, see our ESG Data Pack
1 HSBC-sponsored shuttles only
at www.hsbc.com/esg.
46 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Measuring our financed emissions
We announced our ambition to become a net in the real economy, and helps provide an The following pages also set out our initial
zero bank in October 2020, including an aim indication of the greenhouse gas emissions 2030 targets to align our on-balance sheet
to align our financed emissions to net zero by associated with those activities. They form financed emissions for the oil and gas, and
2050 or sooner. In May 2021, shareholders part of our scope 3 emissions, which include power and utilities sectors to the International
approved a climate change resolution at our emissions associated with the use of a Energy Agency’s (‘IEA’) net zero emissions
AGM that commits us to set, disclose and company’s products and services. by 2050 scenario. The scenario provides a
implement a strategy with short- and science-based decarbonisation pathway for
medium-term targets to align our provision Our initial disclosures the global economy that is consistent with
of finance with the goals and timelines of the We started with measuring our financed a 1.5°C global warming target.
Paris Agreement. emissions for two emissions-intensive sectors:
the oil and gas, and power and utilities In developing our approach, we engaged
Our analysis of financed emissions considers sectors. On the following pages, we report with industry initiatives to help formulate our
on-balance sheet financing, including project on the results of our analysis for these two methodology for assessing and measuring
finance and direct lending, as well as financing sectors. We plan to measure and report on an financed emissions. In 2021, we were one of
we help clients access through capital markets annual basis, and intend to extend our analysis 43 founding members of the Net-Zero Banking
activities. Given the different nature of these in our Annual Report and Accounts 2022 and Alliance ('NZBA'), which seeks to reinforce,
two forms of financing, we distinguish related disclosures. accelerate, and support the implementation
between ‘on-balance sheet financed’ and of decarbonisation strategies for the banking
‘facilitated’ emissions where necessary in Our analysis relies on data disclosed by our sector. We also joined the Partnership for
our reporting. Our analysis covers financing customers and other sources that may result Carbon Accounting Financials (‘PCAF’), which
from both Global Banking and Markets, and in a time lag of one year or longer. We chose seeks to define and develop greenhouse gas
Commercial Banking. to use 2019 data as the basis for our initial accounting standards for financial institutions.
disclosures, having taken into consideration
Financed emissions link the financing we potential distortions to economic activity
provide to our customers and their activities caused by the Covid-19 pandemic during 2020.
What is included in
concentrate engagement with customers To calculate on-balance sheet financed
our analysis whose products contribute most to emissions, we used drawn balances at 31
greenhouse gas emissions in the December 2019 related to wholesale credit
global economy. and lending, which included business loans,
In 2021, we assessed our financed
trade and receivables finance, and project
emissions related to the oil and gas, and
For the power and utilities sector, our analysis finance as the value of finance provided to
power and utilities sectors using 2019 data.
focused on upstream power generation customers in our analysis. We only included
We believe these sectors are most material
companies, including scope 1 and 2 facilities with an original duration of
in terms of emissions, and are where we
greenhouse gas emissions of financed 12 months or longer having considered
believe engagement and climate action
counterparties. We believe power generation industry guidance. We plan to continue to
have the greatest potential to effect change.
is where the majority of sector emissions review the scope of facilities included in our
occur through the use of fossil fuel as a source analysis and update our approach following
For the oil and gas sector, we focused
of energy. In analysing the power and utilities industry guidance.
on upstream companies, and integrated
sector, we did not take account of scope 3
or diversified energy companies. Our
greenhouse gas emissions because we believe For facilitated emissions, we used the
assessment of this portfolio included scope
them to be immaterial. We believe upstream apportioned value of underwriting for debt
1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions of
power producers have the most potential to and equity issuances and syndicated loans
financed counterparties. By focusing on
reduce greenhouse gas emissions by shifting as the proportion of funds provided to
upstream and diversified energy producers,
to renewables and other sources of low- companies. We refer to these collectively
and including scope 3 greenhouse gas
emissions power generation. as capital markets activities. Although we
emissions, we believe we are accounting for
applied a similar methodology to assess
the majority of emissions across the sector.
Regarding the different types of greenhouse facilitated and on-balance sheet financed
These include emissions associated with
gas measured, we include CO2 and methane emissions, using PCAF guidance as our
the ultimate use of oil and gas products as
(measured in CO2e) for the oil and gas foundation, we expect to continue to
a fuel source. We have excluded midstream
sectors, and CO2 only for the power and report them separately for transparency.
and downstream companies within the
utilities sector due to data availability and
sector to limit double-counting and to
emissions materiality.
Sector Value chain in scope
Oil and gas Upstream Midstream Downstream Integrated/ Included in analysis
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. transport) (e.g. fuel use) diversified
Power and Upstream Midstream (e.g. transmission Downstream
utilities (e.g. generation) and distribution) (e.g. retail)
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 47
ESG review | Environmental
Measuring our financed emissions continued
Our analysis of oil and gas, and power
Notes on data and
and utilities portfolios The methodology and data used to assess
methodology financed emissions and set targets is new
The table below summarises the results of our and evolving, and we expect industry
assessment of financed emissions using 2019 guidance, market practice, and regulations
PCAF provides guidance on how to assess
data. It indicates the emissions associated to continue to change. We plan to refine
and disclose greenhouse gas emissions
with our financing activities in terms of both our analysis using the data sources and
associated with loans and investments.
absolute emissions and emissions per unit of methodologies available for the sectors
It also provides a common approach for
output relevant to each sector. The table also we analyse, including, among others, the
addressing variability in the data available
includes the PCAF data quality scores for the Science Based Targets initiative (‘SBTi’) and
to assess emissions.
various components of our analysis, as the Paris Agreement Capital Transition
explained further in the box on this page. Assessment (‘PACTA’) methodology. We
We applied PCAF’s data quality score to
expect our data quality scores to improve
the sources of data we used to determine
From our analysis, total absolute on-balance over time as companies continue to expand
counterparty emissions. The PCAF scores
sheet financed emissions associated with our their disclosures to meet growing regulatory
can be seen in the table below.
oil and gas portfolio were more than three and stakeholder expectations.
times greater than those from power and
The majority of our clients do not yet report
utilities. Similarly, the emissions associated Our initial set of baselines and targets may
the full scope of greenhouse gas emissions
with each dollar invested, or economic require updating as data availability changes
included in our analysis, in particular scope
intensity, for our oil and gas portfolio is over time and methodology and climate
3 emissions. In the absence of client-
more than triple that of our power and science evolve. We plan to report financed
reported emissions, we estimated
utilities portfolio. More than 80% of emissions and progress against our targets
emissions using proxies based on company
on-balance sheet financed emissions for annually and seek to be transparent in
production and revenue figures. We
our oil and gas portfolio were attributed our disclosures about the methodologies
validated data inputs used in our analysis
to our customers’ scope 3 emissions. applied. However, financed emissions
with the global relationship managers for
figures may not be reconcilable or
the top clients ranked by financed emissions
We found that data quality scores varied comparable year-on-year and targets
and covering a significant majority of total
across the different components of our may require re-evaluation.
financed emissions for each sector portfolio.
analysis, although not significantly. For the
oil and gas portfolio, data quality scores for Although we sought to minimise the use For further details of our approach and
scope 3 emissions were found to be slightly of non-company specific data, we applied methodology, see our Financed Emissions –
industry averages in our analysis where Approach and Methodology Update at www.
higher due to lower availability of reported
company-specific data was unavailable. hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
data. Differences between the data quality business/esg-reporting-centre.
scores for on-balance sheet financed and
facilitated emissions reflect the different
composition of the customers and weighting
of finance provided in each portfolio.
Financed emissions using 2019 data
Absolute emissions1 Emissions intensity2 PCAF data quality scores3
Physical intensity
Scope 1–2 Scope 3 (per unit of output) Scope 1–2 Scope 3
On-balance sheet financed emissions — wholesale credit lending and project finance (2019)4,5
Oil and gas 6.0† 29.8† 68.4 2.9† 3.4†
Power and utilities 10.1† N/A 0.55 3.0† N/A
Facilitated emissions – capital markets (2019)6
Oil and gas 3.9† 25.6† 70.7 2.4† 2.9†
Power and utilities 4.4† N/A 0.36 3.5† N/A
1 Absolute emissions are measured by million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt CO2e’).
2 For the oil and gas portfolio, physical emissions intensity is measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per exajoule (‘Mt CO2e/EJ’); for the power and
utilities sector, it is measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per terawatt hour (‘Mt CO2e/TWh’).
3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based on loans/advances for on-balance sheet financed emissions, and apportioned
value for facilitated emissions.
4 Total loans and advances analysed in 2019 were $23.5bn, comprising $12.3bn for the oil and gas sector, and $11.2bn for the power and utilities sector, representing
1.8% and 1.6% respectively of wholesale credit and lending and project finance at 31 December 2019. This compares with a total wholesale loan exposure of 7%
for these two sectors overall, as reported in our TCFD disclosures for 2019, which covered the full value chain and all financing activities. On-balance sheet
economic intensity for the oil and gas sector was 2.9 Mt CO2e/$bn, and for power and utilities it was 0.9 Mt CO2e/$bn.
5 For the oil and gas sector, the value chain analysed covers upstream and integrated/diversified operations. For the power and utilities sector, the value chain
analysed covers upstream operations.
6 Total capital markets activities analysed in 2019 was $21.1bn, comprising $15.4bn for oil and gas, and $5.7bn for power and utilities.
† Data is subject to limited assurance by PwC in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410. ‘Assurance engagements on greenhouse
gas statements’. For further details, see our Financed Emissions Methodology and PwC Assurance Report, which are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
48 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Measuring our financed emissions continued
Our oil and gas, and power and activities. This will require scaling up
utilities targets investment and financing for renewable and
We have defined targets to 2030 for the other low-emission sources of electricity to
on-balance sheet financed emissions of our oil meet demand.
and gas, and power and utilities portfolios, as
set out below. These are aligned with global Our approach to target setting is in line with
sector decarbonisation pathways set out by industry guidance on assessing portfolio
the IEA in its net zero emissions by 2050 alignment, including from – among others –
scenario. For facilitated emissions, we are the NZBA and the Financial Services Taskforce
supporting efforts to establish an industry ('FSTF'). Our approach does not rely on
standard. When this becomes available, we purchasing offsets to achieve any financed
intend to refresh our analysis and set interim emissions targets we set.
targets. The methodology for targets is set out
in our Financed Emissions Methodology, In selecting a reference scenario to assess
which is available at www.hsbc.com/ alignment to net zero, we reviewed the IEA’s
who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/ net zero emissions by 2050 scenario against
esg-reporting-centre. other available science-based 1.5°C scenarios.
We believe it provides the greatest level of
For the oil and gas sector, we target a detail for assessing alignment across relevant
reduction of 34% in absolute on-balance sectors at a global level. Choosing this HSBC 2019 on-balance sheet financed
emissions baseline
sheet financed emissions by 2030, using scenario allows us to make comparisons of
2019 as our baseline. Our target is equal to our portfolio targets with other banks and
the percentage reduction that the IEA peers who use this same scenario.
indicates in its scenario for global sector
emissions to 2030 from a 2019 baseline. We have used the global decarbonisation
We chose to use an absolute emissions metric pathway set out by the IEA’s net zero
in order to reflect a direct link to reducing emissions by 2050 scenario by sector as the
greenhouse gas emission in the real economy. reference for setting targets for our oil and
Our on-balance sheet financed emissions for gas, and power and utilities portfolios. The
2019 was 35.8 million tonnes of carbon IEA’s net zero emissions by 2050 scenario
dioxide equivalent (‘Mt CO2e’). does not currently provide decarbonisation
pathways at a regional level. We completed
For the power and utilities sector, we target an analysis to help ensure a global pathway is
on-balance sheet financed emissions intensity relevant for our financing portfolio and we will
of 0.14 million tonnes of carbon dioxide continue to assess this as further information
equivalent per terawatt hour (‘Mt CO2e/TWh’) becomes available over time. For further
by 2030. Our emissions intensity target is details on the IEA net zero by 2050 scenario,
equal to the global sector average emissions see www.iea.org/reports/net-zero-by-2050.
intensity for 2030 set out by the IEA, and
represents a 75% reduction compared with
our baseline of 0.55 Mt CO2e/TWh for 2019.
We chose to use an emissions intensity
metric, rather than absolute emissions, as the
basis for our 2030 target for the power and
utilities portfolio to reflect the need to reduce
global greenhouse gas emissions from power
generation while also meeting the anticipated
increase in electricity demand. Electrification
is central to the transition pathways for
transport, heating, and other economic
Helping to power a European first
We used our global reach and local expertise to attract a diverse base of international and
domestic investors in March 2021 when Greece’s largest power producer issued a €650m
high-yield sustainability-linked bond – a first for Europe. We acted as joint global coordinator
and left-lead bookrunner on the bond, which committed Public Power Corporation to reducing
its carbon emissions by 40% by the end of 2022, or face higher financing costs. We were also
ratings adviser and ESG structuring adviser supporting the company in achieving an improved
sustainability performance target, measured using a Sustainalytics rating. Public Power
Corporation has committed to end its reliance on lignite – low-grade brown coal – plants
over the next few years and significantly boost its solar and wind power capacity.
e2OC
tM
Oil and gas – absolute emissions
(Mt CO2e)
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2019 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
Key:
IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario
HSBC 2019 on-balance sheet financed
emissions baseline
IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario
hWT/e2OC
tM
Environmental
Target 34%
reduction
by 2030
from 2019
Power and utilities – emissions
intensity (Mt CO2e/TWh)
0.60
0.55
0.50
0.45
0.40
Target 0.14 Mt CO2e/TWh
0.35 by 2030, representing
75% reduction from 2019
0.30
0.25
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.5
0
2019 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
Key:
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 49
ESG review | Environmental
Measuring our financed emissions continued
Embedding financed emissions analysis the organisation will continue to be
into our business essential. This includes plans to strengthen
Our net zero ambition is underpinned by our our climate data and analytics capability
relationships with customers and collective to inform decision making and portfolio
engagement, so that we are able to support management, as well as expanding the
our customers to take action to address resources to support business engagement.
climate change in their own activities.
As part of our annual disclosures for the year
To achieve this, we aim to embed how we ending 31 December 2022, we plan to report
manage and assess financed emissions within baseline financed emissions and targets for Steering the automobile
our financing portfolios to provide a basis for the following sectors: coal mining; aluminium;
informing client engagement and business cement; iron and steel; and transport transition
management decisions from a climate (including automotive, aviation and shipping).
perspective. We expect to also report on the agriculture, We have been working with Ford Motor
and commercial and residential real estate Co. towards its sustainability goals with
There are three key components we are sectors in our annual disclosures for the year two sustainability-linked transactions
undertaking to achieve these objectives. ending 31 December 2023 at the latest, in 2021. In September, we supported
following baseline analysis for these sectors. Ford as it extended its revolving credit
– We are placing climate and sustainability facilities worth a combined $15.5bn.
at the centre of our engagement with In 2022 we will begin work on our climate Ford amended the credit facilities to
customers, and in particular those transition plan, which will bring together – in include sustainability-linked targets,
customers with the greatest potential one place – how we plan to embed our 2050 which included lower emissions from
to effect change. and 2030 net zero targets into the Group’s global manufacturing facilities and
– We are seeking to support our customers in strategy, processes, policies and governance. reduced exhaust emissions from
their transition to net zero and a sustainable We plan to publish this in 2023, and update on passenger vehicles sold in Europe.
future. We aim to provide and facilitate progress annually thereafter as part of our
$750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance annual disclosures. In November, we also acted as a joint
and investment by 2030 (see page 53). lead manager on Ford’s $2.5bn inaugural
The transition to a net zero global economy 10-year green bond under its new
– We are working to embed financed
has implications for our customers across sustainable finance framework. This
emissions considerations into our business
industries and geographies. It introduces framework targets investments in clean
activities and culture. Our global businesses
new risks that need to be managed, as well as transportation, clean manufacturing,
have had active roles alongside our
opportunities. Given our global presence and advancing economic opportunity and
Corporate Sustainability, Global Risk and
relationships with clients across industries and equity for underrepresented and/or
Compliance, and Global Finance functions
customer groups, we recognise the role we disadvantaged populations and
in developing our financed emissions
can play in helping catalyse this change. community revitalisation.
approach in 2021. Collaboration across
Financed emissions targets to 2030
Target metric Our 2019 baseline Our 2030 targets1
Oil and gas Absolute emissions 35.8 34%
(Mt CO2e)2 Mt CO2e reduction in oil and gas absolute
on-balance sheet financed emissions
Power and utilities Physical 0.55 0.14
emissions intensity Mt CO2e/TWh power and utilities on-balance sheet financed
(Mt CO2e/TWh)3 emissions intensity, representing 75% reduction from 2019
1 Our 2030 targets are based on IEA net zero emissions by 2050 scenario references. The methodology for targets is set out in our Financed Emissions Methodology,
which is available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
2 For oil and gas, the IEA indicates in its scenario a reduction of 34% in global sector scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (Mt CO2e) to 2030 from a 2019 baseline.
3 For power and utilities, the IEA indicates a global sector scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity at 2030 of 0.14 Mt CO2e/TWh electricity produced.
50 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Our approach to our own operations
Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank is We are considering the impact on our
Our environmental
to achieve net zero carbon emissions in our emissions from our colleagues working from
operations and supply chain by 2030 or sooner. home during the Covid-19 pandemic, and in and sustainability
the future, as they embrace more flexible ways
Reduce, replace and remove of working. Using the EcoAct methodology, management policies
We have three elements to our strategy: we calculated the emissions of our colleagues
reduce, replace and remove. We plan to first working from home was 4% of total electricity Our buildings policy recognises that
focus on reducing carbon emissions from emissions in 2021. This only includes energy regulatory and environmental
consumption, and then replacing remaining consumption from the IT equipment and requirements vary across geographies
emissions with low-carbon alternatives in line lighting. We do not report employee home and may include environmental
with the Paris Agreement. We plan to remove working emissions in our scope 1 and 2 certification. The policy is supported
the remaining emissions that cannot be performance data. by Corporate Services procedures on
reduced or replaced by procuring, in environmental and sustainability
accordance with prevailing regulatory Business travel and employee commuting management, ensuring HSBC's
requirements, high-quality offsets at a Our travel emissions continued to reduce in properties continually reduce their overall
later stage. 2021 as a result of ongoing international travel direct impact on the environment.
restrictions caused by the pandemic. As Detailed design considerations
Our energy consumption international travel gradually resumes, we will documented in our Global Engineering
In October 2020, we announced our ambition update our internal policies with the aim to Standards aim to reduce or avoid
to reduce our energy consumption by 50% by halve travel emissions by 2030, compared with depletion of critical resources like energy,
2030, against a 2019 baseline. To do this, we pre-pandemic levels. We will continue to water, land, and raw materials. Suppliers
plan to reduce our energy consumption by encourage the use of technological solutions are required to adhere to strict
optimising the use of our real estate portfolio. where possible to provide connectivity with environmental management principles
colleagues and customers. To ensure we are and reduce their impact on the
In 2017, we announced our ambition to following best practices, we updated our air environment in which they operate.
achieve 100% renewable power across our travel reporting methodology in 2021 to
operations by 2030, joining other global include cabin class and indirect climate change
companies in the RE100 initiative. In 2021, effects in our travel emission calculations.
37.5% of our electricity was renewable, mainly
due to our power purchase agreements of We continue to pursue the reduction of
wind and solar energy in the UK, Mexico and vehicles we use in our global markets, and
India. As part of this energy replacement accelerate the use of electric vehicles.
strategy, in September 2021, we signed our
fourth power purchase agreement for the Focus on natural resources
UK. This agreement, which will support the Alongside our net zero operations ambition,
development of the Sorbie Wind Farm project our aim is to be a responsible consumer of
in Ayrshire, south-west of Glasgow, will result natural resources. Building on the success
in approximately 90% of our UK electricity of our previous operational environmental
being sourced from such renewable projects strategy, we are identifying the key
(for further details, see page 19). We continue opportunities where we can lessen our
to look for opportunities to procure green wider environmental impact over the coming
energy in each of our markets. A key challenge decade. We plan to set interim and
is the limited opportunity to pursue power 2030 global targets to maintain short-term
purchase agreements or green tariffs in key momentum while also changing behaviour
markets due to regulations. through ambitious long-term goals.
Our presence in environmentally sensitive areas
As a global organisation, our branches, offices and data centres may be located in – or near –
areas of water stress and/or protected areas of biodiversity, as we support our customers and
communities in these locations.
Approximately 28% of our global offices, branches and data centres are located in areas
identified as being subject to high and very high water stress, accounting for 37% of our
annual water consumption. These are predominantly urban or city centre locations with
large, concentrated populations. Our industry is a low user of potable water, and we have
implemented measures to further reduce water consumption through the installation of flow
restrictors, auto-taps and low or zero flush sanitary fittings.
In addition, 1.7% of our global office, branch and data centre portfolio lies in protected areas
and areas of biodiversity. We strive through our design, construction and operational
standards to ensure that, where possible, our premises do not adversely affect the
environment or natural resources in these areas.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 51
)sennot(
snoissime
e2OC
latoT
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
CO2e
per
FTE
(tonnes)
ESG review | Environmental
Our approach to our own operations continued
Engaging with our supply chain This engagement has allowed us to work on
As the majority of our emissions are within our a new supply chain emissions methodology Working with our
supply chain, we know we cannot achieve our using actual supplier data. While substantial Cloud partners
net zero goal without our suppliers joining us progress has been made, this methodology
on our journey. requires further refinement before it is ready
to be disclosed. Using Cloud technologies is one of the
ways we are reducing our IT carbon
In 2020, we began the three-year process
of encouraging our largest suppliers to make Our aim is to use real supplier data where we footprint. Our Cloud providers run more
their own carbon commitments, and to have it through our engagement with the CDP efficiently than our own data centres due
disclose their emissions via the CDP supply programme. Where we do not have CDP data to the lower impact of shared resources.
chain programme. The target for 2021 was for for suppliers, we will use industry averages In 2021, we engaged with our Cloud
suppliers representing 45% of total supplier and spend data to define the contribution to partners to improve our understanding
spend to have completed the CDP our supply chain emissions. of our carbon footprint on Cloud, and
collaborate towards more efficient
questionnaire. In total, suppliers representing
applications. Our partners also continue
51.2% of total supplier spend completed the In 2021, we also updated our supplier selection
to assist in the education of our internal
CDP questionnaire. process to include carbon emissions questions
IT colleagues by delivering sustainability
in new commercial engagements. This signals
learning sessions, and sharing research
We will continue to engage with our supply chain to our suppliers the importance we place in
and experience.
with the aim of increasing the response rate, and the transition to net zero, from the start of
have expanded the scope of our engagement the engagement.
with the CDP programme for 2022.
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2021 over 700 energy conservation measures that Greenhouse gas emissions
We report our emissions following the amounted to an estimated energy avoidance in (total and FTE)2
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which incorporates excess of 14.9 million kWh.
the scope 2 market-based emissions 4.0
methodology. We report greenhouse gas In 2021, we collected data on energy use and
emissions resulting from the energy used in business travel for our operations in 28 countries 3.5
our buildings and employees’ business travel. and territories, which accounted for
Due to the nature of our primary business, approximately 92% of our FTEs. To estimate
3.0
carbon dioxide is the main type of the emissions of our operations in countries and
greenhouse gas applicable to our operations. territories where we have operational control and
While the amount is immaterial, our current a small presence, we scale up the emissions data 2.5
reporting also incorporates methane and from 92% to 100%. We then apply emission
nitrous oxide for completeness. We do not uplift rates to reflect uncertainty concerning the 2.0
report employee home working emissions quality and coverage of emission measurement
in our scope 1 and 2 performance data. and estimation. This is consistent both with the
1.5
Our environmental data for our own Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s
operations is based on a 12-month period Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty
to 30 September. Management in National Greenhouse Gas 1.0
2019 2020 2021
Inventories and our internal analysis of data
In 2021, we continued to decrease our coverage and quality. Key:
emissions, achieving a 50.3% reduction
compared with our 2019 baseline. This was For further details on our methodology,
Total gree nhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2e)
mainly attributed to travel restrictions and the our third-party assurance report and relevant Greenhouse gas emissions per FTE
environment key facts, see our ESG Data Pack (tonnes CO2e/ FTE)
reduction of usage of our buildings due to the
at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Covid-19 pandemic. We also implemented
Greenhouse gas emissions in Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes Energy consumption in kWh in ‘000s
tonnes CO2e CO2e per FTE
2021 20202 2021 20202 2021 2020
Total 341,000 444,000 Total 1.52 1.93 Total Group 833 928
Scope 1 – direct1 22,000 20,000 UK only 227 247
Scope 2 – indirect1 307,000 343,000
1 Data in 2021 is subject to limited assurance by PwC in accordance with International Standard on
Scope 3 – indirect Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements’. For further
(Upstream activities – 12,000 81,000 details, see GHG Reporting Guideline 2021 and PwC Assurance Report at www.hsbc.com/our-
business travel only)1 approach/esg-information/esg-reporting-and-policies.
Included 2 Data for 2019 and 2020 has been revised as we have updated our air travel reporting methodology to
10,000 8,000
energy UK include the cabin class travel and the impact of radiative forces. The emissions of HSBC's vehicle fleet
were reported under scope 3 for these two years. For 2019 and 2020, see CO2 Emissions Reporting
Guideline, ESG Data Pack, and PwC Assurance Report, which are available at www.hsbc.com/
our-approach/esg-information/esg-reporting-and-policies.
52 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Supporting customers
through transition Sustainable finance summary1
Cumulative
Our ability to finance the transformation of progress
businesses and infrastructure is key to building 2021 2020 since 2020
a sustainable future for our customers and ($bn) ($bn) ($bn)
society. The most significant contribution Balance sheet-related transactions provided 26.2 10.4 36.6
we can make is by supporting our portfolio of
customers to decarbonise within the transition Capital markets/advisory (facilitated) 48.7 30.0 78.7
to a net zero global economy.
Investments (assets under
management – flows) 7.7 3.7 11.4
A leader in sustainable finance
We are a recognised leader in sustainable Total contribution2 82.6 44.1 126.7
finance, helping to pioneer the market for
1 T his table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance Data Dictionary 2021, which
green, social and sustainable bonds and includes green, social and sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the
attaching ambitious environmental targets limits agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided, the proportional share of facilitated
to business loans. capital markets/advisory activities and the net new flows of sustainable investments within assets
under management. For our sustainable finance ambition and progress figure, see www.hsbc.com/
who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
In 2021, we acted on more green, social,
2 D ata is subject to limited assurance by PwC in accordance with International Standard on Assurance
sustainability and sustainability-linked bonds
Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical
for clients than in 2020. We were mandated to
Financial Information’. For our Sustainable Finance Data Dictionary 2021 and PwC Assurance Report,
act as structuring adviser on nine ESG-related see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
government bonds, including for the UK,
Saudi Arabia, Canada and Indonesia. We were
recognised by Euromoney as the Best Bank $126.7bn
Transition solutions
for Sustainable Finance in Asia and the Middle We aim to help our customers transition
East for 2021. to net zero and a sustainable future through
providing and facilitating between $750bn and Cumulative progress since 2020 on
In 2021, we continued to expand the horizons $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by our ambition to provide and facilitate
of sustainable finance: 2030. Our sustainable finance ambition has sustainable finance and investment.
enabled sustainable infrastructure and energy (Target: $750bn to $1tn by 2030)
– We acted as global coordinator and systems, promoted decarbonisation efforts
bookrunner for POSCO, the South Korean across the real economy, and enhanced investor
steelmaker, when it raised a €1.06bn capital through sustainable investment.
five-year green convertible bond, which was Sustainable finance
South Korea’s first green convertible bond Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and and investment
and its largest equity-linked deal, to help facilitated $109.8bn of sustainable finance,
establish and expand its rechargeable $11.7bn of sustainable investment and $5.2bn
battery and hydrogen business. of sustainable infrastructure spanning more We define sustainable finance and
investment as:
– We launched a £500m Green SME Fund than 1,193 transactions, as defined in our data
in the UK to help remove the barriers dictionary. This comprised 29% of green,
– any form of financial service that
small businesses face in the transition social and sustainability-linked lending to
integrates ESG criteria into business
to a lower-carbon economy. companies, 9% of investments managed and
or investment decisions; and
– We partnered with Walmart and CDP to distributed on behalf of investors, and 62%
create the industry’s first sustainable supply that facilitated the flow of capital and provided – financing, investing and advisory
chain finance programme to use science- access to capital markets. Our data dictionary activities that support the
based targets to encourage suppliers to defining our sustainable finance and achievement of UN Sustainable
reduce emissions in alignment with the investment continues to evolve, which takes Development Goals (‘SDGs’),
Paris Agreement. The initiative also included into account the revised marketing standards including but not limited to the aims
additional criteria for suppliers to meet and guidelines. Our progress will be published of the Paris Agreement on climate
certain scores on their environmental each year, and we will seek to continue to be change. The SDGs, also known as the
disclosures with the CDP. independently assured. Global Goals, were adopted by all UN
member states in 2015 as a universal
– We launched green mortgages for
The breakdown of our sustainable finance and call to action to end poverty, protect
customers in the UAE and Singapore investment progress is included in our ESG Data the planet and ensure that all people
to finance their purchase of homes that Pack. The detailed definitions of the contributing enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030.
have been respectively accredited by the activities for sustainable finance are available in
LEED and BCA Green Mark schemes as our revised Sustainable Finance Data Dictionary
2021. For our ESG Data Pack, Sustainable We have reviewed and updated these
energy efficient.
Finance Data Dictionary and PwC Assurance definitions to reflect our updated
– We supported the transition within Report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ climate ambition, which is available
the aviation sector, acting as the sole esg-and-responsible-business/esg- at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
reporting-centre.
coordinator for a £1bn sustainability-linked esg-and-responsible-business/
loan – backed by the UK’s export credit esg-reporting-centre.
Sustainable infrastructure
agency, UK Export Finance – to British
Good infrastructure is the backbone of any
Airways plc, with the loan margin linked
successful society and economy. However,
to aircraft fuel efficiency.
addressing climate change requires the world
– particularly emerging markets – to develop
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 53
ESG review | Environmental
Supporting customers through transition continued
a new generation of sustainable infrastructure HSBC Asset Management strengthened
quickly. There remains a significant investment its proposition with the formation of a new
gap and lack of adequate, bankable projects. Sustainability Office, which is responsible
Stronger standards are also needed to bring for the delivery of our sustainability strategy
investors to the table. and business-wide transition to sustainable
investment. Our endeavour is to influence
To help solve this, we are leading the Finance the markets through active engagement on
to Accelerate the Sustainable Transition- ESG issues. HSBC Asset Management’s
Infrastructure (‘FAST-Infra’) initiative, which stewardship activities, through its portfolio
in November 2021 launched the Sustainable managers and other investment analysts,
Infrastructure (SI) label (see box to the right). led to ESG issues being raised in engagements
with over 1,800 corporate and non-corporate
In September 2021, we partnered with issuers in 73 markets in 2021. We also voted
The Sustainable
Temasek to establish (subject to regulatory on over 84,000 resolutions at over 8,400
approval) a debt financing platform dedicated company meetings in 72 markets by year end. Infrastructure (SI) label
to sustainable infrastructure projects with an
initial focus on south-east Asia. The platform At HSBC Life, our insurance business, we
In 2021, FAST-Infra launched the
aims to deploy blended finance at scale over continued to build our sustainable investment
Sustainable Infrastructure (SI) Label – a
time to unlock more marginally bankable portfolios to support the UN SDGs and the
consistent, globally applicable labelling
projects and create a tradeable asset class. Paris Agreement. During 2021, we made an
system designed to identify and
We also co-chair the Coalition for Climate effort to increase our sustainable investment
evaluate sustainable infrastructure
Resilient Investment, which was launched across our different manufacturing entities in
assets. The use of the label will help to
at the UN Climate Action Summit to help Asia, Europe and Latin America. The intent is
address the estimated $6.9tn of annual
investors and policymakers understand to continue to build on the work and grow the
investment that the OECD says is
infrastructure investments and incorporate assets under management. While previously,
required until 2030 to meet the
physical climate risk in decision making. HSBC Life invested in only green bonds within
sustainable infrastructure objectives
the spectrum of traditional bond instruments,
of the Paris Agreement. We helped
Responsible and sustainable investment in 2021 it also invested in social, sustainability
conceive the FAST-Infra initiative,
We offer a broad suite of ESG capabilities and sustainability-linked bonds.
working with the IFC, OECD, the World
across asset management, global markets,
Bank’s Global Infrastructure Facility and
research, wealth, private banking and Embedding ESG into our engagement
the Climate Policy Initiative, under the
securities services, enabling institutional and Our vision is to support our customers’
auspices of the One Planet Lab.
individual investors to manage risk and pursue aspirations to make a positive change in the
ESG-related opportunities. world through wealth value creation. We are
embedding ESG in our client engagement
We expanded our investment offering for and investment solutions across our Global Research are also repackaged
private banking and wealth clients, launching business functions. for retail investors as a series known as
several cross-border ESG funds including a #WhyESGMatters. Through our sustainable
Sustainable Healthcare fund, to help investors We provide our customers with ESG insights finance think tank, HSBC Centre of
generate long-term returns while contributing and foster industry development. HSBC Global Sustainable Finance, we launched 42 reports
to the UN SDGs on good health and well- Research published over 200 climate and and collaborated with 15 partners to provide
being. We launched a green certificate of ESG-related reports in 2021, accompanied by thought leadership on decarbonisation
deposit for the first time in renminbi to clients approximately 525 client meetings and close strategies and strengthen the financial system
in Hong Kong and Singapore, as well as the to 30 client webcasts and events. Our ESG response to climate change. The centre
first Hong Kong dollar-denominated team works in close collaboration with and our reports are publicly available at
sustainability-linked bonds to clients in Hong analysts from other asset classes and across www.sustainablefinance.hsbc.com.
Kong. We also expanded our ESG offering to markets, embedding sustainability into
emerging markets, including a Global Equity research and offering a deeper integration For further details of our net zero ambition,
Climate Change fund in India that helps clients approach to a global investor client base. see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-climate-
strategy/becoming-a-net-zero-bank.
to capture emerging opportunities during the The team released five episodes of the
low-carbon transition journey. ESG Brief podcast. ESG Insights from HSBC
Developing a beacon of green luxury
The former US embassy at Grosvenor Square, London, is being converted into a luxury hotel
and could become a model of sustainability for future hospitality developments. Qatari Diar –
the property arm of Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund – is converting the former embassy into the
Chancery Rosewood, which will feature green roofs, energy efficiency measures and a system
to reduce water consumption. The Chancery Rosewood is aspiring to achieve a BREEAM
‘Outstanding’ rating for sustainable development, which would make it the first five-star hotel
and first UK hotel to achieve this rating under the 2014 assessment scheme. As mandated lead
arranger, facility and security agent, hedge coordinator, and green loan coordinator, in April
2021 we helped Qatari Diar secure a £450m green loan for the landmark development.
54 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Unlocking climate solutions and innovations
We understand the need to find new solutions EverGreening Alliance in November 2021, We have expanded our venture debt platform
to increase the pace of change if the world is supporting the alliance’s aim to deliver a to support climate technology hardware and
to achieve the Paris Agreement’s goal of being $150m nature-based carbon programme software companies that are growing rapidly.
net zero by 2050. in Africa. In 2020, we committed to fund $100m to
climate technology (climate tech) companies
We are working closely with a range of Climate Asset Management is one of the through this platform. We closed our first
partners to accelerate investment in natural three founding partners of the Natural Capital two deals in 2021 and expect to achieve the
resources, technology and sustainable Investment Alliance, which aims to mobilise $100m goal by the end of the first quarter
infrastructure to reduce emissions and $10bn towards natural capital themes by the of 2022. Consequently, we have raised our
address climate change. end of 2022. commitment to $250m.
Natural capital as an emerging Backing new technology and innovation HSBC Asset Management has also developed
asset class Addressing climate change requires innovative a new venture capital capability that provides
As part of our goal to unlock new climate ideas. By connecting financing with fresh institutional and private banking customers
solutions, we announced the launch of thinking, we can help climate solutions to with opportunities to invest in technology
Climate Asset Management, a joint venture scale to support sustainable growth. start-ups addressing global climate change
with Pollination, in 2020. Climate Asset challenges. We launched the first fund in
Management’s ambition is to become the Our Climate Solutions Partnership aims to November 2021 and provided it with
world’s largest dedicated natural capital scale up climate innovation ventures and a cornerstone investment.
asset management company. Its investment nature-based solutions, as well as help the
strategies are grounded in nature-based energy sector transition towards renewable Our climate technology venture debt
investments, including sustainable forestry, sources in Asia. For further details, see and venture capital platforms invest in
regenerative agriculture, nature-based carbon page 77. companies that are developing innovative
projects, and exploration of new forms of technological solutions that help companies
natural capital. Climate Asset Management and governments understand, track and
established a partnership with the Global reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
Biodiversity and natural capital strategy
We recognise that achieving net zero goes Catalyst for change
hand in hand with halting and reversing nature We are committed to playing a key role as a
loss. Nature loss, which refers to the decline catalyst for change, using our scale, influence,
of natural capital, ecosystem services and and financing to help preserve natural capital
biodiversity, is one of the greatest systemic and protect biodiversity as a component of our
risks to the global economy and the health net zero ambition. In 2021, we facilitated green
of people and the planet. and blue bonds, as well as provided lending to
corporate and sovereign clients for sustainable
Investing in nature projects. Highlights included:
By addressing nature-related risks and
Key external
investing in nature, we have an opportunity – We co-led the provision of $90m of green
to accelerate the transition to net zero, help loan facilities to support Instar Asset memberships
tackle climate change and open up a more Management’s acquisition of PRT Growing
resilient and inclusive global economy. Services, North America’s largest producer
Our nature-related external memberships
of container-grown forest seedlings.
and endorsements include:
We recognise that more needs to be done to – We launched the world’s first broad-based
assess and manage our exposure to nature- biodiversity screened equity indices, – Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
related risks and that collective initiatives are developed jointly with Euronext and Disclosures
needed to progress at pace. In 2021, we joined Iceberg Data Lab, to explore ways to apply
several working groups dedicated to helping a biodiversity benchmark to trading and – Cambridge Institute on Sustainability
us progress on this journey, such as the investment activities. Leadership’s nature-related financial
Taskforce on Nature-related Financial risks working group
– Our asset management business published
Disclosures (‘TNFD’). For further details on – Accountability Alignment on
its biodiversity policy to publicly explain how
the nature-related initiatives we have joined, Deforestation Working Group
our analysts address nature-related issues.
see ‘Key external memberships’ in the box
In 2021, it also engaged with companies in – Business for Nature’s Call to Action
on the right.
the food industry on how to manage their – Get Nature Positive
suppliers’ impact on biodiversity. For further
– Signatory by the asset management
details on the biodiversity policy, see:
business to the Finance for
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.com/
Biodiversity pledge
about-us/responsible-investing/policies.
For further details of our sustainability-
related memberships, see www.hsbc.
com/who-we-are/our-climate-strategy/
sustainability-memberships.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 55
ESG review | Environmental
Our approach to climate risk
Managing risk for our stakeholders
We see managing climate risk as an questionnaire as part of our transition risk their portfolios for climate-related risks, as part
opportunity to create value for our customers, framework to understand their climate of ongoing portfolio management activities.
investors, people and communities in which strategies and risk. We also use our climate We continue to lead on the analysis of
we operate. We manage climate risk across all change stress testing and scenario analysis climate-related issues, in particular transition
our businesses in line with our Group-wide risk capabilities to provide insights on the risks, and their impact on financial markets.
management framework. Our most material long-term effects of transition and physical Our analysts carry out proprietary research
risks in terms of managing climate risk relate risks across our retail and wholesale banking and collaborate with outside experts and
to corporate and retail client financing within portfolios (for further details, see page 57). industry initiatives.
our banking portfolio, but there are also In December, we announced our thermal coal
significant responsibilities in relation to asset phase-out policy (see page 62) and we will Employee pensions
ownership by our insurance business and use our deep relationships to partner with The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension
employee pension plans, as well as from the customers in this sector to help them Scheme, our largest plan with $51bn assets
activities of our asset management business. transition to cleaner, safer and cheaper under management, announced an ambition
energy alternatives. in 2021 to achieve net zero greenhouse gas
We tailor our underlying policies and controls emissions across its defined benefit and
to manage the different risks and exposures Asset management defined contribution assets by 2050. To help
to reflect these respective roles to meet the HSBC Asset Management managed over achieve this, it is targeting a real economy
needs of our key stakeholders. In the table $630bn assets – including assets managed for emissions reduction interim target of 50%
below, we set out our duties to our parts of HSBC Insurance and employee by 2030 for its equity and corporate
stakeholders in our four more material roles. pensions – at the end of 2021. With the bond mandates.
majority of assets managed in ESG-integrated
For further details of our approach to climate risk, strategies, it treats climate change risk as a The weight given to climate-related factors
see Environmental, social and governance risk on key feature of the investment decision-making in the asset allocation of this plan’s defined
page 125 and Climate-related risks on page 131.
process. Investment teams examine and contribution fund was strengthened during
determine the level of importance of potential 2021 to target additional green revenue and
Banking
ESG risks that could impact current and/or lower carbon emissions and reserves, and
Our banking business is well positioned to
future value of issuers. These risks are now excludes companies whose revenues
support our 40 million personal, wealth and
reflected in proprietary issuer ESG scoring are substantially derived from coal extraction
corporate customers manage their own
methodology and are embedded into or coal power generation.
climate risk through financing. For our
investment processes. Portfolio management
wholesale customers, we use our corporate
tools also enable investment teams to assess For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension
Scheme’s annual TCFD statements, see https://
futurefocus.staff.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/project/
futurefocus/information-centre/pensioner/
other-information/2020-tcfd-statement.pdf.
Banking Employee pensions
We seek to manage the climate risk in Our employee pension plans each manage Insurance
our banking portfolios through our climate risk in line with their fiduciary duties In 2021, our Insurance business, which has life
developing risk appetite and policies for and local regulatory requirements, with insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in eight
our financial and non-financial risks. This global corporate policy encouraging
markets, a life insurance manufacturing
helps enable us to identify opportunities consideration of ESG risks when selecting
associate in India and assets under
to support our customers, while investments. We are developing internal
management of approximately $123bn,
continuing to meet the expectations of climate risk exposure reporting for our largest
our shareholders and regulators. plans, pending more widespread adoption of developed a methodology for climate stress
consistent reporting standards. testing. It ran stress tests across the major
portfolios considering adverse stresses as a
result of transition risks on wholesale credit
risks within the insurance investment portfolio.
Customers Employees Customers Investors EmployeesCommCuunsittoiemsersInvestorsR go e v g e u r lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ays nede CsommunitieSsuppliIenrvsestorR gso e v g e uCr l n aut msotr eos nm t a senrds CommunitSieuspEpmlieprlsoyeesR go e v g e u r l n at m or e s n t a s ndI nvestors SuCpupsltieormsersCommunities EmployeesR go e v g e u r l n at m or e s n t a s nd InvestorsSuppliers Communities R go e v g e u r l n at m or e s n t a s nd Suppliers
The insurance business began a review of its
Climate risk
sustainability policy to align with the Group’s
new thermal coal phase-out policy published
in December 2021. Risk appetite has been
articulated relating to key ESG aspects.
ESG standards have been implemented into
Asset management Insurance insurance product development processes
As part of our asset management business’s Our insurance business offers long-term life and operational capabilities.
fiduciary duty to clients, our solutions and health products. We manage climate
integrate key climate and sustainability risks, including wholesale credit risk, in In response to regulatory developments,
considerations. Climate risk management is a assets to meet customer investment returns. HSBC’s insurance entities in the EU and UK
key feature of our investment decision making We also take into consideration mortality and
have implemented key disclosure-related
and portfolio management. We also engage morbidity risks for customers as a result of
regulatory requirements, which mainly
directly with companies on priority topics climate risk. We have established an evolving
related to climate risk to drive positive change. ESG programme to meet changing external impacts insurance-based investment products
expectations and customer demands. manufactured and/or sold by HSBC.
Customers Employees Customers Investors EmployeesCommCuunsittoiemsersInvestorsR go e v g e u r lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ays nede CsommunitieSsuppliIenrvsestorR gso e v g e u rCl n aut m ostr eos n mt a s nedrs CommunitSieusppElmieprsloyeesR go e v gCe uur lsn att moomr e s ne t arssnd Investors SuEpmpplileoryseesCommCuunsittoiemsersInvestorsR go e v g e u r lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ays nede CsommunitieSsuppliIenrvsestorR gso e v g e u r l n at m or e s n t a s nd CommunitSieusppliers R go e v g e u r l n at m or e s n t a s nd Suppliers
56 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Insights from scenario analysis
Our 2021 climate stress testing Our progress in 2021 The process has involved engaging with
and scenario analysis exercise Climate change scenario analysis requires stakeholders across our Finance, Corporate
A crucial component of our climate ambitions bespoke data, modelling techniques and Sustainability and Risk functions, as well as
is having the ability to identify and understand analysis. In order to integrate climate global businesses at Group and regional levels.
climate-related risks and opportunities, and considerations in our analysis, we used the We held ‘in-depth’ sessions with the Group
having insights on how our customers and people, processes, controls, and governance Risk Management Meeting (‘RMM’), Group
business could be impacted under a range structures from traditional stress tests. Risk Committee (‘GRC’) and the Group
of climate change scenarios. Building on that, throughout 2021, we Executive Committee covering data, models,
continued to develop our climate change risk assessments and outcomes. A series of
In 2021, we ran our first Group-wide climate scenario analysis capabilities, including: governance meetings culminating with the
change scenario analysis exercise, following RMM and GRC reviewed, challenged and
on from a pilot exercise carried out in 2020. – We identified new data requirements and approved the overall outcomes of this exercise.
The 2021 exercise focused on the portfolios sourced data for a vast number of inputs
most exposed to climate risk: our wholesale representing climate, macroeconomic and Our framework
corporate lending, commercial real estate and financial variables. We have created – and continue to develop
retail mortgage portfolios. We performed our – We built and refined climate change models – a target state framework for climate change
assessment over a 30-year time horizon, for wholesale corporate lending, commercial stress testing and scenario analysis. This
reflecting the long-term nature and effects of real estate and retail mortgage portfolios. framework uses many of the building blocks
transition and physical risks. For all portfolios, Our models incorporated sector-specific from of our traditional capital stress testing
our assessments considered: adjustments for the higher risk industrial framework, but it demands larger and richer
sectors. These portfolios represent a data that feeds innovative and granular
– transition risk arising from the process of material part of our lending activities. forecasting solutions. All activities in this
moving to a net zero economy, including The models projected the impact of climate framework need to be embedded in our
changes in policy, technology, and change and produced outputs such as business-as-usual processes to help drive
consumer behaviour and stakeholder credit ratings, which helped us assess business decisions.
perception, which will each impact the financial impact on our portfolios.
borrowers’ operating income, financing
– We held training sessions covering all
requirements and asset values; and
levels of seniority from our colleagues to
– physical risk arising from the increased Board Directors, to allow our people to The following pages highlight some
frequency and severity of weather events, effectively understand, review, challenge of the analysis conducted. The nature
such as hurricanes and floods, or chronic and use the outcomes. of the scenarios, our developing
shifts in weather patterns, which will each capabilities, and limitations of the
impact property values, repair costs and – Following the execution of results, we analysis have led to outcomes that
lead to business interruptions. revisited the end-to-end process to learn key are directionally indicative of climate
lessons and make continuous improvements change headwinds, but they are not
for the next stress testing cycle. a direct forecast. Developments in
climate science, data, methodology,
and scenario analysis techniques will
help us shape our approach further.
We therefore expect this view of risk
to change over time.
Scenarios and time horizons
We have developed capabilities to define early action to tackle global warming – A Hot house world scenario assumes that
parameters for bespoke scenario modelling. and climate change, both physical and some climate policies are implemented in
Our 2021 climate-related scenario analysis transition risks are relatively subdued. some jurisdictions, but global efforts are
was run on a suite of specific scenarios A moderate level of carbon sequestration insufficient to halt significant global
published by the Network of Central Banks (which is the process of capturing and warming. Critical temperature thresholds
and Supervisors for Greening the Financial storing atmospheric carbon dioxide) is are exceeded, leading to severe physical
System (‘NGFS’). The NGFS scenarios test a factored into the scenario. risks and irreversible impacts like sea-level
broad range of possible outcomes and have – A Disorderly scenario explores higher rise. This scenario also assumes a low
been created as a starting point for central transition risk due to policies being level of carbon sequestration.
banks and supervisors, encompassing delayed or divergent across countries
a complex set of social, political and and sectors. Carbon prices are typically Further details of these scenarios are available
economic assumptions. The scenarios higher for a given temperature outcome. at: www.ngfs.net/ngfs-scenarios-portal.
we considered were: There is a low level of carbon
sequestration assumed in this scenario
– An Orderly scenario assumes climate due to the absence of timely and sizable
policies are introduced early and become investments in such technologies.
gradually more stringent. As a result of
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 57
ESG review | Environmental
Insights from scenario analysis continued
How climate change is impacting our
Wholesale corporate lending portfolio methodology
wholesale corporate lending portfolio
The table below illustrates the level of
climate-related risk to which we are exposed We have developed a standardised scenarios. Sectors already transitioning,
within six key wholesale sectors. We have framework to assess the financial impact of such as those with electric vehicles and
focused on these sectors because they are climate change on our wholesale corporate renewable energy, are assumed to
most likely to be impacted by climate risk. counterparties. We carried out granular continue transitioning at a conservative
We assessed these sectors against Orderly, modelling for material counterparties, level, based on verifiable data and scenario
Disorderly and Hot house scenarios over a projecting how their financial position assumptions. Companies with government
30-year horizon. The two transition risk might be impacted under each scenario. support are also assumed to benefit.
scenarios (Orderly and Disorderly) have the As data limitations often posed a We have not considered the impact of
most impact on our wholesale portfolio and challenge, we performed a high-level individual counterparties’ plans to adapt
therefore the commentary focuses on these impact assessment for less material to climate change or the potential impact
scenarios. While cumulative impacts over the counterparties. of supply chain disruptions. The analysis
2020 to 2050 scenario horizon are broadly was performed on a sample of the portfolio
similar, the Disorderly scenario has a delayed For simplicity, we assumed that our that focused on our most material
disruptive transition and the Orderly scenario counterparty exposures would remain counterparties and regions. Results should
starts to impact the portfolio immediately. static over the 30-year horizon under all therefore be interpreted accordingly.
Impact for key wholesale transition risk sectors1
Projected impact
Sector Sub-sectors Orderly Disorderly Hot house Impact analysis
Building and Construction d d d Companies with carbon-intensive production activities, such
construction as steel and cement companies, are significantly impacted
Steel e e d under the Orderly and Disorderly scenarios due to their expected
vulnerability to carbon price increases and limited options
Cement e e b currently available to transition.
Oil and gas Integrated c c c A number of our oil and gas counterparties are operating in
regions with low extraction costs, and are expected to be more
Services c c b resilient in transition scenarios.
Downstream d d c Profiting from greater diversification and size, integrated
companies perform relatively better compared with
Upstream d d c counterparties specialised on one part of the value chain.
Midstream d d c
Automotive Original equipment Impacts are broadly similar in the automotive sector under the
c c b
manufacturers transition risk scenarios due to a similar cumulative effect of
electrical vehicle sales and carbon pricing over the 30 years.
Dealers d d c As expected, companies with existing investments in electrical
vehicle manufacturing tend to be less impacted, particularly
Suppliers as they scale up over time. Dealers experience a more
c c b severe downgrade due to carbon pricing impacting current
financial positions.
Power and Gas and water utilities c c bb Coal-focused companies are materially impacted in the transition
utilities scenarios. In contrast, renewables-focused counterparties benefit
Power generation in the transition risk scenarios from the increase in demand for
c b b
companies their products, lower carbon tax impacts and lower investment
requirements. Overall, the ability of power and utilities companies
Transmission, distribution to transfer costs to customers and the exposure to renewable-
and other electricity c c a based power generators offsets negative impacts from fossil
companies fuel-based counterparties.
Chemicals Chemical companies e d c Carbon-intensive processes significantly impact part of the
chemicals sub-sector in the transition risk scenarios. In contrast,
Pharmaceutical companies companies in the pharmaceutical and other sub-sectors tend to
d d c have less carbon-intensive processes, naturally leading to lower
carbon costs and abatement expenses.
Metals and Core miners (bulk, base/ As expected, coal-focused companies are heavily impacted under
d d c
mining diversified, precious metals) the transition risk scenarios. Energy transition miners, including
companies mining lithium or copper, are less impacted due to
Pure traders/services an increased demand for electrification. Diversified miners also
c c c perform relatively better as they are able to shift away from coal
to other minerals. Overall, energy transition and diversified miners
offset some of the downgrades.
Lower Impact a b c d e Higher impact 1 This heat map is based on projected change in average credit ratings between 2020 and 2050 of counterparties
by sector/sub-sector. Colours are defined based on the distribution of credit rating changes for the six key
wholesale sectors. The bigger the credit rating downgrade, the more severely the counterparty is impacted.
58 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Insights from scenario analysis continued
Impact of climate risk on our retail Impacts across mortgage portfolios are
Retail mortgage portfolio
mortgage portfolios primarily driven by the increased risk of
We assessed the impact of various peril risks flooding, including river, surface and coastal methodology
that our retail mortgage customers could face, flooding. While relatively small proportions of
including flooding, wildfires and windstorms. the portfolios are predicted to be impacted by
We used granular models to assess our
These risks influence property values and the flooding events, the severity of these events is
material retail mortgage portfolios
ability and willingness of borrowers to service expected to increase over time. Under a Hot
exposed to a high degree of climate
their debts. Another risk driver is the ability to house scenario, sea levels are expected to rise
change. After simulating thousands of
respond and adapt to new and emerging up to 1.5 metres, which would increase the
weather events and assessing their
regulatory requirements, such as new energy risk of coastal flooding for parts of the Hong
impact on each property’s value, we
efficiency standards, which may influence Kong portfolio in the latter part of the century.
estimated expected physical losses
property values. The table shows that the Hot house scenario
under all scenarios. Key parameters
puts 25.6% of properties in Hong Kong at risk
included insurance coverage, public
The table below focuses on our most material of a 0.5 metre to 1.5 metres 1-in-100-year flood
defences and building resilience
retail mortgage portfolios in Hong Kong and event, up 18.7% from 6.9% in the Orderly and
archetypes. Transition risk was
the UK – covering 66% of our retail mortgage Disorderly scenarios.
modelled considering the changes in
portfolio as of 31 December 2020. It
key macroeconomic variables and
demonstrates the potential physical risks of The risk of extreme wind stress has also been
region-specific policies, such as the
river, surface and coastal flooding, and how considered and is only deemed material in
requirement for homes to have certain
this may vary under the Orderly, Disorderly Hong Kong, where typhoons regularly occur.
minimum-rated energy performance
and Hot house scenarios. We show the Buildings standards in Hong Kong mean that
certificates ('EPC') in the UK.
projected change in flood depth in metres structures are designed to withstand high
given a 1-in-100-year flood event. Since the wind speeds, and the severity of wind events
Orderly and Disorderly scenarios use the same is not predicted to materially change between
physical risk forecasts, these are combined now and the end of the century.
into a single column.
We take into account the transition risk for
Our analysis indicates that the most our retail mortgage portfolio as part of our
pronounced effects of physical risk on our business-as-usual lending and scenario
retail mortgage customers are under a Hot analysis exercises. We focused on physical
house scenario characterised by a more than risk on this page because our current
3°C increase in global temperatures, which analysis shows it to be a material climate
leads to an increase in the frequency and risk for this business.
severity of extreme weather events. There are
also risks posed by the transition to a net zero
economy, predominantly through
macroeconomic disruption, as well as some
country-specific policies that may be enacted
to meet these targets, including introduction
of minimum energy efficiency standards.
Exposure to flooding
Proportion of properties predicted to be impacted by floods given a 1-in-100-year severity flood
event (%)
Hong Kong UK
Scenarios 20201 2050 20201 2050
Orderly and Orderly and
Disorderly, Hot house, Disorderly, Hot house,
Flood depth in metres +1.5ºC2 +>3°C3 +1.5ºC2 +>3°C3
0–0.5 92.1 92.0 73.3 98.5 97.5 96.1
0.5–1.5 6.9 6.9 25.6 1.3 2.3 3.6
>1.5 1.0 1.1 1.1 0.2 0.2 0.3
1 Represents the baseline flood risk in 2020.
2 Represents the flood risk in 2050 under a climate scenario aligned to a 1.5°C increase in global temperatures.
3 Represents the flood risk in 2050 under a climate scenario aligned to a more than 3°C increase in global
temperatures.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 59
ESG review | Environmental
Insights from scenario analysis continued
Impact of climate risk on our commercial Under the Hot house scenario, the impacts
Commercial real estate
real estate portfolios are driven primarily by the increased risk of
We assessed the impact of various perils that flooding (coastal, riverine and surface water). portfolio methodology
our commercial real estate customers could In this scenario, Hong Kong and the UK would
be vulnerable to, including flooding, wildfires be particularly impacted by coastal flooding
The commercial real estate
and windstorms. The map below illustrates due to the estimated rise in the sea level of
methodology is tailored to individual
the potential impact of physical risk on our up to 1.5 metres, with an increase in the
property characteristics and is used to
commercial real estate portfolio in Hong Kong frequency and severity of extreme weather
analyse the impact on borrowers’ credit
under the Hot house scenario. We have events. Risks posed by the transition to a net
risk. We have also taken into account
focused on this portfolio as it is our most zero economy also exist, which manifest
existing property insurance in our
material commercial real estate portfolio in mainly through macroeconomic disruption
portfolio. Transition risk drivers include
terms of exposure. The map shows a under the Disorderly scenario, as well as
country-specific net zero policies, such
projected increase in average damage ratio, country-specific policies enacted to meet
as requirements for EPCs, and the
which represents the ratio between the cost of these targets, such as, minimum energy
associated macroeconomic disruption.
potential damage due to climate-related perils efficiency standards in the UK.
and the value of the property. The key peril
drivers in our results are coastal, river and We are continuing to refine the data used for
surface water flooding, and wind under a Hot physical and transition risk assessment of our
house scenario. portfolios together with our modelling
capabilities which use these inputs.
Exposure to physical risk in Hong Kong
under a Hot house scenario
The chart shows the increase in average Impact on commercial real estate for key countries/territories
damage ratio between 2020 and 2050 using
Country/territory- Projected impact1
a simple average for locations of our
specific EPC
commercial real estate properties in each
Countries/ policies in the Orderly, Disorderly, Hot house,
district. Our approach assumes an
territories scenario +1.5°C +1.5°C +>3°C
acceleration of physical risk impacts from
later in the century. Hong Kong – a a b
Higher value of Increased risk of
collateral helps coastal flooding
reduce impact
Canada – a b b
Macroeconomic Increased risk
disruption due to of riverine and
late policy action surface water
flooding
US – a b a
Macroeconomic No material
disruption due to increase of
Change in average damage ratio (2020–2050) late policy action physical risk due
Negli v g s i . b 2 le 0 c 2 h 0 ange Increase vs. 2020 to location of
properties
Provided by Marsh LTD
UK2 Energy efficiency a b b
The table alongside shows the projected
standards
increase in financial impact over 30 years Macroeconomic Increased risk of
introduced via
for our most material commercial real estate disruption and coastal flooding
portfolios – Hong Kong, the UK, Canada EPC policies stricter EPC
and the US, which cover 77% of the total policies due to late
policy action
commercial real estate portfolio as of
31 December 2020 – under the Orderly,
Disorderly and Hot house scenarios. The Lower Impact a b c d e Higher impact
increase in projected financial impact
represents the increase in expected credit 1 Projected impacts from perils include flooding (coastal, river and surface water), wind and wildfires,
losses relative to exposure. The commentary without taking into account client adaptation plans or management actions.
highlights the key reasons for the change in 2 UK financial projections include transition risks related to meeting minimum energy efficiency standards,
impact between the Orderly scenario and whereas the other countries/territories do not.
alternative scenarios.
60 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Insights from scenario analysis continued
Understanding the resilience of our Key findings from the 4°C or greater Hot house This forward-looking data will inform real
critical properties scenario included: estate planning. We will continue to improve
Climate change poses a physical risk to the our understanding of how extreme weather
buildings that we occupy as an organisation, – By 2050, 22 of our 250 critical buildings events impact our building portfolio as climate
including our offices, retail branches and data will have a high potential for impact due risk assessment tools improve and evolve.
centres. We measure the impacts of climate to climate change, with insurance-related Additionally, we buy insurance for property
and weather events to our buildings on an losses estimated to be in excess of 10% damage and business interruption, and consider
ongoing basis, using historical, current and of the insured value of our buildings. insurance as a loss mitigation strategy
scenario modelled forecast data. In 2021, there depending on its availability and price.
– The eight most affected locations face
were 47 major events that had no impact on
hazards relating to surface flooding, rising
the availability of our buildings. We regularly review and enhance our building
river levels and landslides, as well as coastal
selection process and global engineering
flooding from rising sea levels and storms.
We use stress testing to evaluate the potential standards, and will continue to assess historic
Of the remaining 14 locations, 11 are data
for impact to our owned or leased premises. claims data to help ensure our building selection
centres where the predominant hazards
Our scenario stress test, conducted in 2021, and design standards reflect the potential
emanate from a mixture of temperature
analysed how seven different climate change- impacts of climate change.
extremes, water stress and drought for
related hazards – comprising coastal inundation,
which the specific direct physical impact
extreme heat, extreme winds, wildfires, riverine
could be soil movement. The other three
flooding, soil movement due to drought, and
are offices where the predominant hazard
surface water flooding – could impact 250 of
is coastal flooding.
our critical buildings.
– A further 25 locations have the potential to
The 2021 scenario stress test of 250 of our be impacted by climate change, albeit to a
critical buildings modelled climate change with lesser extent, with insurance-related losses
a Hot house scenario that projects that the rise estimated at between 5% and 10% of the
in the temperature of the world will likely exceed insured value of our buildings.
4°C by 2100. It also modelled a less severe
scenario that projects that global warming will A key finding from the 2°C, less severe
likely be limited to 2°C, in line with the upper scenario showed:
limit ambition of the Paris Agreement.
– The total number of buildings at risk reduces
from 47 to 35, with the same eight key
facilities still at risk by 2050 from the
same perils.
Regulatory climate stress tests Our priority next steps
Regulators in an increasing number of While we have conducted a number of climate
jurisdictions are incorporating climate factors change scenario analyses and stress tests in
in their supervisory tools, with different 2021, we continue to broaden and enhance
aspects considered around the world. our capabilities in order to overcome the
We have built flexibility into our approach limitations identified. These include enhancing
to climate stress tests to support these our climate data repository, expanding
differences. During 2021, we completed scenario analysis methodology beyond
a number of climate stress tests in response credit risk, forecasting key climate metrics,
to regulatory requirements from the Bank of integrating climate scenario analysis into
England, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority risk management, business decisions and
and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. strategic planning. Together, they will help
We expect to complete further tests in 2022. us define and monitor targets to support the
Group’s climate strategy. We aim to continue
Any specific outcomes and balances disclosed to improve on scenario analysis disclosures in
in this section should not be assumed to be line with regulatory expectations, supported
those that have fed into our aggregated final by robust control processes and governance.
climate results for the Bank of England’s
biennial exploratory scenario.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 61
ESG review | Environmental
Our approach to sustainability policies
We recognise that businesses can have Governance and implementation
Our thermal coal
an impact on the environment, individuals Within our Global Risk and Compliance
and communities around them. We have function, we have reputational and phase-out policy
developed, implemented and refined our sustainability risk specialists who are
approach to working with our business responsible for reviewing, implementing
In fulfilment of our commitment approved
customers to understand and manage these and managing our sustainability risk policies
by shareholders at the AGM in May 2021,
issues. We have joined various partnerships as well as our application of the Equator
we published a policy to phase out
to support our role in this, including the Principles. Our global network of more than
thermal coal financing in EU and OECD
Powering Past Coal Alliance and World 75 sustainability risk managers supports the
markets by 2030, and globally by 2040.
Economic Forum’s Principles for Financing implementation of these policies. In 2021,
This incorporates project finance, direct
a Just and Urgent Energy Transition. these local sustainability risk managers
lending, or arranging or underwriting of
continued to be supported by regional
capital markets transactions to in-scope
Our policies reputational risk managers across the Group
clients, as well as the refinancing of
Our sustainability risk policies cover who have taken on additional oversight
existing finance facilities.
agricultural commodities, chemicals, energy, responsibilities for sustainability risk.
forestry, mining and metals, thermal coal,
Every year we commit to review our
UNESCO World Heritage Sites and Ramsar- The Sustainability Risk Oversight Forum,
policy and targets, taking into account
designated wetlands. made up of senior members of the Global
evolving science and internationally
Risk and Compliance function and global
recognised guidance.
These policies define our appetite for business businesses, continued to oversee the
in these sectors and seek to encourage development and implementation of policies
Using our TCFD disclosures in 2020
customers to meet good international standards that identify, manage and mitigate the Group’s
as our baseline, we intend to reduce
of practice. Where we identify activities that sustainability risk, including a refreshed
thermal coal financing exposure by
could cause material negative impacts, we will assurance framework in 2021. This framework
at least 25% by 2025, and by 50% by
only provide finance if we can confirm clients has been designed to take a more holistic view
2030. These targets will be reviewed
are managing these risks responsibly. Such of the ESG risks we face in our sustainability
in conjunction with assessments of
customers are subject to greater due diligence risk policies, including:
client transition plans. For further
and generally require additional approval by
details, see www.hsbc.com/news-and-
sustainability risk specialists. – monitoring ESG news across the
media/hsbc-news/were-phasing-out-
sustainability risk policies;
coal-financing.
Our sustainability policies continue to be – overseeing clients considered to
aligned with our approach to climate risk, be of higher risk or under exit; As shown in the wholesale loan exposure
and our net zero ambition.
– reviewing client files across the table on page 133, within the power and
sustainability risk policies; and utilities, and metals and mining sectors,
For further details on how we manage
and recognising external party
sustainability risk, as well as our full policies, – setting and reporting against a defined
assessments of power generation and
see www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and- set of key control indicators aligned
mining capacity, our exposure to thermal
responsibility/sustainability-risk. to our risk appetite.
coal at 31 December 2021 was $1.0bn
(2020: $1.2bn) or 0.2% of the total
Supporting the transition The framework is used to monitor the in-scope
wholesale loans and advances figures.
Reinforcing our ambition to support our portfolio and keep track if there is any
clients’ transition to lower carbon through deterioration in the risk ratings. With the In 2021, HSBC, together with other
transition financing – and particularly to the respective risk rating assigned, our financial institutions, participated in
phase-out of thermal coal – we published our sustainability risk specialists will take the capital markets transactions relating
thermal coal phase-out policy, which we necessary actions to mitigate unacceptable to clients who own or operate thermal
introduced in December 2021 (see right). risks. If necessary, we will proactively end the coal-fired powered plants or thermal coal
client relationship.
mines. HSBC facilitated a total of $1.3bn
out of the total of these transactions.
Biodiversity and natural capital-related policies
We have taken several steps to unlock the value of natural capital in the global economy, and
help tackle biodiversity loss and other nature-related financial risks. However, we recognise
we are at the beginning of our journey.
We regularly assess our clients for their commitment to sustainable business practices, and
have clear policies to help mitigate the risk of nature loss. Our sustainability risk policies are
designed to provide several protections against financing, which will have a negative impact on
nature. These include our forestry and agricultural commodities policies, which put an
emphasis on customers involved with the major forest-risk commodities to obtain independent
certification that their businesses operate in a sustainable manner. These include requiring palm
oil customers to commit to ‘No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation’. Our World
Heritage Sites and Ramsar-designated wetlands policy prohibits the financing of any project
that threatens the special natural characteristics of these internationally protected areas.
62 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Our approach to climate reporting
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
The table below sets out the 11 TCFD recommendations and summarises where additional information can be found.
Where we have not included climate-related financial disclosures consistent with all of the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended
Disclosures, the reasons for this and steps we are taking are set out in the additional information section on page 402.
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Governance
a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities
Process, frequency and training – The Board is responsible for our climate ambition, strategy and risk, receives climate-focused Page 80
updates throughout the year and receives ESG-related training.
Page 229
Page 232
Sub-committee accountability, – The Group Risk Committee exercises oversight of climate risks. Page 249
processes and frequency – The Group Audit Committee reviews and challenges ESG and climate-related reporting and Page 245
disclosure, including the climate change resolution and scenario analysis disclosure.
Examples of the Board and relevant Board – 2021 was a significant year for the Group in its efforts to support the transition to net zero – a Page 24
committees taking climate into account key pillar of our overall Group strategy – with the passing of our climate change resolution at
Page 219
our 2021 AGM and the publication of our thermal coal phase-out policy being two of the most
notable achievements. In January 2022, the Board also approved the necessary investment
required to develop and implement a revised operating model for the Group's Sustainability
function to help ensure delivery against our sustainability ambitions.
– The GRC and GAC convened a joint meeting to review the thermal coal phase-out policy and Page 241
our approach to financed emissions.
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities
Who manages climate-related risks – The Group Executive Committee (‘GEC’) manages our climate ambition with management Page 80
and opportunities responsibilities integrated into the relevant business and functional areas. It oversees and
directs the climate-related opportunities. It discussed climate-related issues at six meetings
in 2021.
– The Group Chief Executive is responsible for overseeing the delivery of the sustainable finance
and investment ambition and realisation of commercial opportunities.
– The Group Chief Sustainability Officer holds joint responsibility for the ESG committee that
supports Group Executives in the development and delivery of ESG strategy, key policies and
material commitments by providing oversight, coordination and management of ESG
commitments and activities.
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the chief risk officers of our PRA-regulated
businesses are the senior managers responsible for climate financial risks under the UK Senior
Managers Regime.
How management reports to the Board – The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer, and the Chief Risk and Page 80
Compliance Officer provide regular verbal and written updates to the Board.
– The ESG Committee will regularly report to the Board on progress against our ESG ambitions,
climate strategy and related commitments.
Processes used to inform management – The Group Chief Financial Officer provides an ESG dashboard including key climate-related Page 80
metrics within a quarterly report, presented to the GEC.
– Management is informed by a number of specialist ESG governance forums.
Strategy
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term
Processes used to determine material risks – We use scenario analysis to help us identify and understand climate-related risks. Page 57
and opportunities – We understand the need to find new solutions to increase the pace of change if the world Page 55
is to achieve the Paris Agreement’s goal of being net zero by 2050.
– For wholesale customers, we use a questionnaire as part of the independent review of risk, Page 133
to understand their climate strategies and risks. It also helps us to identify potential business
opportunities to support the transition.
Relevant short, medium, and long term – We aim to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and in our own operations and Page 46
time horizons supply chain by 2030.
– We aim to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment for our Page 53
customers in their transition to net zero and a sustainable future between 2020 and 2030.
– We have taken these time horizons into our consideration. We consider short term to be less Page 132
than one year, medium term to be by 2030 and long term to be by 2050.
Transition or physical climate-related – Transition or physical climate-related risk impacts may manifest across our risk taxonomy Page 132
issues identified across all time horizons.
– We are supporting our customers in their transition through our sustainable finance and Page 53
investment ambition. Our sustainable finance data dictionary includes a detailed definition
of contributing activities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 63
ESG review | Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Risks and opportunities by sector and/ – For our wholesale exposure we have focused on a group lens as a starting point, primarily due Page 57
or geography to data limitations on client carbon emissions. Our scenario analysis shows that transition risk
represents a more material risk for corporate customers, and physical risk is more material for
our retail customers.
– Opportunities include sustainable finance, sustainable investment and sustainable infrastructure. Page 53
Concentrations of credit exposure – We have identified and disclosed six sectors where our corporate customers have the highest Page 133
to carbon-related assets climate risk, which are: oil and gas; building and construction; chemicals; automotive; power
and utilities; and metals and mining.
– We have also disclosed our exposure to thermal coal. Page 62
– Our approach to financed emissions has focused primarily on oil and gas, and power and Page 47
utilities, and the specific areas of the value chain which are most carbon intensive. We will
Page 402
aim to enhance our scope 3 emissions disclosure by encouraging our customers to publicly
disclose their carbon emissions.
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning
Impact on strategy, business, and – Transition to net zero represents one of our four strategic pillars. We aim to be net zero in our Page 14
financial planning operations and supply chain by 2030 and in our financed emissions by 2050.
– Due to transitional challenges, including data and system limitations, we do not currently fully Page 402
disclose the way in which climate-related issues have affected our financial planning and
performance. We have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses,
strategy, and financial planning, and will aim to further enhance our processes in relation to
acquisitions/divestments and access to capital.
Impact on products and services – We aim to help our customers' transition to net zero and a sustainable future through providing Page 53
and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
Impact on supply chain and/or value chain – We have started targeting our largest suppliers to encourage them to make their own carbon Page 52
commitments, and to disclose their emissions. We take into account climate-related risks as
part of our third-party risk management process.
Impact on adaptation and mitigation – We announced our ambition to achieving 100% renewable power across our operations by Page 52
activities 2030, and continue to look for opportunities to procure green energy. We regularly review and
enhance our building selection process and global engineering standards, to help ensure our
building selection and design standards reflect the potential impacts of climate change.
Impact on operations – We have analysed the resilience of our critical properties, identifying 22 of our 250 critical Page 61
buildings have a high potential for impact due to climate change by 2050. This will inform real
estate planning. Our business continuity processes, including people and infrastructure, will
continue to evolve to take in account of climate-related risks across regions and markets to
avoid concentration risk.
Impact on investment in research – We are working with the World Resources Institute and WWF, focusing our collective efforts Page 77
and development on climate-related innovation, nature-based solutions and energy efficiency initiatives in Asia.
How we are striving to meet – The climate change resolution that was passed at our 2021 AGM committed us to publishing Page 18
investor expectations our thermal coal phase-out policy and setting short- and medium-term targets to align our
provision of finance with the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement.
c) D escribe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios,
including a 2°C or lower scenario
Embedding climate into scenario analysis – We use the people, processes, controls and governance structures from our traditional capital Page 57
stress tests for our climate-related scenario analysis, as well as bespoke data, modelling
techniques and analysis.
Key drivers of performance and how these – In 2021, we ran our first climate stress testing and scenario analysis exercise. For all portfolios, Page 57
have been taken into account our assessments considered transition risk and physical risk.
– We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk quantitatively, due Page 402
to transitional challenges such as data limitations and evolving science and methodologies.
Scenarios used and how they factored – Our climate-related scenario analysis was run on a suite of scenarios including Hot house, Page 57
in government policies Orderly and Disorderly scenarios, which incorporated a complex set of social, political and
economic decisions, including taking into account government policies.
How our strategies may change and adapt – As our approach matures, we will look to begin incorporating our analysis into our core Page 61
banking processes including strategic planning and risk appetite.
– We regularly review and enhance our own building selection process and design standards
to help these reflect the potential impacts of climate change.
Risk management
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
Traditional banking risk types considered – Our key climate risk types are: wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk, regulatory compliance Page 131
risk, resilience risk and strategic (reputational) risk.
– We tailor our underlying policies and controls to manage the different risks and exposures to Page 56
reflect our respective roles in asset management, employee pensions and insurance to meet
the needs of our key stakeholders.
64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Process – The process of identification and assessment of climate risk differs according to the risk type, Page 131
taking into account material risk drivers. We use scenario analysis to assess our portfolio's
exposure, which takes into account emerging regulatory requirements, and we use our
transition risk questionnaire to request information from our corporate customers.
Integration into policies and procedures – We are integrating climate risk into the supporting policies, processes and controls for our key Page 131
climate risks and we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities
mature over time.
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks
Process and how we make decisions – The Group Risk Management Meeting receives scheduled updates on climate risk, and receive Page 80
regular updates on our climate risk appetite and top and emerging climate risks.
– Our developing climate risk appetite metrics aim to support the oversight and management Page 131
of the financial and non-financial risks from climate change.
– Our approach to climate risk management is developing and how we manage these risks will
vary by risk type. We will continue to align to our risk management framework when
determining the materiality of its exposure to climate-related risks.
c) D escribe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk
management framework
How we have aligned and integrated – Our approach to climate risk management is aligned to our Group-wide risk management Page 131
our approach framework and three lines of defence model.
How we take into account interconnections – Our dedicated climate risk programme continues to accelerate the development of our climate Page 131
between entities, functions risk management capabilities, taking into account relevant interconnections within global
businesses, functions and entities.
Metrics and targets
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk
management process
Metrics used to assess the impact of – We disclose our wholesale loan exposure to the six high transition risk sectors. It is also used to Page 133
climate-related risks on our loan portfolio be a metric, together with our transition risk questionnaire to assess impact of climate risk and
help inform risk management.
– We are starting to measure climate risk for our retail portfolio, starting with retail properties Page 134
in the UK.
– Our climate risk management information dashboard includes metrics relating to our key Page 402
climate risks, and is reported to the Global Climate Risk Oversight Forum. However, we do not
fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related risks on retail lending, parts
of wholesale lending and other financial intermediary business activities.
Metrics used to assess progress – We track our net zero progress using multiple metrics, tailoring methodologies to the Page 18
against opportunities specific measures.
– We do not currently fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets aligned Page 402
with climate-related opportunities, relevant forward-looking metrics or internal carbon prices
due to transitional challenges including data and system limitations.
Board or senior management incentives – We use a number of climate-related metrics within annual incentive scorecards, including Page 17
those of the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer.
b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks
Our own operations – We report scope 1, 2 and part of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the energy Page 52
used in our buildings and employees’ business travel.
– Future disclosure on scope 3 supply chain emissions (suppliers), as well as its related risks Page 402
is reliant on our suppliers publicly disclosing their carbon emissions.
Measuring our on-balance sheet – We have started to measure our scope 3 portfolio impact, beginning with the oil and gas, and Page 47
financed emissions power and utilities sectors.
– Future disclosure on scope 3 financed emissions (customers) is reliant on our customers Page 402
publicly disclosing their carbon emissions.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets
Details of targets set and whether they – One of our strategic pillars is to support the transition to a net zero global economy. To support Page 50
are absolute or intensity based our ambition to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050 or sooner, we have set
a new absolute on-balance sheet financed emissions 2030 target for the oil and gas sector, and
an on-balance sheet financed emissions intensity 2030 target for the power and utilities sector.
– Given that climate scenarios are mainly focused on medium- to long-term horizons, rather than Page 402
short-term, we have set interim 2030 targets for on-balance sheet financed emissions for the
oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors. We do not currently disclose targets used to
measure and manage physical risk, due to transitional challenges and data limitations. We do
not consider water usage to be a material target for our business and therefore we have not
included a target in this year’s disclosure.
Other key performance indicators used – We also use other indicators to assess our progress including energy consumption and Page 18
percentage of renewable electricity sourced.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 65
ESG review
Social
We aim to play an active role in opening up a world of
opportunity for our customers, colleagues and communities
as we bring the benefits of connectivity and global economy
to more people around the world.
At a glance
Our relationships Our organisation has been shaped by the We have a long-standing commitment to
Our purpose is opening up a world of many cultures, communities and continents support our communities, in areas where we
opportunity, and we aim to bring that we serve, with almost 220,000 full-time can make a difference and support sustainable
purpose to our customers, employees equivalent employees (‘FTEs’) in 64 countries economic growth. We believe that financial
and the communities in which we operate. with 160 nationalities. We were founded on services, when accessible and fair, can
the strength of different experience and we reduce inequality and help more people
We create value by providing the products and continue to value that difference. We strive access opportunities.
services our customers need and aim to do to champion inclusivity to better reflect the
so in a way that fits seamlessly into their lives. worlds of our customers and communities. Our culture is underpinned by our values:
This helps us to build long-lasting relationships we value difference, we succeed together,
with our customers. Through a series of we take responsibility, and we get it done.
surveys, we aim to listen to our customers to
put them at the centre of our decision making.
If things do go wrong, we aim to take action
in a timely manner.
In this section
Customers Customer satisfaction While customer satisfaction improved during the year, we have Page 67
work to do to improve our rank position against competitors.
How we listen We aim to be open and consistent in how we track, record and Page 68
manage complaints.
Employees The future of work As the Covid-19 pandemic tested our colleagues, we expect the Page 70
way we work to change as the workforce meets new demands.
Inclusion We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive Page 71
environment that reflects our customers and communities.
Learning and skills We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where colleagues can Page 73
development develop skills and experiences that help them fulfil their potential.
Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey every six months and report insights Page 74
to our Group Executive Committee and the Board.
Well-being Our global well-being programme is a key enabler of our people Page 76
strategy, especially as we move to a more hybrid way of working.
Communities Supporting communities We focus on a number of priorities where we can make Page 77
a difference and support sustainable economic growth.
Financial inclusion We aim to build financial health and remove barriers people Page 78
can face in accessing financial services.
66 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Social | Employees
Inclusion
We value diversity of thought and we We recognise the importance of data in We are now using data science to uncover
are building an environment that reflects driving change, and in 2021 placed an barriers to more equal representation
our customers and communities. We are increased focus on capturing diversity data across the organisation.
committed to attracting, developing and in markets where this is possible from a legal,
retaining diverse talent by fostering an data privacy and cultural perspective.
inclusive culture.
Our approach to inclusion is organised under four pillars:
Investing in talent Investing in employee networks Investing in data Supporting customers
To ensure that we have diversity Tens of thousands of colleagues The diversity data we collect is and communities
of thought and represent the are part of our employee networks, reviewed by our Group Executive We are committed to supporting
communities we serve it is imperative focusing on age, disability, mental Committee on a quarterly basis and the diverse communities we serve,
that we attract, hire and develop health, ethnicity, faith, gender, LGBT+, is used to make evidence-based with actions across HSBC, and in our
high-performing diverse talent. working parents, carers, and wider decisions and hold us accountable for personal and wholesale businesses
Our recruitment, retention and common interest groups. Each progress against our commitments. specifically, including:
We will use diversity data to enhance
development initiatives include network is supported by an
the following: executive sponsor. Some highlights our understanding of employee – We empowered female
from 2021 include: sentiment across diverse groups entrepreneurs to increase the
– In recruitment, it is now mandatory and to enable us to assess the scale of their business through
for all hiring managers to carry out – Balance, our gender network, inclusiveness of our hiring processes. masterclasses, coaching and
inclusive hiring training. For external launched an initiative that now In 2021, highlights included: networking as part of HSBC
recruitment, we work with agencies runs across all employee networks, Roar, a customer coaching and
that specialise in promoting more providing structured small group – We have expanded our self- networking programme launched
diverse hires at all levels of seniority. executive coaching sessions led identification capability to 38 by HSBC Global Business Banking
– To support our people managers by internal leaders in 38 markets. markets, enabling 91% of our in partnership with AllBright.
and colleagues, we have invested Nearly 3,000 colleagues have workforce to share their – We redesigned our retail banking
in expanding our leadership benefited to date. ethnic heritage. apps in line with accessibility
development programmes, and in – Embrace, our ethnicity network, – Employees can now also share guidelines and transformed the
initiatives relating to mental health hosted global panel sessions on their disability, gender identity and physical appearance of our credit
and neurodiversity. We are also the World Day for Cultural Diversity to sexual orientation data. These and debit cards to make them
first UK employer to be accredited discuss the importance of ethnic and self-identification options were more accessible.
as menopause friendly. cultural inclusion and the actions enabled for 90%, 80% and 70% – We demonstrated our commitment
– We run targeted leadership needed to bring about sustainable of our workforce respectively, in to promoting a culture of respect
programmes for underrepresented change. In the US, Embrace held markets where this was permitted and equality by becoming a
groups, and we have reviewed career insights workshops from a legal, regulatory and signatory in 2021 to the UN
succession plans and pipelines showcasing the skills needed for cultural perspective. Standards of Conduct for Business:
for senior leadership roles in our various internal vacancies. – As part of the hiring process, Tackling discrimination against
key markets with a focus on – Our Pride network launched ‘How we have enabled candidates in lesbian, gay, bi, trans, and
representation of female and to be an LGBT+ Ally’ e-learning in 12 markets, including five of our intersex people.
ethnically diverse talent. 10 languages. Approximately 2,500 largest, to share their diversity data.
colleagues completed the training We will add a further seven markets For further details of how we are
For further details on awards within five months, including the in 2022. making financial services more
and employee programmes, Group Executive Committee. accessible and fair, see ‘Financial
see the ESG Data Pack at inclusion’ on page 78.
www.hsbc.com/esg.
Disability confidence
Our employee networks are essential to fostering an inclusive culture. Our Ability network
celebrated International Day of People with Disabilities in partnership with PurpleSpace,
which launched the Purple Light Up movement to build disability confidence for
employees and customers. Global events were held to celebrate the contribution of
colleagues with disabilities, raise awareness of our disability confidence goals, and build
empathy and allyship.
In 2021, we made progress on our ambition to become a disability confident organisation.
Key highlights were: running more than 50 digital accessibility sessions attended by
15,000 employees and partners; launching local Ability networks in India and Poland,
and increasing membership across the Group; and welcoming six new colleagues with
Down’s Syndrome to work in our UK branches.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 71
ESG review | Social | Employees
Inclusion continued
Women in senior leadership We put in place important foundations in 2021 UK workforce. There are more men than
After achieving our ambition of 30% women through leadership development programmes, women in senior and higher-paid roles, and
in senior leadership positions in 2020, we set inclusive hiring, and investing in the next more women than men in junior roles. We also
a new goal to reach 35% by 2025. At the end generation of high-performing diverse talent. have a number of senior, global, head office
of 2021, we had 31.7% of women in senior roles based in the UK.
leadership roles. Our Accelerating into Leadership programme
was expanded to include ethnically diverse For further details on our gender representation,
Appointments of external female candidates men as well as women in middle management. ethnicity representation, pay gap data, and
actions we are taking, see www.hsbc.com/
into senior positions were 37.6%, up from In the UK, we piloted the Solaris Bridge
diversitycommitments and the ESG Data Pack
31.7% in 2020. Promotions of women into development programme for high-performing at www.hsbc.com/esg.
senior leadership roles were 43.2%. Black women.
Percentage of our senior leadership
Talent programmes – including Accelerating We have partnered with organisations that who are women
Female Leaders and our Explore leadership specialise in engaging ethnically diverse talent 31.7%
course – have provided skills and coaching for graduate, mid-career and leadership
to help high-performing women progress recruitment, and request diverse candidate
their careers at an accelerated rate. slates from our recruitment partners. (2020: 30.3%; 2019: 29.4%; 2018: 28.2%)
Gender diversity statistics We are building our pipeline of future talent Ethnicity declaration
through grants, scholarships and internships. 52.4%
8 62% We have signed up to the UK 10,000 Black
Holdings
Interns initiative, pledging to hire 35 interns
Board
5 38%
– which is the highest number of places Colleagues who have shared their ethnic
Group 17 81% among all financial services companies. In heritage with us to date, out of 91% who
Executive the UK we also donated £2m to the #Merky are able to do so.
Committee 4 19% Foundation to support 30 Stormzy Scholars
Combined 169 66% at the University of Cambridge over the next
executive three years. In the US, we have established
committee and 87 34% an $800,000 scholarship with the Executive
direct reports1 Leadership Council to fund Black students
Senior 6,382 68% interested in a career at HSBC.
leadership2
2,968 32%
Representation and pay gap reporting
108,296 48% We publish our gender representation,
All employees ethnicity representation and pay gap data
116,441 52% annually to ensure we continue to make
progress and to help us identify new areas for
Male Female
action. We have been reporting our gender
1 Combined executive committee and direct reports representation and pay gap data for the UK
includes HSBC Group Executives, General since 2017. In 2020, we voluntarily extended
Managers, Managing Directors, Group Company our reporting to include ethnicity for the UK
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer and their
and gender for the US. In 2021, we extended
direct reports (excluding administrative staff).
this further to include ethnicity for the US
2 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3
and gender for mainland China, Hong Kong, Diversity data
and above in our global career band structure.
India and Mexico. This covers 70% of our During 2021, our inclusion team worked
organisation, providing a clear view of with legal, regulatory and diversity
Our ethnicity commitments overall representation. and inclusion colleagues in each of our
In July 2020, we made a commitment to markets to ensure we enabled as many
double the number of Black colleagues in While we are confident in our approach to pay, colleagues as possible to share their
senior leadership positions by 2025. We have until women and ethnically diverse colleagues data on a voluntary basis.
focused on the UK and US markets, where are appropriately represented at every level
most of our Black colleagues are based. In across the organisation, and we have more This was one of the biggest global
2021 we grew our number of Black senior complete ethnicity self-identification data, initiatives we have run, and has resulted
leaders by 17.5%. we will continue to see gaps in average pay. in significant engagement from
We review our pay practices regularly and colleagues sharing their ethnicity
Our global campaign to invite colleagues to work with independent third parties to review data so far.
provide us with data on how they identify has equal pay. If pay differences are identified
provided us with a more robust understanding that are not due to objective, tangible reasons It will be a multi-year process for
of the ethnic profile of our workforce. Using such as performance or skills and experience, colleagues and candidates to feel
this data, in 2022 we are refining our ethnic we make adjustments. comfortable sharing their diversity data
diversity goals to work towards a diverse with us. We will need to demonstrate the
senior leadership representation that better In 2021, our median aggregate UK-wide robustness of our data security controls,
reflects the communities we serve. We will gender pay gap, including all reported HSBC deliver on our commitments to use this
maintain our focus on goals for Black senior entities, was 46.7%, compared with 48.0% in data to progress representation targets,
leaders and will also establish goals for other 2020, and the ethnicity pay gap was -6.0%, identify and remove inclusion barriers
underrepresented ethnically diverse groups. compared with -5.6% in 2020. Our overall UK and enhance our inclusion culture.
gender pay gap is driven by the shape of our
72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Social | Employees
Learning and skills development
We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture Changing how we learn The Group Executive Committee takes time
where colleagues can develop skills and Colleagues can access HSBC University online to identify successors for our most critical
undertake experiences that help them fulfil via a learning platform called Degreed. This roles. Successors undergo robust assessment
their potential. This determines not only how helps them identify, assess and develop skills and participate in executive development
we develop our people but also how we through internal and external courses and programmes.
recruit, identify and nurture talent. resources in a way that suits them. Launched
in 2021, usage of Degreed grew significantly
Our resources through the year. Training at HSBC
We use a range of resources to help 5.9 million
colleagues take ownership of their Degreed materials range from short videos,
development and career including: articles or podcasts to packaged programmes
or curated learning pathways that link content Training hours carried out by our
– HSBC University is our home for learning in a logical structure. Degreed changes the colleagues in 2021.
and skills, which is accessed online and nature of learning, balancing time-intensive (2020: 5.2 million)
through a network of training centres. classroom learning with simple accessible
Learning is organised through technical and timely content. By December, more than
academies aligned to businesses and 115,000 colleagues were registered on the
functions and enterprise-wide academies. platform, and in 2021, overall training volumes
were up to 26.7 hours per FTE from 23 hours
– Our My HSBC Career portal offers career
per FTE in 2020.
development information and resources to
help colleagues manage the various stages
Most development happens while our
of their career from joining through to
colleagues work. In 2021, we launched an
career progression.
AI-based platform called Talent Marketplace,
– HSBC Talent Marketplace is a new online
which matches colleagues to projects and
platform using artificial intelligence (‘AI’) to
experiences based on their aspirations. By
match those keen to learn specific skills while
December, this had been rolled out to nearly
they work, with opportunities to support
50,000 colleagues in the US, India, Singapore
relevant projects alongside existing work.
and the UK, and will be rolled out globally
in 2022.
Developing strong foundations
We expect all colleagues to complete global
Leadership development
mandatory training each year. It plays a critical
It remains critical to our ability to energise for
role in shaping our culture, ensuring a focus on
growth that we manage people effectively and
the issues that are fundamental to working with
our leaders make an impact. In recent years,
us – such as sustainability, financial crime risk,
we have refreshed how we provide leadership
and our intolerance of bullying and harassment. New routes to
development. In 2021, we launched a new
New joiners attend our Global Discovery
executive development curriculum for our opportunity
programme designed to enhance their
most senior leaders, combining internal
knowledge of the organisation and engage
programmes and business school activities
them with our purpose, values and strategy. Our Talent Marketplace platform helps
with targeted technical programmes on key
our colleagues to open up a world of
topics and skills.
As our risks and opportunities change, new opportunities to develop their
our technical academies offer general and skills, connections and careers to
Retaining and identifying future talent
targeted development. Our Risk Academy complement traditional learning.
The starting point to identifying talent is having
provides learning for every employee in
a recruitment process that is fair and inclusive.
traditional areas of risk like financial crime risk Colleagues can create a profile that
In February 2021, we launched inclusive hiring
but also offers more specialised development describes their skills, experience and
training to help managers make decisions in
for those in high-risk roles and for emerging aspirations. The system uses AI to
line with our hiring principles. Managers can
issues like climate risk or the ethics of AI match projects to potential candidates,
now only hire once they have completed this
and Big Data. providing our colleagues with an
training, with over 13,500 managers receiving
opportunity to learn and offering project
certification in 2021.
A focus on skills owners a diverse pool of talent from
Our approach to learning is skills based. which to draw.
As we reshape HSBC we recognise that
Our academies work with businesses and
managing change well is critical. To that
functions to identify the key skills and Having launched in a number of
end, we have committed to focusing on
capabilities they need in the future. We also countries in 2021, Talent Marketplace is
redeploying those colleagues impacted by
help colleagues identify, assess and develop helping our colleagues to connect with
restructuring. In 2021, 23% of staff impacted
the skills that match their aspirations. each other around the world and realise
found new jobs within HSBC, compared with
new opportunities. For example, one
14% in 2020.
In 2021, we ran a Future Skills campaign called Singapore-based colleague who
Focus 4, encouraging colleagues to identify wanted to improve their communication
Our global graduate programme welcomed
four skills to prioritise in their development skills and was matched with a
650 new colleagues to the organisation in
plans. During four themed weeks colleagues London-based project owner who
2021. We held a three-day virtual induction
attended various events that introduced them needed local market knowledge and
to help graduates understand the programme
to areas such as data, digital and sustainability language skills.
and how they can play their part in bringing
skills, as well as personal skills including
our purpose, strategy and values to life.
critical thinking and resilience.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 73
ESG
review
Social | Employees
Listening to our colleagues continued
Measuring our progress against peers
We use seven Snapshot indices to measure key areas of focus and to enable comparison against a peer group of global financial institutions.
The table sets out how we performed.
vs HSBC vs
Index Score1 2020 benchmark2 Questions that make up the index
Employee 72 0 +4 I am proud to say I work for this company.
engagement I feel valued at this company.
I would recommend this company as a great place to work.
Employee 71 -1 +3 I generally look forward to going to work.
focus My work gives me a feeling of personal accomplishment.
My work is challenging and interesting.
Strategy 72 +4 +2 I have a clear understanding of this company’s strategic objectives.
I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
I feel confident about this company’s future.
Change 74 0 -2 Leaders in my area set a positive example.
leadership My line manager does a good job of communicating reasons behind important changes
that are made.
Senior leaders in my area communicate openly and honestly about changes to the business.
Speak-up 75 0 +8 My company is genuine in its commitment to encourage colleagues to speak up.
I feel able to speak up when I see behaviour which I consider to be wrong.
Where I work, people can state their opinion without the fear of negative consequences.
Trust 76 +1 +5 I trust my direct manager.
I trust senior leadership in my area.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
Career (new)3 67 +2 +3 I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I believe that we have fair processes for moving/promoting people into new roles.
My line manager actively supports my career development.
1 Each index comprises three constituent questions, with the average of these questions forming the index score.
2 We benchmark Snapshot results against a peer group of global financial services institutions, provided by our research partner, Karian and Box. Scores for each
question are calculated as the percentage of employees who agree to each statement. For further details on the constituent questions and past results, see the
ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
3 The career index was introduced in early 2021. It comprises questions that were asked in earlier surveys so we are able to report a comparison with 2020.
Managing employee engagement Our strategy index continued to strengthen Employee engagement
Three of our seven Snapshot indices improved with employees increasingly confident about 72%
in 2021, following significant increases in the future. We still trailed the benchmark by
2020. Employee engagement, which is our five points for employees stating that they see
headline measure, was four points above the positive impact of our strategy. We hope Employee engagement index score
benchmark and five points above 2019 levels. to address this through a renewed focus on (2020: 72%)
The measure was unchanged from 2020, as our purpose and strategy as part of our 2022
were the speak-up and change leadership employee engagement activities. 74%
indices. The employee focus index dropped
by one point, but remained three points above We note that voluntary turnover increased
the benchmark. from 7.7% in 2020 to 12.7% in 2021, consistent Of colleagues feel confident about this
with trends across the wider employment company’s future
Our response to the Covid-19 pandemic market. Our Snapshot survey showed a slight (2020: 70%)
remained a strong positive driver of employee decrease in employees who intend to stay
sentiment in 2021. Employee feedback with HSBC for five or more years, from 65% in 67%
frequently references flexibility and the ability to 2020 to 64% in 2021. Our research shows that
work from home as an important factor in why how employees feel about their career at
they would recommend HSBC as a great place HSBC is a key driver of their intent to stay. Of colleagues feel they can achieve their
to work, with employee well-being, HSBC’s Ensuring that our people have the opportunity career objectives at this company
Covid-19 response and the working to develop new skills and further their careers (2020: 66%)
environment having the greatest positive with HSBC is therefore important for retaining
influence on employee engagement. Looking talent. We are reassured that against this For further details on how employee engagement
beyond the pandemic, we will continue to focus backdrop, our career index increased by two scores, including among colleagues identifying
on aspects of the wider employee experience points since 2020 and was three points above as part of an ethnic minority or as having a
disability, have an impact on executive Director
that our research shows are the strongest the external benchmark.
remuneration scorecards, see page 268 in our
drivers of employee engagement. This included corporate governance report.
ensuring that colleagues feel a sense of
belonging, feel trust towards leadership, see
career progression opportunities at HSBC and
are confident in the company’s future.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 75
ESG
review
Social | Communities
Communities
We have a long-standing commitment to and knowledge needed to thrive in the We also recognise the importance of listening
support the communities in which we operate, post-pandemic environment, and through the to – and addressing – local community needs
in areas where we can make a difference and transition to a sustainable future. Our five-year and causes. We earmark approximately a
support sustainable economic growth. Climate Solutions Partnership, powered by quarter of our funding for causes that are
$100m of our philanthropic funding, aims to important to communities across our network,
Our Future Skills strategy aims to provide our scale up climate innovation ventures and such as environmental protection or
customers, colleagues and communities with nature-based solutions, and to help transition healthcare.
the employability and financial capability skills the energy sector towards renewable sources.
Supporting communities
Future skills – the Technovation Girls programme, which
Our Future Skills strategy, launched in 2018, aims to address the lack of diversity in
has supported over 5.2 million people through the technology sector by equipping young
more than $156m in charitable donations. women and girls with the skills to become
Current projections from our charity partners technology entrepreneurs and leaders;
indicate our support during 2021 reached more – Soliya, an international non-profit
than 1.2 million people through donations organisation, whose work enables young
of $41.8m. adults to gain the skills needed to thrive in
a connected world; and
With the global economy still feeling the
– the Ryerson Diversity Institute’s Pursue Skills impact bond
effects and restrictions from the Covid-19
Entrepreneurship programme, which
pandemic, our colleagues and partners have
supports Black high school students and
continued to deliver programmes aimed at In 2021, we supported India’s first skills
recent graduates to develop leadership skills
ensuring that people likely to be most impacted impact bond, issued by the National
and explore careers in entrepreneurship.
are not left behind. We also funded global Skills Development Corporation, a
research by The Prince’s Trust group of public-private partnership set up by
Our High Impact grants programme allows
charities, to get a true understanding of how India’s Ministry of Finance. We are
our teams to apply for additional funding to
young people feel about the future of work providing $4.3m as one of four outcome
support local projects. This year we awarded
in this context. funders, who commit to pay out once
$7.4m to 26 projects, which will be distributed
the partnership achieves its stated
over two years.
We support our charity partners to deliver objectives. Over the next four years,
a combination of global and locally-led the partnership aims to equip 50,000
Climate Solutions Partnership
programmes, including: young people with skills and vocational
Working with the World Resources Institute
training, and to help them to find
and WWF, we are focusing our collective
– Junior Achievement’s International employment. Our philanthropic funding
efforts on three global themes: climate-related
Innovation Challenges, which encourage towards the bond aims to prove the
innovation, nature-based solutions and energy
young people to use their creativity to help concept of this innovative approach,
efficiency initiatives in Asia. We see these as
communities develop financial capability; and act as a catalyst for much wider
having the potential to make a significant
– our Green Skills Innovation Challenge with impact in the mission to achieve a net zero, impact in the future.
Ashoka – a global network for social resilient and sustainable future. Since 2020,
entrepreneurs – which recognised 12 we have provided $28.4m to our NGO partners.
innovators who are simultaneously solving
Total cash giving towards
environmental and social problems; Local priorities
charitable programmes
Our support for Covid-19 relief efforts $113.8m
continued in 2021, with a further $10m
Charitable giving in 2021 donated in India. Focusing on the longer-term
response to the pandemic, we also launched a
one-year programme with UNICEF to support
the employability and financial capability of
Hours volunteered during work time
young people in Mexico, Indonesia and India.
>79,000
Employee volunteering
We offer paid volunteering days, and
encourage our people to give time, skills and
knowledge to causes within their communities.
People reached through our Future
In 2021, our colleagues gave over 79,000 hours
Skills programme
Social, including Future Skills: 39% to community activities during work time.
1.2 million
Environment, including the Climate
Solutions Partnership: 18% Engagement with pressure groups
Local priorities: 22% We aim to maintain a constructive dialogue
Disaster relief and other giving: 21% on important topics that are often raised
by campaigning organisations and
pressure groups.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 77
ESG review | Social | Communities
Financial inclusion
We believe that financial services, when Access to financial education with the increased amount of gaming that
accessible and fair, can reduce inequality and We continue to invest in financial education young people are engaging with today.
help more people access opportunities. We content and features across different channels, The programme featured digital tools, videos
aim to play an active role in opening up a to help customers, colleagues and communities and in-school lesson plans to educate children
world of opportunity for individuals by building be confident users of financial services. and parents on the issue.
financial health and removing the different Throughout 2020 and 2021, we received over
barriers that people can face in accessing 2.8 million unique visitors to our digital financial Inclusive design
financial services. education content, making progress towards We aim to ensure that our banking products
our 2019 goal of reaching 4 million unique and services are designed to be accessible for
Access to products and services visitors by the end of 2022. In the UK, we have customers experiencing either temporary or
We remain committed to supporting a financial fitness score that provides individuals permanent challenging circumstances, such
individuals experiencing homelessness or with an indicative score on the healthiness of as disability, impairment or a major life event.
housing difficulties through our ‘no fixed their finances based on details about their For further details on our new HSBC UK
address’ service in the UK and Hong Kong. spending, borrowing and saving habits, as accessible card features, see page 297.
We continue to support survivors of human well as tips to improve their financial fitness.
trafficking in the UK, as well as refugees and We strive to make our digital channels
unified screening mechanism claimants in Our financial education offering is extended accessible so they are usable by everyone,
Hong Kong through the provision of basic to our colleagues in the form of online learning regardless of ability. We have now reviewed
banking services. In 2021, HSBC UK also modules, empowering them to improve their our browser-based websites in 27 retail
supported 150 Afghan settlers who arrived in skills and enhance their financial well-being. markets and our mobile banking services
the country as part of a resettlement scheme We also deliver digital content and webinars to in 21 markets against the Web Content
to open bank accounts, a crucial first step to employees of our corporate clients on a broad Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 AA standards,
moving their lives forward. In May 2021, as range of financial topics. These are supported which are stipulated by the World Wide Web
part of our ongoing efforts to create innovative by financial health checks – a one-on-one Consortium. We are continuing to make
product offerings, we introduced basic conversation on a non-advised basis to progress in this area.
banking services for ethnic minority discuss individuals’ circumstances based
customers in Hong Kong who have a on their learning. We also want to be more explicit about
limited understanding of English or Chinese. catering for neurodiverse users and have
We support charity programmes that deliver launched our first Neurodiversity Guidelines.
Making banking accessible financial education to our local communities. The purpose of these guidelines is to provide
Number of accounts opened for homeless, In 2021, we launched our Saving for Good members of HSBC digital teams with guidance
refugees and survivors of human trafficking programme in partnership with JA Worldwide for how they should design, code and create
– Injaz Al-Arab. The programme aims to equip digital content to support the needs of people
economically vulnerable migrant workers in who are neurodiverse.
2021 2,295
Bahrain, Egypt, Kuwait, Qatar and the UAE
2020 840 with financial literacy skills to strengthen their Within our insurance business, we are
financial resilience. redesigning the layout of our documents,
2019 244
adding in visual graphics and simplifying
We understand the importance of building the language used.
2019 financial capability in children to ensure
future resilience, and continue to collaborate For further details of our product design and
with partners to deliver financial education our product responsibilities, please see page 83.
programmes such as Money Heroes. In 2021,
HSBC UK also introduced a programme to
tackle the unhealthy spending habits associated
Supporting women and minority-led businesses
We are aiming to support our diverse a network that helps women in business
customers by opening up a world of connect with funding and growth
opportunity for women and minorities. In opportunities. Together with AllBright, we
October 2021, we committed to allocating launched HSBC Roar in 2021, a customer
$100m in lending for companies that are coaching and networking programme for
founded and led by women and minorities female entrepreneurs.
through HSBC Ventures, which provides
capital to start-ups and early stage
businesses around the world. We
understand it is critical to provide financial
support to founders who are historically
underrepresented, so that their businesses
can grow and expand. Since 2019, we have
also been in partnership with AllBright,
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Governance
Governance
We remain committed to high standards of governance.
We work alongside our regulators and recognise our
contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance
Our relationship We strive to meet our responsibilities to We acknowledge that increasing financial
We act on our responsibility to run our society, including through being transparent in inclusion is a continuing effort, and we are
business in a way that upholds high standards our approach to paying taxes. We also seek to carrying out a number of initiatives to increase
of corporate governance. ensure we respect global standards on human access to financial services.
rights in our workplace and our supply chains,
We are committed to working with our and continually work to improve our For further details on our corporate governance,
regulators to manage the safety of the compliance management capabilities. see our corporate governance report on page 217.
financial system, adhering to the spirit and the
letter of the rules and regulations governing
our industry. In our endeavour to restore trust
in our industry, we aim to act with courageous
integrity and learn from past events to help
prevent their recurrence.
How ESG is governed We expect that our ESG governance approach is likely to continue to develop, in line with Page 80
our evolving approach to ESG matters and stakeholder expectations.
Our respect for As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we strive for continual improvement in our Page 81
human rights approach to human rights.
Conduct: Our product Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on the impact we have Page 83
responsibilities on our customers and the geographies in which we operate.
Cybersecurity We invest heavily in our business and technical controls to help prevent, detect and mitigate Page 85
cyber threats.
Data privacy We are committed to protecting and respecting the data we hold and process, in Page 86
accordance with the laws and regulations of the geographies in which we operate.
Our approach with We require suppliers to meet our compliance and financial stability requirements, as well Page 86
our suppliers as to comply with our supplier ethical code of conduct.
Safeguarding the We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime risks and reduce their impact on Page 87
financial system our organisation, customers and communities that we serve.
Whistleblowing Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our colleagues and other Page 87
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.
A responsible approach We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which we operate. Page 88
to tax
Acting with integrity We aim to act with courageous integrity and learn from past events to prevent Page 88
their recurrence.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 79
ESG review | Governance
How ESG is governed
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG content of ESG disclosures, and the Group Board and Group Executive Committee.
strategy, overseeing executive management People Committee, which provides oversight Climate risks are also considered in the Group
in developing the approach, execution and support for the Group’s approach to Risk Management Meeting and the Group
associated reporting. Progress against our performance management. Risk Committee, with scheduled updates
ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board provided, as well as detailed reviews of
discussion and review of key topics such as For some areas, such as climate where our material matters, such as climate-related
updates on net zero, customer experience and approach is more advanced, dedicated stress testing exercises.
employee sentiment. Board members receive governance activities exist to support the
ESG-related training as part of their ongoing wide range of activities, from sustainable The below table details the main specialist
development, and seek out further finance solution development in the governance forums, their responsibilities
opportunities to build their skills and Sustainability Execution Review Group to and the responsible executives for the
experience in this area. For further details on climate risk management in the Climate management of ESG matters. We expect
Board members' ESG skills and experience, Risk Oversight Forum. that our ESG governance approach is likely to
see page 220. For further details on their continue to develop, in line with our evolving
induction and training in 2021, see page 229. The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer approach to ESG matters and stakeholder
Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG matters, and the chief risk officers of our Prudential expectations. The Board is regularly provided
the governance activities are managed Regulation Authority-regulated businesses are with specific updates on ESG matters,
through a combination of specialist the senior managers responsible for climate including the thermal coal phase-out policy
governance infrastructure and regular financial risks under the UK Senior Managers and exposures, human rights, and employee
meetings and committees, where appropriate. Regime. The chief risk officers attend Board well-being.
These include the Disclosure Committee, meetings and where appropriate provide
which provides oversight for the scope and regular verbal and written updates to the
Governance forums Responsible for: Responsibility held by:
ESG Committee (new) Supports Group Executives in the development and Group Chief Sustainability Officer
delivery of ESG strategy, key policies and material and Group Company Secretary and
commitments by providing oversight, coordination Chief Governance Officer
and management of ESG commitments and activities
Sustainability Execution Oversees the delivery of our ambition to provide and Group Chief Executive
Review Group (new) facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and
investment, and realisation of commercial opportunities
Social management forums Oversees employee engagement, diversity and Group Chief Human Resources
inclusion, community engagement, customer Officer and Group Chief
satisfaction, and social considerations for stakeholders Communications Officer
Governance management Oversees subsidiaries, business conduct and ethics, Group Chief Risk and Compliance
forums corporate governance, whistleblowing, reputational Officer and Group Company Secretary
factors, data privacy and human rights and Chief Governance Officer
Digital Business Services Oversees the global delivery of ESG activities within our Group Chief Operating Officer
ESG Forum own operations, services and technology elements of
our strategy
Human Rights Steering Supports global leadership in promoting, enhancing Group Chief Risk and
Committee and reflecting human rights in execution of the Group's Compliance Officer
strategic goals, as well as developing the Group’s
Human Rights, and Modern Slavery and Human
Trafficking statements and associated oversight
of implementation
Climate Risk Oversight Forum Oversees all global risk activities relating to climate
risk management, including physical and transition
risks. Equivalent forums have been established at
regional level
Group Reputational Oversees global executive support for identification,
Risk Committee management and ongoing monitoring of reputational
risks, including those related to ESG matters
80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Governance
Our respect for human rights
As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we Our priority human rights issues in 2021
follow the UN Guiding Principles on Business
Our Suppliers'
and Human Rights (‘UNGPs’). In 2021, with the
Issues employees employees Customers Communities
help of external stakeholders, we continued to
review and improve our approach. Discrimination In the
◆ ◆ ◆
workplace
Our priorities on human rights
In our services ◆
We respect all categories of human rights in
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Modern slavery ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
We focus our attention on those rights we
assess as most likely to be affected by our
business activities and by those of our
customers and suppliers. Sector policies Financial crime controls
To meet our responsibility for respecting The risk of us causing, contributing or being
Such assessment takes account of a range human rights under the UNGPs, we consider linked to negative human rights impacts
of factors, including geographical and cultural those rights that may be adversely impacted is also mitigated by our financial crime
context and economic sectors, and is subject through involvement in high-risk sectors. framework, with global policies to mitigate
to periodic review. After a policy review and Our sector policies for agricultural money laundering, sanctions, and bribery
prioritisation process, including consultation commodities, energy, forestry, mining and and corruption risks, including those where
across key business units, we identified metals all refer specifically to human rights. protecting human rights and preventing
discrimination and modern slavery as the These considerations include issues such as financial crime converge. Our financial crime
two priority human rights issues on which forced labour, harmful or exploitative child controls include customer due diligence,
we could use our influence to make the most labour, trafficking, land rights, the rights of sanctions screening, transaction monitoring,
positive impact. These priorities also align indigenous peoples such as ‘free prior and negative news screening, and targeted
closely with our commitments on diversity informed consent’, workers’ rights, and the investigations.
and inclusion and those we have made under health and safety of communities.
the UN Global Compact and under the WEF For further details of how we fight financial
metrics on risk for incidents of child and forced Our policy for financing forest plantations and crime, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/fighting-
or compulsory labour. downstream supply chain operations in, or
financial-crime.
sourced from, high-risk countries is linked
For further details on our approach to tackling to certification by the Forestry Stewardship
discrimination, see www.hsbc.com/ Council or the Programme for the
diversitycommitments. For further details on
Endorsement of Forest Certification. Through
our work on inclusion in the workplace, see
‘Inclusion’ on page 71. our membership of international certification
schemes such as the Forestry Stewardship
For further details of our approach to tackling
modern slavery, including steps taken to Council, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm
eliminate child and forced labour practices, Oil and the Equator Principles, we actively
see www.hsbc.com/modernslaveryact. support the continual improvement of
standards aimed at respecting human rights.
For further details of our policy prohibitions and
other financing restrictions, see our sector-
specific sustainability risk policies at www.hsbc.
com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
managing-risk/sustainability-risk.
Sustainable finance and the just transition
Our leading role in providing and facilitating sustainable finance to businesses around the
world is another way in which we contribute to the rights of the communities we serve. We
support the drive for a ‘just transition’ to net zero, harnessing political momentum for action
with policies and finance to support disadvantaged sectors and communities. On 29 October
2021, we joined other private sector institutions in signing up to the WEF Just and Urgent
Energy Transition principles.
We are also harnessing our leadership position in sustainable finance to create products that
will help our clients to support social development, mobility and capability building in line
with International Capital Markets Association social bonds principles released in 2021.
For further details of how we support our customers with sustainable finance, see ‘Supporting
customers through the transition’ on page 53.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 81
ESG review | Governance
Our respect for human rights continued
Supporting change
We continued to expand our Survivor Bank
programme, which has now benefited over
1,000 survivors of modern slavery and human
trafficking in the UK, and is a model for
making financial services more accessible to
vulnerable communities worldwide. We built
on this experience in developing access to
banking services for customers in the UK
and in Hong Kong with no fixed abode.
In Hong Kong, we also introduced basic
banking services for ethnic minority customers
who do not speak English or Chinese. The
service allows ethnic minorities who speak
Hindi, Punjabi, Nepali and Urdu to open a
Hong Kong Dollar Statement Savings account,
by providing tailored material in each of the
four languages. In addition, we hired part-time
ethnic minority customer service ambassadors
to offer further support at six designated
branches. In May 2021, the Hong Kong Equal
Opportunities Commission named HSBC a
Gold Awardee in the inaugural Equal Stakeholder engagement
Opportunity Employer Recognition scheme,
which recognises organisations for setting an In 2021, as part of an internal survey of As we develop our approach to human
example in promoting and implementing equal senior executives, we gathered information rights, we will focus on training modules
opportunities employment policies. from across our network on our for our colleagues, supplemented by
engagement with civil society stakeholders role-specific training. We also intend to
These initiatives support several different and those who represent individuals or improve the process for our suppliers to
human rights, such as the right to adequate groups at risk of impact from our activities ensure that the key elements of our ethical
living standards and the right to own property. or from the activities of those with whom code of conduct that relate to human rights
As well as benefiting the communities we we have business relationships. As a result are clearly and regularly communicated.
serve in the UK and Hong Kong, these of this work, we acknowledged the need to For retail customers, we aim to
initiatives allowed us to work alongside expand our engagement in future. We also communicate our approach and
local non-governmental organisations, took steps to ensure that our approach to expectations through our public
learning from their understanding of human rights was well understood by our statements, and for our business
human rights impacts. colleagues. In 2021: customers, we aim to integrate our
approach to human rights more clearly
We are committed to working with – We offered a detailed course on human into our processes.
governments to help create inclusive trafficking to new employees in the
communities. In 2021, we supported the Global Risk Operations function, In developing the initiatives described
development of regulation related to human highlighting the importance of above, we drew upon expertise from within
rights, including as an adviser to the UK identification and reporting. our organisation, including the insights of
Government on developing their online – We provided detailed briefings to more specialist staff in key departments and of
Registry of Statements under the Modern than 250 senior colleagues on human 200 senior executives from every part of
Slavery Act. rights and the UNGPs. our network. We also engaged the support
of external advisers with expertise in
– We provided training materials to
human rights as they relate to business.
colleagues in our Procurement team
on modern slavery.
– We delivered training on anti-
discrimination as part of our diversity
and inclusion programme.
82 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Governance
Conduct: Our product responsibilities
Following the refresh of our purpose and – We offer a carefully selected range of Meeting our customers’ needs
values, we have taken the opportunity to align products that are managed through product Our customers’ interests are at the centre of
and simplify our conduct approach, making inventories, helping to ensure they continue everything we do, and we have policies and
conduct easier to understand and showing to meet customers’ needs and continue to procedures in place that set the standards
how it fulfils our value ‘we take responsibility’. deliver a fair exchange of value. required to protect them. These include:
– We regularly review products to help ensure
Our conduct approach guides us to do the they remain relevant and perform in line – providing information on products and
right thing and to focus on the impact we with expectations we have set. services that is clear, fair and not misleading;
have on our customers and the financial – Where products do not meet our customers’ – enabling customers to understand the key
markets in which we operate. It focuses needs or no longer meet our high standards, features of products and services, especially
on five clear outcomes: improvements are made or they are the risks, exclusions and limitations;
withdrawn from sale. – enabling customers to make informed
– We understand our customers’ needs.
– Wherever possible, we act on feedback decisions before purchasing a product
– We provide products and services that from our customers to provide better and or service; and
offer a fair exchange of value.
more accessible products and services. – checking that customers are offered
– We serve customers’ ongoing needs, appropriate products and, where relevant,
and will put it right if we make a mistake. Our GBM business also considers our impact received the right advice.
– We act with integrity in the financial markets on the integrity of markets when introducing
we operate in. new products. Supporting customers with enhanced
– We operate with resilience and security care needs
to avoid harm to customers and markets. Oversight of product design and sales is Our strategy to support customers with
provided by governance committees chaired enhanced care needs continues to be a core
Our conduct approach is embedded into the and attended by senior executives who are focus. We have guidelines and have developed
way we develop, distribute, structure and accountable for ensuring we manage risks procedures to ensure we provide the right
execute products and services. For further appropriately, and within appetite, to ensure outcomes for customers who may require
details of our approach to conduct, see fair customer outcomes. enhanced care. We have made a number
page 208. of improvements to our products, services,
In 2021, we continued to develop our product governance and oversight, as well
Designing products and services governance. In CMB, we deployed our new as developed our colleagues’ skills
Our approach to product design and Google Cloud-based product inventory, and capabilities.
development – including how we advertise which has improved the way we manage
our products – is set out in our policies, and our products. Our product management and In our CMB business in the UK, we identify
provides a clear basis from which strategic governance system supports our colleagues customers with enhanced care needs
product and service decisions can be made. throughout the product lifecycle, from product to ensure we tailor our approach in our
Our global businesses each take the development to demise. In GBM’s markets communications, services and product
following approach: business, we continued to focus on the design. This is supported by post-sale calls
development of our ESG product suite across with these customers to ensure we identify
– We carry out robust testing during the all asset classes, ensuring we maintain our and support their needs fairly. In our UK retail
design and development of a product to position as an innovator of ESG products. branches, we have launched a daily quiet hour
help ensure there is an identifiable need to help those needing access to banking in
in the market. In WPB, we are developing our sustainable a calmer environment. For further details
product suite, and remain committed to help on inclusive product design, see ‘Financial
– We consider the complexity of products
mitigate against greenwashing risks. For inclusion’ on page 78.
and the possible financial risks to customers
further details on the Group’s sustainable
when determining the target market.
finance and investment ambition, see page 53.
Managing incentives for front-line colleagues
In WPB, we continued to apply a discretionary In our CMB and GBM businesses, we recognise
approach to incentivising our front-line and reward exceptional conduct demonstrated
colleagues rather than applying a formulaic link by our colleagues while discouraging misconduct
to sales. Following the review of incentives during and inappropriate behaviour that exposes us
2020, we continued to embed the changes with to financial, regulatory and reputational risks.
the aim to be even more customer-centric and During the annual pay review, we apply
focused on employee development. We also adjustments to variable pay to employees
continued to strengthen our approach to who exhibit either exceptional behaviours, or
third-party sales agents that distribute our behaviours not aligned to our values. In addition,
products, such as insurance and retail, to ensure the businesses have specific goals to help
that our principles on balanced reward are in drive conduct outcomes and ensure they are
place. While there is still more to do, this change incorporated into how employees achieve their
is designed to improve oversight and alignment goals. CMB has created a scorecard reference
with third-party sales agents. guide, and GBM has specific mandatory
conduct objectives applicable to all global
GBM colleagues.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 83
ESG review | Governance
Conduct: Our product responsibilities continued
Transition from Ibor
Ensuring sales quality Supporting customers during Covid-19
In WPB, we consider our customers’ financial We responded rapidly to the changing As a result of the planned cessation of the
needs and personal circumstances to assist us environment caused by the Covid-19 London interbank offered rates (‘Libor’),
in offering suitable product recommendations. pandemic. Many of our personal banking and Euro Overnight Index Average (‘Eonia’)
This is achieved through measures such as: wealth customers needed financial relief as a and other benchmarks collectively known
result of the pandemic, which we sought to as Ibors, we are ensuring that we have
– a globally consistent risk rating methodology address in a responsible way. We provided the product capability in place to support
for investment products, which is significant financial relief to our WPB our customers on the transition to
customised for local regulatory customers in several markets. These solutions alternative rates. We aim to clearly outline
requirements; and varied by market and were aligned with the options available to our customers
– a thorough customer risk profiling government or regulatory guidance in each holding existing Ibor-based products,
methodology to assess customers’ financial jurisdiction. At its peak in 2021, we had and our commercial strategy is designed
objectives, attitudes towards risk, financial payment relief measures offered to 1.6 million to minimise value transfer when
ability to bear investment risk, and customers, which equated to $31bn in transitioning their products from
knowledge and experience. balances. We support customers that are Ibor to alternative rates.
in arrears or experiencing financial difficulty,
In WPB, sales quality and mystery shopping in line with our policies and procedures. Transition from Libor and Eonia
reviews assess whether customers receive a benchmarks to alternative risk-free rates
fair outcome. If any issues are identified, we In our CMB business, we made more than (‘RFRs’) progressed significantly over
investigate the root cause, put things right 56 Covid-19-related enhancements to 2021 and all industry cessation
and act to reduce the risk of the issue products in specific countries. We continue milestones were met. We continued to
occurring again. to review these to ensure they remain proactively support the transition, or
appropriate. We aim to support our customers inclusion of contractual fallback
In CMB, we operate focused sales outcome as and when any relief products are demised. provisions where more appropriate, of
testing to ensure that we correctly explain customers’ legacy contracts referencing
product features and pricing. We look at In Asia, given the ongoing Covid-19 sterling, Japanese yen, euro and Swiss
different customer needs and circumstances, environment, our CMB business temporarily franc Libor to RFR products, or other
particularly where customers may have enabled manual payments processes in alternatives, by the end of 2021. We
enhanced needs. In 2021, we identified issues Bangladesh, India and Maldives to support completed this transition in line with
relating to documentation, sales process and relevant customers and ensure continuity of regulatory expectations and met our goal
pricing. Subsequently we ensured we put services and payment handling. of transitioning more than 90% of
things right for our customers and took the contracts by the end of 2021, with the
necessary internal action. balance continuing to be actively
transitioned in early 2022 ahead of the
In GBM’s markets business, we undertake next interest rate reset.
sample-based testing on sales of products
For further details of the transition from
to customers to ensure that product features
Ibors, see ‘Ibor transition’ in the Risk
and pricing have been correctly explained
section on page 126.
and sales processes have been adhered to.
Feedback is collated centrally and acted upon
in a timely manner.
Training our colleagues to support our customers
In WPB, we provide training to our In CMB, we focused on training all our
employees through our product UK-based colleagues on meeting the needs
management academy. In 2021, more of customers who require enhanced care
than 750 of our colleagues completed over due to their circumstances. We delivered
2,000 courses, relating to customer insight, tailored training to our product managers
customer-focused design, communications, to ensure that customers with enhanced
product development, balance sheet care needs are considered across each
management and governance. We created stage of the product lifecycle.
global training, with over 60,000 courses
completed by colleagues to manage In GBM, we continued to develop and roll
situations for customers with enhanced out interactive conduct training that focuses
care needs, assigning to both customer- on behaviour. Following the successful
facing and non-customer-facing colleagues. completion of the training by 21,000
colleagues early in 2021, this has now been
adapted to cover joiners and those who
have taken on a new management role.
84 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Governance
Cybersecurity
The threat of cyber-attacks remains a concern We operate a three lines of defence model, We aim to ensure that cybersecurity is
for our organisation, as it does across the aligned to the operational risk management an integrated part of the building and
entire financial sector. Failure to protect our framework, to help ensure oversight and maintenance of our technology environment.
operations from cyber-attacks may result in challenge of our cybersecurity capabilities Over 90% of our IT developers hold at least
financial loss, disruption for customers or and priorities. one of our internal security certifications
loss of data. This could negatively affect to help ensure we build secure systems
our reputation and ability to attract and In the first line of defence, we have risk owners and products.
retain customers. within global businesses and functions who
are accountable for identifying, owning and We host an annual cyber awareness campaign
Prevent, detect and mitigate managing the cyber risk. They work with for all colleagues, covering topics such as
We invest in business and technical controls control owners to help ensure controls are in social engineering, remote working security
to help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber place to mitigate issues, prevent risk events and data management.
threats. We apply a 'defence in depth’ from occurring and resolve them if needed.
approach to cyber controls, recognising These controls are executed in line with Our dedicated cybersecurity training and
the complexity of our environment. Our policies produced by our Resilience Risk awareness team provides monthly webinars
abilities to detect and respond to attacks teams, the second line of defence, which and bespoke training to our colleagues,
through round-the-clock security operations provide independent review and challenge. customers, regulators, governments and
centre capabilities help to reduce the impact They are overseen by the Global Internal cross-sector partners.
of attacks. Audit function, the third line of defence.
We know it is critical that we protect our
We continually evaluate threat levels for the We regularly report and review cyber risk and customers. While online banking has brought
most prevalent attack types and their potential control effectiveness at relevant governance enormous benefits for our customers, it has
outcomes. We have an internal cyber forums and to the Board to help ensure increased the threat of cyber-attacks. We
intelligence and threat analysis capability, visibility and oversight. We also report across provide a wide range of education and
which proactively collects and analyses the global businesses, functions and regions guidance about how to stay safe online
external cyber information. We input into the to help ensure visibility and governance of to both customers and our colleagues.
broader cyber intelligence community through risks and mitigating controls.
Over 99%
technical expertise in investigations and
contributions to the cyber-sharing ecosystem We also work with our third parties to help
in the financial services industry, alongside reduce the threat of cyber-attacks impacting
government agencies around the world. our business processes. We have an Employees completed mandatory
assessment capability designed to review cybersecurity training on time.
As we continue to grow and digitise at scale, third parties’ compliance with our information
we may be exposed to new cyber threats. security policies and standards. Over 90%
In 2021, we further strengthened our cyber
defences and enhanced our cybersecurity Cyber training and awareness
capabilities to help reduce the likelihood and We understand the important role our people IT developers who hold at least one of our
impact of advanced malware, security play in protecting against cybersecurity internal secure developer certifications.
vulnerabilities being exploited, data leakage threats. Our mission is to equip every
and unauthorised access. These defences colleague with the tools to help prevent, Over 75
are grounded in controls that help to mitigate mitigate and report cyber incidents to keep
cyber-attacks and build upon a proactive data our organisation and customers’ data safe.
analytical approach to help identify advanced Cybersecurity education events held globally.
targeted threats. We provide cybersecurity training and
awareness to all our people, ranging from our Over 95%
Policy and governance top executives to IT developers to front-line
We have a comprehensive range of relationship managers around the world.
cybersecurity policies and systems designed Survey respondents to cybersecurity
to help ensure that the organisation is well education events who said they have
managed, with oversight and control. a better understanding of cybersecurity
following these events.
Protecting customers online
We are a founding sponsor of Get Safe
Online, a joint initiative between the UK
Government, police law enforcement and
businesses. It gives free advice in plain
English about internet safety. We are
committed to help our customers stay
safe and secure when banking online.
Our online security centres provide security
guidance from ‘How to protect devices
from security threats’ to ‘Learn to spot
fake websites’.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 85
ESG review | Governance
Data privacy
We are committed to protecting and regularly at multiple governance forums, These policies and controls support our
respecting the data we hold and process, including at Board level, to help ensure there management of intellectual property risk,
in accordance with the laws and regulations is appropriate challenge and visibility among and operate to help ensure that intellectual
of the geographies in which we operate. senior executives. As part of our three lines property risk is controlled consistently and
of defence model, our Global Internal Audit effectively in line with our risk appetite.
Our approach rests on having the right talent, function provides independent assurance
technology, systems, controls, policies and as to whether our data privacy risk
processes to help ensure appropriate management approaches and processes
management of privacy risk. Our Group-wide are designed and operating effectively. In
privacy policy and principles aim to provide a addition, we have established data privacy
consistent global approach to managing data governance structures, and continue to
privacy risk, and must be applied by all of our embed accountability across all businesses
global businesses and global functions. Our and functions.
privacy principles are available at www.hsbc.
com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible- We continue to implement industry practices
business/managing-risk/operational-risk. for data privacy and security. Our privacy
teams work closely with industry bodies and
We conduct regular employee training and research institutions to drive the design,
awareness sessions on data privacy and implementation and monitoring of privacy
security issues throughout the year, including solutions. We conduct regular reviews and
global mandatory training for all our privacy risk assessments, and continue to The ethical use of
colleagues, along with additional training develop solutions to strengthen our data
sessions, where required, to keep abreast privacy controls. In 2021, we implemented Big Data and AI
of new developments in this space. new tooling to improve accountability for data
privacy. We have procedures to articulate the Big Data technologies and artificial
We provide transparency to our customers actions needed to deal with data privacy intelligence give us the ability to process
and stakeholders on how we collect, use considerations. These include notifying and analyse data at a depth and breadth
and manage their personal data, and their regulators, customers or other data subjects, not previously possible. While this
associated rights. Where relevant, we work as required under applicable privacy laws and technology offers significant potential
closely with third parties to help ensure regulations, in the event of a reportable benefits for our customers, it also poses
adequate protections are provided, in line with incident occurring. potential ethical risks for the financial
our data privacy policy and as required under services industry and society as a whole.
data privacy law. We offer a broad range of Intellectual property rights practices We have developed a set of principles to
channels in the markets where we operate, We have policies, controls and guidance to help us consider and address the ethical
through which customers and stakeholders manage risk relating to intellectual property. issues that could arise. HSBC’s Principles
can raise any concerns regarding the privacy This is to ensure that intellectual property for the Ethical Use of Big Data and
of their data. is identified, maintained and protected Artificial Intelligence are available at
appropriately, and to help ensure we do www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
Our dedicated privacy teams report to the not infringe third-party intellectual property responsible-business/our-conduct.
highest level of management on data privacy rights during the course of business and/
risks and issues, and oversee our global data or operation.
privacy programmes. We review data privacy
Our approach with our suppliers
We have globally consistent standards and resulted in either the confirmation that they We formalise commitments to the ethical code
procedures for the onboarding and use of adhered to our code of conduct or that their with clauses in our suppliers’ contracts, which
external suppliers. We require suppliers to own code of conduct had been reviewed and support the right to audit and act if a breach
meet our compliance and financial stability accepted by Strategic Procurement Services. is discovered.
requirements, and to comply with our supplier
ethical code of conduct. Managing environmental and social risk In 2021, we produced an internal toolkit to
We use an ESG reputational risk tool to explain how Strategic Procurement Services
Ethical code of conduct identify environmental and social risk for can integrate net zero initiatives into everyday
We have an ethical and environmental code supplier engagements with a contract value procurement activity. The toolkit, which
of conduct for suppliers of goods and services, over $500,000. The tool provides an ESG outlines our net zero ambition and provides
which must be complied with by all suppliers. reputational risk score for the supplier. In 2021, practical guidance on how Strategic
The code of conduct provides suppliers with 2,248 ESG reputational risk assessments were Procurement Services can improve the way
an outline for economic, environmental and undertaken. A high-risk score drives a manual it drives net zero initiatives, is available to our
social standards and the requirements for review to assess the extent of the risk and teams globally to ensure a consistent approach.
having a reasonable governance and whether we are willing to accept the
management structure. heightened risk and onboard the supplier. We For further details of the number of suppliers by
are reviewing the reputational risk process to geographical region, see the ESG Data Pack at
www.hsbc.com/esg.
At the end of 2021, we had approximately ensure we focus on sectors with high ESG risk
9,600 contracted suppliers. In 2021, we had going forward.
8,144 engagements with suppliers that
86 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
ESG
review
Governance
Safeguarding the financial system
We have continued our efforts to combat We pay due care and attention to ethical
financial crime risks and reduce their impact questions when considering the use of AI.
on our organisation, customers and We are confident our adoption of these new
communities that we serve. These financial technologies will continue to enhance our
crime risks include money laundering, fraud, ability to respond quickly to suspicious activity
bribery and corruption, tax evasion, and be more granular in our risk assessments,
sanctions breaches, terrorist financing and helping to protect our customers and the
proliferation financing. integrity of the financial system.
We are committed to acting with integrity Our anti-bribery and corruption policy
and have built a strong financial crime risk Our global anti-bribery and corruption policy
management framework across all global requires that all activity must be: conducted
businesses and all countries and territories without intent to bribe or corrupt; reasonable
in which we operate. The financial crime risk and transparent; considered to not be lavish
framework, which is overseen by the Board, nor disproportionate to the professional
is supported by our holistic financial crime relationship; appropriately documented
policies that enable adherence to applicable with business rationale; and authorised at
The scale of our work
laws and regulations globally. an appropriate level of seniority. There were
no concluded, nor live active, legal cases
Annual mandatory training is provided to all regarding bribery or corruption brought Each month, on average, we monitor
colleagues, with additional targeted training against HSBC or its employees in 2021. over 1.1 billion transactions for signs of
tailored to certain individuals. We carry out financial crime. During 2021, we filed
regular risk assessments, identifying where Our global anti-bribery and corruption policy over 56,000 suspicious activity reports
we need to respond to evolving financial crime requires that we identify and mitigate the risk to law enforcement and regulatory
threats, as well as conducting monitoring and of our customers and third parties committing authorities where we identified potential
testing of our financial crime programme, with bribery or corruption. We utilise anti-money financial crime. In addition, we screen
applicable findings included within our policies laundering controls, including customer approximately 116 million customer
and framework. due diligence and transaction monitoring, records monthly for sanctions exposure.
to identify and mitigate the risk that our
We continue to invest in new technology such customers are involved in bribery or
as contextual monitoring in our trade finance corruption. We perform a bribery risk
99%
business, the enhancement of our fraud assessment on all third parties, and impose
monitoring and market surveillance risk-based controls on the third parties that
capabilities, and the application of machine expose us to bribery or corruption risk.
learning to improve the accuracy and Total percentage of employees who have
timeliness of our detection capabilities. For further details on our financial crime risk received training on the organisation’s
management framework, see page 208. anti-corruption policies and procedures.
Whistleblowing
We want colleagues and stakeholders to have In 2021, while we continued to actively The Group Audit Committee has overall
confidence in speaking up when they observe promote speak-up opportunities, the volume oversight of whistleblowing arrangements.
unlawful or unethical behaviour. We offer a of HSBC Confidential concerns reduced by The chair of the Group Audit Committee acts
range of speak-up channels to listen to their 11%, driven in part, we believe, by the as HSBC’s whistleblowers’ champion with
concerns and have a zero tolerance for acts continued change to the working environment responsibility for ensuring and overseeing
of retaliation. However, we recognise that during the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the HSBC the integrity, independence and effectiveness
sometimes people may still not be Confidential concerns closed in 2021, 87% of our whistleblowing policies and procedures.
comfortable using these routes. related to colleagues’ behaviour and personal
conduct concerns, 9% to security and fraud Further details of the role of the Group Audit
Listening through whistleblowing risks, 3% to compliance risks and less than Committee in relation to whistleblowing can
be found on page 244.
channels 1% to other issues.
Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC
Confidential, allows our colleagues and Concerns are investigated proportionately Whistleblowing concerns raised
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially and independently, with action taken where (subject to investigation) in 2021
2,224
and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to appropriate. Actions can include disciplinary
local laws). action, dismissal, and adjustments to variable
pay and performance ratings.
In the majority of countries, HSBC Confidential (2020: 2,510)
concerns are raised through an independent Compliance sets whistleblowing policy and
third-party provider that offers 24/7 hotlines procedures, and provides the Group Audit Substantiated and partially
and a multiple language web portal to our Committee with periodic reports on the substantiated whistleblowing
colleagues. We also provide an external effectiveness of whistleblowing arrangements. cases in 2021
email address for concerns about accounting, These reports are informed by first line of 42%
internal financial controls or auditing matters defence control assessments, second line
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). assurance reviews and third line internal and
external audit reports. (2020: 42%)
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 87
ESG review | Governance
A responsible approach to tax
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit – We have made considerable investment
jurisdictions in which we operate and to Shifting initiative. implementing processes designed to enable
minimise the likelihood of customers using – We seek to have open and transparent us to support external tax transparency
our products and services to evade or relationships with all tax authorities. Given initiatives and reduce the risk of banking
inappropriately avoid tax. We also abide the size and complexity of our organisation, services being used to facilitate customer
by international protocols that affect our which operates across over 60 jurisdictions, tax evasion. Initiatives include the US
organisation. Our approach to tax and a number of areas of differing interpretation Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the
governance processes is designed to or disputes with tax authorities exist at any OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of
achieve these goals. point in time. We cooperate with the Financial Account Information (‘Common
relevant local tax authorities to mutually Reporting Standard’), and the UK legislation
Through adoption of the Group’s risk agree and resolve these in a timely manner. on the corporate criminal offence of failing
management framework, we have put in to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
– We have applied the OECD/G20 Inclusive
place regularly maintained controls. These Framework Pillar 2 guidance to identify – We implement processes that aim to
aim to ensure, among other things, that we those jurisdictions in which we operate that ensure that inappropriately tax-motivated
do not adopt inappropriately tax-motivated have nil or low tax rates (15% or below). We products and services are not provided
transactions or products and that tax planning have identified 14 such jurisdictions in which to our customers.
is scrutinised and supported by genuine
we had active subsidiaries during 2021. We
commercial activity. HSBC has no appetite for continually monitor the number of active Our tax contributions
using aggressive tax structures. We continue subsidiaries within each jurisdiction as part The effective tax rate for the year was 22.3%.
to commit to making a significant investment of our ongoing entity rationalisation Further details are provided on page 338.
globally in implementation and maintenance
programme. We ensure that our entities
of appropriate tax risk processes and controls. active in nil or low tax jurisdictions have As highlighted below, in addition to paying
clear business rationale for why they are $6.3bn of our own tax liabilities during 2021,
With respect to our own taxes, we are guided based in these locations and appropriate we collected taxes of $9.2bn on behalf of
by the following principles: transparency over their activities. governments around the world. A more
detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes
– We are committed to applying both the With respect to our customers’ taxes, we are paid in 2021 is provided in the ESG Data Pack.
letter and spirit of the law. This includes
guided by the following principles:
adherence to a variety of measures arising
Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region
Tax on profits $2,711m (2020: $3,873m) Europe $3,170m (2020: $3,022m) Europe $3,177m (2020: $3,462m)
Withholding taxes $366m (2020: $386m) Asia-Pacific $2,077m (2020: $3,911m) Asia-Pacific $3,584m (2020: $3,595m)
Employer taxes $1,125m (2020: $1,121m) Middle East and North Africa $236m Middle East and North Africa $78m
Bank levy $479m (2020: $1,011m) (2020: $299m) (2020: $90m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,315m (2020: $1,389m) North America $469m (2020: $382m) North America $1,081m (2020: $1,089m)
Other duties and levies1 $278m (2020: $278m) Latin America $322m (2020: $444m) Latin America $1,343m (2020: $1,302m)
1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $126m (2020: $129m).
Acting with integrity
We aim to act with courageous integrity and We aim to make decisions based on doing the A chart reflecting fines and penalties arising
learn from past events to prevent their right thing for our customers and never out of significant investigations involving
recurrence. We recognise that restoration of compromising our ethical standards or integrity. criminal, regulatory, competition or other law
trust in our industry remains a significant enforcement authorities, and costs relating
challenge as past misdeeds continue to be in the Further information regarding the measures that to payment protection insurance remediation
spotlight. But it is a challenge we must meet we have taken to prevent the recurrence of past is available in the ESG Data Pack at
successfully. We owe this not just to our mistakes can be found at www.hsbc.com/ www.hsbc.com/esg.
customers and to society at large, but to our who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
colleagues to ensure they can be rightly proud esg-reporting-and-policies.
of the organisation where they work.
88 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
• trends highlighted in other Group risk reports;
Our approach to risk
• communication with risk stewards on the developing risk
Our risk appetite landscape;
We recognise the importance of a strong culture, which refers to • strength of our capital, liquidity and balance sheet;
our shared attitudes, values and standards that shape behaviours • compliance with applicable laws and regulations;
related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management. All our
• effectiveness of the applicable control environment to mitigate
people are responsible for the management of risk, with the
risk, informed by risk ratings from risk control assessments;
ultimate accountability residing with the Board.
• functionality, capacity and resilience of available systems to
We seek to build our business for the long term by balancing
manage risk; and
social, environmental and economic considerations in the
decisions we make. Our strategic priorities are underpinned by our • the level of available staff with the required competencies to
endeavour to operate in a sustainable way. This helps us to carry manage risks.
out our social responsibility and manage the risk profile of the
We formally articulate our risk appetite through our RAS. Setting
business. We are committed to managing and mitigating climate-
out our risk appetite ensures that we agree a suitable level of risk
related risks, both physical and transition risks, and continue to
for our strategy. In this way, risk appetite informs our financial
incorporate consideration of these into how we manage and
planning process and helps senior management to allocate capital
oversee risks internally and with our customers.
to business activities, services and products.
The following principles guide the Group’s overarching appetite for
The RAS consists of qualitative statements and quantitative
risk and determine how our businesses and risks are managed.
metrics, covering financial and non-financial risks. It is applied to
Financial position the development of business line strategies, strategic and business
planning and remuneration. At a Group level, performance against
• We aim to maintain a strong capital position, defined by
the RAS is reported to the Group Risk Management Meeting
regulatory and internal capital ratios.
(‘RMM’) alongside key risk indicators to support targeted insight
• We carry out liquidity and funding management for each and discussion on breaches of risk appetite and any associated
operating entity, on a stand-alone basis. mitigating actions. This reporting allows risks to be promptly
Operating model identified and mitigated, and informs risk-adjusted remuneration
to drive a strong risk culture.
• We seek to generate returns in line with our risk appetite and
strong risk management capability. Each global business, region and strategically important country
and territory is required to have its own RAS, which is monitored
• We aim to deliver sustainable and diversified earnings and to help ensure it remains aligned with the Group’s RAS. Each RAS
consistent returns for shareholders. and business activity is guided and underpinned by qualitative
Business practice principles and/or quantitative metrics.
• We have zero tolerance for any of our people knowingly Risk management
engaging in any business, activity or association where
We recognise that the primary role of risk management is to
foreseeable reputational risk or damage has not been
protect our customers, business, colleagues, shareholders and the
considered and/or mitigated.
communities that we serve, while ensuring we are able to support
• We have no appetite for deliberately or knowingly causing our strategy and provide sustainable growth. This is supported
detriment to consumers, or incurring a breach of the letter or through our three lines of defence model described on page 123.
spirit of regulatory requirements.
The implementation of our business strategy, which includes a
• We have no appetite for inappropriate market conduct by any major transformation programme, remains a key focus. As we
member of staff or by any Group business. implement change initiatives, we actively manage the execution
risks. We also perform periodic risk assessments, including
• We are committed to managing the climate risks that have an
against strategies, to help ensure retention of key personnel for
impact on our financial position, and delivering on our net zero
our continued safe operation.
ambition.
We aim to use a comprehensive risk management approach
Enterprise-wide application
across the organisation and across all risk types, underpinned by
Our risk appetite encapsulates the consideration of financial and our culture and values. This is outlined in our risk management
non-financial risks. We define financial risk as the risk of a framework, including the key principles and practices that we
financial loss as a result of business activities. We actively take employ in managing material risks, both financial and non-
these types of risks to maximise shareholder value and profits. financial. The framework fosters continual monitoring, promotes
Non-financial risk is the risk to achieving our strategy or objectives risk awareness and encourages a sound operational and strategic
as the result of failed internal processes, people and systems, or decision-making and escalation process. It also supports a
from external events. consistent approach to identifying, assessing, managing and
Our risk appetite is expressed in both quantitative and qualitative reporting the risks we accept and incur in our activities, with clear
terms and applied at the global business level, at the regional level accountabilities. We continue to actively review and develop our
and to material operating entities. Every three years, the Global risk management framework and enhance our approach to
Risk and Compliance function commissions an external managing risk, through our activities with regard to: people and
independent firm to review the Group’s approach to risk appetite capabilities; governance; reporting and management information;
and to help ensure that it remains in line with market best practice credit risk management models; and data.
and regulatory expectations. This review was last carried out in We merged our Group Risk and Compliance functions on
2019 and confirmed the Group’s risk appetite statement (‘RAS’) 1 July 2021 to take an increasingly comprehensive view of risk,
remains aligned to best practices, regulatory expectations and and enhance cross-discipline collaboration on key areas such as
strategic goals. Our risk appetite continues to evolve and expand fraud, credit and conduct risk. This merger did not have an impact
its scope as part of our regular review process. on our policies and practices regarding the management of risk.
The Board reviews and approves the Group’s risk appetite twice a Led by the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, this merged
year to make sure it remains fit for purpose. The Group’s risk function plays an important role in reinforcing our culture and
appetite is considered, developed and enhanced through: values. It focuses on creating an environment that encourages our
people to speak up and do the right thing.
• an alignment with our strategy, purpose, values and customer
needs;
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 121
Risk
review
Risk
Group Risk and Compliance is independent from the global Our risk management framework
businesses, including our sales and trading functions, to provide
The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of
challenge, oversight and appropriate balance in risk/reward
the risk management framework, including governance, structure,
decisions.
risk management tools and our culture, which together help align
employee behaviour with risk appetite.
Key components of our risk management framework
HSBC Values and risk culture
The Board approves the Group’s risk appetite, plans and performance
Non-executive risk governance targets. It sets the ‘tone from the top’ and is advised by the Group Risk
Committee (see page 232).
Risk governance
Our executive risk governance structure is responsible for the enterprise-
Executive risk governance wide management of all risks, including key policies and frameworks for
the management of risk within the Group (see pages 123 and 135).
Our ‘three lines of defence’ model defines roles and responsibilities for
Roles and risk management. An independent Global Risk and Compliance function
Three lines of defence model
responsibilities helps ensure the necessary balance in risk/return decisions (see page
123).
Risk appetite
Enterprise-wide risk management tools The Group has processes in place to identify/assess, monitor, manage
Processes and tools
and report risks to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite.
Active risk management: identification/assessment,
monitoring, management and reporting
Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the
Policies and procedures
controls required to manage our risks.
Operational and resilience risk management defines minimum standards
Control activities
Internal controls and processes for managing operational risks and internal controls.
The Group has systems and/or processes that support the identification,
Systems and infrastructure capture and exchange of information to support risk management
activities.
Risk governance businesses and global functions. Our reputational risk policy sets
out our risk appetite and the principles for managing reputational
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effective
risk. Further details can be found under the ‘Reputational risk’
management of risk and approves our risk appetite.
section of www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility.
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, supported by the
Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated
RMM, holds executive accountability for the ongoing monitoring,
to senior managers with individual accountability for decision
assessment and management of the risk environment and the
making. All our people have a role to play in risk management.
effectiveness of the risk management framework.
These roles are defined using the three lines of defence model,
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is also responsible which takes into account our business and functional structures as
for the oversight of reputational risk, with the support of the Group described in the following commentary, 'Our responsibilities’.
Reputational Risk Committee. The Group Reputational Risk
We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help
Committee considers matters arising from customers, transactions
ensure there is appropriate oversight and accountability of risk,
and third parties that either present a serious potential reputational
which facilitates reporting and escalation to the Group RMM. This
risk to the Group or merit a Group-led decision to ensure a
structure is summarised in the following table.
consistent risk management approach across the regions, global
122 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance
Authority Membership Responsibilities include:
Risk Management Meeting Group Chief Risk and Compliance • Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-
Officer delegated risk management authority
Group Chief Legal Officer • Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the risk management
Group Chief Executive framework
Group Chief Financial Officer • Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk
impacts and taking appropriate action
All other Group Executive Committee
members • Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action
• Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and conduct
Global Risk Executive Group Chief Risk and Compliance • Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in providing strategic
Committee Officer direction for the Global Risk and Compliance function, setting priorities and
Chief risk officers of HSBC’s providing oversight
global businesses and regions • Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk and
Heads of Global Risk and Compliance compliance across the Group
sub-functions
Global business/regional Global business/regional chief • Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-
risk management meetings risk officer delegated risk management authority
Global business/regional chief • Forward-looking Group assessment of the risk environment, analysing the
executive officer possible risk impact and taking appropriate action
Global business/regional chief financial • Implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
officer • Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating actions
Global business/regional heads • Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls
of global functions
The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 237.
.
Our responsibilities We have continued to strengthen the control environment and our
approach to the management of non-financial risk, as broadly set
All our people are responsible for identifying and managing
out in our risk management framework. The management of non-
risk within the scope of their roles. Roles are defined using the
financial risk focuses on governance and risk appetite, and
three lines of defence model, which takes into account our provides a single view of the non-financial risks that matter the
business and functional structures as described below.
most and the associated controls. It incorporates a risk
Three lines of defence management system designed to enable the active management
of non-financial risk. Our ongoing focus is on simplifying our
To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use
approach to non-financial risk management, while driving more
an activity-based three lines of defence model. This model
effective oversight and better end-to-end identification and
delineates management accountabilities and responsibilities
management of non-financial risks. This is overseen by the
for risk management and the control environment.
Operational and Resilience Risk function, headed by the Group
The model underpins our approach to risk management by Head of Operational and Resilience Risk.
clarifying responsibility and encouraging collaboration, as well as
Stress testing and recovery planning
enabling efficient coordination of risk and control activities.
The three lines of defence are summarised below: We operate a wide-ranging stress testing programme that is a key
• The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible part of our risk management and capital and liquidity planning.
for identifying, recording, reporting and managing them in line Stress testing provides management with key insights into the
with risk appetite, and ensuring that the right controls and impact of severely adverse events on the Group, and provides
assessments are in place to mitigate them. confidence to regulators on the Group’s financial stability.
• The second line of defence challenges the first line of defence Our stress testing programme assesses our capital and liquidity
on effective risk management, and provides advice and strength through a rigorous examination of our resilience to
guidance in relation to the risk. external shocks. As well as undertaking regulatory-driven stress
tests, we conduct our own internal stress tests in order to
• The third line of defence is our Global Internal Audit function, understand the nature and level of all material risks, quantify the
which provides independent assurance as to whether our risk impact of such risks and develop plausible business-as-usual
management approach and processes are designed and mitigating actions.
operating effectively.
Internal stress tests
Global Risk and Compliance function
Our internal capital assessment uses a range of stress scenarios
Our Global Risk and Compliance function is responsible for the that explore risks identified by management. They include
Group’s risk management framework. This responsibility includes potential adverse macroeconomic, geopolitical and operational
establishing global policy, monitoring risk profiles, and identifying risk events, as well as other potential events that are specific to
and managing forward-looking risk. Global Risk and Compliance is HSBC.
made up of sub-functions covering all risks to our business.
Forming part of the second line of defence, the Global Risk and The selection of stress scenarios is based upon the output of our
Compliance function is independent from the global businesses, identified top and emerging risks and our risk appetite. Stress
including sales and trading functions, to provide challenge, testing analysis helps management understand the nature and
appropriate oversight and balance in risk/return decisions. extent of vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed. Using this
information, management decides whether risks can or should be
Responsibility for minimising both financial and non-financial risk mitigated through management actions or, if they were to
lies with our people. They are required to manage the risks of the crystallise, be absorbed through capital and liquidity. This in turn
business and operational activities for which they are responsible. informs decisions about preferred capital and liquidity levels and
We maintain adequate oversight of our risks through our various allocations.
specialist risk stewards and the collective accountability held by
our chief risk officers. In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major
subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event-driven
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 123
Risk
review
Risk
scenario analyses specific to its region. They also participate, as • We introduced enhanced governance and oversight around
required, in the regulatory stress testing programmes of the management judgemental adjustments and related processes
jurisdictions in which they operate, such as the Bank of England for IFRS 9 models and Sarbanes-Oxley controls.
(‘BoE’) stress tests required in the UK, Comprehensive Capital
Analysis and Review and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing Top and emerging risks
programmes in the US, and the stress tests of the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’). Global functions and businesses We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forward-
also perform bespoke stress testing to inform their assessment of looking view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution
risks to potential scenarios. of our strategy or operations over the medium to long term.
We also conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group level and, We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment,
where required, at subsidiary entity level to understand potential as well as review the themes identified across our regions and
extreme conditions that would make our business model non- global businesses, for any risks that may require global escalation.
viable. Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and We update our top and emerging risks as necessary.
vulnerabilities we might face, and helps inform early warning Our current top and emerging risks are as follows.
triggers, management actions and contingency plans designed to
Externally driven
mitigate risks.
Recovery and resolution plans Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks
Recovery and resolution plans form part of the integral framework Our operations and portfolios are exposed to risks associated with
safeguarding the Group’s financial stability. The Group recovery political instability, civil unrest and military conflict, which could
plan, together with stress testing, helps us understand the likely lead to disruption of our operations, physical risk to our staff and/
outcomes of adverse business or economic conditions and in the or physical damage to our assets.
identification of appropriate risk mitigating actions. The Group is Global tensions over trade, technology and ideology are
committed to further developing its recovery and resolution manifesting themselves in divergent regulatory standards and
capabilities in line with the BoE resolvability assessment compliance regimes, presenting long-term strategic challenges for
framework requirements. multinational businesses.
Key developments in 2021 The Covid-19 pandemic brought supply chain issues into focus,
with shortages appearing across several regions and products
We continued to actively manage the risks resulting from the
throughout 2020 and 2021, and it is not expected that these issues
Covid-19 pandemic and its impacts on our customers and
will ease significantly before mid-2022.
operations during 2021, as well as other key risks described in this
section. In addition, we enhanced our risk management in the The pandemic has also heightened geopolitical tensions, which
following areas: could have implications for the Group and its customers.
• We streamlined the articulation of our risk appetite framework, The Group will continue to need to consider potential regulatory,
providing further clarity on how risk appetite interacts with reputational and market risks arising from the evolving geopolitical
strategic planning and recovery planning processes. landscape. In 2021, there was an escalation of diplomatic tensions
between China and the US, and increasingly extending to the UK,
• We continued to simplify our approach to non-financial risk
the EU, India and other countries.
management, with the implementation of more effective
oversight tools and techniques to improve end-to-end The US-China relationship in particular remains complex, with
identification and management of these risks. tensions over a number of critical issues. The US, the UK, the EU,
Canada and other countries have imposed various sanctions and
• We accelerated the transformation of our approach to
trade restrictions on Chinese individuals or companies, and the US
managing financial risks across the businesses and risk
continues to develop its approach to perceived strategic
functions, including initiatives to enhance portfolio monitoring
competition with China.
and analytics, credit risk management, traded risk
management, treasury risk management and models used to Among these, the US Hong Kong Autonomy Act authorises the
manage financial risks. imposition of secondary sanctions against non-US financial
institutions found to be knowingly engaged in significant
• We are progressing with a comprehensive regulatory reporting
transactions with individuals and entities subject to US sanctions
programme to strengthen our global processes, improve
for engaging in certain activities that undermine Hong Kong’s
consistency, and enhance controls.
autonomy. In addition, the US has imposed restrictions on US
• We launched an enhanced approach to conduct for all persons’ ability to buy or sell certain publicly traded securities
colleagues, businesses and geographies, establishing the linked to a number of prominent Chinese companies.
outcomes to be achieved for customers and markets in all risk
There is also a risk of increased sanctions being imposed by the
disciplines, operations and technologies and integrating it into
US and other governments in relation to human rights, technology
our approach to culture and our risk management
and other issues with China, and this could create a more complex
arrangements.
operating environment for the Group and its customers. Notably,
• We continued to enhance our approach to portfolio risk alongside the EU, UK, and Canada, the US has increasingly
management, through clearly defined roles and responsibilities, imposed sanctions and other measures in response to allegations
and improving our data and management information reporting of human rights abuses in Xinjiang.
capabilities.
China, in turn, has announced a number of its own sanctions and
• The Climate Risk Oversight Forum continued to shape and trade restrictions that target, or provide authority to target, foreign
oversee our approach to climate risk. We appointed a Head of individuals or companies. These have been imposed mainly
Climate Risk in support of our climate change strategy and to against certain public officials associated with the implementation
oversee the development of our climate risk management of foreign sanctions against China. China has also promulgated
capabilities. The climate risk programme continues to drive the new laws that provide a legal framework for imposing further
delivery of our enhanced climate risk management approach. sanctions and export restrictions, including laws prohibiting
• We continued to improve the effectiveness of our financial implementation of – or compliance with – foreign sanctions
crime controls with a targeted update of our fraud controls. We against China and creating a private right of action in Chinese
refreshed our financial crime policies, ensuring they remained courts for damages caused by third parties implementing foreign
up to date and addressed changing and emerging risks, and we sanctions or other discriminatory measures.
continued to meet our regulatory obligations.
124 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
These and any future measures and countermeasures that may be Mitigating actions
taken by the US, China and other countries may affect the Group,
• We closely monitor geopolitical and economic developments in
its customers and the markets in which the Group operates.
key markets and sectors and undertake scenario analysis where
As the geopolitical landscape evolves, compliance by multinational appropriate. This helps us to take portfolio actions where
corporations with their legal or regulatory obligations in one necessary, including enhanced monitoring, amending our risk
jurisdiction may be seen as supporting the law or policy objectives appetite and/or reducing limits and exposures.
of that jurisdiction over another, creating additional compliance,
• We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify
reputational and political risks for the Group. We maintain
sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with management
dialogue with our regulators in various jurisdictions on the impact
actions being taken to rebalance exposures and manage risk
of legal and regulatory obligations on our business and customers.
appetite where necessary.
Tensions between Russia and the US and a number of European
• We regularly review key portfolios to help ensure that individual
states have heightened significantly following the increasing risk
customer or portfolio risks are understood and our ability to
of hostilities between Russia and Ukraine. While negotiations are
manage the level of facilities offered through any downturn is
ongoing to seek a resolution, a continuation of or any further
appropriate.
deterioration to the situation could have significant geopolitical
implications, including economic, social and political • We continue to monitor the UK’s relationship with the EU, and
repercussions on a number of regions that may impact HSBC and assess the potential impact on our people, operations and
its customers. In addition, the US, the UK and the EU have portfolios.
threatened a significant expansion of sanctions and trade
• We have taken steps, where necessary, to enhance physical
restrictions against Russia in the event of a Russian incursion into
security in geographical areas deemed to be at high risk from
Ukraine, and Russian countermeasures are also possible.
terrorism and military conflicts.
Expanding data privacy and cybersecurity laws in a number of Environmental, social and governance risk
markets could pose potential challenges to intra-group data
sharing. These developments could increase financial institutions’ We are subject to financial and non-financial risks associated with
compliance burdens in respect of cross-border transfers of environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) related matters. Our
personal information. current areas of focus are climate risk, nature-related risks and
human rights risks. These can impact us both directly and
Political disagreements between the UK and the EU, notably over
indirectly through our customers. For details on how we govern
the future operation of the Northern Ireland Protocol, have meant
ESG, see page 80.
work on the creation of a framework for voluntary regulatory
cooperation in financial services following the UK’s withdrawal Climate-related risk increased over 2021, owing to the pace and
from the EU has stalled. While negotiations are continuing, it is volume of policy and regulatory changes globally particularly on
unclear whether or when an agreement will be reached, and this climate risk management, stress testing and scenario analysis and
has led to speculation that the UK may trigger Article 16 of the disclosures. If we fail to meet evolving regulatory expectations or
Protocol, which could suspend the operation of the Protocol in requirements on climate risk management, this could have
certain respects. Any decision to do so could be met with regulatory compliance and reputational impacts.
retaliatory action by the EU, complicating the terms of trade We face increased reputational, legal and regulatory risk as we
between the UK and the EU and potentially preventing progress in make progress towards our net zero ambition, with stakeholders
other areas such as financial services. We are monitoring the likely to place greater focus on our actions such as the
situation closely, including the potential impacts on our development of climate-related policies, our disclosures and
customers. financing and investment decisions relating to our ambition. We
Our global presence and diversified customer base should help will face additional risks if we are perceived to mislead
mitigate the direct impacts on our financial position of the absence stakeholders in respect of our climate strategy, the climate impact
of a comprehensive EU-UK agreement on financial services. Our of a product or service, or the commitments of our customers.
wholesale and markets footprint in the EU provides a strong To track and report on progress towards achieving our ambition,
foundation for us to build upon. Over the medium to long term, we rely on internal and, where appropriate and available, external
the UK’s withdrawal from the EU may impact markets and data, guided by certain industry standards. While emissions
increase economic risk, particularly in the UK, which could reporting has improved over time, data remains of limited quality
adversely impact our profitability and prospects for growth in this and consistency. Methodologies we have used may develop over
market. time in line with market practice and regulations, as well as owing
Monetary and fiscal policies in developed markets will likely to developments in climate science. Any developments in data and
remain broadly accommodative for some time owing to methodologies could result in revisions to reported data going
uncertainty over the economic outlook, although rising global forward, including on financed emissions, meaning that reported
inflation – partly on the back of higher energy prices – is putting figures may not be reconcilable or comparable year-on-year. We
pressure on central banks to tighten monetary policy. The US may also have to reevaluate our progress towards our climate-
Federal Reserve Board began tapering its asset purchases in related targets in future and this could result in reputational, legal
November 2021 and financial markets currently expect it to raise and regulatory risks.
the Federal Funds rate over the next year. The European Central Climate risk will also have an impact on model risk, as models play
Bank is on course to end its extraordinary asset purchase an important role in risk management and the financial reporting
programme in March 2022. of climate-related risks. The uncertain impacts of climate change
Persistent supply issues or further increases in energy prices – for and data limitations present challenges to creating reliable and
instance as a result of escalation in the Russia-Ukraine crisis – accurate model outputs.
could keep inflation high and force central banks to tighten We could also face increased resilience risk, retail credit risk and
monetary policies faster than currently envisaged. Conversely, wholesale credit risk owing to the increase in frequency and
monetary policy tightening may be constrained by the emergence severity of weather events and chronic shifts in weather patterns.
and spread of new Covid-19 variants that dampen economic These risks could affect our own critical operations, impacting our
recovery. We continue to monitor our risk profile closely in the customers and resulting in losses to our operations. Our
context of uncertainty over monetary policy. customers’ operations and assets could also be affected, reducing
The global economic recovery in 2021 eased financial difficulties their ability to afford mortgage or loan repayments, and leading to
for some of our customers, which contributed to a reduction in credit risk impacts.
ECL charges. For further details on customer relief programmes, There is increasing evidence that a number of nature-related risks
see page 159. beyond climate change – which include risks that can be
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 125
Risk
review
Risk
represented more broadly by economic dependence on nature – Ibor transition
can and will have significant economic impact. These risks arise
Interbank offered rates (‘Ibors’) have historically been used
when the provision of natural services – such as water availability,
extensively to set interest rates on different types of financial
air quality, and soil quality – is compromised by overpopulation,
transactions and for valuation purposes, risk measurement and
urban development, natural habitat and ecosystem loss, and other
performance benchmarking.
environmental stresses beyond climate change. They can show
themselves in various ways, including through macroeconomic, Following the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’)
market, credit, reputational, legal and regulatory risks, for both announcement in July 2017 that it would no longer continue to
HSBC and our customers. In 2021, we added nature-related risks persuade or require panel banks to submit rates for the London
as a new emerging risk driver, under the umbrella theme of ESG interbank offered rate (‘Libor’) after 2021, we have been actively
risks and we continue to engage with investors, regulators and working to transition legacy contracts from Ibors to products
customers on nature-related risks to evolve our approach and linked to near risk-free replacement rates (‘RFRs’) or alternative
understand best practice risk mitigation. reference rates. In March 2021, in accordance with the 2017 FCA
announcement, ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (‘IBA’)
Regulation and disclosure requirements in relation to human
announced that it would cease publication of 24 of the 35 main
rights, and to modern slavery in particular, are increasing.
Libor currency interest rate benchmark settings from the end of
Businesses are expected to explain more about their efforts to
2021, and that the most widely used US dollar Libor settings
identify and respond to the risk of negative human rights impacts
would cease from 30 June 2023. The FCA subsequently used its
arising from the actions of their employees, suppliers, customers
regulatory powers to compel IBA to publish the remaining six
and those in whom they invest.
sterling and Japanese yen settings, from 1 January 2022, under an
Mitigating actions amended methodology, commonly known as ‘synthetic’ Libor. As
a result, our focus during 2021 was on the transition of legacy
• We continue to deepen our understanding of the drivers of
contracts referencing the Euro Overnight Index average (‘Eonia’)
climate risk as well as manage our exposure. A dedicated
and the Libor settings that demised from the end of 2021,
Climate Risk Oversight Forum is responsible for shaping and
including those settings subsequently being published on a
overseeing our approach and providing support in managing
‘synthetic’ basis.
climate risk. For further details on the Group’s ESG governance
structure, see page 80. During 2021, we continued the development of IT and RFR
product capabilities, implemented supporting operational
• Our climate risk programme continues to accelerate the
processes, and engaged with our clients to discuss options for the
development of our climate risk management capabilities
transition of their legacy contracts. The successful implementation
across four key pillars – governance and risk appetite, risk
of new processes and controls, as well as the transition of
management, stress testing and scenario analysis, and
contracts away from Ibors, reduced the heightened financial and
disclosures. We are also enhancing our approach to
non-financial risks to which we were exposed. However, while all
greenwashing risk management.
but exceptional new Libor contract issuance ceased during 2021,
• In December, we published our thermal coal phase-out policy, or from the end of 2021 for US dollar Libor, we remain exposed to
which committed to phase out the financing of coal-fired power material risks. These include from so-called ‘tough legacy’
and thermal coal mining in EU/OECD markets by 2030, and contracts, which have not been able to be transition to a new RFR
globally by 2040. The policy helps us chart the path to net zero rate and will use a ‘synthetic’ Libor or a contractual fallback rate,
and is a component of our approach towards managing the and from legacy contracts that reference the remaining US dollar
climate risk of our lending portfolio. Libor tenors, which are expected to demise from June 2023.
• Climate stress tests and scenarios are being used to further Financial risks have been largely mitigated as a result of the
improve our understanding of our risk exposures for use in risk implementation of model and pricing changes. However,
management and business decision making. differences in US dollar Libor and its replacement RFR, Secured
• We are undertaking training and adding additional roles with Overnight Funding Rate (‘SOFR’), create a basis risk in the trading
specialist skills to manage climate-related model risk. book and banking book due to the asymmetric adoption of SOFR
across assets, liabilities and products that we need to actively
• We have delivered climate risk training to our legal entity
manage through appropriate financial hedging. Additionally, the
boards and wider target audiences.
comparatively limited use of the SOFR benchmark for new RFR
• With the help of external stakeholders, we continued to review products to date and lack of alignment around conventions could
and improve our approach to human rights issues, following potentially delay transition of some US dollar contracts into 2023.
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. This would compress the amount of time to transition these
contracts, which could lead to heightened operational and
• In 2021, we joined several industry working groups dedicated
conduct-related risk.
to helping us assess and manage nature-related risks, such as
the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosure (‘TNFD’). Additional non-financial risks, including regulatory compliance
Our asset management business also published its biodiversity risk, resilience risk, financial reporting risk, and legal risk also
policy to publicly explain how our analysts address nature- remain for ‘tough legacy’ contracts, and the US dollar legacy
related issues. portfolio. These risks continue to be actively managed and
mitigated with a focus on ensuring that fair outcomes for our
• We continue to engage with our customers, investors and
clients are achieved.
regulators proactively on the management of ESG risks. We
also engage with initiatives, including the Climate Financial These risks are present in different degrees across our product
Risk Forum, Equator Principles, Taskforce on Climate-related offering.
Financial Disclosures and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure
Transition of legacy contracts
Project) to drive best practice for climate risk management.
During 2021 we successfully transitioned over 90% of legacy Ibor
For further details on our approach to climate risk management, see ‘Areas of
lending contracts in sterling, Swiss franc, euro and Japanese yen
special interest’ on page 131.
Libor interest rates, as well as Eonia, directly or via appropriate
For further details on ESG risk management see ‘Financial crime risk fallback mechanisms. The majority of the remaining contracts will
environment and ‘Regulatory compliance risk environment including conduct’ transition in advance of their next interest payment date, with only
on page 129. a small proportion of ‘tough legacy’ contracts remaining. We
Our ESG review can be found on page 43. expect that out of approximately 5,000 lending contracts there will
be less than 50 ‘tough legacy’ contracts, the majority of which will
be transitioned to alternative rates during 2022. Our approach to
transition ‘tough legacy’ and US dollar Libor legacy contracts will
126 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
differ by product and business area, but will be based on the cessation of relevant Ibor rates, constraints relating to the
lessons learned from the successful transition of contracts during governing law of outstanding instruments, and the potential
2021. We will continue to communicate with our clients and relevance of legislative solutions. We remain committed in seeking
investors in a structured manner and be client led in the timing to remediate or mitigate relevant risks relating to Ibor-demise, as
and nature of the transition. appropriate, on our outstanding regulatory capital and MREL
instruments before the relevant calculation dates, which may
For derivatives, approximately 99% of our sterling, Swiss franc,
occur post-cessation of the relevant Ibor rate or rates. Where we
euro and Japanese yen Libor interest rate exposures at the end of
hold bonds issued by other institutions, we have remained
2021 had successfully transitioned directly or via appropriate
dependent on the issuer’s agents to engage in the transition
fallback mechanisms, leaving a small number of ‘tough legacy’
process, although analysis will be undertaken of the issuers in US
contracts. Out of the approximately 13,000 bilateral derivatives
dollar Libor bonds to reduce our exposure, as occurred through
trades there are expected to be less than 20 that remain ‘tough
2021.
legacy’, the majority of which are expected to mature or transition
in 2022. We anticipate our ‘tough legacy’ and US dollar exposure The completion of an orderly transition from the remaining Ibors,
will continue to reduce through 2022 as a result of contract notably US dollar Libor, continues to be our programme’s key
maturities, and active transition. We will continue to look to objective through 2022 and 2023, with the aim of putting systems
actively reduce our US dollar exposure by transitioning trades and processes in place to help achieve this.
ahead of the demise date of 30 June 2023, by working with our
Mitigating actions
clients to determine their needs and discuss how we transition
their contracts. Additionally, we are working with market • Our global Ibor transition programme, which is overseen by the
participants, including clearing houses, to ensure we are able to Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, will continue to
transition our cleared derivative contracts as the US dollar Libor deliver IT and operational processes to meet its objectives.
benchmark demise date approaches.
• We carry out extensive training, communication and client
For our loan book, approximately 85% of our reported exposure at engagement to facilitate appropriate selection of new rates and
the end of 2021 linked to sterling, Swiss franc, euro and Japanese products.
yen Libor interest rate contracts required no further client
• We have dedicated teams in place to support the transition.
negotiation but remained drawn as they have yet to reach their
next interest payment date. The majority of the remaining • We actively transitioned legacy contracts and ceased new
exposure linked to benchmarks that demised from the end of 2021 issuance of Libor-based contracts, other than those allowed
relates to contracts where discussions with our clients and other under regulatory exemptions, with associated monitoring and
market participants, for syndicated transactions, have continued controls.
into early 2022, in advance of their next scheduled interest • We assess, monitor and dynamically manage risks arising from
payment date, and this has led to further transitions being Ibor transition, and implement specific mitigating controls
completed. A small number of ‘tough legacy’ contracts, less than when required.
50, that were unable to transition prior to their first interest
• We continue to actively engage with regulatory and industry
payment date in 2022, are expected to use legislative reliefs, such
bodies to mitigate risks relating to ‘tough legacy’ contracts.
as ‘synthetic’ Libor, or an alternative rate determined by the
contractual fallback language, and in the main will be transitioned
Financial instruments impacted by Ibor reform
during 2022. For the remaining demising Ibors, notably US dollar
Libor, we have implemented new products and processes and (Audited)
updated our systems in readiness for transition. In our US retail
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Phase 2, the amendments to
bank, our mortgage products are offered in SOFR, and the
IFRSs issued in August 2020, represents the second phase of the
transition of legacy contracts will occur once an industry spread
IASB’s project on the effects of interest rate benchmark reform.
adjustment is available. Global Banking, Commercial Banking and
The amendments address issues affecting financial statements
Global Private Banking have begun to engage with clients who
when changes are made to contractual cash flows and hedging
have upcoming contract maturities with a view to refinancing
relationships.
using an appropriate replacement rate. Further communications
and outreach to customers with US dollar Libor contracts with Under these amendments, changes made to a financial instrument
later maturities will occur in due course. measured at other than fair value through profit or loss that are
economically equivalent and required by interest rate benchmark
For the Group’s own debt securities issuances, in 2021 HSBC
reform, do not result in the derecognition or a change in the
launched a consent solicitation to remediate Ibor references in five
carrying amount of the financial instrument. Instead they require
of its English law governed regulatory capital and MREL sterling
the effective interest rate to be updated to reflect the change in
and Singapore dollar instruments. The proposed amendments
the interest rate benchmark. In addition, hedge accounting will not
were successfully adopted on all of the sterling instruments, but
be discontinued solely because of the replacement of the interest
were not adopted with respect to the Singapore dollar instruments
rate benchmark if the hedge meets other hedge accounting
as the minimum quorum requirements were not met. The terms of
criteria.
these two instruments provide for an Ibor benchmark being used
to reset the coupon rate if HSBC chooses not to redeem the
instruments on the respective call date, or dates, for each series.
We remain mindful of the various factors that impact on the Ibor
remediation strategy for our regulatory capital and MREL
instruments, including – but not limited to – timescales for
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 127
Risk
review
Risk
Financial instruments yet to transition to alternative
benchmarks, by main benchmark
USD Libor GBP Libor JPY Libor Others1
At 31 Dec 2021 $m $m $m $m
Non-derivative financial assets
Loans and advances to customers 70,932 18,307 370 8,259
Other financial assets 5,131 1,098 — 2
Total non-derivative financial assets2 76,063 19,405 370 8,261
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 20,219 4,019 1,399 1
Debt securities in issue 5,255 — — —
Other financial liabilities 2,998 78 — —
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 28,472 4,097 1,399 1
Derivative notional contract amount
Foreign exchange 137,188 5,157 31,470 9,652
Interest rate 2,318,613 284,898 72,229 133,667
Others — — — —
Total derivative notional contract amount 2,455,801 290,055 103,699 143,319
At 31 Dec 2020
Non-derivative financial assets
Loans and advances to customers 85,378 43,681 371 10,751
Other financial assets 8,770 2,906 — 12
Total non-derivative financial assets2 94,148 46,587 371 10,763
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 24,350 6,219 1,548 128
Debt securities in issue 5,840 — — 416
Other financial liabilities 3,412 964 — 5
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 33,602 7,183 1,548 549
Derivative notional contract amount
Foreign exchange 196,774 6,374 28,411 22,762
Interest rate 2,848,552 1,190,491 479,789 492,197
Others 11 — — —
Total derivative notional contract amount 3,045,337 1,196,865 508,200 514,959
1 Comprises financial instruments referencing other significant benchmark rates yet to transition to alternative benchmarks (euro Libor, Swiss franc
Libor, Eonia, SOR, THBFIX and Sibor).
2 Gross carrying amount excluding allowances for expected credit losses.
The amounts in the above table relate to HSBC’s main operating Financial crime risk environment
entities where HSBC has material exposures impacted by Ibor
Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory
reform, including in the UK, Hong Kong, France, the US, Mexico,
scrutiny regarding their ability to prevent and detect financial
Canada, Singapore, the UAE, Bermuda, Australia, Qatar, Germany,
crime. The financial crime threats we face have continued to
Japan and Thailand. The amounts provide an indication of the
evolve, often in tandem with broader geopolitical, socioeconomic
extent of the Group’s exposure to the Ibor benchmarks that are
and technological shifts in our markets, leading to challenges such
due to be replaced. Amounts are in respect of financial
as managing conflicting laws and approaches to legal and
instruments that:
regulatory regimes.
• contractually reference an interest rate benchmark that is
Financial crime risk evolved during the Covid-19 pandemic,
planned to transition to an alternative benchmark;
notably with the manifestation of fraud risks linked to the
• have a contractual maturity date beyond the date by which the economic slowdown and resulting deployment of government
reference interest rate benchmark is expected to cease; and relief measures. The accelerated digitisation of financial services
has fostered significant changes to the payments ecosystem,
• are recognised on HSBC’s consolidated balance sheet.
including a multiplicity of providers and new payment
In March 2021, the administrator of Libor, IBA, announced that the mechanisms, not all of which are subject to the same level of
publication date of most US dollar Libor tenors has been extended regulatory scrutiny or regulations as financial institutions. This is
from 31 December 2021 to 30 June 2023. Publication of one-week presenting increasing challenges to the industry in terms of
and two-month tenors ceased after 31 December 2021. This maintaining required levels of transparency, notably where
change, together with the extended publication dates of Sibor, institutions serve as intermediaries. Developments around digital
SOR and THBFIX, reduce the amounts presented at 31 December assets and currencies, notably the role of stablecoins and central
2021 in the above table as some financial instruments included at bank digital currencies, have continued at pace, with an increasing
31 December 2020 will reach their contractual maturity date prior regulatory and enforcement focus on the financial crimes linked to
to the extended publication dates. Comparative data have not these types of assets.
been re-presented.
Expectations with respect to the intersection of ESG issues and
financial crime as our organisation, customers and suppliers
transition to net zero, are increasing, not least with respect to
potential ‘greenwashing’. Companies also face a heightened
regulatory focus on both human rights issues and environmental
crimes from a financial crime perspective. We also continue to
face increasing challenges presented by national data privacy
128 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Risk
Model risk management Risks associated with workforce capability, capacity
and environmental factors with potential impact on
Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes
growth
reliance on models. We use models in both financial and non-
financial contexts, as well as in a range of business applications Our success in delivering our strategic priorities and managing the
such as customer selection, product pricing, financial crime regulatory environment proactively depends on the development
transaction monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial and retention of our leadership and high-performing employees. A
reporting. Assessing model performance is a continuous very competitive employment market will continue to test our
undertaking. Models can need redevelopment as market ability to attract and retain talent. Changed working arrangements,
conditions change. This was required following the outbreak of local Covid-19 restrictions and health concerns during the
Covid-19 as some models used for estimating credit losses needed pandemic have also impacted on employee mental health and
to be redeveloped due to the dramatic change to inputs. This well-being.
included GDP; unemployment rates; housing prices; and the
Mitigating actions
varying government support measures introduced.
• We have put in place measures to help support our people so
We prioritised the redevelopment of internal ratings-based (‘IRB’)
they are able to work safely during the Covid-19 pandemic.
and internal model methods (‘IMM’) models, in relation to
While our approach to workplace recovery around the world is
counterparty credit, as part of the IRB repair and Basel III
consistent, the measures we take in different locations are
programmes with a key focus on enhancing the quality of data
specific to their environment.
used as model inputs. Submission of these models to the UK’s
Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) and other key regulators • We promote a diverse and inclusive workforce and provide
for feedback and approval is in progress. Some IMM and internal active support across a wide range of health and well-being
model approach (‘IMA’) models have been approved for use and activities. We continue to build our speak-up culture through
feedback has been received for some IRB models. Climate risk active campaigns.
modelling is a key focus for the Group as HSBC’s commitment to
• We monitor people risks that could arise due to organisational
sustainability has become a critical part of the Group’s strategy.
restructuring, helping to ensure we manage redundancies
Mitigating actions sensitively and support impacted employees. We encourage
our people leaders to focus on talent retention at all levels, with
• We further enhanced the monitoring, review and challenge of
an empathetic mindset and approach, while ensuring the whole
loss model performance through our Model Risk Management
proposition of working at HSBC is well understood.
function as part of a broader quarterly process to determine
loss levels. The Model Risk Management team aims to provide • Our Future Skills curriculum helps provide critical skills that will
strong and effective review and challenge of any future enable employees and HSBC to be successful in the future.
redevelopment of these models.
• We continue to develop succession plans for key management
• Model Risk Management works closely with businesses to roles, with actions agreed and reviewed on a regular basis by
ensure that IRB/IMM/IMA models in development meet risk the Group Executive Committee.
management, pricing and capital management needs. Global
IT systems infrastructure and resilience
Internal Audit provides assurance over the risk management
framework for models. We operate an extensive and complex technology landscape,
which must remain resilient in order to support customers, the
• Additional assurance work is performed by the model risk
organisation and markets globally. Risks arise where technology is
governance teams, which act as second lines of defence. The
not understood or maintained, and development of technology is
teams test whether controls implemented by model users
not controlled.
comply with model risk policy and if model risk standards are
adequate. Mitigating actions
• Models using advanced machine learning techniques are • We continue to invest in transforming how software solutions
validated and monitored to ensure that risks that are are developed, delivered and maintained. We concentrate on
determined by the algorithms have adequate oversight and improving system resilience and service continuity testing. We
review. continue to ensure security is built into our software
development life cycle and improve our testing processes and
Risks arising from the receipt of services from
tools.
third parties
• We continue to upgrade many of our IT systems, simplify our
We use third parties to provide a range of goods and services.
service provision and replace older IT infrastructure and
Risks arising from the use of third-party providers and their supply
applications. These enhancements supported global
chain may be harder to identify. It is critical that we ensure we
improvements in service availability during 2021 for both our
have appropriate risk management policies, processes and
customers and colleagues.
practices over the selection, governance and oversight of third
parties and their supply chain, particularly for key activities that Change execution risk
could affect our operational resilience. Any deficiency in the We have continued our increased investment in strategic change
management of risks associated with our third parties could affect to support the delivery of our strategic priorities and regulatory
our ability to support our customers and meet regulatory commitments. This requires change to be executed safely and
expectations. efficiently.
Mitigating actions Mitigating actions
• We have enhanced our control framework for external supplier • A global transformation programme is progressing with the
arrangements to ensure the risks associated with third-party delivery of strategic change commitments made in February
arrangements are understood and managed effectively by our 2020 to restructure our business, reallocate capital into higher
global businesses, global functions and regions. growth and higher return businesses and markets, and to
• We have applied the same control standards to intra-group simplify our organisation to improve operational resilience and
arrangements as we have for external third-party arrangements reduce costs.
to ensure we are managing them effectively. • The remit of the Transformation Oversight Executive
• We are implementing the changes required by the new global Committee, established in 2020 to oversee the global
third-party risk policy to comply with new regulations as transformation programme, was expanded in 2021 to oversee
defined by our regulators. the prioritisation, strategic alignment and management of
execution risk for all change portfolios and initiatives.
130 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
• We continue to work to strengthen our change management models may have a tendency to underestimate loan losses. To
practices to deliver sustainable change, increased adoption of help mitigate this risk, model outputs and management
Agile ways of working, and a more consistent standard of adjustments are closely monitored and independently reviewed at
delivery. The Transformation Oversight Executive Committee the Group and country level for reliability and appropriateness. For
oversees the continued embedding of our improved Group- further details on model risk, see page 209.
wide change framework released in May 2021, which sets out
Despite the ongoing economic recovery, significant uncertainties
the mandatory principles and standards relating to leading and
remain in assessing the duration and impact of the Covid-19
delivering change.
pandemic, including whether any subsequent outbreaks result in a
reimposition of government restrictions. There is a risk that
Areas of special interest
economic activity remains below pre-pandemic levels for a
prolonged period, increasing inequality across markets, and it will
During 2021, a number of areas were identified and considered as
likely be some time before societies return to pre-pandemic levels
part of our top and emerging risks because of the effect they may
of social interactions. As a result, there may still be a requirement
have on the Group. While considered under the themes captured
for additional mitigating actions including further use of
under top and emerging risks, in this section we have placed a
adjustments, overlays and model redevelopment.
particular focus on the Covid-19 pandemic and climate-related
risks. Governments and central banks in major economies have
deployed extensive measures to support their local populations.
Risks related to Covid-19
This is expected to reverse partially in 2022. Central banks in major
Despite the successful roll-out of vaccines around the world, the markets are expected to raise interest rates, but such increases are
Covid-19 pandemic and its effect on the global economy have expected to be gradual and monetary policy is expected to remain
continued to impact our customers and organisation. The global accommodative overall. Policy tightening in major emerging
vaccination roll-out in 2021 helped reduce the social and economic markets has already begun in order to counteract rising inflation
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, although there has been and the risk of capital outflows. Governments are also expected to
significant divergence in the speed at which vaccines have been reduce the level of fiscal support they offer households and
deployed around the world. Most developed countries have now businesses as the appetite for broad lockdowns and public health
vaccinated a large proportion of their populations, but many less restrictions decreases. Government debt has risen in most
developed countries have struggled to secure supplies and are at advanced economies, and is expected to remain high into the
an earlier stage of their roll-out. By the end of 2021, high medium term. High government debt burdens have raised fiscal
vaccination rates had ensured that many Covid-19-related vulnerabilities, increasing the sensitivity of debt service costs to
restrictions on activity in developed markets had been lifted and interest rate increases and potentially reducing the fiscal space
travel constraints were easing. However, the emergence of the available to address future economic downturns. Our Central
Omicron variant in late 2021 demonstrated the continued risk new scenario used to calculate impairment assumes that economic
variants pose. activity will continue to recover through 2022, surpassing peak
pre-pandemic levels of GDP in all our key markets. It is assumed
The pandemic necessitated governments to respond at
that private sector growth accelerates, ensuring a strong recovery
unprecedented levels to protect public health, and to support local
is sustained even as pandemic-related fiscal support is withdrawn.
economies and livelihoods. The resulting government support
However, there is a high degree of uncertainty associated with
measures and restrictions created additional challenges, given the
economic forecasts in the current environment and there are
rapid pace of change and significant operational demands.
significant risks to our Central scenario. The degree of uncertainty
Renewed outbreaks, particularly those resulting from the
varies by market, driven by country-specific trends in the evolution
emergence of variants of the virus, emphasise the ongoing threat
of the pandemic and associated policy responses. As a result, our
of Covid-19 and could result in further tightening of government
Central scenario for impairment has not been assigned an equal
restrictions. There remains a divergence in approach taken by
likelihood of occurrence across our key markets. For further details
countries to the level of restrictions on activity and travel. Such
of our Central and other scenarios, see ‘Measurement uncertainty
diverging approaches to future pandemic waves could prolong or
and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on page 144.
worsen supply chain and international travel disruptions. The
evolving Covid-19 restrictions in Hong Kong, including travel, We continue to monitor the situation closely, and given the novel
public gathering and social distancing restrictions, are impacting and prolonged nature of the pandemic, additional mitigating
the Hong Kong economy, and may affect the ability to attract and actions may be required.
retain staff.
Climate-related risks
We continue to support our personal and business customers
Climate change can have an impact across HSBC’s risk taxonomy
through market-specific measures initiated during the Covid-19
through both transition and physical channels. Transition risk can
pandemic, and by supporting those remaining national
arise from the move to a net zero economy, such as through
government schemes that focus on the parts of the economy most
policy, regulatory and technological changes. Physical risk can
impacted by the pandemic. For further details of our customer
arise through increasing severity and/or frequency of severe
relief programmes, see page 159.
weather or other climatic events, such as rising sea levels and
The rapid introduction and varying nature of the government flooding.
support schemes introduced throughout the Covid-19 pandemic
These have the potential to cause both idiosyncratic and systemic
led to increased operational risks, including complex conduct
risks, resulting in potential financial and non-financial impacts for
considerations, increased reputational risk and increased risk of
HSBC. Financial impacts could materialise if transition and
fraud. These risks are likely to be heightened further as and when
physical risks impact the ability of our customers to repay their
those remaining government support schemes are unwound.
loans. Non-financial impacts could materialise if our own assets or
These events have also led to increased litigation risk.
operations are impacted by extreme weather or chronic changes
The impact of the pandemic on the long-term prospects of in weather patterns, or as a result of business decisions to achieve
businesses in the most vulnerable sectors of the economy – such our climate ambition.
as retail, hospitality, travel and commercial real estate – remains
How climate risk can impact our customers
uncertain and may lead to significant credit losses on specific
exposures, which may not be fully captured in ECL estimates. In Climate change could impact our customers in two main ways.
addition, in times of stress, fraudulent activity is often more Firstly, customer business models may fail to align to a net zero
prevalent, leading to potentially significant credit or operational economy, which could mean that new climate-related regulation
losses. would have a material impact on their business. Secondly,
extreme weather events or chronic changes in weather patterns
As economic conditions improve, and government support
measures come to an end, there is a risk that the outputs of IFRS 9
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 131
Risk
review
Risk
may damage our customers’ assets leaving them unable to Climate risk governance and reporting
operate their business or potentially even live in their home.
Our global and regional Climate Risk Oversight Forums are
One of the most valuable ways we can help our customers responsible for the oversight, management and escalation of
navigate the transition challenges and to become more resilient to climate risks across the Group and are supported by specific
the physical impacts of climate change is through financing and forums for our global businesses, as well as for our Risk and
investment. To do this effectively, we must understand the risks Compliance function. These include the Sustainability Risk
they are facing. Oversight Forum, the WPB Risk Management Meeting and the
Regulatory Compliance ESG and Climate Risk Working Group.
The table below summarises the key categories of transition and
physical risk, with examples of how our customers might be Our climate risk management information dashboard includes
affected financially by climate change and the shift to a low- metrics relating to our key climate risks, and is reported to the
carbon economy. Group Climate Risk Oversight Forum. The Group Risk
Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee receive
Climate risk Main causes of financial impact on customers scheduled updates on climate risk, and receive regular updates on
Transition Policy and Mandates on, and regulation of, existing our climate risk appetite and top and emerging climate risks.
legal products and services
Litigation from parties who have suffered For further details on the Group’s ESG governance structure, see
from the effects of climate change page 80.
Technology Replacement of existing products with lower The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the key senior
emission options
manager responsible for the management of climate-related
End-demand Changing consumer behaviour
financial risks under the UK Senior Managers Regime. The Group
(market)
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the overall accountable
Reputational Increased scrutiny following a change in
executive for the Group’s climate risk programme, including
stakeholder perceptions of climate-related
responsibility for governance, risk management, stress testing and
action or inaction
scenario analysis and disclosures.
Physical Acute Increased frequency and severity of weather
events Climate risk programme
Chronic Changes in precipitation patterns Our dedicated programme continues to accelerate the
Rising temperatures
development of our climate risk management capabilities. The key
achievements in 2021 include:
For further details on how we manage climate risk for our other
stakeholders, see the ESG review on page 56. • We delivered tailored training sessions to our legal entity
boards.
Integrating climate into enterprise-wide risk management
• We delivered training to colleagues across the three lines of
Our approach to climate risk management is aligned to our Group-
defence so they can understand climate risk as part of their
wide risk management framework and three lines of defence
role, and we also included an introduction to our climate
model, which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our
ambition in our global mandatory training.
risks. This approach ensures the Board and senior management
have visibility and oversight of our key climate risks. • We developed our climate risk scoring tool for corporate
customers for use in priority regions, which builds on our
Climate risk appetite
corporate transition questionnaire.
Our developing climate risk appetite measures support the
• We introduced a risk appetite based on monitoring climate risk
oversight and management of the financial and non-financial risks
exposure at property level across the UK mortgage portfolio.
from climate change, meet regulatory expectations and support
the business to deliver our climate ambition in a safe and • We have continued to develop our climate stress testing and
sustainable way. Our initial measures are focused on the oversight scenarios capabilities, including model development and
and management of our key climate risks: wholesale credit risk, delivered regulatory climate stress tests. These are being used
retail credit risk, reputational risk, resilience risk and regulatory to further improve our understanding of our risk exposures for
compliance. These measures are implemented at a global and use in risk management and business decision making. For
regional level. We continue to develop climate risk appetite more detail on our approach to climate stress testing and
measures and our future ambition for our climate risk appetite is scenario analysis, see page 57.
to:
We will continue to enhance our climate risk management
• adapt the risk appetite metrics to incorporate forward-looking capabilities throughout 2022. This will include the further roll-out
transition plans and net zero commitments; of training, refinement of our risk appetite, enhancement of our
climate risk scoring tool and increasing the availability and quality
• expand metrics to consider other financial and non-financial
of data so that new metrics can be developed.
risks; and
How climate risk can impact HSBC
• use enhanced scenario analysis capabilities.
Below, we provide details on how climate risk impacts to our
Climate risk policies, processes and controls
customers might manifest across our key climate risks, and the
We are integrating climate risk into the policies, processes and potential timeframes involved using the TCFD’s four main drivers
controls for our key climate risks and we will continue to update of transition climate risk – policy and legal, technology, end-
these as our climate risk management capabilities mature over demand (market) and reputational – and two physical risk drivers –
time. We have updated our policy on product management, and acute and chronic.
developed the first version of a climate risk scoring tool for our
corporate portfolios. In addition, we published and started to
implement our new thermal coal phase-out policy. For further
details on our thermal coal phase-out policy, see page 62.
132 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Risk management framework
Financial risks Non-financial risk
Wholesale Strategic risk Regulatory
Risk type credit Retail credit (reputational) Resilience risk compliance risk
All term Medium–long All term All term
Timescale1 periods term periods periods Short–medium
Transition risk drivers2
– policy and legal l l l
– technology l
– end-demand (market) l l
– reputational l l l
Physical risk drivers2
– acute – increased frequency and severity of weather events l l l
– chronic – changes in weather patterns l l l
1 Short-term: less than one year; medium term: period to 2030; long term: period to 2050.
2 Transition and physical risk drivers defined by TCFD.
Wholesale credit risk We also report the proportion of questionnaire responses that
reported either having a board policy or management plan for
Identification and assessment
transition risk. Our key wholesale credit exposures are included as
We have identified six key sectors where our wholesale credit part of our broader ESG management information dashboard,
customers have the highest climate risk, based on their carbon which is presented to the Group Executive Committee each
emissions. These are oil and gas, building and construction, quarter. In addition, a representative from wholesale credit risk
chemicals, automotive, power and utilities, and metals and attends the Global Climate Risk Oversight Forum to ensure
mining. We continue to roll out our transition and physical risk consideration of this risk type, and we report our exposure through
questionnaire to our largest customers in high-risk sectors, with the climate risk management information dashboard at this
the addition of four more sectors: agriculture, manufacturing, real meeting.
estate and transportation. The questionnaires will help us to
We will continue to report these metrics in 2022 and will aim to
assess and improve our understanding of the impact of climate
cascade these measures to global businesses and to provide
changes on our customers’ business models and any related
insight on the climate risk profile of our portfolio and customers.
transition strategies. It also helps us to identify potential business
opportunities to support the transition. In 2022, we intend to In the table below, we capture our lending activity, including
increase the scope of the questionnaires by adding more countries environmentally responsible and sustainable finance activities, to
to the scope. customers within the six high risk sectors. Green financing for
large companies that work in high transition sectors is also
Management
included. The overall exposure has increased slightly to 20.0%
In 2021, we developed a scoring tool, which provides a climate (2020:19.6%). For further details on how we designate
risk score for each customer based on questionnaire responses. counterparties as high transition risk, see footnote 2.
The climate risk score will then be used in portfolio level
Since 2019, we have received responses from customers within
management information to assess and compare clients. The
the six high transition risk sectors, which represent 56% of our
scoring tool will be enhanced and refined over time as more data
exposure, an increase in coverage of 15% since last year. The
becomes available. The results of the tool have been provided to
breakdown of our customer responses is presented by sector in
business and risk management teams. During 2021, we also
the table below.
performed a climate-related stress test, as explained further on
page 58. In 2022 we aim to further embed climate risk Within the power and utilities, and metals and mining sectors
considerations in our credit risk management processes. shown in the table below, and recognising external third-party
assessments of power generation and mining capacity, our
Aggregation and reporting
exposure to thermal coal is 0.2% of the total wholesale loans and
We currently internally report our transition risk exposure and advances figures.
RWAs consumed by the six high-risk sectors in the wholesale
portfolio.
Wholesale loan exposure to transition risk sectors and customer questionnaire responses at 31 December 2021
Construction
and building Metals and Oil and Power and
Automotive Chemicals materials mining gas utilities Total
% % % % % % %
Wholesale loan exposure as % of total wholesale loans and advances to
customers and banks1,2,3 ≤ 2.8 ≤ 3.4 ≤ 4.5 ≤ 2.4 ≤ 3.4 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 20.0
Proportion of sector for which questionnaires were completed4 59 44 56 52 64 59 56
Proportion of questionnaire responses that reported either having a
board policy or a management plan4 65 76 76 57 77 90 75
Sector weight as proportion of high transition risk sector4 14 17 22 12 17 18 100
1 Amounts shown in the table also include green and other sustainable finance loans, which support the transition to the net zero economy. The
methodology for quantifying our exposure to high transition risk sectors and the transition risk metrics will evolve over time as more data becomes
available and is incorporated in our risk management systems and processes.
2 Counterparties are allocated to the high transition risk sectors via a two-step approach. Firstly, where the main business of a group of connected
counterparties is in a high transition risk sector, all lending to the group is included irrespective of the sector of each individual obligor within the
group. Secondly, where the main business of a group of connected counterparties is not in a high transition risk sector, only lending to individual
obligors in the high transition risk sectors is included. For Global Banking and Markets clients, the main business of a group of connected
counterparties is identified by the relationship manager for the group. For Commercial Banking clients, the main business of a group of connected
counterparties is identified based on the largest industry of HSBC’s total lending limits to the group.
3 Total wholesale loans and advances to customers and banks amount to $662bn (2020: $673bn).
4 All percentages are weighted by exposure.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 133
Risk
review
Risk
Retail credit risk We have approximately 53% of properties in our portfolio with a
valid EPC certificate (i.e. dated within the last 10 years) and 35.7%
Identification and assessment
of these are rated A to C.
We manage retail credit risk under a framework of controls that
For further details and metrics relating to physical and transition
enable the identification and assessment of credit risk across the
risk to our UK mortgage portfolio, see our ESG Data Pack at
retail portfolio.
www.hsbc.com/esg.
In 2021, we completed a Group-wide climate scenario analysis
Reputational risk
and stress testing exercise. This enabled us to enhance our
understanding and assess the impact of physical risk to our Identification and assessment
mortgage portfolio under three potential future climate scenarios,
We implement sustainability risk policies, including the Equator
with a focus on the UK, Hong Kong and Canada.
Principles, as part of our broader reputational risk framework. We
Additionally, for the UK mortgage portfolio, we considered the focus on sensitive sectors that may have a high adverse impact on
impact of potential minimum energy performance certificate people or the environment, and in which we have a significant
(‘EPC’) rating requirements, as well as changes to the availability number of customers. A key area of focus is high-carbon sectors,
of buildings insurance following the demise of FloodRe. These which include oil and gas, power generation, mining, agricultural
factors were considered alongside macroeconomic drivers, given commodities and forestry. During 2021 we published our thermal
the supplemental data available for the UK. coal phase-out policy.
FloodRe is a scheme between the UK Government and the Management
insurance industry that aims to improve the availability and
As the primary point of contact for our customers, our relationship
affordability of flood cover for properties in high flood risk areas. It
managers are responsible for checking that our customers meet
is currently in place until 2039.
policies aimed at reducing carbon impacts. Our global network of
Understanding the impact of future climate risk relies heavily upon more than 75 sustainability risk managers provides local policy
the availability of quality data, as well as on the evolution of support and expertise to relationship managers. A central
climate risk modelling expertise. As this matures, we plan to Sustainability Risk team provides a higher level of guidance and is
expand our approach to additional markets. responsible for the oversight of policy compliance and
implementation over wholesale banking activities. During 2021,
Management
we introduced a refreshed assurance framework, which takes a
We are focusing on embedding climate risk into retail credit risk risk-based approach focusing on higher risks.
management processes, prioritising the largest residential
For further details on our sustainability risk policies, see our ESG
mortgage portfolios.
review on page 62.
We continue to update our risk management framework to reflect
Aggregation and reporting
lessons learnt.
Our Sustainability Risk Oversight Forum provides a Group-wide
Aggregation and reporting
forum for senior members of our Global Risk and Compliance
We manage and monitor the integration of climate risk across team and global businesses. It also oversees the development and
Wealth and Personal Banking through the Risk Management implementation of sustainability risk policies. Cases involving
Meeting. complex sustainability risk issues related to customers,
We have also developed and are implementing metrics to support transactions or third parties are managed through the reputational
active risk management, which will be tracked and monitored risk and client selection governance process. We report annually
through relevant credit risk meetings. on our implementation of the Equator Principles and the corporate
loans, project-related bridge loans and advisory mandates
A representative from Retail Credit Risk attends the Group Climate
completed under the principles. With the introduction of Equator
Risk Oversight Forum to ensure this risk type is considered.
Principles IV, a training programme was delivered to raise the
How we are starting to measure climate risk awareness of the changes and obligations therein.
We are starting to measure climate risk with the most material For the latest report, see: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-climate-
market, which is the UK, where the primary risk facing properties strategy/sustainability-risk/equator-principles.
is flooding. A representative from Reputational risk attends the Group Climate
Using a risk methodology that considers a combination of the Risk Forum to ensure consideration of this risk type.
likelihood and severity of flood hazard affecting individual Regulatory compliance risk
properties, we estimate that on a total volume basis, and at
present day levels, 3.5% of the UK retail banking mortgage Identification and assessment
portfolio is at high risk of flooding, and 0.3% is at a very high risk. Compliance, as a sub-function within Group Risk and Compliance,
This is based on 94% coverage of our mortgage portfolio and is continues to prioritise the identification and assessment of
reliant on flood data provided by Ambiental Risk Analytics, flood compliance risks that may arise from climate risk. Although not an
risk experts and suppliers of flood models to more than 50% of the exhaustive list, key regulatory compliance risks under
UK insurance industry. consideration include those related to product management, mis-
This data will enable monitoring and reporting of properties at risk selling, marketing, conflicts of interest and regulatory change.
of flooding, which will support activities to educate impacted An area of particular focus is the risk of greenwashing. We regard
customers and protect the Group from incurring losses as a result greenwashing as the act of knowingly or unknowingly misleading
of climate events. stakeholders regarding our climate ambition, the climate impact/
Our transition risk efforts in the UK have focused on obtaining benefits of a product or service or regarding the climate
current and potential energy efficiency ratings for individual commitments of our customers. For the Compliance function,
properties, sourced from property EPC data. product-based greenwashing is a key area of focus. When
considering product-based greenwashing, we seek to:
The UK Government has a stated ambition to improve the EPC
ratings of housing stock as set out in its Clean Growth Strategy. • effectively and consistently consider climate risk factors in the
We are working towards improving the proportion of properties on development and ongoing governance of new, changed or
our book with an EPC rating of C or above and on improving the withdrawn products and services through the enhancement of
EPC data coverage. existing risk management frameworks utilised within the
Group’s operating entities and lines of business, enabling
climate risks to be identified and assessed in a timely manner;
134 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
• ensure that climate-related products and services offered to The Compliance sub-function is also represented at the Group’s
customers are appropriately designed and that related sales Climate Risk Oversight Forum to ensure this risk type is
practices and marketing materials are clear, fair and not considered.
misleading; and
Resilience risk
• develop climate-related products and services consistent with
Identification and assessment
the evolving expectations of the Group’s regulators and other
relevant authorities. Our assessment of climate risk identified building unavailability,
workplace safety, information technology and cybersecurity risk,
Management
transaction processing risk, and third-party risk as the key risks
We continue to develop our compliance policies and underlying facing our operational resilience.
measurement capability to enhance the management of climate
In 2021 we repeated and extended our scenario stress testing. We
risks in line with our climate ambition and risk appetite. As such,
will continue to work with our partners to identify and assess
we have integrated and are continuing to enhance climate risk
emerging climate risks.
considerations within our product and customer life-cycle policies.
Our policies set the minimum standards that are required to Management
manage the risk of breaches of our regulatory duty to customers,
In 2021, we reviewed existing policies, processes and controls,
including those related to climate risk, ensuring fair customer
which were then revised as required. This work will continue in
outcomes are achieved.
subsequent years.
The Compliance sub-function placed significant focus in 2021 on
Identification of new tooling, both internally and through
supporting and improving the capability of Compliance colleagues
collaboration with business partners, for the management of
through climate-specific training, communications and guidance
climate risk is ongoing with new tooling being introduced as
materials to ensure the robust identification, assessment and
appropriate.
management of climate risks.
Our stress test results will continue to inform our approach to
Aggregation and reporting
climate risk management.
The Compliance sub-function continues to operate an ESG and Aggregation and reporting
Climate Risk Working Group. This group tracks and monitors the
integration and embedding of Climate risk within the management Our exposure to climate risk will continue to be aggregated and
of regulatory compliance risks and controls more generally, and reported to the Group Climate Risk Forum and other relevant
monitors ongoing regulatory and legislative changes across the formal governance forums.
sustainability and climate risk agenda.
We have also developed and implemented climate risk metrics
and indicators aligned to wider regulatory compliance risks.
Our material banking risks
The material risk types associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing operations are described in the following tables:
Description of risks – banking operations
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
Credit risk (see page 137)
Credit risk is the risk of financial Credit risk arises principally Credit risk is:
loss if a customer or from direct lending, trade • measured as the amount that could be lost if a customer or counterparty fails to
counterparty fails to meet an finance and leasing business, make repayments;
obligation under a contract. but also from other products
• monitored using various internal risk management measures and within limits
such as guarantees and
approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities; and
derivatives.
• managed through a robust risk control framework, which outlines clear
and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers.
Treasury risk (see page 189)
Treasury risk is the risk of Treasury risk arises from Treasury risk is:
having insufficient capital, changes to the respective • measured through risk appetite and more granular limits, set to provide an early
liquidity or funding resources to resources and risk profiles warning of increasing risk, minimum ratios of relevant regulatory metrics, and
meet financial obligations and driven by customer behaviour, metrics to monitor the key risk drivers impacting treasury resources;
satisfy regulatory requirements, management decisions, or the
• monitored and projected against appetites and by using operating plans based on
including the risk of adverse external environment
strategic objectives together with stress and scenario testing; and
impact on earnings or capital
due to structural foreign • managed through control of resources in conjunction with risk profiles, strategic
exchange exposures and objectives and cash flows.
changes in market interest
rates, together with pension
and insurance risk.
Market risk (see page 203)
Market risk is the risk of an Exposure to market risk is Market risk is:
adverse financial impact on separated into two portfolios: • measured using sensitivities, value at risk and stress testing, giving a detailed
trading activities arising from trading portfolios and non- picture of potential gains and losses for a range of market movements and
changes in market parameters trading portfolios. scenarios, as well as tail risks over specified time horizons;
such as interest rates, foreign Market risk exposures arising
• monitored using value at risk, stress testing and other measures; and
exchange rates, asset prices, from our insurance operations
volatilities, correlations and are discussed on page 185. • managed using risk limits approved by the RMM and the risk management meeting
credit spreads. in various global businesses.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 135
Risk
review
Credit Risk sub-function
Credit risk
(Audited)
Page
Overview 137 Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the
Credit risk management 137 Group Chief Executive together with the authority to sub-delegate
Credit risk in 2021 139 them. The Credit Risk sub-function in Global Risk and Compliance
Summary of credit risk 140 is responsible for the key policies and processes for managing
Stage 2 decomposition as at December 2021 143 credit risk, which include formulating Group credit policies and
Credit exposure 143 risk rating frameworks, guiding the Group’s appetite for credit risk
Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates 144 exposures, undertaking independent reviews and objective
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and assessment of credit risk, and monitoring performance and
allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including management of portfolios.
loan commitments and financial guarantees 152
The principal objectives of our credit risk management are:
Credit quality 155
Customer relief programmes 159 • to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible
Wholesale lending 162 lending, and robust risk policies and control frameworks;
Personal lending 176 • to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining,
Supplementary information 183 implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite
HSBC Holdings 188 under actual and scenario conditions; and
Overview • to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks,
their costs and their mitigation.
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty
fails to meet an obligation under a contract. Credit risk arises Key risk management processes
principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business,
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ process
but also from other products such as guarantees and credit
derivatives. The IFRS 9 process comprises three main areas: modelling and
data; implementation; and governance.
Credit risk management
Modelling and data
Key developments in 2021
We have established IFRS 9 modelling and data processes in
There were no material changes to the policies and practices various geographies, which are subject to internal model risk
for the management of credit risk in 2021. We continued to apply governance including independent review of significant model
the requirements of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ within the developments.
Credit Risk sub-function.
Implementation
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and its continued effects on the
A centralised impairment engine performs the expected credit
global economy we provided short-term support to customers
losses calculation using data, which is subject to a number of
through market-specific measures under the current credit policy
validation checks and enhancements, from a variety of client,
framework. We have also implemented the guidance provided by
finance and risk systems. Where possible, these checks and
regulators on managing the credit portfolio as required throughout
processes are performed in a globally consistent and centralised
the course of the customer relief life cycle.
manner.
The extent of our support depends on the degree of country-
Governance
specific government support measures, restrictions, associated
policy responses, and the effects of new Covid-19 variants. Regional management review forums are established in key sites
and regions in order to review and approve the impairment results.
The majority of the customer relief programmes that we provided
Regional management review forums have representatives from
during the Covid-19 pandemic ended by 31 December 2021 and
Credit Risk and Finance. The key site and regional approvals are
will not be reassessed under the revised definition of default. For
reported up to the global business impairment committee for final
further details of market-specific measures to support our personal
approval of the Group’s ECL for the period. Required members of
and business customers, see page 159.
the committee are the global heads of Wholesale Credit, Market
In the second half of 2021, market concerns regarding China’s Risk, and Wealth and Personal Banking Risk, as well as the
commercial real estate sector emerged. At 31 December 2021 we relevant global business Chief Financial Officer and the Global
had no direct exposures to developers in the ‘red’ category under Financial Controller.
the Chinese government’s ‘three red lines’ framework used to
Concentration of exposure
govern the real estate sector. We continue to monitor the situation
closely, including potential indirect impacts that may arise, and (Audited)
seek to take mitigating actions as required under our existing Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of
policy framework. counterparties or exposures have comparable economic
During 2021, we adopted the EBA ‘Guidelines on the application characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar
of definition of default’ for our wholesale portfolios. This did not activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry
have a material impact on our wholesale portfolios. For our retail sectors so that their collective ability to meet contractual
portfolios, these guidelines will be adopted in 2022 and this is not obligations is uniformly affected by changes in economic, political
expected to have a material impact. or other conditions. We use a number of controls and measures to
minimise undue concentration of exposure in our portfolios across
Governance and structure
industries, countries and global businesses. These include portfolio
We have established Group-wide credit risk management and and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, and stress
related IFRS 9 processes. We continue to assess the impact of testing.
economic developments in key markets on specific customers, Credit quality of financial instruments
customer segments or portfolios. As credit conditions change, we
take mitigating actions, including the revision of risk appetites or (Audited)
limits and tenors, as appropriate. In addition, we continue to Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based
evaluate the terms under which we provide credit facilities within approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to
the context of individual customer requirements, the quality of the support the calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital
relationship, local regulatory requirements, market practices and requirement. The five credit quality classifications encompass a
our local market position. range of granular internal credit rating grades assigned to
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 137
Risk
review
Capital risk in 2021 Capital figures and ratios in the previous table are calculated in
accordance with the revised Capital Requirements Regulation and
Capital overview
Directive, as implemented (‘CRR II’). The table presents them
under the transitional arrangements in CRR II for capital
Capital adequacy metrics
instruments and after their expiry, known as the end point. The
At end point figures in the table above include the benefit of the
31 Dec 31 Dec regulatory transitional arrangements in CRR II for IFRS 9, which
2021 2020 are more fully described below. Where applicable, they also reflect
Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) ($bn) government relief schemes intended to mitigate the impact of the
Credit risk 680.6 691.9 Covid-19 pandemic.
Counterparty credit risk 35.9 42.8
At 31 December 2021, our common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital
Market risk 32.9 28.5
ratio decreased to 15.8% from 15.9% at 31 December 2020.
Operational risk 88.9 94.3
RWAs decreased due to RWA reductions under the transformation
Total RWAs 838.3 857.5
programme and favourable movements in asset quality. CET1
Capital on a transitional basis ($bn)
capital fell due to higher regulatory deductions and fair value
Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital 132.6 136.1
movements net of capital generation.
Tier 1 capital 156.3 160.2
Total capital 177.8 184.4 Own funds
Capital ratios on a transitional basis (%) The $3.5bn fall in CET1 capital was mainly as a result of:
Common equity tier 1 ratio 15.8 15.9
• a $2.9bn net increase in deductions for excess expected loss,
Tier 1 ratio 18.6 18.7
investment in financial sector entities and defined benefit
Total capital ratio 21.2 21.5
pension assets surplus;
Capital on an end point basis ($bn)
Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital 132.6 136.1 • $2.5bn unfavourable foreign currency translation differences;
Tier 1 capital 155.0 158.5 and
Total capital 167.5 173.2
• a $2.2bn decrease in fair value through other comprehensive
Capital ratios on an end point basis (%)
income reserve.
Common equity tier 1 ratio 15.8 15.9
Tier 1 ratio 18.5 18.5 These decreases were partly offset by capital generation of $3.9bn
through profits net of share buy-back, foreseeable dividend and
Total capital ratio 20.0 20.2
dividends paid.
Liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’)
Total high-quality liquid assets ($bn) 717.0 677.9 Our Pillar 2A requirement at 31 December 2021, as per the PRA’s
Total net cash outflow ($bn) 518.0 487.3 Individual Capital Requirement based on a point-in-time
LCR ratio (%) 138.4 139.1 assessment, was $22.5bn, equivalent to 2.7% of RWAs, of which
1.5% was required to be met by CET1. With effect from
References to EU regulations and directives (including technical 31 December 2021, structural foreign exchange risk is capitalised
standards) should, as applicable, be read as references to the UK’s in RWAs under Pillar 1, with a consequent reduction in Pillar 2A.
version of such regulation or directive, as onshored into UK law Going forward, structural foreign exchange risk will be assessed
under the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, and as may be for Pillar 2A in the same manner as other risks capitalised under
subsequently amended under UK law. Pillar 1.
Own funds disclosure
(Audited)
At
31 Dec 31 Dec
2021 2020
Ref* $m $m
Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital: instruments and reserves
1 Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts 23,513 23,219
– ordinary shares 23,513 23,219
2 Retained earnings1 121,059 126,314
3 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves) 8,273 9,768
5 Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1) 4,186 4,079
5a Independently reviewed interim net profits net of any foreseeable charge or dividend 5,887 (252)
6 Common equity tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments1 162,918 163,128
28 Total regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 11 (30,353) (27,078)
29 Common equity tier 1 capital 132,565 136,050
36 Additional tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 23,787 24,183
43 Total regulatory adjustments to additional tier 1 capital (60) (60)
44 Additional tier 1 capital 23,727 24,123
45 Tier 1 capital 156,292 160,173
51 Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments 23,018 25,722
57 Total regulatory adjustments to tier 2 capital (1,524) (1,472)
58 Tier 2 capital 21,494 24,250
59 Total capital 177,786 184,423
* The references identify the lines prescribed in the European Banking Authority (‘EBA’) template, which are applicable and where there is a value.
1 The figures for 31 December 2020 have been restated to reflect the reclassification of the IFRS 9 transitional adjustment from retained earnings
(within row 6) to ‘Total regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1’ (row 28).
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 193
Risk
review
Asset size Model updates
The $12.5bn increase in CMB RWAs reflected corporate loan The $2.0bn increase in WPB was mostly due to changes to our
growth in mainland China, Hong Kong and North America, while Australian mortgages model.
lending in Europe reduced.
This was partly offset by the $1.2bn reduction in market risk
WPB RWAs rose by $5.5bn, primarily due to lending growth in RWAs, largely from the implementation of an options risk model.
Asia, largely in the mortgage portfolio. Sovereign exposures drove The fall in CMB RWAs was driven by corporate model updates.
the $0.6bn rise in Corporate Centre RWAs.
Methodology and policy
The $12.1bn fall in GBM was mostly due to lower lending,
Changes to Markets Treasury allocation methodologies decreased
management initiatives and mark-to-market movements in
RWAs in Corporate Centre and increased RWAs in WPB, CMB and
Europe, North America and Latin America, partly offset by growth
GBM. However, the increase in GBM was more than offset by
in Asia.
parameter refinements across our major regions.
Market risk RWAs decreased by $1.8bn, largely as a result of
The $7.4bn rise in market risk included an $8.4bn increase on our
reduced exposures and risk mitigation actions.
adoption of a Pillar 1 approach to the capitalisation of structural
Asset quality foreign exchange risk, following confirmation from the PRA. This
was partly offset by enhancements to foreign exchange risk
The RWA decreases in CMB, WPB and Corporate Centre were
calculations under the standardised approach.
mostly due to favourable portfolio mix changes in Asia and North
America, and credit migration in Europe and North America. Acquisitions and disposals
In GBM, favourable portfolio mix changes in Asia and credit The sale of a US credit card portfolio led to a $0.4bn fall in WPB
migration in North America were partly offset by increases in the RWAs.
UK due to portfolio changes, leading to an overall fall of $0.4bn.
Leverage ratio1
At
31 Dec 31 Dec
2021 2020
Ref* $bn $bn
20 Tier 1 capital 155.0 158.5
21 Total leverage ratio exposure 2,962.7 2,897.1
% %
22 Leverage ratio 5.2 5.5
EU-23 Choice of transitional arrangements for the definition of the capital measure Fully phased-in Fully phased-in
UK leverage ratio exposure – quarterly average2 2,545.6 2,555.5
% %
UK leverage ratio – quarterly average2 6.0 6.1
UK leverage ratio – quarter end2 6.2 6.2
* The references identify the lines prescribed in the EBA template.
1 The CRR II regulatory transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 are applied in both leverage ratio calculations.
2 UK leverage ratio denotes the Group’s leverage ratio calculated under the PRA’s UK leverage framework. This measure excludes from the
calculation of exposure qualifying central bank balances and loans under the UK Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
Our leverage ratio calculated in accordance with the Capital Any add-back must be tax affected and accompanied by a
Requirements Regulation was 5.2% at 31 December 2021, down recalculation of exposure and RWAs. The impact is calculated
from 5.5% at 31 December 2020, due to a decrease in tier 1 separately for portfolios using the standardised (‘STD’) and internal
capital and an increase in leverage exposure, primarily due to ratings-based (‘IRB’) approaches. For IRB portfolios, there is no
growth in central bank deposits and customer lending, offset by a add-back to capital unless loan loss allowances exceed regulatory
decrease in financial investments. 12-month expected losses.
At 31 December 2021, our UK minimum leverage ratio The EU’s CRR II ‘Quick Fix’ relief package enacted in June 2020
requirement of 3.25% under the PRA’s UK leverage framework increased from 70% to 100% the relief that banks may take for
was supplemented by an additional leverage ratio buffer of 0.7% loan loss allowances recognised since 1 January 2020 on the
and a countercyclical leverage ratio buffer of 0.1%. These non-credit-impaired book.
additional buffers translated into capital values of $17.6bn and
In the current period, the add-back to CET1 capital amounted to
$2.5bn respectively. We exceeded these leverage requirements.
$1.0bn under the STD approach with a tax impact of $0.2bn. At
Regulatory transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 31 December 2020, the add-back to the capital base under the
‘Financial Instruments’ STD approach was $1.6bn with a tax impact of $0.4bn.
We have adopted the regulatory transitional arrangements in Pillar 3 disclosure requirements
CRR II for IFRS 9, including paragraph four of article 473a. Our
Pillar 3 of the Basel regulatory framework is related to market
capital and ratios are presented under these arrangements
discipline and aims to make financial services firms more
throughout the tables in this section, including in the end point
transparent by requiring publication of wide-ranging information
figures. Without their application, our CET1 ratio would be 15.7%.
on their risks, capital and management. Our Pillar 3 Disclosures at
The IFRS 9 regulatory transitional arrangements allow banks to 31 December 2021 is published on our website at www.hsbc.com/
add back to their capital base a proportion of the impact that investors.
IFRS 9 has upon their loan loss allowances. The impact is defined
as:
• the increase in loan loss allowances on day one of IFRS 9
adoption; and
• any subsequent increase in ECL in the non-credit-impaired
book thereafter.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 195
Risk
review
Risk
responsible for measuring, monitoring and reporting market risk Risk not in VaR framework
exposures against limits on a daily basis. Each operating entity is
The risks not in VaR (‘RNIV’) framework captures and capitalises
required to assess the market risks arising in its business and to
material market risks that are not adequately covered in the VaR
transfer them either to its local Markets and Securities Services or
model.
Markets Treasury unit for management, or to separate books
managed under the supervision of the local ALCO. The Traded Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and are either
Risk function enforces the controls around trading in permissible incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or
instruments approved for each site as well as changes that follow quantified through either the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress
completion of the new product approval process. Traded Risk also test approach within the RNIV framework. While VaR-based RNIVs
restricts trading in the more complex derivative products to offices are calculated by using historical scenarios, stress-type RNIVs are
with appropriate levels of product expertise and robust control estimated on the basis of stress scenarios whose severity is
systems. calibrated to be in line with the capital adequacy requirements.
The outcome of the VaR-based RNIV approach is included in the
Key risk management processes
overall VaR calculation but excluded from the VaR measure used
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures for regulatory back-testing. In addition, the stressed VaR measure
also includes risk factors considered in the VaR-based RNIV
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures
approach.
while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk
appetite. Stress-type RNIVs include a deal contingent derivatives capital
charge to capture risk for these transactions and a de-peg risk
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures
measure to capture risk to pegged and heavily managed
including sensitivity analysis, VaR and stress testing.
currencies.
Sensitivity analysis
Stress testing
Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market
Stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated into our
factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios, including
market risk management framework to evaluate the potential
interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. We use
impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible,
sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions within
events or movements in a set of financial variables. In such
each risk type. Granular sensitivity limits are set for trading desks
scenarios, losses can be much greater than those predicted by
with consideration of market liquidity, customer demand and
VaR modelling.
capital constraints, among other factors.
Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall
Value at risk
Group levels. A set of scenarios is used consistently across all
(Audited) regions within the Group. The risk appetite around potential stress
VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions losses for the Group is set and monitored against a referral limit.
as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a Market risk reverse stress tests are designed to identify
specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use vulnerabilities in our portfolios by looking for scenarios that lead to
of VaR is integrated into market risk management and calculated loss levels considered severe for the relevant portfolio. These
for all trading positions regardless of how we capitalise them. In scenarios may be quite local or idiosyncratic in nature, and
addition, we calculate VaR for non-trading portfolios to have a complement the systematic top-down stress testing.
complete picture of risk. Where we do not calculate VaR explicitly,
Stress testing and reverse stress testing provide senior
we use alternative tools as summarised in the ‘Stress testing’
management with insights regarding the ‘tail risk’ beyond VaR, for
section below.
which our appetite is limited.
Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that
Trading portfolios
incorporates the following features:
Trading portfolios comprise positions held for client servicing and
• historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with
market-making, with the intention of short-term resale and/or to
reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest
hedge risks resulting from such positions.
rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;
Back-testing
• potential market movements that are calculated with reference
to data from the past two years; and We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by back-
• calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a one-day testing the VaR metric against both actual and hypothetical profit
holding period. and loss. Hypothetical profit and loss excludes non-modelled items
such as fees, commissions and revenue of intra-day transactions.
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the The hypothetical profit and loss reflects the profit and loss that
underlying exposures. The nature of the VaR models means that would be realised if positions were held constant from the end of
an increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in one trading day to the end of the next. This measure of profit and
VaR without any changes in the underlying positions. loss does not align with how risk is dynamically hedged, and is not
VaR model limitations therefore necessarily indicative of the actual performance of the
business.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used with awareness of
its limitations. For example: The number of back-testing exceptions is used to gauge how well
the models are performing. We consider enhanced internal
• The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future
monitoring of a VaR model if more than five profit exceptions or
market moves may not encompass all potential market events,
more than five loss exceptions occur in a 250-day period.
particularly those that are extreme in nature.
We back-test our VaR at set levels of our Group entity hierarchy.
• The use of a one-day holding period for risk management
purposes of trading and non-trading books assumes that this Market risk in 2021
short period is sufficient to hedge or liquidate all positions.
Financial markets performed well in 2021. During the first half of
• The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take the year, the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination programmes, as well
into account losses that might occur beyond this level of as continued monetary and fiscal support, contributed to a gradual
confidence. recovery of major economies. Concerns of rising inflationary
pressures were mainly interpreted as transitory. While the path of
• VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the
monetary policies remained uncertain, central banks continued to
close of business and therefore does not reflect intra-day
provide liquidity. This supported risk asset valuations, while
exposures.
204 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
The Group non-trading VaR for 2021 is shown in the table below.
Non-trading VaR, 99% 1 day
(Audited)
Interest Credit Portfolio
rate spread diversification1 Total2
$m $m $m $m
Balance at 31 Dec 2021 216.4 70.3 (66.3) 220.4
Average 200.7 76.9 (40.3) 237.3
Maximum 248.7 99.3 — 298.8
Minimum 163.3 64.7 — 193.5
Balance at 31 Dec 2020 166.6 87.0 (5.7) 247.8
Average 150.2 82.5 (42.0) 190.7
Maximum 196.4 133.4 — 274.6
Minimum 59.0 44.2 — 79.7
1 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the reduction in
unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types – such as interest rate and credit spreads – together in one
portfolio. It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR. A negative number
represents the benefit of portfolio diversification. As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not
meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.
2 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on securities held at fair • We developed a more robust understanding of our risk and
value, non-trading book foreign exchange risk and interest rate control environment, by updating our material risk taxonomy
risk on fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings. HSBC’s and control libraries, and refreshing material risk and control
management of market risks in non-trading books is described assessments.
further in the Treasury Risk section.
• We further strengthened our non-financial risk governance and
Market risk balance sheet linkages senior leadership.
The following balance sheet lines in the Group’s consolidated • We created a consolidated view of all risk issues across the
position are subject to market risk: Group, enabling better senior management focus on non-
financial risk, and the ability to identify material control issues
Trading assets and liabilities
and intervention as required.
The Group’s trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases
• We improved how we provide analysis and reporting of non-
originated by GBM. These assets and liabilities are treated as
financial risks, with more risk practitioners now having access
traded risk for the purposes of market risk management, other
to a wider range of management information on their risks and
than a limited number of exceptions, primarily in Global Banking
controls.
where the short-term acquisition and disposal of the assets are
linked to other non-trading-related activities such as loan • We increased the capability of risk stewards to allow for
origination. effective stewardship to be in place across the Group.
Derivative assets and liabilities • We strengthened our approach in the comparison of issues
and near misses by implementing a Group-wide harmonised
We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: to
approach across businesses, functions and regions.
create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the
portfolio risks arising from client business, and to manage and • We enhanced risk management oversight across our most
hedge our own risks. Most of our derivative exposures arise from material change initiatives to support growth in our strategic
sales and trading activities within GBM. The assets and liabilities transformation.
included in trading VaR give rise to a large proportion of the We prioritise our efforts on material risks and areas undergoing
income included in net income from financial instruments held for strategic growth, aligning our location strategy to this need. We
trading or managed on a fair value basis. Adjustments to trading also remotely provide oversight and stewardship, including
income such as valuation adjustments are not measured by the support of chief risk officers, in territories where we have no
trading VaR model. physical presence.
For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments at Governance and structure
fair value, see Note 1 on the financial statements
The Operational and Resilience Risk target operating model
Resilience risk provides a globally consistent view across resilience risks,
strengthening our risk management oversight while operating
Overview effectively as part of a simplified non-financial risk structure. We
view resilience risk across seven risk types related to: third parties
Resilience risk is the risk that we are unable to provide critical and supply chains; information, technology and cybersecurity;
services to our customers, affiliates and counterparties as a result payments and manual processing; physical security; business
of sustained and significant operational disruption. Resilience risk interruption and contingency risk; building unavailability; and
arises from failures or inadequacies in processes, people, systems workplace safety.
or external events.
A principal senior management meeting for operational and
Resilience risk management resilience risk governance is the Non-Financial Risk Management
Board, chaired by the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer,
Key developments in 2021
with an escalation path to the Group Risk Management Meeting.
The Operational and Resilience Risk sub-function provides robust
Key risk management processes
non-financial risk steward oversight of the management of risk by
the Group businesses, functions and legal entities. It also provides Operational resilience is our ability to anticipate, prevent, adapt,
effective and timely independent challenge. During the year, we respond to, recover and learn from internal or external disruption,
carried out a number of initiatives to strengthen the management protecting customers, the markets we operate in and economic
of non-financial risks: stability. Resilience is determined by assessing whether we are
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 207
Risk
review
Risk
able to continue to provide our most important services, within an impact we have for our customers and the financial markets in
agreed level. We accept we will not be able to prevent all which we operate. It complements our purpose and values, setting
disruption but we prioritise investment to continually improve the outcomes to be achieved for our customers and markets. It
response and recovery strategies for our most important business recognises cultural and behavioural drivers of good conduct
services. outcomes and applies across all risk disciplines, operational
processes and technologies. During 2021:
Business operations continuity
• We understood and served our customers’ ongoing needs, and
Business continuity, in response to the Covid-19 pandemic,
continued to champion a strong conduct and customer-focused
remains in place across a number of locations where the Group
culture. This was demonstrated through the continued
operates, allowing the majority of service level agreements to be
provision of support to our customers facing financial
maintained. There were no significant impacts to service delivery
difficulties as a result of the prolonged impacts of the pandemic
in locations where the Group operates.
and the resulting uncertainty in trading conditions.
Regulatory compliance risk • We began the integration of climate risk into the Group’s risk
management approach to recognise the importance of
Overview strengthened controls and oversight for our related activities.
Regulatory compliance risk is the risk associated with breaching • We operated resiliently and securely to avoid harm to our
our duty to clients and other counterparties, inappropriate market customers and markets by continuing to embed conduct within
conduct and breaching related financial services regulatory our business line processes and through our non-financial and
standards. Regulatory compliance risk arises from the failure to financial risk steward activities.
observe relevant laws, codes, rules and regulations and can
• We continued our focus on culture and behaviours as a driver
manifest itself in poor market or customer outcomes and lead to
of good conduct outcomes.
fines, penalties and reputational damage to our business.
Regulatory compliance risk management • We placed a particular focus on the importance of well-being
and collaborative working as we continued to adapt to
Key developments in 2021 changing working practices as the pace of change resulting
We continued to embed the structural changes made in 2020 to from the pandemic varied across our markets.
our wider approach to compliance risk management. The • We continued to emphasise – and worked to create – an
integration of the Risk and Compliance functions in May 2021 has environment in which employees are encouraged and feel safe
brought together two complementary functions, which will to speak up.
strengthen the regulatory compliance function’s mandate and our
• We delivered our latest annual global mandatory training
capability to drive the right standards with regard to the conduct
course on conduct to reinforce the importance of conduct for
of our business.
all colleagues.
In June 2021, we also announced our new purpose-led approach
The Board continues to maintain oversight of conduct matters
to conduct. As part of this, we took the opportunity to align and
through the GRC.
simplify our approach, making conduct easier to understand and
showing how it relates to and helps fulfil our value: ‘we take Further details can be found under the ‘Our conduct’ section of
responsibility’. www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility.
Governance and structure
Financial crime risk
Following the integration of the Global Risk and Compliance
functions, the Group Head of Compliance and the Group Head of Overview
Financial Crime – who is also the Group Money Laundering
Financial crime risk is the risk of knowingly or unknowingly
Reporting Officer – each report to the Group Chief Risk and
helping parties to commit or to further illegal activity through
Compliance Officer. They also each attend the Risk and
HSBC, including money laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption,
Compliance Executive Committee, the Group RMM and the GRC.
tax evasion, sanctions breaches, and terrorist and proliferation
The structure of the Compliance function below this level is
financing. Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day banking
substantively unchanged and the Group Regulatory Conduct
operations involving customers, third parties and employees.
capability and Group Financial Crime capability both continue to
work closely with the regional chief compliance officers and their Financial crime risk management
respective teams to help them identify and manage regulatory and
Key developments in 2021
financial crime compliance risks across the Group. They also work
together to ensure we achieve good conduct outcomes and We continuously review the effectiveness of our financial crime
provide enterprise-wide support on the Compliance risk agenda in risk management framework, which includes consideration of the
collaboration with the Group’s Risk function. complex and dynamic nature of sanctions risk, notably with
respect to the array of new regulations and designations in 2021
Key risk management processes
and in alignment with our policy, which is to comply with all
The Group Regulatory Conduct capability is responsible for setting applicable sanctions regulations in the jurisdictions in which we
global policies, standards and risk appetite to guide the Group’s operate.
management of regulatory compliance risk. It also devises the
We also continued to make progress with several key financial
required frameworks and support processes to protect against
crime risk management initiatives, including:
regulatory compliance risks. The Group capability provides
oversight, review and challenge to the regional chief compliance • We deployed a key component of our intelligence-led, dynamic
officers and their teams to help them identify, assess and mitigate risk assessment capabilities for customer account monitoring in
regulatory compliance risks, where required. The Group’s the UK, and undertook important enhancements to our
regulatory compliance risk policies are regularly reviewed. Global traditional transaction monitoring systems globally.
policies and procedures require the prompt identification and • We strengthened our anti-fraud capabilities, notably with
escalation of any actual or potential regulatory breaches, and respect to the early identification of first-party lending fraud
relevant reportable events are escalated to the Group RMM and and the development of new strategic detection tools.
the GRC, as appropriate.
• We continued the development of leading-edge surveillance
Conduct of business technology and capabilities to identify potential market abuse,
Our new, simplified conduct approach, which was launched in including testing machine learning capabilities to detect
2021, guides us to do the right thing and to recognise the real unauthorised trading.
208 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
• We invested in the use of AI and advanced analytics techniques periodic assessments of the Group’s AML and sanctions
to manage financial crime risk, notably new automated compliance programme.
capabilities in name and transaction screening (for further
The Skilled Person issued its final report in June 2021, which
details, see page 120).
contained a number of limited recommendations. Following
• We implemented a gifts and entertainment recording and publication of the report, the FCA determined that no further
approval system, which, in combination with an expenses Skilled Person work is required. The Group Risk Committee will
reconciliation tool, allows us to better manage our gifts and continue to retain oversight of matters relating to AML, sanctions,
entertainment risk. terrorist financing and proliferation financing. Separately, the
Independent Consultant carried out its eighth annual review for
Governance and structure
the FRB and, in November 2021, issued its report, which
We have continued to review the effectiveness of our governance contained a limited number of recommendations.
framework to manage financial crime risk. The framework aims to
enable us to comply with the letter and the spirit of applicable
Model risk
financial crime laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which
we operate, as well as our own policies, standards, and values
Overview
relating to financial crime risks.
Model risk is the risk of inappropriate or incorrect business
In 2021, the Group Risk and Compliance functions were
decisions arising from the use of models that have been
integrated, allowing us to make better use of a broader range of
inadequately designed, implemented or used, or from models that
perspectives from other risk disciplines.
do not perform in line with expectations and predictions.
Key risk management processes
Model risk arises in both financial and non-financial contexts
We will not tolerate knowingly conducting business with whenever business decision making includes reliance on models.
individuals or entities believed to be engaged in illicit activity. We
Key developments in 2021
require everybody in HSBC to play their role in maintaining
effective systems and controls to prevent and detect financial In 2021, we continued to make improvements in our model risk
crime. Where we believe we have identified suspected illicit management processes amid regulatory changes in model
activity or vulnerabilities in our control framework, we will take requirements.
appropriate mitigating action.
Initiatives during the year included:
We continue to assess the effectiveness of our end-to-end
• In response to regulatory capital charges, we redeveloped,
financial crime risk management framework on an ongoing basis,
validated and submitted to the PRA our models for the internal
and invest in enhancing our operational control capabilities and
ratings-based (‘IRB’) approach for credit risk, internal model
technology solutions to deter and detect criminal activity. We have
method (‘IMM’) for counterparty credit risk and internal model
simplified our framework by streamlining and de-duplicating policy
approach (‘IMA’) for market risk. These new models have been requirements. We also strengthened our financial crime risk
built to enhanced standards using improved data as a result of
taxonomy and control libraries and our investigative and
investment in processes and systems.
monitoring capabilities through technology deployments. We
developed more targeted metrics, and have also enhanced our • We redeveloped and validated models impacted by changes to
governance and reporting. alternative rate setting mechanisms due to the Ibor transition.
We are committed to working in partnership with the wider • We made further enhancements to our control framework for
industry and the public sector in managing financial crime risk, our Sarbanes-Oxley models to address the control weaknesses
protecting the integrity of the financial system and the that emerged as a result of significant increases in adjustments
communities we serve. We participate in numerous public-private and overlays that were applied to compensate for the impact of
partnerships and information-sharing initiatives around the world. the Covid-19 pandemic on models. We also introduced a
In 2021, the UK, the EU, the US and Singapore, were particularly requirement for the model risk stewards to approve material
focused on anti-money laundering (‘AML’) reforms, to which we models prior to use.
provided significant input. We played a key role in the industry • Our businesses and functions were more involved in the
responses to a number of consultation papers focused on the development and management of models, and hiring
overall effectiveness of the global AML framework. We were also colleagues who had strong model risk skills. They also put an
active participants in a key pilot undertaken by the Monetary enhanced focus on key model risk drivers such as data quality
Authority of Singapore, which establishes a framework to enable and model methodology.
financial institutions to share information with each other when
certain financial crime risk concerns have been identified. We took • Our model owners in businesses and functions fully embedded
part in a number of roundtables organised by the Financial Action the requirements included in the model risk policy and
Task Force, supporting its strategic review. We also supported its standards introduced in 2020.
work on digitisation and beneficial ownership registers. These • We delivered a suite of training on model risk to front-line
align with our objectives of promoting a public policy and teams to improve their awareness of model risk and their
regulatory environment that embraces the use and harnessing of adherence to the governance framework.
technology in building a financial crime framework for the future
• We rolled out new model risk appetite measures, which are
to ensure our organisation is more resilient and secure, while
more forward looking and will help our businesses and
benefiting our customers.
functions manage model risk more effectively.
Skilled Person/Independent Consultant
• We continued the transformation of the Model Risk
In December 2012, HSBC Holdings entered into a number of Management team, with changes to the model validation
agreements, including an undertaking with the UK Financial processes, including new systems and processes. Key senior
Services Authority (replaced with a Direction issued by the UK hires were made during the year to lead the business areas and
Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) in 2013 and again in 2020), as regions to strengthen oversight and expertise within the
well as a cease-and-desist order with the US Federal Reserve function. We also made changes to the model inventory system
Board (‘FRB’), both of which contained certain forward-looking to provide businesses and functions with improved
AML and sanctions-related obligations. Over the past several functionality and more detailed information related to model
years, HSBC has retained a Skilled Person under section 166 of the risk.
Financial Services and Markets Act and an Independent
• We initiated a programme of development related to climate
Consultant under the FRB cease-and-desist order to produce
risk and models using advanced analytics and machine
learning, which have become critical areas of focus that will
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 209
Risk
review
Risk
grow in importance in 2022 and beyond. We also added part of the underwriting profit and investment income within the
qualified specialist skills to the model risk teams to manage the Group.
increased model risk in these areas.
We have life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in eight
Governance and structure markets, which are Hong Kong, Singapore, mainland China,
France, the UK, Malta, Mexico and Argentina. We also have a life
The new governance structure implemented in 2020 is fully
insurance manufacturing associate in India.
operational. Model Risk Governance committees at the Group,
business and functional levels provide oversight of model risk. The Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale to be
committees include senior leaders from the three global an effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a small
businesses and the Global Risk and Compliance function, and number of leading external insurance companies in order to
focus on model-related concerns and are supported by key model provide insurance products to our customers through our banking
risk metrics. The Group-level Model Risk Committee is chaired by network and direct channels. These arrangements are generally
the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the heads of key structured with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the
businesses participate in those meetings. Group a combination of commissions, fees and a share of profits.
We distribute insurance products in all of our geographical
Key risk management processes
regions.
We use a variety of modelling approaches, including regression,
This section focuses only on the risks relating to the insurance
simulation, sampling, machine learning and judgemental
products we manufacture.
scorecards for a range of business applications. These activities
include customer selection, product pricing, financial crime Insurance manufacturing operations risk
transaction monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial management
reporting. Global responsibility for managing model risk is
Key developments in 2021
delegated from the RMM to the Group Model Risk Committee,
which is chaired by the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. The insurance manufacturing subsidiaries follow the Group’s risk
This committee regularly reviews our model risk management management framework. In addition, there are specific policies
policies and procedures, and requires the first line of defence to and practices relating to the risk management of insurance
demonstrate comprehensive and effective controls based on a contracts. There were no material changes to the policies and
library of model risk controls provided by Model Risk practices over 2021, although enhancements were made to the
Management. product pricing and profitability framework to allow for the
Model Risk Management also reports on model risk to senior transition to IFRS 17.
management on a regular basis through the use of the risk map, Governance and structure
risk appetite metrics and top and emerging risks.
(Audited)
We regularly review the effectiveness of these processes,
Insurance manufacturing risks are managed to a defined risk
including the model oversight committee structure, to help ensure
appetite, which is aligned to the Group’s risk appetite and risk
appropriate understanding and ownership of model risk is
management framework, including its three lines of defence
embedded in the businesses and functions.
model. For details of the Group’s governance framework, see
Insurance manufacturing operations risk page 122. The Global Insurance Risk Management Meeting
oversees the control framework globally and is accountable to the
Page WPB Risk Management Meeting on risk matters relating to the
Overview 210 insurance business.
Insurance manufacturing operations risk management 210
The monitoring of the risks within our insurance operations is
Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2021 212
carried out by Insurance Risk teams. The Group’s risk stewardship
Measurement 212
functions support the Insurance Risk teams in their respective
Key risk types 214
areas of expertise.
– Market risk 214
– Credit risk 215 Stress and scenario testing
– Liquidity risk 215
(Audited)
– Insurance underwriting risk 216
Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management framework
Overview for the insurance business. We participate in local and Group-wide
regulatory stress tests, as well as internally developed stress and
The key risks for our insurance manufacturing operations are scenario tests, including Group internal stress test exercises.
market risks, in particular interest rate and equity, credit risks and
The results of these stress tests and the adequacy of management
insurance underwriting and operational risks. These have a direct
action plans to mitigate these risks are considered in the Group’s
impact on the financial results and capital positions of the
ICAAP and the entities’ regulatory Own Risk and Solvency
insurance operations. Liquidity risk, while significant in other parts
Assessments (‘ORSAs’).
of the Group, is relatively minor for our insurance operations.
Key risk management processes
HSBC’s insurance business
Market risk
We sell insurance products worldwide through a range of
channels including our branches, direct channels and third-party (Audited)
distributors. The majority of sales are through an integrated
All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk
bancassurance model that provides insurance products principally
mandates and limits that specify the investment instruments in
for customers with whom we have a banking relationship.
which they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of
The insurance contracts we sell relate to the underlying needs of market risk that they may retain. They manage market risk by
our customers, which we can identify from our point-of-sale using, among others, some or all of the techniques listed below,
contacts and customer knowledge. For the products we depending on the nature of the contracts written:
manufacture, the majority of sales are savings, universal life and
• We are able to adjust bonus rates to manage the liabilities to
protection contracts.
policyholders for products with discretionary participating
We choose to manufacture these insurance products in HSBC features (‘DPF’). The effect is that a significant portion of the
subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk market risk is borne by the policyholder.
appetite. Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and
• We use asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are
rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping
structured to support projected liability cash flows. The Group
210 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Corporate
governance
report
The corporate governance report gives
details of our Board of Directors, senior
management, and Board committees.
It outlines key aspects of our approach
to corporate governance, including
internal control.
It also includes the Directors’
remuneration report, which explains
our policies on remuneration.
218 Group Chairman's governance statement
220 The Board
224 Senior management
227 How we are governed
232 Board activities during 2021
234 Board and committee effectiveness, performance
and accountability
237 Board committees
254 Directors' remuneration report
287 Share capital and other related disclosures
291 Internal control
293 Employees
295 Statement of compliance
296 Directors' responsibility statement
We have a comprehensive range of policies and systems in
place designed to help ensure that the Group is well managed,
with effective oversight and control.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 221177
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Group Chairman's governance statement
The Board and its committees continued to operate
well in a challenging environment, and focused on
enhancing governance practices.
There were a number of changes to the Board
during 2021, with Laura Cha, Heidi Miller and
Henri de Castries retiring following our 2021
Annual General Meeting ('AGM') in May, and
Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
appointed with effect from 1 September.
We also recently announced that, in line with
our succession planning and having each
served on the Board for six years, Irene Lee
and Pauline van der Meer Mohr would step
down from the Board at the conclusion of our
2022 AGM in April. Irene’s existing roles on
our subsidiary boards in Asia are not impacted
by her retirement from the Holdings Board. On
behalf of the Board, I wish to thank Irene and
Pauline for their outstanding dedication and
the enormous contributions they have made
to the success of HSBC during their time on
the Board. We wish them both well in their
future endeavours.
Purpose, strategy and values
Following the launch of the Group’s refreshed
purpose, strategy and values in March, we
introduced a 'culture moment' at the beginning
of each Board meeting. These discussions
have allowed Board members to share their
insights on the culture of the Group, and have
Mark E Tucker raised awareness of employee and stakeholder
Group Chairman perspectives in the Boardroom. This has
supported the Board in helping to create
greater alignment between culture and
“ Following the launch of the Group’s refreshed
strategy, and in driving a tone from the top
purpose, strategy and values in March, focused on the Group’s purpose of opening
up a world of opportunity.
we introduced a 'culture moment' at the
beginning of each Board meeting.” Technology governance
Digitise at scale is one of our four strategic
pillars and reflects the increasingly important
Dear Shareholder
role that technology plays in delivering for
our customers. It is therefore critical that
The global health crisis continued into 2021 We continued our focus on enhancing our our governance helps enable the Board to
as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite governance practices throughout the year, effectively shape and oversee progress against
promising developments in relation to the with key decisions and areas of focus set our technology strategy. As such, we took
efficacy of vaccines in combating the virus, out in further detail below. the decision to establish the Technology
there remained significant restrictions across Governance Working Group at the beginning
our markets. It was therefore important that Board changes of 2021 to determine the most effective
our governance framework and practices A key aspect of my role as Group Chairman approach for the Board to discharge its
remained flexible to ensure that the Board is ensuring that collectively the Board has the responsibilities in relation to technology
could effectively discharge its duties. skills, knowledge and experience it requires. strategy and oversight.
The Nomination & Corporate Governance
While the Board and its committees have Committee retained a keen focus on The Co-Chairs of the Technology Governance
operated well in a virtual environment, it was succession planning during the year. For Working Group presented to the Board in
unfortunate that we were again unable to further details on its work, see page 237. January 2022 on their work during 2021.
come together physically as a Board. It has We are currently in the process of completing In light of the significant role that technology
been two years since the full Board was last a search for new non-executive Directors will continue to play in the Group's strategy,
together in person for a Board meeting, to join our Board, with knowledge and it was recommended that the Technology
with five new Directors appointed in that time. experience of banking and Asia a priority. The Governance Working Group continues to
I hope to hold in-person meetings as soon as Committee is actively progressing this search meet throughout 2022. The Board agreed
it is safe to do so, particularly in our largest and will provide an update in due course. to continue with the Technology Governance
markets of Hong Kong and the UK. Working Group in its current format through
218 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
2022, but with the scope extended to Company Secretary and Chief Governance Board to engage with employees have been
include a focus on business execution of the Officer and involved the completion of provided during 2021, including through
technology strategy. This will allow for a better online surveys tailored for each Board and partnerships with our employee resource
understanding of the progress, challenges committee, complemented by individual groups and sessions with members of our
involved in implementing the strategy and interviews with Directors and attendees. global graduate programme. The Board
the impact on key stakeholders. greatly values the opportunity to engage
Further details on the progress made against with employees from across the business
Environmental, social and governance the 2020 findings, as well as the findings and and markets, and of different backgrounds
The Board recognises the growing importance recommendations from the 2021 review, can and seniority. We will continue to prioritise
of ESG and oversees the ESG agenda. It was a be found on page 235 and in each of the this, along with interaction with all our key
significant year for the Group in its efforts to respective committee reports on pages stakeholders, during 2022.
support the transition to net zero – a key pillar 237 to 267.
of our overall Group strategy – with the For further details on the arrangements
passing of our climate resolution at our 2021 Subsidiary governance we have in place to facilitate workforce
AGM and the publication of our thermal coal Subsidiary governance remained a key priority, engagement, see page 233.
phase-out policy, being two of the most as it has been since my appointment as Group
notable achievements. Given its significance, Chairman, and we continued to build strong 2021 Annual General Meeting
the Board has decided to retain responsibility connectivity with our principal subsidiaries. The pandemic has continued to pose many
for development and oversight of our ESG In 2021, we sought to enhance the standard challenges for the Group, as it does for many
strategy directly, rather than establishing and consistency of governance across the of our stakeholders. However, the Group has
a specific Board-level committee and we Group, with the launch of our refreshed benefited significantly from the speed at
will include a dedicated item on our agenda subsidiary accountability framework. The which digital tools have been adopted since
for ESG matters. Within their existing refreshed framework makes clear the Group's the beginning of the pandemic.
responsibilities, the Group Risk Committee, expectations of subsidiaries in relation to
Group Audit Committee and Group their governance approach and board This has also been true of our AGM, where
Remuneration Committee will also continue practices through overarching principles I was delighted to host our first hybrid AGM,
to have specific roles to play in overseeing and and detailed provisions. which enabled shareholders globally to attend
supporting the delivery of our ESG objectives. virtually, or in person. The use of technology
A key aspect of the framework is focused enabled a broader range of shareholders to
At the management level, we have asked our on the composition of our subsidiary boards, attend and participate than had been the
team to further enhance ESG governance, with our most significant subsidiaries required case pre-pandemic.
with the introduction of an ESG Committee, to submit their succession plans to the
co-chaired by our Group Chief Sustainability Nomination & Corporate Governance Further details of our plans for the 2022 AGM,
Officer, Celine Herweijer, and our Group Committee through the course of the year. which will be a hybrid meeting again, will be
Company Secretary and Chief Governance This provided clarity on plans to refresh and provided when our Notice of AGM is published
Officer, Aileen Taylor. This committee will enhance the calibre and diversity of boards on 25 March 2022.
regularly report to the Board on progress across the Group. Further details are set out
against our ESG ambitions, climate strategy in the Nomination & Corporate Governance Looking ahead
and related commitments. In February 2022, Committee report on page 237. Despite the concerns of the Covid-19
the Board also approved the proposal to pandemic, I am hopeful that the success of
develop and implement a sustainability target Given the continued uncertainty externally, we vaccine roll-out will allow us to safely resume
operating model for the Group. The new looked to strengthen the connectivity between in-person engagement with each other and
operating model will help ensure that our the Group and principal subsidiaries during all stakeholders in the near future.
businesses have the technical expertise, the year through virtual forums held between
specialist resources and training to equip and the Board and committee chairs and our On behalf of myself and the Board, many
support them in assisting our clients in their counterparts at subsidiary level. We further thanks for your continued commitment
transition to net zero. supplemented this connectivity with the and support.
introduction of a virtual Non-Executive
For further information on our climate Director Summit, which saw all subsidiary
ambition and progress against our transition non-executive directors invited to come
to net zero strategic pillar, see page 45. together to discuss areas of common interest.
This was a valuable opportunity to share and
Board evaluation discuss material topics, including strategy, Mark E Tucker
We again conducted a review of the risk, data, culture, diversity, climate and Group Chairman
effectiveness of the Board and Board technology. Following the success of the
committees, which helps to support the summit, we have taken the decision to make 22 February 2022
continuous improvement of the operation these sessions a part of our annual
of our key governance practices. Following governance calendar.
two successive externally facilitated
evaluations, we took the decision that the Workforce engagement
2021 evaluations should be facilitated Various opportunities for members of the
internally. The process was led by our Group
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 219
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
The Board
The Board aims to promote the Group’s long-term
success, deliver sustainable value to shareholders
and promote a culture of openness and debate.
Chairman and executive Directors
Mark E Tucker (64) Noel Quinn (60) Ewen Stevenson (55)
Group Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board: September 2017 Appointed to the Board: August 2019 Appointed to the Board: January 2019
Group Chairman since: October 2017 Group Chief Executive since: March 2020
Skills and experience: Ewen has over 25 years
Skills and experience: With over 35 years of Skills and experience: Having qualified as an of experience in the banking industry as an adviser
experience in financial services in Asia, Africa, accountant in 1987, Noel has more than 30 years and executive to major banks and large financial
the US and the UK, including 25 years based in of banking and financial services experience, institutions. In addition to his existing leadership
Hong Kong, Mark has a deep understanding of both in the UK and Asia. responsibilities for Group Finance, Ewen assumed
the industry and markets in which we operate. responsibility for the oversight of the Group's
Career: Noel was formally named Group Chief transformation programme in February 2021
Career: Mark was most recently Group Chief Executive in March 2020, having held the role on an and the Group’s corporate development activities
Executive and President of AIA Group Limited (‘AIA’), interim basis since August 2019. He has held various in April 2021.
having joined in July 2010. Prior to AIA he was Group roles across HSBC, or its constituent companies,
Chief Executive of Prudential plc. He served on since 1987. Career: Ewen was Chief Financial Officer at the
Prudential's Board for nearly 10 years. Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc from 2014 to 2018.
Prior to becoming Group Chief Executive, Noel was Before this, Ewen spent 25 years with Credit Suisse,
Mark previously served as non-executive Director most recently CEO, Global Commercial Banking. where his last role was co-Head of the EMEA
of the Court of the Bank of England and as an He has also served as Regional Head of Commercial Investment Banking Division and co-Head of the
independent non-executive Director of Goldman Banking for Asia-Pacific; Head of Commercial Global Financial Institutions Group.
Sachs Group. Banking UK; Head of Commercial Finance Europe;
and Group Director of Strategy and Development Other appointments:
Other appointments: at HSBC Insurance Services North America. – Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
– Chair of TheCityUK Corporation Limited
– Non-executive Chairman of Discovery Limited Other appointments:
– Supporting Chair of Chapter Zero – Chair of the Financial Services Task Force of HRH
– Member of the UK Investment Council The Prince of Wales’ Sustainable Market Initiative
– Co-Chair of the B20 Finance and Infrastructure – Member of the Principals Group of the Glasgow
Task Force (Indonesia 2022) Financial Alliance for Net Zero
– Director, Peterson Institute for International – Member of the World Economic Forum’s
Economics International Business Council
– Director, Institute of International Finance
– International Adviser to the Hong Kong Academy
of Finance
– Asia Society Board of Trustees
Board committee membership key
Committee Chair
Group Audit Committee
Group Risk Committee
Group Remuneration Committee
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
For full biographical details of our Board members, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance.
220 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Jackson Tai (71) Pauline van der Meer Mohr (62) Aileen Taylor (49) Former Directors who
Independent non-executive Director Group Company Secretary and served for part of the year
Appointed to the Board: September 2016 Independent non-executive Director Chief Governance Officer
Appointed to the Board: September 2015 Appointed: November 2019 Heidi Miller
Skills and experience: Jackson has
Heidi Miller retired from the
held senior operating and governance Skills and experience: Pauline has Skills and experience: Aileen
Board on 28 May 2021.
roles across Asia, North America extensive legal, corporate governance is a solicitor with significant
and Europe. and human resources experience governance and regulatory
Henri de Castries
across a number of different sectors. experience across various roles
Henri de Castries retired from
Career: Jackson was Vice Chairman in the banking industry. She is a
the Board on 28 May 2021.
and Chief Executive Officer of DBS Career: Pauline served on the member of the European Corporate
Group and DBS Bank Ltd., having Supervisory Board of ASML Holding Governance Council, the GC100 and
Laura Cha, GBM
served as Chief Financial Officer and N.V. between 2009 and 2018. She was the Financial Conduct Authority's
Laura Cha, GBM retired from
then as President and Chief Operating also Deputy Chair of the Supervisory Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
the Board on 28 May 2021.
Officer. He worked for 25 years with Board of Royal DSM N.V. from 2018
J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated, to 2021, while also chairing its Career: Prior to joining HSBC,
holding roles as Chairman of Sustainability Committee. Pauline Aileen spent 19 years at the Royal
Asia-Pacific Management Committee was formerly President of Erasmus Bank of Scotland Group, holding
and Head of Japan Capital Markets. University Rotterdam, a member of various legal, risk and compliance
Other former appointments included the Dutch Banking Code Monitoring roles. She was appointed Group
non-executive Director of Canada Commission, and a Senior Vice Secretary in 2010 and subsequently
Pension Plan Investment Board, Royal President and Head of Group Human Chief Governance Officer and
Philips N.V., Bank of China Limited, Resources Director at ABN AMRO Board Counsel.
Singapore Airlines, NYSE Euronext, Bank N.V. and TNT N.V. She also held
ING Groep N.V., CapitaLand Ltd, various executive roles at the Royal
SingTel Ltd. and Jones Lang LaSalle Dutch Shell Group. Pauline also
Inc. He also served as Vice Chairman chaired the Group’s former Conduct
of Islamic Bank of Asia. and Values Committee.
Other appointments: Other appointments:
– Non-executive Director of Eli Lilly – Chair of the Dutch Corporate
and Company Governance Code
– Non-executive Director of Monitoring Committee
MasterCard Incorporated – Chair of the Supervisory Board of EY
Netherlands LLP
– Member of the Selection and
Nomination Committee of the
Supreme Court of the Netherlands
– Member of the Capital Markets
Committee of the Dutch Authority
for Financial Markets
– Non-executive Director of Viatris, Inc.
– Chair of the ASM International NV
Supervisory Board
For full biographical details of our Board members,
see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 223
Corporate
governance
Dr Celine Herweijer (44) John Hinshaw (51) Bob Hoyt (57)
Group Chief Sustainability Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Group Chief Legal Officer
Celine joined HSBC as Group Chief John became Group Chief Operating Bob joined HSBC as Group Chief Legal
Sustainability Officer in July 2021, Officer in February 2020, having joined Officer in January 2021. He was most
and is responsible for the Group’s HSBC in December 2019. He has an recently Group General Counsel at
sustainability agenda including its extensive background in transforming Barclays from 2013 to 2020. Prior to
ambition to transition to net zero. She organisations across a range of that he was General Counsel and Chief
previously worked as a partner at PwC industries. Most recently, John served Regulatory Affairs Officer for The PNC
for over a decade, where she held as Executive Vice President of Hewlett Financial Services Group. Bob has
global leadership roles including Packard and Hewlett Packard served as General Counsel and senior
acting as its global innovation and Enterprise, where he managed policy adviser to the US Department of
sustainability leader. Before joining technology and operations and was the Treasury under Secretary Paulson,
PwC, Celine worked as Director of Chief Customer Officer. He also held and as Special Assistant and
Climate Change and Consulting for senior roles at Boeing and Verizon and Associate Counsel to the White House
Risk Management Solutions. She is a served on the Board of Directors of under President George W. Bush.
World Economic Forum Young Global BNY Mellon, DocuSign and the US
Leader, a co-chair of the We Mean National Academy Foundation.
Business Coalition, a PhD climate
scientist and a NASA fellow by training.
Steve John (48) Pam Kaur (58) David Liao (49)
Group Chief Communications Group Chief Risk and Co-Chief Executive Officer,
Officer Compliance Officer Asia-Pacific – The Hongkong
and Shanghai Banking
Steve was appointed as Group Chief Pam was appointed Group Chief Risk Corporation Limited
Communications Officer in December and Compliance Officer in July 2021,
2019 and appointed to the Group having held the role of Group Risk David was appointed co-Chief
Executive Committee in April 2021. He Officer since January 2020. She joined Executive Officer of the Asia-Pacific
has a wealth of senior communications, HSBC in 2013 and was previously region in June 2021. He is a Director
public policy and leadership experience Group Head of Internal Audit, Head of of the Hongkong and Shanghai
acquired across a number of Wholesale Market and Credit Risk, Banking Corporation Limited, Bank of
multinational and charitable and Chair of the enterprise-wide Communications Co., Limited, Hang
organisations. Prior to joining HSBC, non-financial risk forum. Pam has also Seng Bank Limited and HSBC Global
Steve was a partner and Global Director held a variety of audit and compliance Asset Management Limited. David
of Communications at McKinsey & roles in the banking industry, including joined HSBC in 1997, with previous
Company from 2014 to 2019. He has with Deutsche Bank, Royal Bank of roles including: Head of Global
also held roles with Bupa as Global Scotland Group, Lloyds TSB and Banking Coverage for Asia-Pacific;
Director of Communications and Citigroup. She serves as a non- President and Chief Executive at
PepsiCo as Director of Corporate Affairs executive Director of Centrica plc. HSBC China; Head of Global Banking
for their UK and Ireland franchises. and Markets at HSBC China; and
Treasurer and Head of Global Markets
at HSBC China.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 225
Corporate
governance
Board meetings. Other senior executives attend Board meetings as
How we are governed
required.
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance. The In addition to formal Board meetings, the Board Oversight Sub-
Group has a comprehensive range of policies and procedures in Group, established by the Group Chairman in 2020, meets in
place designed to help ensure that it is well managed, with advance of each Board meeting. Such meetings are an informal
effective oversight and controls. We comply with the UK mechanism for a smaller group of Board members and
Corporate Governance Code and the applicable requirements of management to discuss emerging issues and upcoming Board
the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code. matters. Standing attendees comprise the Group Chairman, the
Chair of the Group Audit Committee (who is also the Senior
Board’s role, Directors’ responsibilities and
Independent Director), the Chair of the Group Risk Committee, the
meeting attendance
Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer, the
The Board, led by the Group Chairman, is responsible among other Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and the Group Company
matters for: Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Other non-executive
Directors and management are invited on a rotational basis,
• promoting the Group’s long-term success and delivering
depending on the subject to be discussed. The forum is not
sustainable value to shareholders;
decision making but provides regular opportunities for Board
• establishing and approving the Group’s strategy and objectives, members to communicate with senior management to deepen
and monitoring the alignment of the Group’s purpose, strategy their understanding of, and provide input into, key issues facing
and values with the desired culture; the Group. For further details on how the Board engages with the
wider workforce, see page 233.
• setting the Group’s risk appetite and monitoring the Group’s
risk profile;
Board governance enhancements due to Covid-19
• approving and monitoring capital and operating plans for The Board continued many of the governance changes
achieving strategic objectives; introduced in 2020 in response to the Covid-19 pandemic,
• approving material transactions; including meeting online during 2021. The Board was kept
informed of the continuing challenges and priorities of the
• approving the appointment of Directors, including Board roles;
management team as part of the formal executive reporting
and
received at these meetings. The following practices continued:
• reviewing the Group's overall corporate governance • The Group Chairman prepared a weekly Board update note.
arrangements.
• The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer produced a
The Board's terms of reference are available on our website at weekly Board report on risk matters, including in relation to the
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board- Covid-19 pandemic, as well as market highlights, industry
responsibilities. The Board's powers are subject to relevant laws, events and results.
regulations and HSBC’s articles of association. • Immunologists and pandemic experts updated the Board on
The role of the independent non-executive Directors is to support emerging issues.
the development of proposals on strategy, hold management to • The Group Chairman's Forum was held monthly. It was
account and ensure the executive Directors are discharging their attended by Board committee chairs, as well as chairs of
responsibilities properly, while creating the right culture to principal subsidiaries.
encourage constructive challenge. Further details on the
independence of the Board and the value independence brings can
Technology governance
be found in the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
report. Non-executive Directors also review the performance of A Technology Governance Working Group was established in
management in meeting agreed goals and objectives. The Group 2021, initially for a period of 12 months, to provide
Chairman meets with the non-executive Directors without the recommendations to enhance the Board's oversight of
executive Directors in attendance after Board meetings and technology strategy, governance and emerging risks, and to
otherwise, as necessary. enhance connectivity with the principal subsidiaries. Given their
industry expertise and experience, the working group is jointly
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are
chaired by Eileen Murray and Steven Guggenheimer. Its
separate. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the
members include Group Risk Committee chair Jackson Tai and
leadership of the Board by the Group Chairman, and the executive
other non-executive Directors representing each of our US, UK,
responsibility for day-to-day management of HSBC’s business,
European and Asian principal subsidiaries. Key technology and
which is undertaken by the Group Chief Executive.
business stakeholders have attended the working group to
The majority of Board members are independent non-executive provide insights on technology and information security issues
Directors. At 31 December 2021, the Board comprised the Group across the Group. The working group has met formally eight
Chairman, 10 non-executive Directors, and two executive times since its inception, and has held additional ad hoc sessions
Directors who are the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief on priority strategic topics including data and cybersecurity. The
Financial Officer. Two non-executive Directors will not stand for Technology Governance Working Group's recommendations
re-election at the AGM in April 2022. were presented to the Board in January 2022 when it was
decided that the working group will remain an informal
For further details of the Board’s career background, skills,
committee of the Board. For further details on the future of the
experience and external appointments, see pages 220 to 223.
working group, see the Group Chairman's governance statement
Operation of the Board on page 218.
The Board is ordinarily scheduled to meet at least seven times a
year. In 2021, the Board held 12 meetings. For further details on
attendance at those meetings, see page 228. The Board agenda is
agreed by the Group Chairman, working with both the Group Chief
Executive and the Group Company Secretary and Chief
Governance Officer. For more information, see 'Board activities
during 2021' on page 232.
The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, the
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the Group Chief Legal
Officer and the non-executive Chairman of The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited are all regular attendees at
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 227
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board engagement with shareholders relating to Hong Kong, mainland China, the US and the UK, as
In 2021, the Group Chairman, Senior Independent Director and well as Board composition, changes to the Group Executive
other non-executive Directors, often with the Group Company Committee, and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, engaged with a number Group, its employees, customers and communities.
of our large institutional investors in 15 meetings. The Group The Group Remuneration Committee Chair met with
Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer attended representatives from key investors and proxy advisory firms
over 30 meetings with investors in 2021. Key topics included our numerous times during the fourth quarter of 2021, in preparation
financial performance, climate policies and progress in relation for its discussion and decision making on the 2021 executive
to the climate resolution passed at the 2021 AGM. Other topics Directors' performance outcomes and the renewal of the 2022
discussed with investors included geopolitical tensions, primarily Directors' remuneration policy.
Board roles, responsibilities and meeting attendance
The table below sets out the Board members' respective roles, responsibilities and attendance at Board meetings and the AGM in 2021.
For a full description of responsibilities, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-responsibilities.
Board
attendance
Roles in 2021 Responsibilities
Group Chairman 12/12 • Provides effective leadership of the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance
Mark E Tucker1,2 practices.
• Leads the Board in providing strong strategic oversight and setting the Board’s agenda, culture and
values.
• Leads the Board in challenging management’s thinking and proposals, and fosters open and
constructive debate among Directors.
• Maintains external relationships with key stakeholders and communicates investors' views to the Board.
• Organises periodic monitoring and evaluation, including externally facilitated evaluation, of the
performance of the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
Executive Director 12/12 • Leads and directs the implementation of the Group’s business strategy, embedding the organisation’s
Group Chief Executive culture and values.
Noel Quinn2 • Leads the Group Executive Committee with responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Group,
under authority delegated to him from the Board.
• Maintains relationships with key internal and external stakeholders including the Group Chairman, the
Board, regulators, governments and investors.
Executive Director 12/12 • Supports the Group Chief Executive in developing and implementing the Group strategy and
Chief Financial Officer recommends the annual budget and long-term strategic and financial plan.
Ewen Stevenson2 • Leads the Finance function and is responsible for effective financial reporting, including the
effectiveness of the processes and controls, to ensure the financial control framework is robust and fit
for purpose.
• Maintains relationships with key stakeholders including shareholders.
Non-executive Directors 12/12 • Supports the Group Chairman, acting as intermediary for non-executive Directors when necessary.
Senior Independent • Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman, supporting the clear division
Director of responsibility between the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
David Nish2,3 • Listens to shareholders' views if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal
channels.
Laura Cha2,3,4 6/6 • Develop and approve the Group strategy.
Henri de Castries2,3,4,6 5/6 • Challenge and oversee the performance of management.
Rachel Duan3,5 4/4 • Approve the Group’s risk appetite and review risk profile and performance.
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn3,5 4/4
James Forese2,3 12/12
Steven Guggenheimer2,3 12/12
Irene Lee2,3 12/12
Dr José Antonio Meade 12/12
Kuribreña2,3
Heidi Miller2,3,4 6/6
Eileen Murray2,3.6 9/12
Jackson Tai2,3 12/12
Pauline van der Meer Mohr2,3 12/12
Group Company Secretary • Maintains strong and consistent governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
and Chief Governance • Supports the Group Chairman in ensuring effective functioning of the Board and its committees, and
Officer transparent engagement between senior management and non-executive Directors.
Aileen Taylor • Facilitates induction and professional development of non-executive Directors.
• Advises and supports the Board and management in ensuring effective end-to-end governance and
decision making across the Group.
1 The non-executive Group Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
2 Attended the AGM on 28 May 2021.
3 Independent non-executive Director. All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of HSBC. There are no relationships or
circumstances that are likely to affect any individual non-executive Director’s judgement. All non-executive Directors have confirmed their
independence during the year.
4 Heidi Miller, Laura Cha and Henri de Castries retired from the Board on 28 May 2021.
5 Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn joined the Board effective 1 September 2021.
6 Henri de Castries was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a conflict of interest. Eileen Murray was unable to attend meetings in the last
few months of 2021 due to personal health reasons, but was kept informed of Board and relevant committee matters. She was fully briefed ahead
of her return to regular meeting attendance in January 2022. Eileen continues to have sufficient time to dedicate to her role with HSBC.
228 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Board induction and training
Q&A with Rachel Duan
The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer
works with the Group Chairman to oversee appropriate induction
and ongoing training programmes for the Board. On appointment,
new Board members are provided with tailored and
comprehensive induction programmes to fit with their individual
experiences and needs, including the process for dealing with
conflicts.
The induction programme is delivered through formal briefings
and introductory sessions with Board members, senior
management, legal counsel, auditors, tax advisers and regulators, Q: What is your impression and experience of the onboarding
as appropriate. Topics covered include, but are not limited to: process for HSBC?
purpose and values; culture and leadership; governance and From the very start of the process I was impressed at the level of
stakeholder management; Directors' legal and regulatory duties; attention given to my induction programme. Care was taken to tailor
recovery and resolution risk; anti-money laundering and anti- my meetings and the information provided so that it was relevant for
me and thereby ensured a smooth, efficient and thoughtful process.
bribery; technical and business briefings; and strategy.
Q: How have you managed to get insight into the wider Group
An early focus on induction allows a new Board member to
governance?
contribute meaningfully from appointment. The structure of the
Before my joining date I was afforded many opportunities to meet
induction supports good information flows within the Board and
colleagues, both virtually and physically. Shortly after joining, I visited
its committees, as well as between senior management and non- our Hong Kong office to meet, among others, Peter Wong, non-
executive Directors, providing a clear understanding of our culture executive chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
and way of operating. Corporation Limited. This gave me the chance to gain insight into
governance matters in Asia. In July 2021, I was invited to attend the
During 2021 we welcomed two new non-executive Directors,
Non-Executive Director Summit, which was a great introduction into
Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn, to our Board. We gave
the Group's and its subsidiaries' governance matters. These
careful consideration to creating relevant and bespoke induction
engagements highlighted key areas of focus for HSBC and provided
programmes for each of the new non-executive Directors,
clear insight into the Group's way of working.
particularly given their differing geographical locations and the
Q: How prepared did you feel for the first Board meeting in
continuing Covid-19-related challenges for meetings in person. For
September?
illustrations of the typical induction modules, see the 'Directors'
My tailored engagements and bespoke briefings started shortly after
induction and ongoing development in 2021' table on the
the announcement of my intention to join the HSBC Board in March,
following page.
all of which helped me get my arms around this complex
Non-executive Directors continued to engage with each other organisation and made me feel included and ready to execute my role
through virtual meetings amid continuing Covid-19-related travel in the boardroom with ease.
restrictions. We continue to plan and look forward to opportunities Q&A with Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
to facilitate safe and comprehensive person-to-person
engagement, both in and out of Board meetings. These
opportunities provide invaluable insight and understanding of our
business, customers, culture and people.
Directors undertook routine training during 2021. They also
participated in 'deep dive' sessions into specific areas of the
Group’s strategic priorities, risk appetite and approach to
managing certain risks. These training sessions included external
consultants who provided insights into geopolitical matters,
macroeconomics and investor sentiments. Other topics of focus
Q: How have you got an understanding of the Board's focus on
included: operations and technology strategy; the resolvability
culture?
assessment framework; and climate change and sustainability.
The culture at HSBC is thoughtful and inclusive. I could see from the
Non-executive Directors also discussed individual development carefully planned induction meetings which were arranged well
areas with the Group Chairman during performance reviews and in ahead of my joining. I have been introduced to two employee
conversations with the Group Company Secretary and Chief resource groups: Ability, the disability and mental health network,
Governance Officer. The Group Company Secretary and Chief and Embrace, an ethnicity network, and value the opportunity to
Governance Officer makes appropriate arrangements for any support them. Also, the Board opens every meeting with a ‘culture
additional training needs identified using internal resources, or moment’, which really demonstrates how it connects closely with the
otherwise, at HSBC’s expense. corporate values, and openly expresses how these are observed.
Q: What has been your experience of preparing for membership of
Members of Board committees receive relevant training as
the Group Remuneration Committee and the Group Risk Committee?
appropriate. Directors may take independent professional advice
Before I joined, I engaged closely with the committees' chairs, as well
at HSBC’s expense.
as senior management, to understand their priorities, including a new
Board Directors who serve on principal subsidiary boards also remuneration policy for the 2022 AGM and the climate agenda. I
receive training relevant to those boards. Opportunities exist for remain actively engaged with the members to ensure a smooth
the principal subsidiary and principal subsidiary committee chairs transition onto these committees.
to share their understanding in specific areas with the Board Q: Did your attendance at the 2021 AGM give you a better
Directors. During 2021, the Group Chairman hosted a Non- understanding of the Group's business?
Executive Director Summit where 200 independent non-executive Attending the 2021 AGM, ahead of my official appointment to the
directors from the Group's subsidiaries attended a virtual session Board, enabled me to witness HSBC’s first hybrid meeting with
along with Board Directors. They received updates and training on shareholders. I was pleased to see that the company’s planning
Group-wide matters including climate change, technology, culture enabled as many shareholders as possible to participate in this
annual event, despite the persistent Covid-19 pandemic challenges,
and the launch of the newly developed Non-Executive Director
demonstrating HSBC's inclusive culture. The questions from
Handbook. Following its success, further Non-Executive Director
shareholders were insightful and gave me a good sense of what was
Summits will take place during 2022.
top of investors’ minds and how the company was responding to
such concerns, particularly on the climate agenda.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 229
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Directors’ induction and ongoing development in 2021
Corporate
governance, ESG Chair and
Strategy and and other Board and global subsidiary non-
business Risk and reporting mandatory executive
Director Induction1 briefings2 control3 matters4 training5 Director forums6
Rachel Duan l l l l l l
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn l l l l l l
James Forese ô l l l l l
Steven Guggenheimer ô l l l l l
Irene Lee ô l l l l l
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña ô l l l l l
Eileen Murray ô l l l l l
David Nish ô l l l l l
Noel Quinn ô l l l l l
Ewen Stevenson ô l l l l l
Jackson Tai ô l l l l l
Mark Tucker ô l l l l l
Pauline van der Meer Mohr ô l l l l l
1 The induction programme was delivered through formal briefings and introductory sessions with Board members, senior management, legal
counsel, auditors, tax advisers and regulators, as appropriate. Topics covered included, but were not limited to: purpose and values; culture and
leadership; governance and stakeholder management; Directors’ legal and regulatory duties; recovery and resolution risk; anti-money laundering
and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings; and strategy.
2 Directors participated in business strategy, market development and business briefings, which are global, regional and/or market-specific.
Examples of specific sessions held in 2021 included: 'US strategy: restructuring of the operating model' and 'Climate change: becoming net zero
by 2050'.
3 Directors received risk and control training. Examples of specific sessions held in 2021 included: 'Stress testing' and 'ICAAP/ILAAP'.
4 All Directors received training on topics such as: 'Resolvability assessment framework', 'Climate and sustainable finance' and 'IFRS 17'.
5 Global mandatory training, issued to all Directors, mirrored training undertaken by all employees, including senior management. This included:
management of risk under the enterprise risk management framework, with a focus on operational risk; cybersecurity risk; health, safety and well-
being; data privacy and the protection of data of our customers and colleagues; combating financial crime, including understanding money
laundering, sanctions, fraud and bribery and corruption risks; and our values and conduct, including workplace harassment and speaking up.
6 Chairman's Forum, Remuneration Committee Chairs' Forum and the Non-Executive Director Summit.
Board committees and working groups and emerging risks, and to enhance connectivity with the principal
subsidiaries. The working group will continue in 2022 but will
The Board delegates oversight of certain audit, risk, remuneration,
remain a working group, not a formal committee of the Board. For
nomination and governance matters to its committees. Each
further details, see page 227.
standing Board committee is chaired by a non-executive Board
member and has a remit to cover specific topics in accordance The Board Oversight Sub-Group is also part of the group operating
with their respective terms of reference. Only independent non- rhythm ahead of Board meetings. As described on page 227, this
executive Directors are members of Board committees. Details of group offers the Board and senior management an informal forum
the work carried out by each of the Board committees can be to discuss key matters before they are considered by the Board.
found in the respective committee reports from page 237. In addition, the Chairman’s Committee is convened to provide
In addition to the Board committees, working groups are flexibility for the Board to consider ad hoc Board and routine
established to enhance Board governance. The Technology matters between scheduled Board meetings. All Board members
Governance Working Group was first convened in March 2021 to are invited to attend all Chairman's Committees.
enhance the Board's oversight of technology strategy, governance
Board
Nomination &
Group
Chairman’s Group Audit Group Risk Corporate
Remuneration
Committee Committee Committee Governance
Committee
Committee
230 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Relationship between Board and senior management The designated principal subsidiaries are:
The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and Principal subsidiary Oversight responsibility
implementation of strategy to the Group Chief Executive. The
The Hongkong and Shanghai
Group Chief Executive is supported in his management of the Banking Corporation Limited Asia-Pacific
Group by recommendations and advice from the Group Executive
HSBC Bank plc Europe, Bermuda (excluding
Committee ('GEC'), an executive forum comprising members of Switzerland and UK ring-fenced
senior management that include chief executive officers of the activities)
global businesses, regional chief executive officers and functional HSBC UK Bank plc UK ring-fenced bank and its
heads. subsidiaries
HSBC Middle East Holdings BV Middle East and North Africa
The Directors are encouraged to have contact with management
at all levels, and have full access to all relevant information. Non- HSBC North America Holdings Inc. US
executive Directors are encouraged to visit local business HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK)
operations and meet local management when they attend off-site Limited Mexico and Latin America
Board meetings and when travelling for other reasons but only HSBC Bank Canada Canada
when it is safe to do so. While there were limited physical
opportunities for Board members to meet in 2021, there were In general, principal subsidiaries are responsible for overseeing the
several virtual meetings with senior executives including induction implementation of the subsidiary accountability framework for
meetings and subject matter 'deep dives', as well as regular Group companies in the region for which they are responsible. The
working meetings. subsidiary accountability framework, approved in 2020, and
refreshed by the Board in 2021, set out to improve
Connectivity between management and the Board is further
communications and connectivity between the Group and its
facilitated through informal discussion held as required on an ad
subsidiaries. It is subject to regular review and is occasionally
hoc basis, and as part of the Board Oversight Sub-Group
updated to improve how the respective roles of principal
meetings.
subsidiaries and other subsidiaries are articulated. This helps to
Executive governance provide the Group with a shared understanding and a consistent
approach towards its strategic objectives, culture and values and
The Group’s executive governance is underpinned by the Group
furthers the efforts to streamline and align corporate governance.
operating rhythm, which helps facilitate end-to-end governance
between senior leadership and the Board, and sets out the Board The Group Chairman interacts regularly with the chairs of the
and executive engagement schedule. principal subsidiaries, including through the Chairman’s Forum,
The Group operating rhythm is characterised by three pillars: which brings together the chairs of the principal subsidiaries, the
chairs of the Group's audit, risk and remuneration committees and
• The GEC normally meets every week to discuss current and
the Group Chief Executive to discuss Group-wide and regional
emerging issues.
matters. The Group Chairman hosted 11 Chairman’s Forums in
• On a monthly basis, the GEC reviews the performance of
2021, which were also attended by relevant executive
global businesses, principal geographical areas and legal
management, to cover sessions on strategy, financial performance
entities. These performance reviews are supplemented by
and investor sentiment, geopolitics, culture, employee
operating unit performance review meetings between the
engagement, diversity and inclusion, technology and data, group
Group Chief Financial Officer and each of the chief executive
recovery planning, corporate governance and implementation of
officers of the global businesses, principal geographical areas
the updated subsidiary accountability framework. The Non-
and legal entities on an individual basis. The Group Chief
Executive Director Summit, hosted by the Group Chairman, was
Executive and Group Risk and Compliance Officer have
also an effective subsidiary directors' engagement event. For
standing invitations to these meetings.
further details, see page 229.
• The GEC holds a strategy and governance meeting two weeks
The chairs of the principal subsidiaries’ committees are invited to
in advance of each Board meeting.
attend the relevant forums to raise and discuss current and future
Separate committees have been established to provide specialist
global issues, including regulatory priorities in each of the regions.
oversight for matters delegated to the Group Chief Executive and
While the Audit and Risk Committee Chairs' Forums did not take
senior management, in keeping with their responsibilities under
place in 2021, the chairs of the Group Audit Committee and Group
the Senior Managers and Certification Regime. Some of these
Risk Committee continued to have regular dialogue with the
committees are dedicated sub-committees of the GEC, including
respective committees of the principal subsidiaries to ensure an
the new ESG Committee, the Transformation Oversight Executive
awareness and coordinated approach to key issues. The annual
Committee and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee, and
Remuneration Committee Chairs' Forum took place in October,
all committees together support and facilitate collective decision
and provided the principal subsidiary chairs with an opportunity to
taking and individual accountabilities. These committees support
discuss performance, key considerations and positioning in
the Group Chief Executive and GEC members in areas such as
advance of the pay review process. A follow-up forum was held in
capital and liquidity, risk management, disclosure and financial
early December to provide transparency around pay outcomes and
reporting, restructuring and investment considerations,
allocation, with feedback from the discussion used to shape the
transformation programmes, ESG matters and talent and
final pay proposals, which were considered and approved by the
development.
Group Remuneration Committee.
In addition to our regional company secretaries supporting our
Board members attend principal subsidiary meetings as guests
principal subsidiaries, we have corporate governance officers
from time to time. Similarly, principal subsidiary directors are
supporting our global businesses and our larger global functions
invited to attend committee meetings at Group level, where
to assist in effective end-to-end governance, consistency and
relevant, and in particular, when the Prudential Regulation
connectivity.
Authority ('PRA') is in attendance. The chairs of the principal
subsidiary risk committees are regular attendees at the Group Risk
Subsidiary governance
Committee.
Certain subsidiaries are formally designated as principal
subsidiaries by approval of the Board. In addition to their
obligations under their respective local laws and regulation,
principal subsidiaries have an important role in supporting
effective and high standards of governance across the Group.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 231
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
as well as the plans of each of the global businesses. The Board
Board activities during 2021
also approved the renewal of the debt issuance programme, and
as announced on 26 October 2021 the buy-back programme.
During 2021, the Board was focused on HSBC's strategic direction
and overseeing performance and risk. It considered performance Following the decision in 2020 to cancel the fourth interim
against financial and other strategic objectives, key business dividend for 2019, on 23 February 2021, we announced that after
challenges, emerging risks, business development, investor considering the requirements set out in the PRA's temporary
relations and the Group’s relationships with its stakeholders. The approach to shareholder distributions for 2020, an interim dividend
end-to-end governance framework facilitated discussion on for 2020 of $0.15 per ordinary share would be paid in cash on
strategy and performance by each of the global businesses and 29 April 2021. On 2 August 2021, we announced an interim
across the principal geographical areas, which enabled the Board dividend of $0.07 for the 2021 half-year paid in cash on
to support executive management with its delivery of the Group’s 30 September 2021. For further details of dividend payments, see
strategy. page 397 and 'Board decision making and engagement with
stakeholders' on page 21.
The Board's key areas of focus in 2021 are set out by theme
below. The Board has adopted a policy designed to provide sustainable
dividends going forward. For the financial year 2021, we are at the
Strategy and business performance
lower end of our target dividend payout ratio range of between
Since the Group announced a new strategic focus and associated 40% and 55% of reported earnings per ordinary share (‘EPS’),
transformation programme in February 2020, it has set out to driven by ECL releases and higher restructuring costs. The
reshape underperforming businesses, simplify the organisation dividend policy has the flexibility to adjust EPS for non-cash
and reduce costs. The strategy aims to increase returns for significant items such as goodwill or intangible impairments. The
investors, create capacity for future investment and build a Board believes this payout ratio approach will allow for a good
sustainable platform for growth. level of income to shareholders and a progressive dividend,
assuming good levels of economic and earnings growth.
The Board, which held a dedicated strategy session in May 2021,
assessed the delivery of strategic achievements throughout the Risk, regulatory and legal considerations
year through both the perspectives of the global businesses and
The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, promotes a
the regions. The Board took a holistic view by reviewing
strong risk governance culture that shapes the Group’s risk
management’s strategic alignment to, and outcomes against,
appetite and supports the maintenance of a strong risk
HSBC's four strategic pillars of: focus on our strengths, digitise at
management framework, giving consideration to the
scale, energise for growth and transition to net zero.
measurement, evaluation, acceptance and management of risks,
Environmental, social and governance including emerging risks.
In 2020, the Group announced its new climate ambition to align The Board considered the Group’s approach to risk including its
financed emissions to net zero by 2050 and become net zero for regulatory obligations. A number of key frameworks, control
its own operations and supply chain by 2030. The Group aims to documents, core processes and legal responsibilities were also
achieve this by supporting clients on the road to a net zero carbon reviewed and approved as required. These included:
economy and a focus on sustainable finance opportunities. In
• the Group's risk appetite framework and risk appetite
2021, the Board considered more climate matters at its meetings,
statement;
including participating in four climate 'deep-dives' and approving
the climate-related resolution for the 2021 AGM. For further details • the individual liquidity adequacy assessment process;
on how the Board is meeting its climate agenda ambitions, see • the individual capital adequacy assessment process;
'Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders' on
• the Group’s obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and
page 21 and the ESG review on page 43.
approval of the Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking
The Board has also considered other sustainability matters, Statement;
including human rights, a new thermal coal phase-out policy, the
• stress testing and capabilities required to meet the PRA’s
operating model for sustainability and the methodology for
resolvability assessment framework;
climate-aligned financing.
• the revised terms of reference for the Board and Board
The Board received regular reports on the continuing challenges
committees; and
presented by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, which supported
the Group’s responses and measures to mitigate the effects, • delegations of authority.
including, providing medical aid and assistance to our colleagues
The Board also reviewed and monitored the implications of
in India and other regions.
geopolitical developments during the year including US-China
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing relations and the impacts to trade following the UK's departure
executive management in developing the approach, execution and from the EU.
associated reporting. It has enhanced its oversight of ESG matters,
Technology
with a dedicated agenda item on this topic introduced for 2022.
Management has also enhanced its governance model with the Throughout the year, the Board received regular updates on
introduction of a new ESG Committee and supporting forums, technology from the Group Chief Operating Officer, including
which will support senior management in the delivery of the updates on the refreshed technology strategy and restructuring of
Group’s ESG strategy, key policies and material commitments by the technology leadership function.
providing holistic oversight over – and management and
In early 2021, the Technology Governance Working Group was
coordination of – ESG commitments and activities.
established to oversee and enhance the Group's governance of
Financial decisions technology. For further details on this group’s work and the future
of the Board’s oversight of technology governance, see page 227.
The Board approved key financial decisions throughout the year
and approved the Annual Report and Accounts 2020, the Interim People and culture
Report 2021 and the first quarter and the third quarter Earnings
The Board continued to spend time discussing people and culture-
Releases.
related topics. To set the right cultural tone, since March 2021,
At the start of 2021, the Board approved the 2021 annual financial each Board meeting has begun with a Director or regular attendee
resourcing plan and in December 2021 approved the financial describing a 'cultural moment' he or she had experienced,
resourcing plan for 2022. The Board monitored the Group's including observations of behaviours within the Group aligned to
performance against the approved 2021 financial resourcing plan, the purpose and values. Once a year the chairs from each of the
232 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
principal subsidiaries present to the Chairman's Forum on their Workforce engagement
respective board engagement activities and learnings, including
The Board continued to place great emphasis on the importance
cultural insights. Twice a year the Group Chief Human Resources
of engagement with the workforce, including colleagues affected
Officer attends the Board to provide insights into the Group’s
by the continued impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the
employee Snapshot survey results measuring employee sentiment,
return to offices in the UK and elsewhere. The Board also
talent plans, progress on the embedding of the new purpose and
considered the impact of the launch of our new purpose and
values, and the measurement of culture. This reporting includes a
values and the ongoing transformation activity, including the
culture insights report, which allows the Board to monitor culture
announcement of the disposal of our retail businesses in the US
through receipt of data on culture perceptions and using the
and France.
indicators of behaviours/sentiment and business outcomes/people
data. These presentations help enable the Board to monitor and In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the
assess the organisation's culture. Board reaffirmed that it continued to believe that the 'alternative
arrangements' approach remained most appropriate for the
Board engagement with management and the wider workforce
Group in engaging and understanding the views of the
continued to remain a strong area of attention.
workforce. The programme of engagement covered a variety of
Governance interaction styles: more bespoke sessions with smaller groups;
formal presentations; Q&A opportunities; and other sessions to
The Board continued to oversee the governance, smooth operation facilitate engagement across a breadth of experience,
and oversight of the Group and its principal and material geographical spread and seniority. This variety of engagements
subsidiaries. Following a review of subsidiary governance, the enabled open dialogue and two-way discussions between
Board oversaw the implementation of the review findings, with the Directors and employees. These sessions allowed the Board to
support of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee. gain valuable insight on employee perspectives, which in turn
The Board also supported new governance initiatives to encourage informed their deliberations and decision making at Board and
simplification and promote effective decision making in the committee meetings. The Board receives updates on how the
business. Such initiatives included the refinement of Board and Group engages with stakeholders, including the workforce, by
committee papers, and a review to reduce unnecessary committee way of the Group Chief Executive's Board report and the Group
meetings to free management time and encourage individual Chairman's weekly Board note. In addition, the Board's agenda
accountability and decision taking. regularly includes non-executive Director workforce and other
stakeholder engagement updates. These help to inform the
Succession planning was considered at the Nomination &
Board of employee initiatives and sentiment and allow the Board
Corporate Governance Committee. During the year, Laura Cha,
to plan for future engagement activities. For further details of
Henri de Castries and Heidi Miller retired as independent non-
how the Board considered the views of employees and other
executive Directors. The Board appointed Rachel Duan and Dame
stakeholders, see the 'Board decision making and engaging with
Carolyn Fairbairn as independent non-executive Directors who
stakeholders' on page 21.
joined the Board in September 2021. The Board, supported by the
The flexibility of this approach allowed all Board members the
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee, will continue to
opportunity for direct engagement – albeit often virtually during
review the skills and experience of the Board as a whole to ensure
2021 – with a broad cross-section of the workforce, spanning
that it comprises the relevant skills, diversity, experiences and
global businesses, functions and geographies. It also gave
competencies to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
insights provided by management through our employee
For further details on the review, subsequent actions and changes listening tools and surveys. The Board received formal updates
to the Board, see the Nomination & Corporate Governance from the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Human
Committee report on page 237. Resources Officer on employee views and sentiment. These
The Board monitored its compliance with the UK Corporate include results of employee engagement surveys, benchmarked
Governance Code, the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code data, and additional surveys to understand well-being throughout
and the Companies Act 2006 throughout the year. the Covid-19 pandemic. The Chairman’s Forum meetings also
discussed employee feedback from the Group's subsidiaries.
Specific engagement between the Board and the wider
workforce included meetings and events with:
• representatives of the employee resource groups and each of
the non-executive Directors who have been partnered to
support the designated groups: Ability, Balance, Embrace,
Faith, Generations, Nurture, Pride, and Communities;
• the Nurture employee resource group, which hosted online
events on domestic abuse and working fathers, during which
non-executive Directors discussed with a small group of
employees how the Group had supported them during such
challenging times and how the Board could promote further
initiatives;
• first and second year members of the HSBC graduate
scheme, who discussed their experiences of hybrid working
and HSBC's culture, purpose and values;
• US executive management, who held succession and
emerging talent sessions, and who also discussed our net
zero ambitions, career pathways, and the delivery of our
strategy; and
• African heritage employee resource group leaders, who held a
roundtable event to discuss inclusivity at work.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 233
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board activities in 2021
Main topic Sub-topic Meetings at which topics were discussed1
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Sep Nov Dec
Strategy Group strategy ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô ô l
Regional strategy/global business strategy l l ô l l l l l ô ô
Environmental, social, governance ô ô ô ô l ô ô l l l
Business and Region/global business l l ô l l ô l l ô l
financial
performance Financial performance l l ô l l ô l l ô l
Financial Results and accounts l l ô ô ô ô ô ô ô ô
Dividends l l ô ô ô ô ô ô ô ô
Group financial resource planning l ô ô l ô ô ô ô ô l
Risk Risk function l l ô l l ô l ô ô l
Risk appetite l ô ô ô ô ô l l ô l
Capital and liquidity adequacy l ô l l ô ô ô ô ô ô
Regulatory Regulatory and legal matters2 ô l l l l l l l ô l
Regulatory matters with regulators in attendance3 ô ô ô ô ô ô l l ô ô
External External insights ô l ô l ô ô l ô ô l
Technology Strategic and operational l ô ô ô ô ô l ô l l
People and
Purpose, values and engagement l l ô l ô ô ô l ô ô
culture
Governance Subsidiary governance framework ô l ô ô ô ô ô ô ô ô
Policies and terms of reference l ô ô l ô l l ô ô ô
Board/committee effectiveness l ô ô ô ô ô ô ô ô ô
Appointment and succession l l l ô l l l ô ô ô
AGM and resolutions l l ô l l ô ô ô ô ô
1 No formal Board meetings were held during August and October 2021.
2 Includes resolvability assessment framework, modern slavery and human trafficking, statement of business principles and code of conduct,
regional updates and listing renewals.
3 Meetings attended by members of the Financial Conduct Authority, Prudential Regulation Authority, Monetary Authority of Singapore, Hong Kong
Monetary Authority.
In general, there were consistent findings across the Board and
Board and committee effectiveness,
committee reviews. These included: a desire to be more forward
performance and accountability looking; more discussion of contextual matters such as economic,
social, and geopolitical issues; maintaining a supportive and
The Board and its committees are committed to regular,
challenging relationship between the Board, its committees and
independent evaluation of their effectiveness at least once every
senior management; providing clear governance for our
three years.
subsidiaries; and a more consistent approach in leading and living
In 2020, the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee the Group purpose and values.
invited Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited to support the
At its January 2022 meeting, the Board considered the findings
Board with its annual evaluation and to conduct a follow-up
and noted the following areas of focus: in person Board and
review on the Board's progress against the findings and
committee meetings; succession planning; diversity in Board
recommendations from her 2019 report.
composition including the need for more Asian and banking
In 2021, the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee experience; prioritising digital opportunities; and more Board
approved the conducting of an internal evaluation of the Board meeting time dedicated to customers.
and its committees, with the assistance of an externally facilitated
The Group Chairman led a discussion at which the Board agreed
questionnaire system managed by Lintstock, an independent
the actions and priorities to be implemented, which will be
service provider with no other connection to the Group or any
monitored and addressed on an ongoing basis. Similar discussions
individual Director. The questions were designed by the Group
were carried out by each of the committee chairs in their
Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer and included
respective January meetings. Progress against these actions will
some of the themes addressed by Dr Long's previous reviews,
be included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2022.
namely: leadership, shared perspective, culture, end-to-end
governance and future thinking. A summary of the effectiveness During 2021, a review of the Group Chairman’s performance was
reviews of the Board and the Board committees can be found on led by the Senior Independent Director in consultation with the
page 235 and in the respective committee reports on pages 237 to other independent non-executive Directors, management and key
267. stakeholders. Non-executive Directors also undergo regular
individual reviews with the Group Chairman. These reviews
To gather qualitative feedback the Group Company Secretary and
confirmed that the performance of the Group Chairman and each
Chief Governance Officer, together with the Deputy Group
Director was effective and that each had met their time
Secretary, conducted one-to-one interviews with all questionnaire
commitments during the year.
respondents, including all the Board Directors, regular attendees
of the relevant meetings and key advisers. The Group Chairman The review of executive Directors’ performance, which helps
and committee chairs also participated in additional discussion determine the level of variable pay they receive each year, is
following the consolidation of feedback in respect of the individual contained in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 268.
committees.
234 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Summary of 2020 Board effectiveness recommendations and actions:
Recommendation from the evaluation Progress against recommendations
Leadership • Continue to focus on Board succession Significant time has been allocated at Nomination & Corporate Governance
planning, building on the progress made Committee meetings to discuss these items. An additional session was held in
during 2020 to facilitate and manage March to discuss Board and committee composition, and senior executive changes.
succession for Board and committee Discussions have included succession candidates at the layer below the GEC, and
positions, cognisant of diversity in all plans to simplify the senior grade structure at managing director level and above.
aspects and making full use of external Progress reports for the Asia talent programme were submitted to Nomination &
advisers and skills matrix analysis. Corporate Governance Committee meetings, with the first received at the May
• Embed executive succession so that it meeting.
translates into a stronger, more diversified
talent pool for future senior leadership.
Shared • Optimise use of Board information to The Board operating rhythm continues to be effective. Positive feedback from non-
perspective enhance testing of the effectiveness of the executive and executive Directors confirmed that the Board Oversight Sub-Group is
strategic and business plans with reference valuable for all stakeholders.
to the evolving external factors and We have made use of the expertise and experience of our non-executive Directors
competitive landscape across its key by rotating attendance at our Board Oversight Sub-Group meetings, according to
markets. the topic to be discussed.
Regular feedback is sought from members of the GEC and the Board to ensure that
the Board operating rhythm continues to support the Group's decision making.
Culture • Continue to review and determine the The Board Oversight Sub-Group meetings supported both the executive Directors
culture and key behaviours required to and the Board to take strategic decisions in a timely manner, and ensure effective
support the delivery of the revised strategy use of time in Board meetings. The enhanced strategy was announced alongside the
with a clear focus on pace and execution. 2021 interim results, including the Group's proposed disposal of the US retail
banking franchise.
Cadence of reporting to the Board in support of its oversight of culture was agreed.
This takes place twice per year alongside updates on workforce engagement. The
Board has adopted a 'culture moment' at the beginning of each meeting.
Future thinking • Maintain and evolve good quality papers The Group’s new Board paper template and guidance on the most effective writing
and presentations to the Board to continue approach has now been implemented across the Board and committee meetings.
providing insight and supporting informed We also provided presenter and chair training to members of the Group Executive
decision making and wider management.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 235
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Summary of 2021 Board effectiveness recommendations and actions
Findings from the evaluation Recommendations for action
Composition and • The Board's overall skills and capability, and The Board will support the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee’s focus
Board dynamics diversity and inclusion representation, could on identifying and securing additional Board members, reflecting on the
be improved, particularly with Asian membership of the committees, and with a particular focus on Hong Kong,
background and banking experience. mainland China and south-east Asian representation, as well as banking expertise
• Significant collective knowledge of existing and diversity. In addition, through the Nomination & Corporate Governance
chairs who are all extremely able and active Committee, the Board should consider the tenure of the Chairs of the Board, the
in their roles must be considered as part of Group Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee to ensure there is well
succession planning. planned succession so as not to lose their collective knowledge and experience
within too short a space of time.
• Strong relationships exist among Board
members and senior management with the The Board will explore different approaches to in-person meetings during 2022 to
Board providing appropriate challenge and allow members to meet face to face in different locations, and to continue to
support as necessary. facilitate communication between the Board and management.
• The Board Oversight Sub-Group has been a The Board will support an appropriate level of employee and customer engagement
useful forum for Directors and senior outside formal meetings while ensuring both receive adequate time on the Board
management to hold discussions in agenda.
advance of Board meetings.
• There is a strong desire to return to in-
person meetings. The Group Chairman was
complimented on his management of
meetings and Board communication
throughout the pandemic.
• Increased engagement outside of formal
meetings with executives and employees to
aid focused, informed and efficient
discussion in formal meetings was
welcomed.
Meetings, • Board meetings were efficiently and Senior management will clearly articulate progress against strategic objectives in
priorities and effectively managed, in terms of the Board materials, particularly in relation to relevant strategic levers and prioritisation.
materials logistics and support, as well as the quality The forward agenda planner will capture the key areas of future focus, particularly
of materials which had improved during the ESG, digital and customer issues.
year as a result of the introduction of the The improvement in style and content of Board and committee papers will continue
new templates. Continuation of that in 2022 with the Corporate Governance and Secretariat facilitating management’s
improvement would help the effort to commitment to improving information to the Board.
reduce length, improve timelines and drive
A 2022 Board meeting will include digital opportunities and threats as an agenda
clarity.
item.
• The Board should build on foundational
work to date to provide greater clarity on
climate matters, and more broadly ESG
issues.
• The Board should increase its focus on
understanding of – and attention to –
customers, and also digital opportunities
and threats.
• Strategic oversight was highly regarded
overall, with a request for the development
of Board materials to more easily track
progress of the strategic priorities. Attention
to execution, prioritisation, capability and
capacity were recurring themes.
Risk • The Board oversaw risk matters as part of The Board will hold two forward-looking strategic risk discussions per year focused
its dedicated sessions but suggested more on emerging areas of threat and/or opportunity, to ensure that the Board is
focus on emerging risks and consideration considering how to maximise growth opportunities and appropriate mitigants.
of 'what keeps management awake at
night' with forward-looking discussion and
debate at Board meetings in addition to at
the Group Risk Committee.
Principal • The Board should continue to evolve good Through the subsidiary accountability framework, the Board will continue to monitor
subsidiaries quality papers and presentations at progress of governance of principal subsidiaries and maintain subsidiary director
meetings to continue providing insight, and interactions through the annual virtual Non-Executive Director Summit.
support for, informed decision making.
Committee • The Board should look to improve The Board will undertake a review of the Board committees’ and Technology
connectivity and coordination between Board committees Governance Working Group's terms of reference, with particular reference to
collaboration and the Technology Governance Working technology, transformation, data, cyber-related matters and ESG matters. In each
Group to ensure minimal overlap in content case, the Board will ensure that there is clarity as to the remit and responsibilities of
and optimal coverage of relevant matters, each committee and the Technology Governance Working Group, with a view to
and ensure appropriate reporting to the reducing any duplication and ensuring optimal coverage of relevant matters.
Board for discussion. Enhanced planning will be implemented across Board and committee agendas to
improve rhythm of topics for discussion by the Board.
236 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Board committees Membership
Meeting attendance in
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Member since 2021
Mark Tucker (Chair) Oct 2017 8/8
Laura Cha1 May 2014 4/4
Henri de Castries1 Apr 2018 4/4
Rachel Duan2 Sep 2021 2/2
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn2 Sep 2021 2/2
James Forese May 2020 8/8
Steven Guggenheimer May 2020 8/8
Irene Lee Apr 2018 8/8
José Antonio Meade Apr 2019 8/8
Kuribreña
Eileen Murray3 Jul 2020 7/8
Heidi Miller1 Apr 2018 4/4
David Nish Apr 2018 8/8
Jackson Tai Apr 2018 8/8
Pauline van der Meer Mohr Apr 2016 8/8
"The Committee has overseen another year of significant activity, 1 Laura Cha, Henri de Castries and Heidi Miller stepped down from the
with a number of changes to the Board and senior executive Board following the conclusion of the AGM on 28 May 2021.
team, as well as to our subsidiary governance practices." 2 Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn were appointed to the
Board on 1 September 2021.
3 Eileen Murray was unable to attend the December committee
meeting for personal health reasons.
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the Nomination & Corporate Governance Key responsibilities
Committee report, which provides an overview of the work of the
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
Committee and its activities during the year.
• leading the process for identifying and nominating candidates
The Committee has overseen another year of significant activity,
for appointment to the Board and its committees;
with a number of changes to the Board and senior executive team,
as well as to our subsidiary governance practices. • overseeing succession planning and development for the Group
Executive Committee and other senior executives; and
Executive development and succession has continued to be a
priority for the Committee, with various joiners approved • overseeing and monitoring the corporate governance
throughout the year, improving the capability and depth of our framework of the Group and ensuring that this is consistent
senior leadership team. This included the approval of a new senior with best practice.
leadership structure with an expanded Group Executive Committee governance
Committee and a new General Manager cohort with enterprise-
The Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Human Resources Officer
wide responsibilities. The Committee has supported the
and Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer
establishment of a flagship development programme for senior
routinely attended Nomination & Corporate Governance
executives and the first HSBC Bank Director Programme, which
Committee meetings.
aims to prepare senior talent for roles on subsidiary boards.
Russell Reynolds Associates, which supported the Committee and
Significant progress has also been made in enhancing our
the management team in relation to Board and senior executive
subsidiary governance practices over recent years, with further
succession planning, regularly attended meetings during the year.
improvements made during 2021. In accordance with the
It has no other connection with the Group or members of the
recommendation arising from the subsidiary governance review
Board.
undertaken in 2020, we implemented a refreshed subsidiary
accountability framework, which now applies to all HSBC The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer
subsidiaries on a proportionate basis and provides greater clarity ensured that the Committee fulfilled its governance
on the Group’s expectations of subsidiary boards. A key element responsibilities, considering input from various stakeholders when
of this has been succession planning for our principal and material finalising meeting agendas and tracking progress on actions and
subsidiary boards, with the Committee overseeing all succession Committee priorities.
plans and considering requests for exceptions from the
Board composition and succession
requirements of the framework.
The main focus of the Committee during 2021 was on succession
As we look ahead to the remainder of 2022, the Committee will
planning for the Board and committees. The Committee keeps the
continue to play an important role in overseeing our work in
composition of the Board and its committees under constant
improving the standards of corporate governance across HSBC
review and continually strives to ensure that the membership, both
and achieving our ambition of world class governance.
individually and collectively, has the skills, knowledge and
experience necessary to oversee, challenge and support
management in the achievement of the Group’s strategic and
business objectives.
There were a number of retirements from the Board during the
Mark E Tucker year, with Henri de Castries, Laura Cha and Heidi Miller retiring at
the conclusion of the 2021 AGM. In addition, since the year-end,
Chair we announced that Irene Lee and Pauline van der Meer Mohr
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee would retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2022 AGM.
The Committee is actively considering Pauline’s successor as
22 February 2022
Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee and will provide an
update in due course.
The Committee considered both the short-term and long-term
succession needs to identify candidates for immediate
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 237
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
appointment, and to develop a pipeline for potential future after consideration of all relevant circumstances that are likely to
appointments. This will ensure that the longer-term shape of the impair, or could appear to impair, independence.
Board is well aligned to our purpose, strategy and values, and
Senior executive succession and development
provides relevant skills, experience and knowledge of our priority
markets. The Group Executive Committee underwent a period of significant
change during 2021 and engaged Russell Reynolds to identify the
In late 2020, the Committee engaged Russell Reynolds Associates
best talent for roles on the committee. The changes included the
to conduct a thorough and robust search to identify prospective
addition of three new roles, as well as the appointments of new
candidates for appointment to the Board. This identified a number
Co-Chief Executives for our Asia-Pacific region. These
of potential candidates who met our agreed search criteria, which
appointments recognised the leadership and capabilities that the
reflected prior feedback from stakeholders including investors,
Group requires to deliver our strategic commitments.
regulators and the management team. This was initially reviewed
by the Group Chairman, with potential candidates presented and Succession plans for the Group Executive Committee members
discussed by the Committee at various meetings during 2021. were approved at the Nomination & Corporate Governance
Following consideration by the Committee, and meetings between Committee meeting in December. These reflected continued
various members of the Committee and priority candidates to efforts to support the development and progression of diverse
understand their interest and capacity, the Board approved the talent and promote the long-term success of the Group.
appointments of Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn with
The Committee also discussed progress under the Asia talent
effect from 1 September 2021.
programme, which aims to support the development of potential
A search for additional non-executive Director candidates, which future leaders from the Group’s key region. The initiative exceeded
looks to enhance the Board’s collective knowledge and experience the target of appointing the top talent from the region into stretch
of banking and Asia in particular, was initiated during 2021. The roles as part of their development. As part of succession plans, we
search will also look to further enhance diversity on the Board in also identified at least one credible successor of Asia heritage for
line with its diversity and inclusion policy. The Committee’s search the region's key roles. Other regions across the Group have begun
was again supported by Russell Reynolds. The Committee is work to replicate the success in Asia, with updates on their efforts
actively progressing this search and will provide an update in due to be provided to the Committee during 2022.
course. Committee evaluation
Board diversity
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was
The Board recognises the importance of gender, social and ethnic internally facilitated in 2021. The review concluded that the
diversity, and the strengths this brings to Board effectiveness. Committee continued to operate effectively, with a number of
There was a significant focus on diversity at Board and senior positive aspects of the Committee’s operation and practices
executive levels in 2021, with consultations issued by our UK highlighted. Areas for improvement that were identified included
regulators and the UK Listing Authority. We are well positioned the Committee’s succession planning practices, and the need to
against the proposals outlined in those consultations and, in line review the support and guidance provided in relation to executive
with the Board diversity and inclusion policy, remain committed to succession activity, including the expectations of leaders in
increasing diversity at Board and senior levels to ensure we reflect relation to succession preparedness. The Committee discussed the
the markets and societies we serve. The policy, which was outcomes of the evaluation in January 2022, and endorsed the
updated in 2021 to incorporate new targets on female findings and actions to be taken. The outcomes of the evaluation
representation, details our approach to achieving our diversity have been reported to the Board and the Committee will track
ambitions, and helps to ensure that diversity and inclusion factors progress on the recommendations through the year.
are taken into account in succession planning. The revised Board Subsidiary governance
diversity and inclusion policy is available at www.hsbc.com/who-
we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-responsibilities. The importance of robust, effective and proportionate governance
at all levels of the Group is critical, with the 2020 subsidiary
At the end of 2021, we had a 38% female Board representation,
governance review of principal subsidiaries identifying a number
with five female Board members out of 13. Our aspirational female
of areas of good practice and areas where further improvement
representative target is at least 40% by the end of 2023, aligned to
would be beneficial.
the recommendation in the final Hampton-Alexander Review. We
continue to exceed the Parker Review target of at least one One of the recommended areas for improvement was a refresh of
Director from an ethnic minority background by 2021, with four the existing subsidiary governance policy, and the subsidiary
members of our Board self-identifying in line with the ethnicity/ accountability framework, to provide greater clarity and guidance
ethnic definition set by Parker. Given the global and international on the Group’s expectations of various subsidiaries. The refreshed
nature of HSBC, including our strong presence and heritage in framework, which included additional principles, underpinned by
Asia, the Committee expects the composition of the Board to provisions and detailed guidance, took effect from 1 April 2021.
exceed the current Parker Review recommendations. In line with Subsidiary board composition and ensuring effective succession
our purpose and values, the Board believes that a diverse and planning practices were key objectives of the refreshed
inclusive Board, reflective of the communities we serve, is key to framework. The subsidiary governance review also recommended
effective decision making and to developing a sustainable and that guidance should be developed and enhanced with additional
successful business for HSBC. provisions to support effective board composition and succession
Further details on activities to improve diversity across senior planning. It also expected that boards should use a skills matrix. In
management and the wider workforce, together with connection with the revised expectations, all principal and material
representation statistics, can be found on page 72. subsidiaries submitted their succession plans for the Committee’s
review. The Committee approved a number of required exceptions
Independence
from strict compliance with the framework to manage transition
Independence is a critical component of good corporate for a limited period, and to reflect varying market practices, laws
governance, and is a principle that is applied consistently at both and regulations across our markets.
Holdings and subsidiary level. The Committee has delegated
As part of efforts to make greater use of the skills, expertise and
authority from the Board in relation to the assessment of the
experience among our senior employees for roles on subsidiary
independence of non-executive Directors. In accordance with the
boards, the Committee approved the development of the HSBC
UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes, the Committee
Bank Director Programme. This programme seeks to equip our
has reviewed and confirmed that all non-executive Directors who
internal talent with the appropriate skills and knowledge required
have submitted themselves for election and re-election at the AGM
to serve on a HSBC subsidiary board. The initiative was developed
are considered to be independent. This conclusion was reached
following consultation with our principal subsidiary chairs, who
238 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
supported the greater use of an internal talent pool on subsidiary result of governance simplification initiatives sponsored by the
boards, where permitted by applicable laws and regulations. Group Executive Committee. The main opportunities for
improvement related to further simplification of governance
Business governance review
structures. In particular, the role of the global business governance
Following the success of the 2020 review, an equivalent review of forums within regions and countries will be considered to avoid
the executive governance practices across our three global duplication by ensuring that their roles and responsibilities are
businesses, Wealth and Personal Banking, Commercial Banking clear and distinct.
and Global Banking and Markets, was conducted during the fourth
The findings and recommendations from the review were
quarter of 2021. This work had the strong support of the Group
discussed and endorsed by the Committee in January 2022, with
Executive Committee, and involved desktop reviews, meeting
oversight of the actions and next steps to be overseen by the
observations and interviews.
respective global business executive committees and the Group
Overall, the review concluded that the governance of the three Executive Committee.
global businesses operated effectively, and had improved as a
Matters considered during 2021
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jul Sep Dec
Board composition and succession
Board composition, including succession planning
l l ô l l l l l
and skills matrices
Approval of diversity and inclusion policy ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô
Executive talent and development
Senior executive succession l l l l l l l ô
Approval of executive succession plans ô ô ô ô ô ô ô l
Talent programmes ô l ô ô l l ô ô
Governance
Board and committee evaluation ô ô ô l ô ô l l
Subsidiary governance l ô ô ô ô l l l
Subsidiary and executive appointments l l ô l l l l l
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 239
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Group Audit Committee Membership
Meeting attendance
Member since in 20211
David Nish (Chair) May 2016 11/11
James Forese2 May 2020 10/11
Eileen Murray3 Jul 2020 5/6
Jackson Tai Dec 2018 11/11
Pauline van der Meer Mohr4 Apr 2020 10/11
1 These included two joint meetings with the Group Risk Committee.
2 James Forese was unable to attend one meeting due to extreme
weather conditions disrupting air travel.
3 Eileen Murray was unable to attend one meeting due to personal
circumstances and stepped down from the Group Audit Committee
on 28 May 2021.
4 Pauline van der Meer Mohr was unable to attend one meeting due to
personal circumstances and another due to a prior commitment.
"In 2021, the Group Audit Committee carried out significant
Key responsibilities
development in our internal financial controls and regulatory The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
reporting processes to meet a number of challenges."
• monitoring and assessing the integrity of the financial
statements, formal announcements and regulatory information
Dear Shareholder in relation to the Group's financial performance, as well as
significant accounting judgements;
The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) had a busy agenda in 2021.
• reviewing the effectiveness of, and ensuring that management
We carried out significant development in our internal financial
has appropriate internal controls over, financial reporting;
controls and regulatory reporting processes to help meet the
challenges of organisational transformation, the continued impact • reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external
of the Covid-19 pandemic, a changing regulatory landscape and auditor and overseeing its appointment, tenure, rotation,
the growing demand for better and more ESG and climate remuneration, independence and engagement for non-audit
reporting. services;
To ensure alignment of priorities and understand local challenges, • overseeing the Group’s policies, procedures and arrangements
I attended a number of principal subsidiary audit committee for capturing and responding to whistleblower concerns and
meetings. These were supplemented with regular communications ensuring they are operating effectively; and
that we cascade through the Group, informal meetings with audit • overseeing the work of Global Internal Audit and monitoring
committee chairs and a breakout session on key areas for focus at and assessing the effectiveness, performance, resourcing,
the Non-Executive Director Summit in July 2021. independence and standing of the function.
I regularly met the whistleblowing team to discuss material Committee governance
whistleblowing cases and the effectiveness of whistleblowing
arrangements. The GAC spent significant time considering The Committee keeps the Board informed and advises on matters
enhancements to whistleblowing arrangements, management's concerning the Group's financial reporting requirements to ensure
responses to internal audit findings and the thematic and cultural that the Board has exercised oversight of the work carried out by
insights that could be used to improve the speak-up culture. management, Global Internal Audit and the external auditor.
The Committee received regular updates from the Group Chief Committee meetings usually take place a couple of days before
Financial Officer and the Group Head of Internal Audit on Board meetings to allow the Committee to report its findings and
functional transformation, its impact on the control environment recommendations in a timely and orderly manner. This is done
and the capacity and capabilities of the functions. The Committee through the Chair who comments on matters of particular
also invited the Global Finance Executive Committee for a private relevance. The Board also receives copies of the Committee
session, and I attended a session of the Global Internal Audit agenda and minutes of meetings.
Executive Committee to discuss key topics and themes from a The Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group
management perspective. Head of Finance, Global Financial Controller, Group Head of
Recognising the importance of providing enhanced trust in Internal Audit, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group
reporting to all stakeholders, the Committee provided a detailed Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer and other
response to the UK Government's consultation paper on members of senior management routinely attended meetings of
‘Restoring Trust in Audit and Corporate Governance’. the GAC. The external auditor attended all meetings.
The Committee implemented all the actions from the 2020 The Chair held regular meetings with management, Global Internal
evaluation. The 2021 review determined that the GAC continued to Audit and the external auditor to discuss agenda planning and
operate effectively. specific issues as they arose during the year outside the formal
Committee process. The Committee also regularly met separately
Eileen Murray stepped down as a member at the 2021 AGM. The
with the internal and external auditors and other senior
Committee continues to have a wide range of financial services
management to discuss matters in private.
experience and I would like to thank all the GAC members and
management for their diligent contributions and support to the The Committee Secretary regularly met with the Chair to ensure
work of the Committee during the year. the Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities, and to
consider input from stakeholders when finalising meeting
agendas, tracking progress on actions and Committee priorities.
David Nish
Chair, Group Audit Committee, 22 February 2022
240 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Matters considered during 2021
Jan Feb Mar Apr Jun Jul Sep Oct Nov Dec
Reporting
Financial reporting matters including:
–review of financial statements, ensuring that disclosures are fair, balanced and
understandable
l l ô l l l l l l l
–significant accounting judgements
–going concern assumptions and viability statement
–supplementary regulatory information
ESG and climate reporting l l ô ô ô l ô l l l
Regulatory reporting-related matters l l l l l l l ô ô l
Certificates from principal subsidiary audit committees ô l ô ô ô l ô ô ô ô
Control environment
Control enhancement programmes l l l l l l l l ô ô
Group transformation l ô ô ô l ô l l ô l
Review of deficiencies and effectiveness of internal financial controls l l ô l l l l l ô l
Internal audit
Reports from Global Internal Audit l l ô l ô l ô l ô l
Annual audit plan, independence and effectiveness l ô ô l ô l ô ô ô l
External audit
Reports from external audit, including external audit plan l l ô l l l l l ô l
Appointment, remuneration, non-audit services and effectiveness l l ô l l ô ô l ô ô
Compliance
Accounting standards and critical accounting policies l l ô ô ô ô ô ô ô l
Corporate governance codes and listing rules ô l ô ô ô l ô ô ô ô
Whistleblowing
Whistleblowing arrangements and effectiveness ô l ô ô l ô ô ô ô l
Compliance with regulatory requirements Regular post-meeting communications to principal subsidiary
audit chairs were supplemented with informal quarterly catch-ups
The Board has confirmed that each member of the Committee is
with a group of the audit committee chairs. These provided
independent according to the criteria from the US Securities and
opportunities for the discussion of key matters impacting
Exchange Commission, and the Committee continues to have
subsidiaries and the Group in between formal meetings.
competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
The Board has determined that David Nish and Jackson Tai are Internal controls
‘financial experts’ for the purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-
In 2021, the GAC devoted significant time in overseeing
Oxley Act and have recent and relevant financial experience for
management’s approach to enabling a sustainable transformation
the purposes of the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance
of the control environment that supports financial, prudential
Codes.
regulatory and other regulatory reporting to meet the evolving
The GAC Chair had regular meetings with the regulators, including expectations of regulators and other stakeholders. The programme
the UK’s PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority ('FCA'). These will drive end-to-end organisational alignment so that principles
included trilateral meetings involving the Group’s external auditor and control standards can be designed to deliver a more
PwC. integrated, standardised and automated control environment. The
Committee received regular updates on the mobilisation of the
The Committee assessed the adequacy of resources of the
programme workstreams, resourcing and engagement throughout
accounting and financial reporting function. It also monitored the
the Group and with regulators. The oversight and implementation
legal and regulatory environment relevant to its responsibilities.
of the programme and its component parts will be a key focus for
How the Committee discharged its the Committee in 2022.
responsibilities
The Committee received regular updates and confirmations that
Connectivity with principal subsidiary audit committees management had taken, or was taking, the necessary actions to
remediate any failings or weaknesses identified through the
The Committee maintains a close working relationship with the
operation of the Group’s framework of controls. For further details
principal subsidiary audit committees through formal and informal
on how the Board reviewed the effectiveness of key aspects of
channels.
internal control, see page 291.
On a half-year basis, principal subsidiary audit committees provide
As required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the GAC received updates
certifications to the GAC regarding the preparation of their
on the Group's work on section 404 compliance and the Group's
financial statements, adherence to Group policies and escalation
broader financial control environment during the year. This was to
of any issues that require the attention of the GAC. Recognising
assess the effectiveness of the internal control system for financial
the additional focus on prudential regulatory reporting, the GAC
reporting and any developments affecting it. Based on this work,
sought additional information via these certifications regarding the
the GAC recommended that the Board support the assessment of
governance, review and assurance activities undertaken by the
the internal controls over financial reporting.
principal subsidiary audit committees in relation to prudential
regulatory reporting. Financial reporting
The GAC Chair regularly met with the chairs of the principal The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s financial
subsidiary audit committees, and attended meetings to enable reporting during the year, including the Annual Report and
close links and deeper understanding on judgements around key Accounts, Interim Report, quarterly earnings releases, analyst
issues. Certain chairs and audit committee members from the presentations and, where material, Pillar 3 disclosures and other
principal subsidiary audit committees were also invited to attend items arising from the review of the Group Disclosure Committee.
meetings of the GAC on relevant topics. As part of its review, the GAC:
At the Non-Executive Director Summit, the GAC Chair engaged • evaluated management’s application of critical accounting
with a number of subsidiary non-executive Directors in a breakout policies and material areas in which significant accounting
session to discuss key focus areas, including regulatory reporting, judgements were applied;
ESG and climate reporting and whistleblowing arrangements.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 241
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
• focused on compliance with disclosure requirements to ensure discussed the positions taken, and the risks associated with the
these were consistent, appropriate and acceptable under the policy, as well as the methodology for capturing and reporting the
relevant financial and governance reporting requirements; emissions data across the financing portfolio.
• provided advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying Regulatory reporting
the long-term viability statement; and
The GAC focused on what improvements were required to
• gave careful consideration to the key performance metrics regulatory reporting processes and controls, which were operating
related to strategic priorities and ensured that the performance outside the Board’s risk tolerance. The Committee continued to
and outlook statements were fair, balanced and reflected the focus heavily on the quality and reliability of regulatory reporting
risks and uncertainties appropriately. to strengthen the end-to-end processes to meet regulatory
expectations. It also challenged management on the scope of the
In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’), the GAC
regulatory reporting enhancement programmes. This was in
considered the current position of the Group, along with the
response to findings from HSBC-specific external reviews and
emerging and principal risks, and carried out a robust assessment
other regulatory pronouncements including the PRA's ‘Dear CEO’
of the Group’s prospects, before making a recommendation to the
letter on thematic findings on the reliability of regulatory reporting
Board on the Group’s long-term viability statement. The GAC also
across the industry. The Committee Chair invited certain principal
undertook a detailed review before recommending to the Board
subsidiary audit committee members to GAC meetings to
that the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in
participate in discussions to ensure alignment and understanding
preparing the annual and interim financial statements. Further
of key issues and ongoing regulatory engagement.
details can be found on page 41.
Management discussed root cause themes, remediation of known
Fair, balanced and understandable
issues and areas of increased risk identified from the risk-based
Following review and challenge of the disclosures, the Committee read-across exercise. The Committee considered the near-term
recommended to the Board that the financial statements, taken as actions being taken by management, as well as the strategic
a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable. The financial remediation plan, including the costs, resources and time for
statements provided the shareholders with the necessary implementation. It also challenged management on the delivery
information to assess the Group’s position and performance, risks and the dependency on other ongoing programmes.
business model, strategy and risks facing the business, including
Management also highlighted potential impacts on some of the
in relation to the increasingly important ESG considerations.
Group's regulatory ratios, such as CET1 and LCR, and adjustments
The Committee reviewed the draft Annual Report and Accounts required to external disclosures.
2021 and results announcements to enable input and comment. It
UK audit reform
was supported by the work of the Group Disclosure Committee,
which also reviewed and assessed the Annual Report and The Committee spent significant time in reviewing a UK
Accounts 2021 and investor communications. Government consultation paper – from the Department of
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy – on ‘Restoring Trust in
This work enabled the GAC to provide positive assurance to the
Audit and Corporate Governance’. The GAC oversaw the
Board to assist them in making the statement required in
development of the direct HSBC response to the consultation, as
compliance with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
well as management’s engagement across a number of industry
ESG and climate reporting bodies to understand wider views.
During the year, the GAC reviewed the strategy, scope and status In addition, the Committee discussed the management activities
of ESG and climate reporting, including the climate change being undertaken in preparation for future stages of the
resolution and scenario analysis disclosure. Management updates consultation. The GAC took steps to review its audit and
were also informed by an HSBC-specific stakeholder feedback assurance policy and expand assurance in certain areas,
survey, which highlighted the appetite for more detailed ESG particularly regulatory reporting and ESG. The Committee also
disclosures on climate metrics, emissions targets and plans on considered the impact on the future audit tender strategy, and will
how these would be achieved. The Committee considered the be looking to tender in advance of the 10-year rotation point. The
operational, disclosure and litigation risks, which could arise from Committee has proactively started engagement with the Big Four
making further external commitments related to ESG and climate and challenger audit firms, as part of its preparations.
reporting.
The Committee will continue to monitor outcomes and next steps
The development of methodologies, tools and data to support our arising from the UK Government’s consultation.
ESG strategy remained a key challenge. The GAC discussed
External auditor
management plans to enhance and assure internal and external
ESG data sourcing across the Group to develop a common ESG The GAC has the primary responsibility for overseeing the
data inventory. The Committee considered the approach to relationship with the Group’s external auditor, PwC.
subsidiary reporting, in particular the availability of granular data
PwC completed its seventh audit, providing robust challenge to
to support the Group subsidiaries in fulfilling their mandatory
management and sound independent advice to the Committee on
disclosure requirements.
specific financial reporting judgements and the control
Management updated the Committee on the verification and environment. The senior audit partner is Scott Berryman who has
assurance framework to ensure that ESG and climate disclosures been in the role since 2019. The Committee reviewed the external
were materially accurate, consistent, fair and balanced. The GAC auditor’s approach and strategy for the annual audit and also
discussed the roles and work of the three lines of defence as part received regular updates on the audit, including observations on
of this framework, as well as proposals for PwC to perform further the control environment. Key audit matters discussed with PwC
limited assurance over specific ESG-related metrics. are set out in its report on page 298.
The Committee oversaw and challenged management on the External audit plan
proposals to further expand the ESG review section of the Annual
The GAC reviewed the PwC external audit approach, including the
Report and Accounts to incorporate additional disclosures. These
materiality, risk assessment and scope of the audit. The
include the integration of TCFD disclosures, which were previously
Committee invited a number of the principal subsidiary audit
published in a stand-alone supplement, and net zero disclosures in
partners to discuss their priorities as part of the review of the
relation to the special shareholder resolution on climate change.
external audit plan.
The GAC and the GRC held a joint meeting to review the progress
PwC highlighted the changes being made to their approach to
made to deliver on the commitment – under the climate change
enhance the quality and effectiveness of the audit. Changes for the
special resolution – to publish a policy to phase out the financing
2022 audit included more auditing being performed centrally
of coal-fired power and thermal coal mining. The committees
242 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
across legal entities and the increased use of technology solutions, a conflict of interest. All non-audit services are either approved by
some of which are aligned to technology change and the GAC, or by Group Finance when acting within delegated limits
transformation activities across HSBC. and criteria set by the GAC.
Effectiveness of external audit process During the period, it was identified that PwC provided an
impermissible training service via a publicly available seminar in
The GAC assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the Group's
respect of the implementation of a new Indonesian IT security
external auditor, using a questionnaire that focused on the overall
regulation. The attendees at this seminar included six members of
audit process, its effectiveness and the quality of output. PwC
staff from HSBC Indonesia. The HSBC staff who attended the
highlighted the actions being taken in response to the HSBC
course were not from the Finance function and were not in roles
effectiveness review, including the development of audit quality
relevant to the audit. In addition, HSBC Indonesia is not within the
indicators, which would provide a balanced scorecard and
scope of the Group audit. In light of the nature and scope of the
transparent reporting to the GAC. These focused on the following
original service and the mitigating factors mentioned above, we do
areas:
not believe that the provision of the service has affected PwC’s
• findings from inspections across the Group on PwC as a firm; professional judgement or integrity in respect of the audit of the
• the hours of audit work delivered by senior PwC audit team Group. Mitigating actions have been implemented by both PwC
members, the extent of specialist and expert involvement, and HSBC to reinforce the controls around the provision of non-
delivery against agreed timetable and milestones and the use of audit services by PwC, including additional independence training
technology; and improved communication between relevant parties.
• any new control deficiencies in Sarbanes-Oxley locations, The non-audit services carried out by PwC included 69
proportion of management identified deficiencies and delivery engagements approved during the year where the fees were over
of audit deliverables to agreed timelines; and $100,000 but less than $1m. Global Finance, as a delegate of GAC,
considered that it was in the best interests of the Group to use
• outcomes and scores from annual audit surveys, independent PwC for these services because they were:
senior partner reviews and prior period errors.
• audit-related engagements that were largely carried out by
The GAC will continue to receive regular updates from PwC and members of the audit engagement team, with the work closely
management on the progress of the external audit plan and PwC related to the work performed in the audit;
performance across the audit quality indicators.
• engagements covered under other assurance services that
The GAC monitored the policy on hiring employees or former require obtaining appropriate audit evidence to express a
employees of the external auditor, and there were no breaches of conclusion designed to enhance the degree of confidence of
the policy highlighted during the year. The external auditor the intended users other than the responsible party about the
attended all Committee meetings and the GAC Chair maintains subject matter information; or
regular contact with the senior audit partner and his team
throughout the year. • other permitted services to advisory attestation reports on
internal controls of a service organisation primarily prepared for
Independence and objectivity and used by third-party end users.
The Committee assessed any potential threats to independence Ten engagements during the year were approved where the fees
that were self-identified or reported by PwC. The GAC considered exceeded $1m. These were mainly engagements required by the
PwC to be independent and PwC, in accordance with professional regulator and incremental fees related to previously approved
ethical standards and applicable rules and regulations, provided engagements, including the provision of services by PwC relating
the GAC with written confirmation of its independence for the to the Section 166 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Skilled
duration of 2021. Person report. The PRA instructed a Section 166 review of HSBC's
The Committee confirms it has complied with the provisions of the credit risk RWAs as reported at 31 December 2020 and agreed for
The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market PwC to provide a reasonable assurance opinion on the accuracy of
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes the regulatory reporting at that date. One new engagement
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the financial outside the scope of the pre-approved services related to
statements. The Committee acknowledges the provisions preliminary advanced audit procedures for the adoption of IFRS 17
contained in the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code in respect in 2023.
of audit tendering. In conformance with these requirements, HSBC
2021 2020
will be required to tender for the audit for the 2025 financial year
Auditors‘ remuneration $m $m
end and beyond, having appointed PwC from 1 January 2015.
Total fees payable 129.4 130.2
The Committee believed it would not be appropriate to re-tender in Fees for non-audit services 41.3 37.3
2021 as a change in auditor would have a significant impact on
the organisation, including on the Global Finance function and Global Internal Audit
would increase operational risk. In 2021, the Committee's priority
The primary role of the Global Internal Audit function is to help the
was to monitor closely the ongoing industry developments and
Board and management protect the assets, reputation and
proposals on reform of the UK external audit market and the
sustainability of the Group. Global Internal Audit does this by
impact this may have on any tender process. As a result, the
providing independent and objective assurance on the design and
Committee has commenced planning for the next tender process
operating effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk
in advance of the 10-year re-tender period, likely to take place no
management and control framework and processes, prioritising
later than early 2023.
the greatest areas of risk.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC should
The independence of Global Internal Audit from day-to-day line
be reappointed as auditor. Resolutions concerning the
management responsibility is critical to its ability to deliver
reappointment of PwC and its audit fee for 2022 will be proposed
objective audit coverage by maintaining an independent and
to shareholders at the 2022 AGM.
objective stance. Global Internal Audit is free from interference by
Non-audit services any element in the organisation, including on matters of audit
selection, scope, procedures, frequency, timing, or internal audit
The Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and
report content. Global Internal Audit adheres to The Institute of
monitoring the appropriateness of the provision of non-audit
Internal Auditors' mandatory guidance.
services by the external auditor. It also applies the Group’s policy
on the award of non-audit services to the external auditor. The The Group Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chair of the GAC
non-audit services are carried out in accordance with the external and there are frequent and regular meetings held between them.
auditor independence policy to ensure that services do not create Results of audit work, together with an assessment of the Group’s
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 243
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
overall governance, risk management and control framework and Sustainable control environment
processes are reported regularly to the GAC, GRC and local audit
As discussed in the ‘Internal controls’ section of this report, the
and risk committees, as appropriate. This reporting highlights key
GAC oversaw management’s approach to create a sustainable
themes identified through audit activity, and the output from
transformation of the control environment. The programme, and
continuous monitoring. This includes business and regulatory
its impact on the internal control environment as a whole, was
developments and an independent view of emerging and horizon
also discussed by the GRC.
risk, together with details of audit coverage and any required
changes to the annual audit plan. In conjunction with the GRC, the GAC monitored the remediation
of significant deficiencies and weaknesses in controls raised by
Audit coverage is achieved using a combination of business and
management and the external auditor. The GAC will continue to
functional audits of processes and controls, risk management
monitor the progress of remediation as well as efforts to integrate
frameworks and major change initiatives, as well as regulatory
requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act with the operational risk
audits, investigations and special reviews. In addition to the
framework as part of the sustainable control environment
ongoing importance of regulatory-focused work, key risk theme
programme. The committees will also continue to monitor the
categories for 2021 audit coverage were strategy, governance and
regulatory reporting enhancements programmes to bring
culture, financial crime, conduct and compliance, financial
regulatory reporting processes within the risk appetite.
resilience and operational resilience. In 2021, Global Internal Audit
increased coverage on the Group’s transformation programme and In 2021, the GAC and GRC Chairs worked closely with the Group
performed project audit activity for selected complex and high- Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the Group Head of Internal
priority business cases. Global Internal Audit also continued its Audit to:
'real-time audit' approach, notably to cover areas of strategic
• ensure that risks and issues highlighted at the GAC from audit
importance. 'Real-time audits' provide real-time, independent
reports were appropriately captured and reported as part of the
ongoing observations to management, with issues being raised for
wider internal controls discussion at the GRC; and
significant observations that are not addressed in a timely manner.
In addition, in 2021, Global Internal Audit implemented its revised • coordinate the approach and oversight required for the
'culture audit' approach which assesses the impact of culture in remediation of very high risk and high risk issues identified by
supporting or inhibiting sustainable performance against strategic Global Internal Audit, as well as the establishment of a single
aspirations and managing risk within risk appetite. The approach repository of issues across HSBC.
combines internal audit and behavioural science principles, which The GAC and the GRC also held a joint meeting to consider data
align to regulator culture assessments and industry best practice. strategy and data management. Further details can be found in the
Executive management is responsible for ensuring that issues GRC report on page 250.
raised by the Global Internal Audit function are addressed within Financial reporting
an appropriate and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect
In addition to the GRC’s overall review of the Group’s risk appetite
must be provided to Global Internal Audit, which validates closure
and risk management framework, the GAC gave particular focus
on a risk basis.
to risk measures impacting financial reporting. This included the
Consistent with previous years, the 2022 audit planning process review of the financial reporting, tax and pension risk appetite
includes assessing the inherent risks and strength of the control statements. The GAC and the GRC also considered how the
environment across the audit entities representing the Group. approach to financial reporting risk appetite could be evolved to
Results of this assessment are combined with a top-down analysis drive a reduction in the exposure to this risk over the medium term
of risk themes by risk category to ensure that themes identified are and provide better visibility to financial and prudential regulatory
addressed in the annual plan. Risk theme categories for the 2022 reporting separately.
audit work continue to be strategy, governance and culture,
The committees worked collaboratively in reviewing ESG and
financial crime, conduct and compliance, financial resilience and
climate risks, as well as the financial and regulatory reporting
operational resilience. In 2022, a quarterly assessment of key risk
impacts. For further details, see the 'ESG and climate reporting’
themes will form the basis of thematic reporting and plan updates
section of this report on page 80.
and will ultimately drive the 2023 planning process. The annual
audit plan and material plan updates made in response to changes Given the continued impact from the Covid-19 pandemic, the GAC
in the Group’s structure and risk profile are approved by the GAC. and the GRC reviewed the risks arising from models used for the
estimation of expected credit losses under IFRS 9. The committees
Based on regular internal audit reporting to the GAC, private
challenged the underlying economic scenarios, additional
sessions with the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Global
scenarios added by management and the reasonableness of the
Professional Practices annual assessment and quarterly quality
weightings applied to each scenario in order to understand the
assurance updates, the GAC is satisfied with the effectiveness of
impact on the financial statements.
the Global Internal Audit function and the appropriateness of its
resources. Whistleblowing and speak-up culture
Global Internal Audit maintains a close working relationship with An important part of HSBC's values is ensuring that colleagues
HSBC’s external auditor, PwC. The external auditor is kept have the confidence to speak up when they observe unlawful or
informed of Global Internal Audit’s activities and results, and is unethical behaviour. HSBC provides a variety of channels for
afforded free access to all internal audit reports and supporting colleagues to raise concerns, including through the Group’s
records. whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential (see page 87 for
Principal activities and significant issues further information). The GAC is responsible for the oversight of
the effectiveness of the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements.
considered during 2021
The Group Head of Compliance provides periodic reporting to the
Collaborative oversight by GAC and GRC GAC on the efficacy of the whistleblowing arrangements,
providing an assessment of controls and detailing the results of
The GAC and GRC worked closely to ensure there were
internal audit assessments. The Committee is also briefed on
procedures to manage risk and oversee the internal control
culture and conduct risks and associated management actions
framework. They also worked together to ensure any common
arising from whistleblowing cases. The Chair of the GAC acts as
areas of responsibility were addressed appropriately with inter-
the Group’s whistleblowers’ champion, with responsibility for
committee communication or joint discussions with the Chairs.
ensuring and overseeing the integrity, independence and
The Chairs are members of both committees and engage on the effectiveness of HSBC’s policies and procedures on
agendas of each other’s committees to further enhance whistleblowing and the protection of whistleblowers. The Chair
connectivity, coordination and flow of information. met with the Group Head of Conduct, Policy and Whistleblowing
Areas of joint focus for the GAC and GRC during 2021 were:
244 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
throughout the year for briefings on material whistleblowing cases Global Internal Audit reviews; and details of key emerging conduct
and assessments of the whistleblowing arrangements. themes across the arrangements. During 2022, the Committee will
be provided with updates on how whistleblowing arrangements
The Committee has requested updates on a number of key areas
are actively supporting our purpose and values, and conduct
during 2021, including: enhancements made to the Group’s
approach.
whistleblowing arrangements following an external benchmarking
assessment in December 2020; completion of actions arising from
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2021
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Key financial metrics and strategic priorities In exercising its oversight, the Committee assessed management's assurance and
The GAC considered the key judgements in relation preparation of external financial reporting disclosures. The Committee was
to external reporting to track the key financial particularly focused on the ongoing Covid-19-related uncertainty and how
metrics and strategic priorities and to review the management addressed and reflected the impact of the pandemic in external
forecast performance and outlook. reporting and disclosures. The Committee reviewed the draft external reporting
disclosures and provided feedback and challenge on the top sensitive disclosures,
including key financial metrics and strategic priorities to ensure HSBC was
consistent and transparent in its messaging.
Environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) In relation to our climate change resolution, particular attention was given to the
reporting disclosure of the financed emissions. The Committee reviewed the ESG reporting
Financial and The Committee considered management's efforts to strategy, including the broadening of ESG coverage in the Annual Report and
regulatory enhance ESG disclosures and associated Accounts and management’s approach on integrated reporting, which will be
reporting verification and assurance activities. The GAC further informed by feedback from external stakeholders.
reviewed the 2021 ESG disclosure approach in line
with our external commitments.
Regulatory reporting assurance programme The Committee reflected on the continued focus on the quality and reliability of
The GAC monitored the progress of the regulatory regulatory reporting by the PRA and other regulators globally. The GAC reviewed
reporting assurance programme to enhance the management’s efforts to strengthen and simplify the end-to-end operating model,
Group’s regulatory reporting, impact on the control including commissioning independent external reviews of various aspects of
environment and oversee regulatory reviews and regulatory reporting. The Committee discussed and provided management’s
engagement. engagement plans with the Group’s regulators, including any potential impacts on
some of our regulatory ratios such as CET1 and LCR. We continue to keep the
PRA and other relevant regulators informed of our progress.
Expected credit losses The GAC reviewed the economic scenarios for the key countries in which the
The measurement of expected credit losses involves Group operates, and challenged management's judgements as to the weightings
significant judgements, particularly under current assigned to these scenarios. The GAC also challenged management's approach to
economic conditions. Despite a general recovery in making management adjustments to account for the uncertainty in outcomes
economic conditions in 2021, there remains an arising from Covid-19 and China commercial real estate,, including the rationale
elevated degree of uncertainty over ECL estimation for such adjustments, the controls underpinning the adjustment processes, and
under current conditions, due to macroeconomic, under what conditions such adjustments could be reduced or removed. The GAC
political and epidemiological uncertainties. also challenged management on the overall levels of ECL across portfolios,
including looking at historical performances of portfolios and peer group
comparisons.
Goodwill, other non-financial assets and The GAC received reports on management's approach to goodwill, other non-
investment in subsidiaries impairment financial assets and investments in subsidiaries impairment testing and
During the year, management tested for impairment challenged the approach and methodologies used,with a key focus on the
goodwill, other non-financial assets and cashflows included within the forecasts and the discount rates used. The GAC
investments in subsidiaries. Key judgements in this also challenged management's key judgements and considered the
area relate to long-term growth rates, discount reasonableness of the outcomes as a sense check against the business forecasts
factors and what cash flows to include for each and strategic objectives of HSBC.
cash-generating unit tested, both in terms of
compliance with the accounting standards and
reasonableness of the forecast. During the year, the
Significant Group recognised $0.6bn impairment in relation to
accounting goodwill and an impairment reversal of $3.1bn in
judgements investments in subsidiaries.
Associates (Bank of Communications Co., The GAC reviewed the judgements in relation to the impairment review of HSBC’s
Limited) investment in BoCom, including the sensitivity of the results to estimates and key
During the year, management performed the assumptions such as projected future cash flows and regulatory capital
impairment review of HSBC’s investment in Bank of assumptions. Additionally, the GAC reviewed the model’s sensitivity to long-term
Communications Co., Ltd (‘BoCom’). The assumptions including the continued appropriateness of the discount rates. The
impairment reviews are complex and require GAC also challenged management to review all aspects of its approach to
significant judgements, such as projected future accounting for BoCom to ensure the approach remains the most appropriate in
cash flows, discount rate, and regulatory capital terms of accounting judgements including compliance with the relevant
assumptions. accounting requirements.
Legal proceedings and regulatory matters The GAC received reports from management on the legal proceedings and
Management has used judgement in relation to the regulatory matters that highlight the accounting judgements for matters where
recognition and measurement of provisions, as well these are required. The matters requiring significant judgements were highlighted.
as the existence of contingent liabilities for legal The GAC has reviewed these reports and agrees with the conclusions reached by
and regulatory matters, including, for example, an management.
FCA investigation into HSBC Bank’s and HSBC UK
Bank’s compliance with the UK money laundering
regulations and financial crime systems and
controls requirements.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 245
Corporate
governance
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2021 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Transformation and sustainable control The Committee received regular updates on the Group transformation programme
environment –and the broader change framework – to review the impact on the risk and
The GAC will oversee the impact on the risk and control environment and to oversee progress of the transformation programme. In
control environment from the Group transformation these updates, the Committee monitored the progress of the programme, and
programme. focused on the implementation of the new change framework and the
management of the entire change portfolio. This oversight helped the Committee
to understand the key improvements being made to the management of the
change portfolio, and progress on the implementation.
Management’s updates were supplemented by significant focus and assurance
work from Global Internal Audit where a dedicated team continuously monitored
and reviewed the Group transformation programme. This included carrying out a
number of targeted audit reviews, in addition to audits of significant programmes.
These reviews focused on key elements of change management.
Global Finance transformation The Committee has oversight for the adequacy of resources and expertise, as well
The Committee reviewed the proposals for the as succession planning for the Global Finance function. During 2021, the
Global Finance organisational design, the migration Committee dedicated significant time to the review and progress of the multi-year
to Cloud and the impact on financial controls. Global Finance transformation programme, with the overall objectives being to
improve the control environment and customer outcomes and to make use of
technology to increase overall efficiency. In particular, the Committee discussed
the challenges to Global Finance operations, including financial reporting, from
the Covid-19 pandemic and sought assurance that controls were in place to
Group maintain standards and quality.
transformation
The Committee has received regular status updates on the progress of the Global
Finance transformation, the outcomes achieved to date and challenges
encountered. The Committee has continued to dedicate significant time to the
review of the progress of the programme.
A key objective of the programme is to improve the Group’s control environment
and a particular focus of the Committee has been the interaction of the Global
Finance transformation programme and the programmes to enhance the Group’s
regulatory reporting control environment. The Committee has also considered the
dependencies that key regulatory change programmes, such as the Basel III
Reform programme, have on the Global Finance transformation. In addition, the
Committee has specifically sought to understand the impact of new requirements
and programme re-planning on the delivery and timing of programme outcomes.
Sessions have been held with individual Committee members to support a more
detailed understanding of the programme risks and challenges.
The results of Global Internal Audit reviews of the programme have been
considered by the Committee and there have been frequent discussions with
Global Internal Audit on its assessment of the progress and risks of the
programme.
The Group Chief Financial Officer had private sessions with the Committee to
share his perspectives on the progress of the Global Finance transformation and
where additional focus was required.
IFRS 17 'Insurance Contracts' Earlier in 2021, management provided an update on the potential impact of IFRS
The Committee will oversee the transition to IFRS 17 on HSBC’s reported numbers in the financial statements, and conducted a
17 and consider the wider strategic implications of walk-through of the relevant disclosure requirements applicable to HSBC,
the change on the insurance business. including an introduction to GAAP and potential non-GAAP metrics to support
investor communications during and after the transitional period. In response to
questions from GAC members, including from the Chair, relating to the overall
financial management of the insurance business, a separate session was
organised with the Chair of the GAC on 16 June 2021. The meeting covered
different aspects of insurance financial management, with a particular focus on
interest rate management and business strategy. Since then, HSBC released
further information on the impact of IFRS 17 on HSBC’s reported numbers, as part
of the third quarter 2021 earnings release statement, as well as providing a
briefing to analysts on IFRS 17. Feedback from analysts so far has been positive,
particularly given HSBC was the first to provide high-level indicative impact based
on planning assumptions. In December 2021, management provided an update
Regulatory on the disclosure of performance metrics on adoption of IFRS 17, including its
change current intention to continue to provide Value of New Business and embedded
value metrics for comparability.
Basel III Reform The Committee received an update on the progress and impact of the Basel III
The GAC considered the implementation of the Reform programme on the Group. Management discussed the uncertainty over
Basel III Reform and the impact on the capital the final definition of the rules and the actions taken to ensure sufficient flexibility
requirements and RWA assurance. This was to make changes and mitigate risks from legislation being finalised at a later date.
considered in the context of the strategy and The discussion highlighted the dependencies of the Basel III Reform programme
structure of the balance sheet. with other Group transformation programmes, in particular the dependency on
adoption of the Finance on the Cloud solution and the impact on data delivery and
storage.
The Committee reviewed and challenged management on the findings from an
audit on the programme structure, governance and the significant cost increase
year on year. Management explained the actions being taken in response to the
audit findings and the reasons for the increase in costs, which included delays to
implementation dates caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 247
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2021 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Interest rate benchmark replacement The GAC noted management’s early adoption of ‘Interest Rate Benchmark Reform
The financial reporting risks of interest rate –Phase 2’ amendments to IFRSs in relation to benchmark reform, including the
benchmark transition include the potential for disclosures necessary to support adoption of the reliefs.
volatility arising from financial instruments The Committee considered the risks and financial reporting impacts arising from
valuation, contract modification and hedge the Ibor transition. Management discussed actions being taken to mitigate the
accounting. The transitions involve significant risks, which included new product development and a client outreach
operational complexity for financial institutions, and programme, to ensure we were ready to migrate and able to explain the changes
industry approaches to transition continue to and outcomes arising from the transition to clients. Management advised about
Regulatory
develop. the operational challenges, such as the updates to current systems and processes
change
that were required to support the accounting for the Ibor transition, and our
external dependency on market and client readiness. In particular, management
drew attention to the potentially material impact on hedge accounting
programmes from the Ibor transition and the substantial costs and risks involved
in the redocumentation of hedges.
The Committee discussed the approach being taken across the industry with
management and PwC, and potential impacts on the control environment relevant
to financial reporting from the Ibor transition.
Committee evaluation and effectiveness Focus of future activities
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board committees, At the beginning of each year, the Committee discusses its key
including the GAC, was conducted internally in 2021. Led by the priorities for the year ahead. In 2022, the Committee will continue
Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, the to focus strongly on the remediation of controls, particularly those
review concluded that the GAC continued to operate effectively. supporting regulatory reporting. The Committee will continue to
Management of meetings and reporting to the Board on monitor the execution of the Group's transformation programme
discussions, in particular, were rated highly. and its impact on the risk and control environment. It will also
monitor the interdependencies between the transformation
The review also made certain recommendations for continual
programme and the implementation of large-scale regulatory
improvement. The GAC was recommended to review the
change programmes, such as the Basel III reforms, the Ibor
composition of the GAC to broaden the skillset, ensure clarity in
transition and IFRS 17 'Insurance Contracts'. A key priority will be
roles and improve the coordination between the GAC and other
to further embed ESG and climate-related disclosures to meet
Board committees and working groups relating to technology and
increasing expectations of stakeholders, in particular the
ESG. Succession planning was also highlighted as a priority. The
implementation of robust processes and controls to support these
Committee considered the outcomes of the evaluation and
disclosures. The Committee will focus on the audit tender strategy
accepts the findings. The evaluation outcomes were reported to
in preparation for the next re-tender, and will consider the impact
the Board and the Committee will track progress against the
of potential changes to the UK external audit market on HSBC's
recommendations during 2022.
approach to audit and assurance.
248 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Group Risk Committee Membership
Meeting attendance
Member since in 20211
Jackson Tai (Chair) Sep 2016 11/11
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn2 Sep 2021 3/3
Steven Guggenheimer May 2020 11/11
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña May 2019 11/11
Heidi Miller3 Sep 2014 6/6
Eileen Murray4 Jul 2020 9/11
David Nish5 Feb 2020 10/11
Pauline van der Meer Mohr6 Apr 2018 5/6
1 These included two joint meetings with the Group Audit Committee.
2 Dame Carolyn Fairbairn joined the GRC on 1 September 2021.
3 Heidi Miller stepped down from the GRC on 28 May 2021.
4 Eileen Murray was unable to attend two meetings due to personal
circumstances.
5 David Nish was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior
"The GRC provided oversight on the management of Covid-19-
commitment.
related financial risks, including the Group's release of expected 6 Pauline van der Meer Mohr was unable to attend one meeting due to
credit loss reserves in response to the improving macroeconomic personal circumstances, and stepped down from the GRC on 28 May
conditions." 2021.
Key responsibilities
Dear Shareholder
The GRC has overall non-executive responsibility for the oversight
I am pleased to present the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) report.
of risk-related matters and the risks impacting the Group. The
The year commenced with a challenging risk outlook due to GRC’s key responsibilities are:
increasing Covid-19 infections and lockdowns across markets. The
• overseeing and advising the Board on all risk-related matters,
outlook began to stabilise by the second quarter, with the roll-out
including financial risks, non-financial risks and the
of global vaccine programmes, and the GRC monitored the impact
effectiveness of the Group’s conduct framework;
of new strains, including the Omicron variant.
• advising the Board on risk appetite-related matters, and key
Against this backdrop, the GRC provided oversight on the
regulatory submissions;
management of Covid-19-related financial risks, including the
Group’s release of expected credit loss reserves in response to the • reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s enterprise risk
improving macroeconomic conditions. The Committee worked management framework and internal controls systems (other
closely with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in than internal financial controls overseen by the GAC); and
strengthening the Group’s risk management framework to be even
• reviewing and challenging the Group's stress testing exercises.
more forward looking, granular and risk connected. The GRC
continued its oversight of people and operational challenges Committee governance
presented by the pandemic and market conditions.
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief
Throughout the year, the GRC played a central role in reviewing Financial Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Company
and challenging management on the Group’s regulatory Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer,
submissions and programmes, including the Bank of England's Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Head of Finance and Group
requirements for the resolvability assessment framework. The GRC Head of Risk Strategy are standing attendees and regularly attend
had primary non-executive responsibility for reviewing the GRC meetings to contribute their subject matter expertise and
outcomes of regulatory stress tests, including the Bank of insight. The Chair and members of the GRC also hold private
England's biennial exploratory scenario on the financial risk from meetings with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the
climate risk, and the 2021 solvency stress test. The GRC reviewed Group Head of Internal Audit and external auditor, PwC, following
and challenged the Group’s thermal coal phase-out policy and scheduled GRC meetings.
approach to climate-aligned finance in a joint meeting with the
The participation of our senior business leaders, including the
GAC. The Committee continued its oversight of the Group’s
Group Chief Executive who attended 9 GRC meetings in 2021,
preparations to meet the PRA’s requirements on operational
reaffirmed the ownership and accountability of risks in the first line
resilience.
of defence and strengthened our holistic three lines of defence
The GRC continued to strengthen its composition, skills and review of our most pressing risks.
experience to ensure that it remains well positioned to promote
The Chair meets regularly with the Group Chief Risk and
proactive risk governance. On 1 September 2021, we welcomed
Compliance Officer to discuss priorities, track progress on key
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn, a seasoned macroeconomic and political
actions and plan GRC meeting agendas. The Chair also has regular
environment expert. Heidi Miller and Pauline van der Meer Mohr
meetings with members of senior management to discuss specific
left the GRC on 28 May 2021. I extended our gratitude to each for
risk matters that arise during the year outside formal meetings.
their valued commitments and support to the GRC.
The Chair meets regularly with the GRC Secretary and other
The GRC convened 11 formal meetings, two of which were joint members of the Corporate Governance and Secretariat to ensure
meetings with the GAC, and 13 education and special meetings to the GRC meets its governance responsibilities, and to consider
review and challenge some of our most important responsibilities. input from stakeholders when finalising meeting agendas, tracking
progress on actions and GRC priorities. A summary of coverage is
set out in the 'Matters considered during 2021' table on page 250.
Jackson Tai
Chair
Group Risk Committee
22 February 2022
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 249
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Matters considered during 2021
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Sep Nov Dec
Financial risk l l l l l l l l ô l
Credit risk l l l l l ô l l ô l
Climate risk ô ô l l ô ô l l l l
IT and operational risk including outsourcing,
third-party risk management, cyber risk l l l l l ô l l ô l
Model risk l ô ô l l ô ô ô ô ô
People and conduct risk ô ô l ô l ô ô l ô l
Risk appetite l l ô ô ô ô l l ô l
Financial crime risk l l l l l ô l l ô l
Regulatory compliance l l ô l l ô l l ô l
Legal risk l l ô l ô ô l ô ô l
How the Committee discharged its how they are pursuing a data-driven strategy across four key areas
responsibilities for the Group. In the process the committees reviewed the
regulatory landscape in relation to the Group's use of data, and the
Activities outside formal meetings roles of the first and second lines of defence as co-owners of the
The GRC held a number of meetings outside its regular schedule management of data risk. The committees also reviewed the
to facilitate more effective oversight of the risks impacting the Group's approach to harnessing and using data to better unlock
Group. In particular, Directors’ education meetings and GRC value for our customers.
Chair’s preview meetings strengthened the understanding of more The GRC and the GAC convened a joint meeting in November
technical topics and promoted constructive challenge. Areas 2021 to review HSBC's thermal coal phase-out policy and the
covered included stress testing, ICAAP and ILAAP preparations, as Group's approach to climate-aligned finance. The committees
well as recovery and resolution planning. Further details on these reviewed the progress made to deliver on the commitment to
sessions are included in the 'Principal activities and significant publish a policy to phase out the financing of coal-fired power and
issues considered during 2021' table starting on page 251. thermal coal mining by 2030 in EU/OECD markets, and by 2040 in
Connectivity with principal subsidiary risk committees other markets. The committees recommended the thermal coal
phase-out policy and the approach to climate-aligned finance to
During 2021 the GRC continued to actively engage with principal the Board for approval.
subsidiary risk committees through the scheduled participation of
Sustainable control environment
principal subsidiary risk committee chairs at GRC meetings, and
through two connectivity meetings with the principal subsidiary The GRC continued to review and challenge the Group’s internal
risk committee chairs. This participation and connectivity controls to improve the control environment. The GRC reviewed
promoted the sharing of information and best practices between entity level controls, which form the basis of HSBC’s control
the GRC and principal subsidiary risk committees. environment, as well as the results and remediation plans of a self-
The GRC also received reports on the key risks facing particular assessment performed by entity level control owners. At the
principal subsidiaries at its regular meetings and continued to request of the GRC Chair, with support of the GAC Chair, the GRC
review certifications from the principal subsidiary risk committees. received an update on the thematic analysis and remediation plans
The certifications confirmed that the principal subsidiary risk for any overdue very high risk and high risk issues identified by
committees had challenged management on the quality of the Global Internal Audit.
information provided, reviewed the actions proposed by Financial risk
management to address any emerging issues and that the risk
During 2021, the GRC and the GAC reviewed and challenged the
management and internal control systems have been operating
Group’s risk appetite and risk management framework relating to
effectively.
financial risk. In the process the committees discussed risk
The principal subsidiary risk committee chairs have attended tolerance for financial reporting risk and financial reporting and tax
regular GRC meetings, education meetings and special review risk, as well as improvement and remediation plans to enhance the
meetings. The engagement facilitated the GRC’s holistic review of broad regulatory reporting control environment.
regulatory submissions including stress tests, the Group recovery
Collaborative oversight by the GRC and the Technology
plan and the resolution self-assessment. The interactions furthered
Governance Working Group
the GRC’s understanding of the risk profile of the principal
subsidiaries, leading to more comprehensive review and challenge The GRC worked closely with the Technology Governance
by the GRC. Working Group to ensure appropriate alignment in the review,
Collaborative oversight by the GRC and the GAC discussion, challenge and conclusions on technology risk-related
matters. The GRC organised a technology-specific session with the
The GRC collaborated with the GAC to address any areas of working group in advance of the broader discussion at the joint
significant overlap and to oversee risk more comprehensively, GRC and GAC meeting on data strategy and data management.
through inter-committee communication and joint meetings. The This ensured that the GRC benefited from the working group’s
GRC and GAC Chairs are members of both committees to expertise and challenge in advance of the GRC and GAC
strengthen connectivity and the flow of information between the discussion. The GRC also arranged for the Technology Governance
committees. Working Group Co-Chairs to lead discussions on data, models and
Joint meetings with the GAC infrastructure at the GRC climate biennial exploratory scenario pre-
meetings.
The GRC and the GAC convened a meeting on data strategy and
data management in April 2021, with the attendance and support Coordination and collaboration between the GRC and the
of the Group Chief Executive and the chief executive officers of the Technology Working Group is supported by cross-membership.
three global businesses. The committees reviewed the Group’s The GRC Chair is a member of the Technology Working Group and
data strategy and the work required to embed its data policies, the Co-Chairs of the Technology Working Group are members of
define its technology landscape and build a data-led culture. The the GRC.
committees challenged the first and second lines of defence on
250 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2021
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
The Group risk appetite statement defines the The GRC maintained oversight of changes to the Group’s risk appetite statements,
Group’s risk appetite and tolerance thresholds and which in turn provided the basis for the Committee’s regular interactive review of
forms the basis of the first and second lines of financial and non-financial management information at each GRC meeting. The GRC
defence’s management of risks, the Group's continued to promote the development of more granular risk appetite statements
capacity and capabilities to support customers, that are more forward looking and risk responsive. The Committee continued to
and the pursuit of strategic goals. strengthen the linkage between risk appetite statements with the Group’s corporate
Risk appetite strategy, stress testing, annual operating plan, as well as the Group's move towards
stronger, sustainably higher returns for stakeholders, so that it may serve customers
well. In January 2021, the GRC recommended the Group’s climate risk appetite
statement to the Board for approval. It also recommended significant changes to the
Group’s risk appetite statement, including in the areas of liquidity risk, wholesale
credit risk metrics, climate risk, model risk, resilience risk, financial crime risk and
regulatory compliance.
Geopolitical developments and risks continue to The GRC continued to monitor global geopolitical risks that could impact the
Geopolitical present significant challenges for the Group’s Group’s strategy, business performance or operations, including trade tensions
developments
customer franchise and for the resilience of our between the US and China and the related regulatory and reputational risks for
and risks
operations. operations globally.
Managing operational risk and counterparty credit The GRC continued to review the economic uncertainty stemming from the Covid-19
risk to enable the Group’s support of our pandemic and the impact to the Group’s own risk management and exposures,
Managing customers, communities and the local economy including those related to credit risk and models. The Committee received updates
through the throughout the Covid-19 pandemic. on the progress of economic recovery and how the Group continued to support
Covid-19 customers and sustain operational resilience during the pandemic. The GRC closely
pandemic monitored Covid-19-related lending and financial support packages, including
forbearance and other support to customers following the closure of government
lending schemes.
Management’s operational resilience programme The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s operational resilience programme
defines the Group’s policies and practices to with a focus on 2021 and 2022 regulatory commitments to the PRA. The GRC
strengthen its ability to protect customers. The reviewed and challenged the remediation plans for identified gaps, relevant controls,
programme identifies priority business services and the business ownership model and its supporting infrastructure. The GRC
Operational and their readiness to serve customers in the worked with management, including the Group Chief Control Officer to ensure
resilience
event of unforeseen disruptions in key markets. ownership and the delivery of resilience outcomes is embedded with business and
function leaders in the first line of defence. The Committee encouraged early
adoption of operational resilience learnings across key markets and business, as well
as the effective management of third-party risk.
Technology resilience is the risk of unmanaged The GRC reviewed reports on the state of the Group’s technology risk profile, as well
disruption to any IT system within HSBC, as a as reports on cybersecurity. The GRC also maintained a strong focus on
result of malicious acts, accidental actions or poor understanding the Group’s data risk landscape and its data strategy and data
Technology IT practice or IT system failure. management programme.
resilience
The GRC convened a joint meeting with the Group Audit Committee in April to
including
cybersecurity review and challenge the data strategy and data management programme, which
and Cloud had the strong support of the Group Chief Executive and the chief executives of the
strategy global businesses. The committees agreed that the Group’s data strategy and data
management programme should be elevated to the highest level of prominence
within the Group. Further details on the joint meeting are included in the 'Joint
meetings with the GAC' section on page 250.
The Group promotes a culture that is effective in The GRC monitored people risk and employee conduct, with support from the Group
managing risk and leads to fair conduct Chief Human Resources Officer and Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. The
outcomes. It seeks to actively manage the risk of Committee considered people risk issues, including those arising from the impact of
not having the right people with the right skills Covid-19, the link between remuneration and talent retention and acquisition, and
doing the right thing, including risks associated reviewed workplace harassment data and insights. The GRC reviewed and
with employment practices and relations. challenged the alignment of risk and reward, and the impact of risk and compliance
People, conduct objectives on the Group’s variable pay pool.
and culture The GRC reviewed the Group’s new conduct approach, which was refreshed in
2021, to reflect prevailing regulatory and industry standards and to align with the
Group’s new purpose and values. The GRC monitored progress in remediating the
market conduct issues underlying the 2017 Federal Reserve Bank Consent Order
(which remains in force) arising from its investigation into HSBC’s historical foreign
exchange activities, and to ensure the reforms are effective and sustainable in the
long term.
The Group is committed to closely monitoring and The GRC continued to review the Group’s approach to managing its financial crime
managing the risk of knowingly or unknowingly risk across a number of important areas. These included the Group’s progress in
helping parties to commit or to further potentially enhancing its transaction monitoring framework, the use of next generation
illegal activity, including both internal and external technology, the fraud landscape (particularly against heightened Covid-19
fraud conditions), the Group’s fraud risk profile and the nature and scale of insider risk and
Financial crime the strategies for managing such risk.
risk
The GRC also maintained oversight of the ever-changing and increasingly complex
international sanctions landscape in which the Group and its customers operate, as
well as the Group’s approach to managing its compliance with sanctions regimes
globally.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 251
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2021 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
The GRC oversees the Group’s management of its The GRC reviewed the Group’s ongoing capital and liquidity management activities,
financial risk. including early warning indicators, scenario stress testing and the Group’s capital
and liquidity adequacy.
Capital and
liquidity risk The GRC conducted its annual review, challenge and recommendation of the Group
including ICAAP ICAAP and ILAAP to the Board for approval. GRC members received both an
and ILAAP education session and previewed the ICAAP and ILAAP submissions in depth, with
input from the principal subsidiary risk committee chairs. In the process the
Committee evaluated the Group’s capital and liquidity strategies, capabilities
including progress on the Group liquidity remediation programme and internal
liquidity metric.
HSBC faces risk from the possibility of losses The Committee reviewed updates from management on the strategy and approach
resulting from the failure of a counterparty to to manage credit risk and credit risk capabilities. The Committee reviewed forward
meet its agreed obligations to pay the Group economic scenarios and received quarterly updates on the Group’s expected credit
losses and provisions, loan impairment charges and the credit risk arising from the
Credit risk
wholesale portfolio and mortgage books. The GRC also reviewed the potential
impact for the Group from external and secondary market events and recommended
a management-led comprehensive review of the learnings and actions to be taken to
drive a stronger credit risk culture.
Successful delivery of our climate ambition will be The GRC remained focused on climate risk, reviewed quarterly reports on climate
determined by our ability to measure and manage risk management, and maintained oversight over delivery plans to ensure the Group
all components of climate risk. develops robust climate risk management capabilities. The GRC reviewed the
Group's approach to climate risk appetite.
The GRC approved the Group’s climate biennial exploratory scenario stress test
submission to the PRA. In preparation, the GRC reviewed the scenario and convened
an education session. The GRC challenged management on the results of the
submission during three preparatory meetings on the key risks of climate change.
During the sessions the GRC reviewed the engagement with clients, their transition
plans and the importance of advancing risk appetite and management actions; the
Climate risk
challenges in relation to data, modelling and infrastructure support; and the impact
of climate change on our physical risks including through our residential and
corporate real estate mortgage books. The GRC also reviewed new business and
lending opportunities for our Wealth and Personal Banking business to support
customers.
The GRC and the GAC convened a joint meeting in November to review HSBC's
thermal coal phase-out policy and the Group's approach to climate-aligned finance
and recommended the thermal coal phase-out policy and approach to climate-
aligned finance to the Board for approval. Further details on the joint meeting are
included in the 'Joint meetings with the GAC' section on page 250.
HSBC faces risk from the inappropriate or The GRC continued to receive ongoing updates on the Group’s progress in
incorrect business decisions arising from the use managing model risk through the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer’s Group
of models that have been inadequately designed, risk profile report and from the second line of defence. In January 2021, the
implemented or used, or from models that do not Committee received an update on a number of material post-model adjustments to
perform in line with expectations and predictions. the Group’s wholesale portfolio, and on alternative modelling concepts being
Model risk considered to recalibrate the idiosyncratic economic effects of the pandemic not
captured by models. The update to the Committee in May 2021 reported on model
risk deliverables against external review findings, improvements to enhance first line
of defence engagement in the model lifecycle, and progress made to transform the
model risk management function and implementation of new global model risk
policy and standards.
HSBC performs internal and regulatory stress The GRC reviewed and approved the outcomes of the initial submission of the
tests to measure the Group’s resilience and impairments and RWA impact to the Bank of England's solvency stress test in April
performance against stress. 2021 and subsequently the final outcomes of the 2021 solvency stress test scenarios
in May 2021. In advance of the review, the Committee convened a preview meeting
with the principal subsidiary risk committee chairs to review the solvency stress test
submissions and the key learnings for the principal subsidiaries, including early
identification of adjustments that might strengthen resilience in advance of a stress
event. The Committee also undertook significant review and challenge of the
Group’s 2021 GRC climate biennial exploratory analysis and approved the
submissions to the PRA.
Stress testing The GRC undertook a technical review of the 2021 Group internal stress test
outcomes at a GRC Chair’s preview meeting, which was followed by formal review
and approval at the January 2021 GRC meeting. In the lead-up to the 2022 financial
resource plan, the GRC reviewed and endorsed the economic scenarios
underpinning the financial resource plan and Group internal stress test in July 2021.
The GRC subsequently reviewed, challenged and approved the final Group internal
stress test results in December 2021.
The GRC also reviewed the implications of the results of the Federal Reserve’s
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review severely adverse scenario stress test
resubmission in relation to HSBC North America Holdings, and considered action
being progressed by management in response.
252 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2021 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
HSBC is required to show how its resolution The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s progress in understanding its
strategy could be carried out in an orderly way, capabilities against the Bank of England’s requirements for recovery and
including identification of any risks to successful resolvability. The GRC reviewed and challenged the governance pathway for the
resolution. 2021 Group recovery plan, including review of the recovery indicator framework and
a special session to consider the key messages, the recovery playbook and strategic
management actions. In advance of review by the Committee the GRC Chair met
with senior management to consider the Group recovery plan, including principal
Recovery and subsidiary risk committee components.
resolvability
The GRC was also heavily involved in the governance of the resolvability assessment
framework, with updates on the valuation in resolution requirements, and the
Group’s resolvability self-assessment and resolvability assessment framework
testing approach. The GRC reviewed and recommended the resolvability assessment
framework self-assessment to the Board for approval. The Board meeting was
preceded by four Board sub-Group preview meetings jointly sponsored by the GRC
and GAC Chairs to examine the Group’s submission.
Committee evaluation Focus of future activities
During 2021, the GRC implemented the recommendations of the The GRC’s focus for 2022 will include the following activities. It
internal committee evaluation conducted by the Group Company will:
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer in November 2020. This
• oversee the continued strengthening of the Group's risk
included strengthening the focus of meeting agendas, and further
appetite and risk management framework;
increasing the GRC’s engagement with the Risk and Compliance
functions and principal subsidiary risk committee chairs. • continue to review the Group’s work to enhance its credit risk
capabilities and culture;
Continuing the commitment to regular evaluation, the Group
Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer performed an • continue to oversee financial crime and fraud;
annual review of the effectiveness of the GRC in December 2021. • oversee the delivery against climate change commitments and
The evaluation concluded that the GRC continued to operate enhancing climate risk capabilities;
effectively and in line with regulatory requirements, and identified
• continue the oversight of the delivery of technology-related
enhancements, including a review of GRC composition, to help
programmes including the adoption of Cloud platforms, and
strengthen the GRC's ability to effectively review and challenge
enhancement of the Group’s IT systems/platform; and
the Group's risk profile. Other recommendations included:
strengthening the focus of agendas with an ongoing emphasis on • oversee key regulatory actions, including the implementation of
emerging risks; continued enhancement to papers and the Group’s operational resilience strategy on a global basis,
presentations; optimising the use of member time spent outside of recovery and resolution, and stress testing submissions and
formal governance; and even stronger coordination of the roles of capabilities.
the Board committees. As with the GAC, succession planning will
also remain a priority. The outcomes of the evaluation have been
reported to the Board, and the GRC will track the progress in
implementing recommendations during 2022.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 253
Corporate
governance
buy-back has concluded. We also took into account the operating desired levels based on the size, complexity and international peer
environment and the challenges created by a very competitive group of the Group. This was discussed with shareholders during
market for talent manifesting through higher than normal our engagement with them on the new Directors' remuneration
voluntary attrition rates. policy. The increase is in line with the average salary increase for
our wider workforce.
The pool was determined in line with our countercyclical funding
methodology, whereby variable pay as a percentage of profits New Directors' remuneration policy
generally reduces as performance increase. In 2020, the variable
We are proposing to roll forward our current remuneration policy
pay pool was reduced by 20% when the adjusted profit before tax
for shareholder approval at the 2022 AGM. During the year, we
was down 45% to recognise the need to remain competitive in
undertook a review of the policy based on the key principles that it
retaining talent even in challenging circumstances. In 2021, our
should be easy to understand, align reward with stakeholder
countercyclical approach meant that while the adjusted profit
interests, incentivise long-term performance, be competitive and
before tax was up 79%, the pool increased by 31%.
meet expectations of investors and regulators.
As part of the year-end pay review, the Committee considered the
As part of the review, the Committee considered whether the
remuneration outcomes. Overall, total compensation across all our
current policy provides a remuneration opportunity that is
businesses was up relative to 2020. For our junior colleagues, the
appropriate given the size and complexity of the Group's
increase is slightly lower, as their outcomes last year were broadly
operations and is commensurate with its aim of fairly
stable in order to protect their outcomes against material year-on-
remunerating executives for delivering its strategic priorities. The
year volatility. Outcomes correlated well with performance and
review clearly demonstrated that over time, HSBC’s overall
behaviours, with the largest increase in variable pay for those who
remuneration opportunity has fallen significantly behind desired
performed most strongly and who acted as role models for our
levels to reflect the calibre of the executives and positioning
values. Fixed pay increases were targeted towards junior
against international peers. The Committee also noted that the UK
colleagues to help address the impact of rising inflation in many of
regulatory requirements currently restrict us from using a
our locations. The outcomes were in line with our pay principles
remuneration structure with a greater focus on variable pay for
and the approach decided by the Committee for 2021.
performance, which is typically used by our international peers.
Key remuneration decisions for Directors
We engaged with our shareholders to take into account their
Executive Directors' annual performance assessment views on our policy and remuneration structure. As ever, we found
engagement with our shareholders to be very helpful and we were
The financial measures in the executive Directors’ 2021 scorecards
pleased with the level of feedback and support received. Noting
were growing revenue in Asia, meeting the Group's adjusted cost
the strong support from shareholders for our current policy and on
target and our strategic priority of reducing RWAs in legacy assets
the basis that it supports the execution of our strategy within our
and low-return areas. Strategic performance measures were
regulatory framework, we are proposing to roll forward our current
customer satisfaction, employee engagement and diversity and
policy for shareholders’ approval at the 2022 AGM. We will keep
personal objectives aligned with delivery of our strategy.
the issue on appropriate positioning of our executive Directors'
Overall, the Committee considered the executive Directors total remuneration opportunity under review for the duration of the
delivered a strong performance. The adjusted cost performance policy. Further details of the remuneration policy and how each
was above the minimum set for the year. As noted earlier, strong element supports the Group’s strategy are set out on page 257.
performance in RWA reduction, with 95% of our end-2022 target
On behalf of the Committee I would like to thank our shareholders
already achieved, led to a maximum payout against the RWA
for their engagement and feedback. The Committee looks forward
performance metrics. We did not meet the target for revenue
to maintaining an open and transparent dialogue in 2022.
growth in Asia, primarily due to the impact of low interest rates on
certain business lines. Our annual report on remuneration
We also made good progress on strategic measures, by improving The section on Directors' remuneration policy provides an
customer satisfaction, maintaining the high level of employee overview of our remuneration policy for our Directors, for which
engagement from 2020, exceeding our gender representation we are seeking shareholder approval at the 2022 AGM.
target in senior leadership roles and executing our strategy at pace
In the annual report section, we provide details of decisions made
(see page 268 for details).
for executive Directors in respect of their 2021 remuneration for
Executive Directors' annual incentive scorecard which, along with this statement, we will seek shareholder
outcome approval with an advisory vote at the 2022 AGM.
This resulted in an overall annual incentive outcome of 57.30% for We also provide details of our remuneration framework for our
Noel Quinn and 60.43% for Ewen Stevenson (further details are Group colleagues. In the additional remuneration disclosure
provided on page 262). These are slightly below the 2020 section of this report, we provide other related disclosures.
scorecard outcomes and results in an annual incentive award of
As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support our
£1.59m for Noel Quinn (2020: £1.60m before voluntarily waiver of
remuneration policy and the 2021 Directors' remuneration report.
cash bonus) and £0.98m for Ewen Stevenson (2020: £0.90m
before voluntary waiver of cash bonus). Finally, as announced in January, I will step down as Chair of this
Committee and from the Board at the conclusion of the 2022
Long-term incentive ('LTI') for executive Directors
AGM. An update on my successor will be announced in due
Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson will receive LTI awards of course.
£4.13m and £2.41m respectively, in respect of their performance
for 2021 and subject to a three-year forward-looking performance
period from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2024. The Committee Pauline van der Meer Mohr
decided to retain the RoTE, relative total shareholder return ('TSR'), Chair
capital reallocation to Asia and transition to net zero measures in
the LTI scorecard given their strong alignment with the Group’s Group Remuneration Committee
strategy. Details of the measures and targets are set out on page 22 February 2022
271.
Executive Directors' fixed pay for 2022
We have increased the base salary of our executive Directors by
3.5%, effective from 1 March 2022. The Committee considered the
increase was necessary to ensure that the total remuneration
opportunity of our executive Directors does not fall further behind
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 255
Corporate
governance
The Committee noted that UK regulatory requirements restrict us
Directors’ remuneration policy
from using a remuneration structure with a greater focus on
variable pay for performance, which is typically used by our
This section sets outs the Directors' remuneration policy proposed
international peers. Our preference would be to use such a
for shareholders' approval at the AGM on 29 April 2022. We have
structure to improve the total compensation opportunity of our
made no changes to the remuneration structure or to the
executive Directors. This view was supported by a number of our
maximum opportunity payable for each element of remuneration
shareholders, who also expressed a preference for a structure with
and are seeking to roll forward our current policy. Minor changes
lower fixed pay and higher variable pay opportunity, but
have been made to provide the Committee with sufficient
understood that UK regulatory rules impact our ability to use such
flexibility to implement the policy as intended over its term.
a structure.
Subject to receiving shareholder approval, the policy is intended to
apply immediately for three years to the end of the AGM in 2025, The Committee also noted that our current policy and its
although we may seek shareholders' approval for a new policy implementation have received strong support from shareholders
during the period depending on regulatory developments, changes over the last few years. This was reaffirmed during our
to our strategy or competitive pressures. engagement with shareholders on the new policy.
Remuneration policy – key principles Based on the review and taking into account the feedback
received during our discussions with shareholders, we are
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending to
proposing to roll forward our current policy for shareholders’
the Board the Directors' remuneration policy to be put forward for
approval at the 2022 AGM. We will keep the issues on appropriate
approval by shareholders.
positioning of our executive Directors' total remuneration
The guiding principles that form the basis of our review of the opportunity under review throughout the duration of the policy.
remuneration policy for Directors are as follows:
Other matters considered as part of policy review
• The rationale and operation of the policy should be easy to
We also reviewed the remuneration structure, fixed and variable
understand and transparent.
pay mix, the deferral and post-vesting retention periods and our
• There should be a strong alignment between reward and the shareholding guidelines to ensure there is strong alignment
interests of our stakeholders, including shareholders, between reward and interests of our stakeholders. We also
customers and employees. considered whether a formal post-employment shareholding
• The policy should maintain a focus on long-term performance. policy should be introduced. For this purpose, the Committee took
into consideration the following features of our existing policy:
• The total compensation package should be competitive to
ensure we can retain and attract talent to deliver our strategic • Shares delivered to executive Directors as part of the fixed pay
priorities. allowance ('FPA') have a five-year retention period, which
continues to apply following a departure of an executive
• The structure should meet the expectations of investors and
Director.
our regulators.
• Shares delivered as part of an annual incentive award are
Setting the policy
subject to a one-year retention period, which continues to apply
The Committee undertook a detailed review of the Group's following a departure of an executive Director.
remuneration policy during 2021 to assess whether it continues to • LTI awards have a seven-year vesting period with a one-year
be appropriate based on the size and complexity of its operations, post-vesting retention period, which is not accelerated on
investor feedback, best practice and market developments. Input departure. The weighted average holding period of an LTI
was received from the Group Chairman and management while award within HSBC is therefore six years, in excess of the five-
ensuring that conflicts of interest were suitably mitigated. Input year holding period typically implemented by FTSE-listed
was also provided by the Committee’s appointed independent companies. When an executive Director ceases employment, if
advisers throughout the process. they are treated as a good leaver under our policy, any LTI
As highlighted in the 2020 Directors' remuneration report, the awards granted will continue to be released over a period of up
Committee – while conscious of external sentiment – planned to to eight years, subject to the outcome of performance
focus the review on whether overall remuneration levels remain conditions.
appropriate and support the delivery of our strategic priorities. Reflecting on the above, and the in-employment shareholding
The Committee has become increasingly concerned that, over requirement of up to 400% of salary for executive Directors, we
time, the remuneration opportunity of our executive Directors has agreed our existing policy structure achieves the objective of
fallen behind desired levels to reflect their calibre and positioning ensuring there is ongoing alignment of executive Directors'
against our international peers. This is supported by benchmarked interests with shareholder experience post-cessation of their
data for comparable roles in organisations similar in size, employment. We discussed this with major shareholders during
geographical presence and with whom we compete for talent. our consultation on the new policy.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 257
Corporate
governance
Other
Elements Details
Shareholding guidelines To ensure appropriate alignment with the interest of our shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors are expected to satisfy the following shareholding requirement as a percentage of base salary within five
years from the date of their appointment:
• Group Chief Executive: 400%
• Group Chief Financial Officer: 300%
For this purpose, unvested shares which are not subject to forward-looking performance conditions (on a net of tax basis)
will count towards the shareholding requirement. HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy under which individuals are not
permitted to enter into any personal hedging strategies in relation to HSBC shares subject to a vesting and/or retention
period.
Maximum opportunity Not applicable.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration its terms, or if anything happens that causes the Committee to
payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that consider it appropriate to do so;
they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms
• the right to settle the award in cash, based on the relevant
of the payment were agreed:
share price, or shares as appropriate; and
• before the policy set out above or any previous policy came
• the right to adjust the award on a variation of share capital or
into effect;
other corporate event that affects the current or future value of
• at a time where a previous policy, approved by shareholders, the award, or alternatively, the right to vest the award early in
was in place provided the payment is in line with the terms of such circumstances.
that policy; or
Choice of performance measures and targets
• at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the
Group and the payment was not in consideration for the The performance measures selected for the annual incentive and
individual becoming a Director of the Group. LTI awards will be set on an annual basis by the Committee,
taking into account the Group’s strategic priorities and any
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying
feedback received from our shareholders. The following table sets
awards of variable remuneration. This means making payments in
out the performance measures we currently consider for inclusion
line with the terms that were agreed at the time the award was
in our scorecards. The Committee retains the discretion to choose
granted.
other measures that are considered to be appropriate for achieving
In addition to the specific discretions expressly set out in the our strategic priorities and meeting any regulatory expectation.
policy, the incentive plans include a number of operational
The targets for the performance measures will be set taking into
discretions available to the Committee, including:
account a number of factors, including the targets set in our
• the right to grant awards in the form of conditional share financial and resource plan, our strategic priorities, shareholder
awards or options (including nil-cost options); expectations, the economic environment and risk appetite.
• the right to amend a performance condition in accordance with
Performance measures
Measures and
modifier/ Example measures for LTI
underpin Example measures for annual incentive scorecard scorecard Rationale
Financial • Adjusted profit before tax • RoTE Measures are selected to
measures • Operating profit • Total shareholder incentivise the achievement
• RoTE return of our financial targets as
set out in our strategic
• Revenue growth • Underpin to maintain a priorities and financial and
minimum CET1 ratio
• Volume growth resource plan.
• Adjusted costs
Strategic • Customer satisfaction • Reduce carbon Measures are selected to
measures • Employee engagement emissions support the delivery of our
• Succession planning and diversity • Sustainable finance strategic priorities.
• Carbon reduction and sustainable finance • Capital reallocation to
areas of strategic focus
Risk and • Sustained delivery of global conduct outcomes • Modifier linked to risk Measures are chosen to
compliance • Effective financial crime risk management and compliance ensure a high level of
measures, performance accountability of risk and
• Effective management of material operational risks in support of strategic
modifier and/ conduct, to promote an
priorities
or underpin effective risk management
• Risk metrics to identify when business activities are outside of tolerance level environment and to embed
for a significant period of time a robust governance
• Failures in risk management that have resulted in significant customer system.
detriment, reputational damage and/or regulatory censure.
• CET1 level
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 261
Corporate
governance
Policy on payments for loss of office – executive no further obligations that could give rise to remuneration
Directors payments or payments for loss of office:
The following table sets out the basis on which payments on loss
of office may be made. Other than as set out in the table, there are
Payments on loss of office
Component of remuneration Approach taken
Fixed pay and benefits Executive Directors may be entitled to payments in lieu of:
• notice, which may consist of base salary, FPA, cash in lieu of pension allowance, pension entitlements and other
contractual benefits, or an amount in lieu of; and/or
• accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
Payments may be made in instalments or a lump sum, and may be subject to mitigation, and subject to applicable tax
and social security deductions.
Annual incentive and In exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Committee, an executive Director may be eligible for the grant of
LTI annual and/or long-term incentives under the HSBC Share Plan, taking into account the time worked in the
performance year and based on the individual’s contribution.
Unvested awards All unvested awards will be forfeited when an executive Director ceases employment voluntarily and is not deemed a
good leaver. An executive Director may be considered a good leaver, under the HSBC Share Plan, if their employment
ceases in specified circumstances, which include:
• ill heath, injury or disability, as established to the satisfaction of the Committee;
• retirement with the agreement and approval of the Committee;
• the employee's employer ceasing to be a member of the Group;
• redundancy with the agreement and approval of the Committee; or
• any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
If an executive Director is considered a good leaver, unvested awards will normally continue to vest in line with the
applicable vesting dates, subject to performance conditions, the share plan rules, and malus and clawback provisions.
Unless the Committee determined otherwise, awards made subject to forward-looking performance conditions,
including LTI awards, will normally be subject to time pro-rating for time in employment during the performance period.
In the event of death, unvested awards will vest and will be released to the executive Director’s estate as soon as
practicable.
In respect of outstanding unvested awards, the Committee may determine that good leaver status is contingent upon
the Committee being satisfied that the executive has no current or future intention at the date of leaving HSBC of being
employed by any competitor financial services firm. The Committee determines the list of competitor firms from time to
time, and the length of time for which this restriction applies. If the Committee becomes aware of any evidence to the
contrary before vesting, the award will lapse.
Post-departure benefits Executive Directors can be provided certain benefits for up to a maximum of seven years from date of departure for
those who depart under good leaver provisions under the HSBC Share Plan, in accordance with the terms of the policy.
Benefits may include, but are not limited to, medical coverage, tax return preparation assistance and legal expenses.
Other Where an executive Director has been relocated as part of their employment, the Committee retains the discretion to
pay the repatriation costs. This may include, but is not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage,
utilities, and any tax and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits.
Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, an executive Director may also receive retirement gifts.
Legal claims The Committee retains the discretion to make payments (including professional and outplacement fees) in connection
with an executive Director’s cessation of office or employment. This may include payments that are made in good faith
in discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of
settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of that executive Director’s office or employment.
Change of control In the event of a change of control, outstanding awards will be treated in line with the provisions set out in the
respective plan rules.
Other directorships things, the expected time commitment associated with the
proposed appointment.
Executive Directors may accept appointments as non-executive
Directors of companies that are not part of HSBC if so authorised The time commitment for external appointments is also routinely
by either the Board or the Nomination & Corporate Governance reviewed to ensure that it will not compromise the Director's
Committee. commitment to HSBC. Any remuneration receivable in respect of
an external appointment of an executive Director is normally paid
When considering a request to accept a non-executive
to the Group unless otherwise approved by the Nomination &
appointment, the Board or the Nomination & Corporate
Corporate Governance Committee or the Board.
Governance Committee will take into account, among other
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 263
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
• LTI awards are considered for senior management, given their performance matters. This helps both management and the
ability to influence directly the long-term performance. Committee to determine the prioritisation of pay budgets, and
allows the Committee to ensure that funding is directed to the
The Board gathers views from our colleagues through a number of
areas of need in support of the Group’s strategic ambitions.
engagement channels. Our management engages with colleagues,
either on a Group-wide basis or in the context of smaller focus In 2022, the Committee has requested that a detailed review of the
groups, to solicit feedback generally on a wide range of matters, reward strategy be conducted to reflect the changes in the
including pay. Our annual survey on pay seeks the views of all Group’s strategy, and our employee value proposition as a result
colleagues on their performance and pay outcomes. The of the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as to ensure that we are well
Committee reviews the outcomes of the survey and determines positioned versus developments in the market, both within
the key remuneration priorities for the forthcoming year. Many of financial services and more broadly. This will include engagement
our colleagues are also shareholders and therefore have the with colleagues to ensure their feedback on the various elements
opportunity to vote on the policy at the 2022 AGM. of our reward strategy can be taken into account as part of the
Committee’s decision making. An update will be provided as part
As part of our annual calendar, the Committee Chair also hosts a
of next year’s Directors’ remuneration report.
forum attended by the chairs of our principal subsidiaries boards
and remuneration committees. This event allows the Committee to The table below details how the Group Remuneration Committee
understand local market factors and feedback gathered from addresses the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance
employees, within the regions where we operate, on pay and Code in respect of the Directors' remuneration policy.
Provision Approach
Clarity • The Committee regularly engages and consults with key shareholders to take into account
Remuneration arrangements should be shareholder feedback and to ensure there is transparency on our policy and its implementation.
transparent and promote effective engagement • Details of our remuneration practices and our remuneration policy for Directors are published and
with shareholders and the workforce. available to all our employees.
Simplicity • Our Directors' remuneration policy has been designed so that it is easy to understand and
Remuneration structures should avoid complexity transparent, while complying with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and
and their rationale and operation should be easy the remuneration rules of the UK's PRA and FCA, as well as meeting the expectations of our
to understand. shareholders. The objective of each remuneration element is explained and the amount paid in
respect of each element of pay is clearly set out.
Risk • In line with regulatory requirements, our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk
Remuneration structures should identify and management while supporting our business objectives (see page 281).
mitigate against reputational and other risks from • The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer attends Committee meetings and updates the
excessive rewards, as well as behavioural risks Committee on the overall risk profile of the Group. The Committee also seeks inputs from the Group
that can arise from target-based incentive plans. Risk Committee when making remuneration decisions.
• Risk and conduct considerations are taken into account in setting the variable pay pool, from which
any executive Director variable pay is funded.
• Executive Directors' annual incentive and LTI scorecards include a mix of financial and non-financial
measures. Financial measures in the scorecards are subject to a CET1 capital underpin to ensure
CET1 capital remains within risk tolerance levels while achieving financial targets. In addition, the
overall scorecard outcome is subject to a risk and compliance modifier.
• The deferred portion of any awards granted to executive Directors is subject to a seven-year deferral
period during which our malus policy can be applied. All variable pay awards that have vested are
subject to our clawback policy for a period of up to seven years from the award date (extending to
10 years where an investigation is ongoing).
Predictability • The charts set out on page 264 show how the total value of remuneration and its composition vary
The range of possible values of rewards to under different performance scenarios for executive Directors.
individual Directors and any other limits or
discretions should be identified and explained at
the time of approving the policy.
Proportionality • The annual incentive and LTI scorecards reward achievement of our financial and resource plan
The link between individual awards, the delivery targets, as well as long-term financial and shareholder value creation targets.
of strategy and the long-term performance of the • The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the annual incentive and LTI payout based on the
Group should be clear and outcomes should not outcome of the relevant scorecards, if it considers that the payout determined does not
reward poor performance. appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance
period.
Alignment with culture • In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve a required
Incentive schemes should drive behaviours behaviour rating.
consistent with the Group's purpose, values and • Annual incentive and LTI scorecards contain non-financial measures linked to our wider social
strategy. obligations. These include measures related to reducing the environmental impact of our operations,
improving customer satisfaction, diversity and employee engagement.
• Each year senior employees participate in a 360 degree survey, which gathers feedback on values-
aligned behaviours from peers, direct reports, skip level reports and managers.
266 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive
Group Remuneration Committee
Directors of HSBC Holdings. No Directors are involved in deciding
The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the their own remuneration. A copy of the Committee’s terms of
overarching principles, parameters and governance of the Group's reference can be found on our website at www.hsbc.com/our-
remuneration framework for our colleagues, and the remuneration approach/corporate-governance/board-committees.
of executive Directors, the Group Chairman and other senior
The Committee met six times during 2021. Rachel Duan, Dame
Group colleagues. The Committee regularly reviews the framework
Carolyn Fairbairn and José Antonio Meade Kuribreña were
to ensure it supports the Group's purpose, values, culture and
appointed as members of the Committee during 2021. David Nish,
strategy, as well as promoting sound risk management. The
Henri de Castries and Irene Lee stepped down as members of the
Committee also reviews the framework to satisfy itself that it
Committee during 2021. The following is a summary of the
complies with the regulatory requirements of multiple
Committee’s key activities during 2021.
jurisdictions.
Matters considered during 2021
Jan Feb May Jul Sep Dec
Remuneration framework and governance
Group variable pay pool, workforce performance and pay matters, gender pay gap report, and employee surveys l ô l l l l
Directors' remuneration policy design ô ô l l l l
Executive Director remuneration policy implementation, scorecards and pay proposals l l l ô l l
Remuneration for other senior executives of the Group l l l l l l
Directors’ remuneration report l l ô ô ô l
Regulatory, risk and governance
Information on material risk and audit events, and performance and remuneration impacts for individuals involved l ô l l l l
Regulatory updates, including approach and outcomes for the identification of Material Risk Takers l l l l l l
Governance matters l l l l l l
Principal subsidiaries
Matters from subsidiary committees l l l l l l
Advisers The Committee also received feedback and input from the Group
Risk Committee and Group Audit Committee on risk, conduct and
The Committee received input and advice from different advisers
compliance-related matters relevant to remuneration.
on specific topics during 2021. Deloitte LLP’s engagement with
the Committee was extended during 2021. Deloitte provided Committee effectiveness
benchmarking data on remuneration policy matters and
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was
independent advice to the Committee. Deloitte also provided tax
internally facilitated for 2021. The review concluded that the
compliance and other advisory services to the Group. Deloitte is a
Committee continued to operate effectively, with a number of
founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and
positive aspects of the Committee’s operation and practices
voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to
highlighted. Areas identified for focus during 2022 included:
executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
• The Committee needs to receive suitable and relevant data and
The Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson
insight to support its discussion and decision making on pay,
on market data and remuneration trends. Willis Towers Watson
including for the wider workforce.
was appointed by management after considering invited proposals
from similar consultancy firms. It provides actuarial support to • It should facilitate the right level of preparation for its members.
Global Finance and benchmarking data and services related to
• The Committee should consider how best the Committee’s
benefits administration for our Group employees. The Committee
advisers and other external consultants could add value and
was satisfied the advice provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers
insights on developing market context and stakeholder views to
Watson was objective and independent in 2021. its discussions.
For 2021, total fees of £176,550 and £35,060 were incurred in
The Committee discussed the outcomes of the evaluation in
relation to remuneration advice provided by Deloitte and Willis
January 2022, and endorsed the findings and actions to be taken.
Towers Watson, respectively. This was based on pre-agreed fees
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board
and a time-and-materials basis.
and the Committee will track progress on the recommendations
Attendees and interaction with other Board through the year.
committees Voting results from Annual General Meeting
During the year, Noel Quinn as the Group Chief Executive provided The table below shows the voting results from our last AGM.
regular briefings to the Committee. In addition, the Committee
engaged with and received updates from the following: 2021 Annual General Meeting voting results
• Mark Tucker, Group Chairman; For Against Withheld
Remuneration report 97.30 % 2.70% ––
• Elaine Arden, Group Chief Human Resources Officer;
(votes cast) 8,898,898,415 246,557,676 12,404,292
• Jenny Craik, Group Head of Performance Management, Remuneration policy 97.36 % 2.64% ––
Reward and Employee Relations; (2019) (votes cast) 9,525,856,097 258,383,075 47,468,297
• Alexander Lowen, Former Group Head of Performance
Management and Reward;
• Pam Kaur, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer;
• Colin Bell, former Group Chief Compliance Officer;
• Bob Hoyt, Group Chief Legal Officer;
• Shawn Chen, Group General Counsel for Litigation and
Regulatory Enforcement; and
• Aileen Taylor, Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance
Officer.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 267
Corporate
governance
Non-financial performance
Shared objectives for Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson
Objectives Weighting Assessment Performance
Customer 15% 67% • In Wealth and Personal Banking, our NPS ranking in Hong Kong remained in third place, and in the
satisfaction UK our NPS increased and our overall rank improved by one place (assessed at 65%).
Maintain and • In Commercial Banking, our overall NPS ranking was fourth in Hong Kong, and we ranked in the top
improve net three among our large corporate customers. In the UK, overall we declined one rank position in 2021.
promoter score We continued to have a top placed NPS ranking for mid-market enterprises, and we maintained our
('NPS') in the UK NPS ranks for large corporates and small business banking clients, while our ranking fell for business
and Hong Kong banking customers (assessed at 57%).
• For Global Banking and Markets, we improved our overall NPS ranking in Asia from third to first place,
and our rank improved by one place in Europe among priority clients (assessed at 80%).
Employee 15% 75% Employee engagement (assessed at 100%)
experience • We met our stretch target to sustain last year’s historically strong employee engagement score of
72%. The result is four points above the global financial services benchmark and five points above
Improve
2019 levels.
engagement,
diversity and • The index comprises three areas: willingness to recommend HSBC as a great place to work, feeling
inclusion proud to work for HSBC, and feeling valued by HSBC.
• Commentary from our survey suggests that focus on employee well-being, flexible work
arrangements and our response to the Covid-19 pandemic have had a strong positive impact on
employee engagement.
Gender representation in leadership roles (assessed at 100%)
• At the end of 2021, we had 31.7% of our senior leadership roles held by female colleagues, exceeding
our target of 31.0% for the year and on track to achieving our new goal of 35.0% by 2025.
• This has been achieved through a focus on the hiring, retention and career development of female
colleagues.
Black employees' representation in leadership roles (assessed at 100%)
• The number of Black heritage employees in senior leadership increased by 17.5%.
• We are reliant on our colleagues’ choice to self-identify or not, noting that we have made good
progress on this ethnicity data with 78.1% of UK colleagues and 95.2% of US colleagues having self-
identified. This improvement has enabled a much clearer picture of where to focus attention and we
are using it as part of progress check-ins with executives.
Engagement among colleagues identifying as part of an ethnic minority and who identify as
having a disability (assessed at 0%)
• At a global level, we have not closed the gap in employee engagement scores between ethnic
minority and non-ethnic-minority colleagues, or between colleagues with disabilities versus those who
do not have a disability.
• While delivering meaningful change will take time, we are deepening our understanding of where
differences arise – in particular looking at how engagement is shaped by the way diverse groups are
represented differently across our businesses, geographies and job types.
• We have also introduced an inclusion index to help understand the sentiment of all colleagues,
including diverse groups. This includes questions related to a sense of belonging, speak-up, trust,
career, fair treatment and self-expression.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 269
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Personal objectives for Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson
Objectives Weighting Assessment Performance
Noel Quinn 10% 87.5% Launch of refreshed purpose and values
• Launch of refreshed • Our refreshed purpose and values were successfully deployed with strong leadership tone from the
purpose and values Group Chief Executive and Group Executives internally and externally.
• Delivery of strategy • Our employee survey to test awareness and understanding of our new purpose, values and strategy
found that 82% of respondents said that HSBC has the right purpose, strategy and values to drive
success, and 76% believed that the purpose and values will lead to meaningful changes in how we
work. The strategy index is at 72%, two points ahead of the financial services benchmark that has
trended downwards.
• The purpose and values have been embedded into our onboarding and induction processes for
26,500 new joiners, our recognition framework and performance management approach.
Delivery of strategy
• We are making progress across the four strategic pillars: Focus on our strengths, digitise at scale,
energise for growth and transition to net zero.
• Focus on our strengths:
– In Wealth and Personal Banking, we saw growth of 138% in net new invested assets for Asia
wealth. In asset management, our funds under management rose 5% to $630bn. In insurance,
the value of new business in Singapore, mainland China, and Hong Kong (including Hang Seng
Bank) increased 40% from 2020, to reach $917m.
– In Commercial Banking, we saw strong growth in fee income in 2021, reaching $3.6bn, a
growth of 9% compared with 2020. Our customer lending volume increased 3% to $349bn. We
made progress on improving SME propositions in our key markets. Since the launch of Kinetic
in the UK in 2020 we have reached 24,000 customers at the end of 2021.
– In Global Banking and Markets, we reduced adjusted RWAs by 10% to $236bn at 31 December
2021, driven by saves in our Western franchise, comprising of our Europe and Americas
businesses. Overall, Global Banking and Markets revenue reached approximately $15bn, driven
by strong performance in Equities, Capital Markets and Advisory, and Securities Services.
– We made progress on restructuring our US business and HSBC Bank plc, our non-ring-fenced
bank in Europe and the UK. We announced three key acquisitions in 2021 to further strengthen
our wealth franchise in Asia. We entered into an agreement to acquire AXA Singapore, pending
regulatory approval, with the intention to merge the business with the operations of our existing
HSBC Life Singapore franchise. We agreed to fully acquire L&T Investment Management, the
12th largest mutual fund management company in India. We received regulatory approval to
acquire the remaining 50% stake in HSBC Life China, bringing our shareholder ownership to
100% upon completion.
• Digitise at scale: We made good progress on automating our organisation at scale. Our Cloud
adoption rate, which is the percentage of our technology services on the private or public Cloud,
increased from approximately 20% in 2020 to 27% in 2021. At the end of 2021, 43% of our
customers were 'mobile active' users, who are customers that had logged onto a mobile app at least
once in the last 30 days. This is an improvement compared with 38% in 2020.
• Energise for growth: We continue to help to energise our colleagues through initiatives that help
develop their future skills and learning opportunities, in areas including data, digital and
sustainability.
• Transition to net zero: In 2021, we reduced our organisation’s absolute greenhouse gas emissions in
our operations to 341,000 CO2 tonnes, a decrease of 50% using 2019 as the baseline. We provided
and facilitated $82.6bn of sustainable finance and investment, taking the cumulative amount to
$126.7bn since 1 January 2020, as part of our $750bn to $1tn by 2030 ambition.
Ewen Stevenson 20% 84.4% • The Finance on the Cloud programme entered into the implementation phase in 2021. The RWA and
• Finance on the Cloud liquidity Cloud migrations from the legacy Platfora solution was completed and the UK Cloud
deployment transformation was extended to liquidity. All regulatory obligations in relation to this were met. We
also made progress with the global roll-out of the Cloud solution in Hong Kong and the US.
• Climate stress test
• We significantly developed our climate scenario capabilities, largely driven by the climate biennial
• Resolvability
exploratory scenario exercise and through developing a framework to incorporate client adaptation
assessment
plans into climate scenario analysis to address insufficient client data issues. We developed
framework attestation
reporting that includes the Group’s carbon reduction metrics, with reporting of high-risk sectors
• Reduce Global included in the quarterly Group Executive Committee update. We also enhanced disclosures to cover
Finance function quantitative risk metrics aligned with the climate risk appetite statement.
costs and number of
• We built capabilities to support the resolvability assessment framework and met all regulatory
FTEs
deadlines during 2021 in relation to this.
• The Global Finance function costs were marginally above target due to market pay challenges and
the target for full-time equivalent colleagues was largely met.
270 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Single figure of remuneration
(Audited)
The following table shows the single figure of total remuneration of each executive Director for 2021, together with comparative figures.
Single figure of remuneration
Noel Quinn Ewen Stevenson
(£000) 2021 2020 2021 2020
Base salary1 1,288 1,266 751 738
Fixed pay allowance ('FPA')1 1,700 1,700 1,062 950
Cash in lieu of pension 129 127 75 74
Taxable benefits2 95 186 3 12
Non-taxable benefits2 71 59 42 32
Total fixed 3,283 3,338 1,933 1,806
Annual incentive3 1,590 799 978 450
Notional returns4 22 17 — —
Replacement award5 — — 754 1,431
Total variable 1,612 816 1,732 1,881
Total fixed and variable 4,895 4,154 3,665 3,687
1 Executive Directors made the personal decision to donate 100% of their base salary increases for 2021 to charity given the ongoing challenging
external environment. Ewen Stevenson also donated his FPA increase for 2021 to charity. Figures shown in the table above are the gross figures
before charitable donations.
2 Taxable benefits include the provision of medical insurance, car and tax return assistance (including any associated tax due, where applicable).
Non-taxable benefits include the provision of life assurance and other insurance cover.
3 Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson both voluntarily waived the cash portion of their 2020 annual incentive. Without this voluntary waiver, the 2020
annual incentive of Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson would have been £1,598,000 and £900,000, respectively.
4 The deferred cash awards granted in prior years includes a right to receive notional returns for the period between the grant and vesting date. This
is determined by reference to a rate of return specified at the time of grant and paid annually, with the amount disclosed on a paid basis.
5 In 2019 Ewen Stevenson was granted replacement awards to replace unvested awards, which were forfeited as a result of him joining HSBC. The
awards, in general, match the performance, vesting and retention periods attached to the awards forfeited. The values included in the table for
2020 relate to his 2017 LTI award granted by the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc ('RBS'), now renamed as NatWest Group plc ('NatWest'), for
performance year 2016, which was determined by applying the performance assessment outcome of 56.25% as disclosed in NatWest's Annual
Report and Accounts 2019 (page 91) to the maximum number of shares subject to performance conditions. This resulted in a payout equivalent to
78.09% of NatWest award shares that were forfeited and replaced with HSBC shares. A total of 313,608 shares were granted in respect of his
2017 LTI replacement award at a share price of £6.643. The HSBC share price was £5.845 when the awards ceased to be subject to performance
conditions, with no value attributable to share price appreciation. The value included in the table for 2021 relates to Ewen Stevenson's 2018 LTI
replacement award granted by NatWest for performance year 2017 and was subject to a pre-vest performance test assessed and disclosed by
NatWest in its Annual Report and Accounts 2020 (page 135). As no adjustment was proposed for Ewen Stevenson by NatWest, a total of
177,883 shares granted in respect of his 2018 LTI replacement award ceased to be subject to performance conditions. These awards were
granted at a share price of £6.643 and the HSBC share price was £4.240 when the awards ceased to be subject to performance conditions, with
no value attributable to share price appreciation.
Benefits
The values of the significant benefits in the single figure table are set out in the following table.1
Noel Quinn
(£000) 2021 2020
Insurance benefit (non-taxable) 67 51
Car and driver (UK and Hong Kong)2 87 139
1 The insurance and car benefits for Ewen Stevenson are not included in the above table as they were not deemed significant.
2 The 2021 car and driver benefit was lower than 2020 due to the impact of travel restrictions during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Long-term incentive awards Asia at the end of the performance period. The target range for
this measure is aligned with our long-term strategic plan.
(Audited)
The transition to net zero scorecard measures are aligned to our
Long-term incentive in respect of 2021
strategic priority of bringing carbon emissions in our own
After taking into account performance for 2021, the Committee operations to net zero by 2030 and supporting our customers in
decided to grant Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson LTI awards of the transition to a more sustainable future, by providing and
£4,131,000 and £2,410,000, respectively. facilitating $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment
over the same time period. Targets are linked to this climate
The 2021 LTI awards will have a three-year performance period
ambition and performance will be assessed based on the
starting 1 January 2022. During this period, performance will be
assessed based on four equally weighted measures: two financial reduction in our carbon footprint and the financing we provide to
our clients in their net zero transition.
measures to incentivise value creation for our shareholders; a
measure linked to our climate ambitions; and a measure for Relative TSR rewards executive Directors based on comparison of
relative total shareholder return ('TSR'). This is consistent with the the TSR performance of the Group and a relevant peer group. No
measures used for our last LTI award. changes were made to the peer group for this LTI award. The
RoTE is a key measure of our financial performance and how we Committee will review the TSR peer group for future LTI awards to
ensure the peer group remains appropriate, taking into account
generate returns that deliver value for our shareholders. The target
the progress in the execution of our strategic shifts in our
range for this measure is aligned with our medium-term objective
of achieving a RoTE of 10% or more. geographical and business mix, notably future growth investment
in Asia and wealth business.
Capital reallocation to Asia remains one of the key levers of our
The LTI continues to be subject to a risk and compliance modifier,
strategy and business transformation plan. This measure will be
which gives the Committee the discretion to adjust down the
assessed based on the share of Group tangible equity allocated to
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 271
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
overall outcome to ensure that the Group operates soundly when accordance with regulatory requirements, the number of shares to
achieving its financial targets. For this purpose, the Committee will be awarded will be adjusted to reflect the expected dividend yield
receive information including any risk metrics outside of tolerance of the shares over the vesting period.
for a significant period of time and any risk management failures
To the extent performance conditions are satisfied at the end of
that have resulted in significant customer detriment, reputational
the three-year performance period, the awards will vest in five
damage and/or regulatory censure.
equal annual instalments commencing from around the third
The RoTE and capital reallocation to Asia measures are also anniversary of the grant date. On vesting, shares equivalent to the
subject to a CET1 underpin. If the CET1 ratio at the end of the net number of shares that have vested (after those sold to cover
performance period is below the CET1 risk tolerance level set in any income tax and social security payable) will be held for a
the risk appetite statement, then the assessment for these retention period of up to one year, or such period as required by
measures will be reduced to nil. regulators.
As the awards are not entitled to dividend equivalents in
Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2021 (performance period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2024)
Minimum Target Maximum Weighting
Measures1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) %
RoTE (with CET1 underpin)2 8.0% 9.5% 11.0% 25.0
Capital reallocation to Asia (with CET1
46.0% 48.0% 50.0% 25.0
underpin)3
Carbon reduction 52.0% 56.0% 60.0%
Transition to net
zero4 Sustainable finance $285.0bn $340.0bn $370.0bn 25.0
and investment
At the median of the peer Straight-line vesting between At the upper quartile of the
Relative TSR5 25.0
group minimum and maximum peer group
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period. This metric will be subject to the CET1 underpin outlined above.
3 To be assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December
2024. This metric will be subject to the CET1 underpin outlined above.
4 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2024 using
2019 as the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess cumulative financing provided over the period commencing on
1 January 2020 and ending on 31 December 2024.
5 The peer group for the 2021 award is: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche
Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
2018 long-term incentive performance
The 2018 LTI award was granted to John Flint (former Group Chief Executive) and Marc Moses (former Group Chief Risk Officer).
Based on the scorecard outcome, 78,071 shares will vest for John Flint and 54,932 shares will vest for Marc Moses (determined by pro-
rating their awards for time in employment during the performance period of 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2021). The awards will vest
in five equal annual instalments commencing in March 2022. Using the average daily closing share prices over the three months to 31
December 2021 of £4.339 the value of awards to vest to John Flint and Marc Moses is £338,750 and £238,350, respectively.
Assessment of the LTI award in respect of 2018 (performance period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2021)
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (with weighting) (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) Actual Assessment Outcome
Average RoTE (with CET1 underpin)
10.0% 11.0% 12.0% 6.6% 0.0% 0.00%
(75%)
Employer advocacy1 (12.5%) 65% 70% 75% 70% 50.0% 6.25%
Straight-line vesting
Environmental, social and At median of the peer At upper quartile of Above upper
between minimum 100.0% 12.50%
governance rank2 (12.5%) group peer group quartile
and maximum
Total3 18.75%
1 Assessed based on results of the 2021 employee Snapshot survey question: 'I would recommend this company as a great place to work'.
2 Based on Sustainalytics ratings. Peer group for this measure included Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group,
Deutsche Bank, DBS Group Holdings, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, Standard Chartered, UBS Group, ICBC, Itau and
Santander.
3 The award was subject to a risk and compliance underpin which gives the Committee the discretion to adjust down the overall scorecard
outcome, taking into account performance against risk and compliance factors during the performance period for the award. Taking into account
inputs received from Group Risk and Compliance and the Group Risk Committee, the Committee considered the application of the risk and
compliance underpin was not required.
272 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Scheme interests awarded during 2021
(Audited)
The table below sets out the scheme interests granted to executive Directors during 2021 in respect of performance year 2020, as
disclosed in the 2020 Directors’ remuneration report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year.
Scheme awards in 2021
(Audited)
Face value Percentage receivable Number of
Type of interest Basis on which awarded1 for minimum shares End of
awarded award made Date of award £000 performance awarded performance period
Ewen Stevenson LTI deferred shares2 % of salary2 1 March 2021 2,716 25 637,197 31 December 2023
Noel Quinn LTI deferred shares2 % of salary2 1 March 2021 4,767 25 1,118,554 31 December 2023
1 The face value of the award has been computed using HSBC's closing share price of £4.262 taken on 26 February 2021. LTI awards are subject to
a three-year forward-looking performance period and vest in five equal annual instalments, between the third and seventh anniversary of the
award date, subject to performance achieved. On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period. Awards are subject to malus
during the vesting period and clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award.
2 In line with regulatory requirements, scheme interests awarded during 2021 were not eligible for dividend equivalents. In accordance with the
remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2019 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 293% of salary for Noel Quinn and 286% of
salary for Ewen Stevenson. The number of shares to be granted was determined by taking HSBC's closing share price of £4.262 taken on
26 February 2021, and applying a discount based on HSBC’s expected dividend yield of 5% per annum for the vesting period (£3.324).
The above table does not include details of shares issued as part of the fixed pay allowance and shares issued as part of the 2020 annual
incentive award that vested on grant and were not subject to any further service or performance conditions. Details of the performance
measures and targets for the LTI award in respect of 2020 are set out below:
Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2020 (performance period 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2023)
Minimum Target Maximum Weighting
Measures1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) %
RoTE (with CET1 underpin)2 8.0% 9.0% 10.0% 25.0
Capital reallocation to Asia (with CET1 underpin)3 45.0% 47.0% 50.0% 25.0
Carbon reduction 42.0% 48.0% 51.0%
Environment and
sustainability4 Sustainable finance and $200.0bn $240.0bn $260.0bn 25.0
investment
At median of the Straight-line vesting between At upper quartile of 25.0
Relative TSR5
peer group minimum and maximum peer group
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period. The measure will also be subject to a CET1 underpin. If the CET1 ratio at the
end of the performance period is below the CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the assessment for this measure will
be reduced to nil.
3 To be assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December
2023. This metric will be measured on an organic basis and will exclude changes in Group tangible equity allocation resulting from acquisitions
and disposals (and also part-acquisitions or part-disposals) of businesses and is subject to the CET1 underpin outlined above.
4 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2023 using
2019 as the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess cumulative financing provided over the period commencing on
1 January 2020 and ending on 31 December 2023.
5 The peer group for the 2020 award is: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche
Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
Executive Directors’ interests in shares we believe that our remuneration structure achieves the objective
of ensuring there is ongoing alignment of executive Directors'
(Audited)
interests with shareholder experience post-cessation of their
The shareholdings of executive Directors in 2021, including the employment due to the following features of the policy:
shareholdings of their connected persons, at 31 December 2021
• Shares delivered to executive Directors as part of the FPA have
(or the date they stepped down from the Board, if earlier) are set
a five-year retention period, which continues to apply following
out below. The following table shows the comparison of
a departure of an executive Director.
shareholdings with the company shareholding guidelines. There
have been no changes in the shareholdings of the executive • Shares delivered as part of an annual incentive award are
Directors from 31 December 2021 to the date of this report. subject to a one-year retention period, which continues to apply
following a departure of an executive Director.
Individuals have five years from their appointment date to build up
the recommended levels of shareholding. In line with investor • LTI awards have a seven-year vesting period with a one-year
guidance, for executive Directors, unvested shares which are not post-vesting retention period, which is not accelerated on
subject to forward-looking performance conditions (on a net of tax departure. The weighted average holding period of an LTI
basis) will count towards their shareholding requirement under the award within HSBC is therefore six years, in excess of the five-
new policy proposed for shareholder approval at the 2022 AGM. year holding period typically implemented by FTSE-listed
companies. When an executive Director ceases employment as
The Committee reviews compliance with the shareholding
a good leaver under our policy, any LTI awards granted will
requirement and has full discretion in determining if any unvested
continue to be released over a period of up to eight years,
shares should be taken into consideration for assessing
subject to the outcome of performance conditions.
compliance with this requirement, taking into account shareholder
expectations and guidelines. The Committee also has full HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy under which individuals are
discretion in determining any penalties for non-compliance. not permitted to enter into any personal hedging strategies in
relation to HSBC shares subject to a vesting and/or retention
With regard to post-employment shareholding arrangements,
period.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 273
Corporate
governance
2022 annual incentive scorecard measures and weightings
Noel Quinn Ewen Stevenson
Measures Weighting % Weighting %
Group adjusted profit before tax 20.0 15.0
Growth in Group lending and net new invested assets 15.0 10.0
RoTE 15.0 15.0
Group adjusted costs 10.0 10.0
Customer satisfaction in the UK, Hong Kong and key growth markets 15.0 15.0
Employee experience through maintaining and improving engagement, increasing diversity and improving inclusion 15.0 15.0
Personal objectives
Group Chief Executive
• Technology transformation, growth initiatives, restructuring of the Group and driving innovation programmes.
10.0 20.0
Group Chief Financial Officer
• Finance of the future, creating strong corporate development and Group transformation functions, Global Finance
function employee experience and Global Finance function efficiency.
Total 100.0 100.0
The Group adjusted profit before tax, Group lending and net new Committee the discretion to adjust down the overall scorecard
invested assets growth, RoTE and Group adjusted costs measures outcome to ensure that the Group operates soundly when
will be subject to a CET1 underpin. If the CET1 ratio on 31 achieving its financial targets. For this purpose, the Committee will
December 2022 is below the CET1 risk tolerance level set in the receive information including any risk thresholds outside of
risk appetite statement, then the assessment for these measures tolerance for a significant period of time and any risk management
will be reduced to nil. The 2022 annual incentive scorecard is failures that have resulted in significant customer detriment,
subject to a risk and compliance modifier, which allows the reputational damage and/or regulatory censure.
Non-executive Directors
(Audited)
The following table shows the total fees and benefits of non-executive Directors for 2021, together with comparative figures for 2020.
Fees and benefits
(Audited) Fees1 Benefits2 Total
(£000) 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Henri de Castries3 82 202 22 1 104 203
Laura Cha3, 4 242 587 18 — 260 587
Rachel Duan5 67 — — — 67 —
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn6 80 — — — 80 —
James Forese7 572 160 — — 572 160
Steven Guggenheimer8 250 134 — — 250 134
Irene Lee9 556 546 — — 556 546
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña10 223 202 — 4 223 206
Heidi Miller3, 11 251 632 19 7 270 639
Eileen Murray12 266 120 — — 266 120
David Nish13 482 480 10 8 492 488
Jackson Tai 350 355 — 12 350 367
Mark Tucker14 1,500 1,500 33 52 1,533 1,552
Pauline van der Meer Mohr15 291 312 — 2 291 314
Total (£000) 5,212 5,230 102 79 5,314 5,309
Total ($000) 7,169 6,958 140 105 7,309 7,063
1 Fees are in line with the Directors' remuneration policy that was approved at the 2019 AGM. Fees include a travel allowance of £4,000 for non-UK
based non-executive Directors and for all non-executive Directors effective from 1 June 2019. Given the travel restrictions in place, the Board was
unable to travel to attend meetings in person. Therefore, no travel allowance was paid to non-executive Directors during 2021.
2 Benefits include taxable expenses such as accommodation, travel and subsistence relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC
Holdings' registered offices. Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant.
3 Retired from the Board on 28 May 2021.
4 Includes fees of £177,000 (2020: £423,800) for her role as non-executive Chair and member of the Nomination Committee of The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
5 Appointed to the Board and as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee and Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee on
1 September 2021.
6 Appointed to the Board and as a member of the Group Risk Committee, Group Remuneration Committee and Nomination & Corporate
Governance Committee on 1 September 2021.
7 Includes fees of £332,000 (2020: £nil) in relation to his role as a non-executive Director of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc. He was appointed
as non-executive Chair on 28 May 2021.
8 Appointed as Co-Chair of the Technology Governance Working Group on 1 March 2021.
9 Includes fees of £380,000 (2020: £546,000) in relation to her roles as a Director, Remuneration Committee Chair, Audit Committee member and
Risk Committee member of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and in relation to her role as non-executive Chair of Hang
Seng Bank Limited.
10 Appointed to the Group Remuneration Committee on 28 May 2021.
11 Includes fees of £169,000 (2020: £431,000) in relation to her role as non-executive Chair of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc.
12 Appointed as Co-Chair of the Technology Governance Working Group on 1 March 2021. Stepped down as a member of the Group Audit
Committee on 28 May 2021.
13 Stepped down as a member of Group Remuneration Committee on 23 February 2021.
14 As previously announced in 2020, a part of the fee for 2021 was donated to charity. The fee shown in the single figure of remuneration is the gross
fee before charitable donations.
15 Stepped down as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 28 May 2021.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 275
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Non-executive Directors’ interests in shares set out below.
(Audited) Non-executive Directors are expected to meet the shareholding
guidelines within five years of the date of their appointment. All
The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in
non-executive Directors who had been appointed for five years or
2021, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at
more at 31 December 2021 met the guidelines.
31 December 2021, or date of cessation as a Director if earlier, are
Shares
Shareholding guidelines Share interests
(number of shares) (number of shares)
Laura Cha (retired on 28 May 2021) 15,000 16,200
Henri de Castries (retired on 28 May 2021) 15,000 19,251
Rachel Duan (appointed to the Board on 1 Sep 2021) 15,000 —
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (appointed to the Board on 1 Sep 2021) 15,000 —
James Forese 15,000 115,000
Steven Guggenheimer 15,000 15,000
Irene Lee 15,000 15,000
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña 15,000 15,000
Heidi Miller (retired on 28 May 2021) 15,000 15,700
Eileen Murray 15,000 75,000
David Nish 15,000 50,000
Jackson Tai 15,000 66,515
Mark Tucker 15,000 307,352
Pauline van der Meer Mohr 15,000 15,000
2022 fees for non-executive Directors
The table below sets out the 2022 fees for non-executive Directors.
2022 fees
Position £
Non-executive Group Chairman1 1,500,000
Non-executive Director (base fee) 127,000
Senior Independent Director 200,000
Group Risk Committee Chair 150,000
Member 40,000
Group Audit Committee and Group Remuneration Committee Chair 75,000
Member 40,000
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Chair ––
Member 33,000
Technology Governance Working Group Co-Chair 60,000
1 The Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fee in respect of chairing of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
276 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance or
Our approach to workforce remuneration
experience. This supports the long-term interests of our
stakeholders, including our customers and the communities we
Remuneration principles
serve, our shareholders and our regulators.
Our performance and pay strategy aims to competitively reward Our approach to performance and pay in 2021 for the broader
long-term sustainable performance. Our goal is to attract, motivate workforce was underpinned by our remuneration principles.
and retain the very best people, regardless of gender, ethnicity,
Principle Our approach in 2021
Fair, • We help managers to make informed, consistent and fair pay decisions. Variable pay for 92% of our employees is either set centrally
appropriate or based on a starting point recommendation from HR.
and free from • Communications and reporting encourage our managers to: challenge their assessments; question whether they were objective; and
bias use facts to make decisions.
• Managers in similar roles complete ‘fairness reviews’ where they discuss the performance and values-aligned behaviour ratings of
their teams. They help each other to make objective decisions by providing a diverse range of examples, facts and viewpoints, and
challenge each other to mitigate the risk of unconscious bias.
• During the annual review process, HR and management perform checks to ensure outcomes are in line with our principles and are
equitable. We use data to identify employees whose pay is lower than their comparable peer group. If there is no objective reason for
these variances, such as performance or skills and experience, we make adjustments.
A culture of • We seek to create a culture where our people can fulfil their potential, gain new skills and develop their careers for the future.
continuous • In 2021, we further improved our culture of continuous feedback, with 66% of our colleagues saying that conversations with their
feedback managers across the year had a positive impact on their performance and 62% reporting positive effects on their well-being.
through
• Our continuous feedback tool, including a mobile app, makes it easier for our colleagues to share feedback with each other in the
manager and
moment, providing a structure so that they can share what went well and what they could do better in specific situations.
employee
empowerment • We encourage colleagues to use our online career planning tools to help them with their thinking about future roles and the
capabilities they require and to drive conversations.
Reward and • Individual performance is assessed against clear and relevant financial and non-financial objectives. These set out expectations for
recognition of each colleague in terms of performance and development.
sustainable • We recognise our colleagues not just for results, but also for demonstrating our values. As such, subject to local law, our colleagues
performance receive a behaviour rating as well as a performance rating.
and values-
• Group and business performance is used to determine the Group variable pay pool and that of each business. Where performance in
aligned
a year is weak, as measured by both financial and non-financial metrics, this will impact the relevant pool. The final pool also
behaviour
considers the external operating environment and the expectations of our stakeholders.
• We undertake analytical reviews to ensure there is clear pay differentiation across both performance and behaviour ratings. This is
provided to senior management and the Committee as part of their oversight of the remuneration outcomes for the Group.
• We recognise examples of exceptional positive conduct through an increase in variable pay, and apply a reduction in variable pay for
misconduct or inappropriate behaviour that exposes us to financial, regulatory or reputational risk.
• We promote employee share ownership through variable pay deferrals and voluntary enrolment in an all-employee share plan.
Balanced, • Paying our colleagues fairly and appropriately is critical to delivering on our strategic commitments. We work extensively with our
simple and external market benchmarking consultants to get the latest insights on market pay levels and areas of potential risk. That guides us
transparent as we make pay decisions, allowing us to focus on managing people risks and areas critical to our strategy.
total reward • We maintain an appropriate balance between fixed pay, variable pay and employee benefits, taking into consideration an employee’s
packages, seniority, role, individual performance and the market. Decisions are informed, but not driven, by market position and practice.
which support
• We are committed to employee well-being and offer employee benefits that support the mental, physical and financial health of a
employee well-
diverse workforce.
being
• We review pay based on gender to uphold our commitment to inclusion and pay equity.
• All HSBC employees that work in a jurisdiction with a legal minimum wage are paid at or above this amount. In 2014, HSBC in the
UK was formally accredited by the Living Wage Foundation for having adopted the ‘Living Wage’ and the ‘London Living Wage’. In
nine of our jurisdictions where a 'living wage' has been defined, our employees are paid at or above that level. We also undertake
regular reviews of equal pay for gender.
• As part of our commitment to the World Economic Forum ('WEF') metrics on measuring stakeholder capitalism, we review entry
level wages in key markets to compare both men and women against the local minimum wage. This provided an indication of
fairness at point of career entry. We have included data from the UK, US and Mexico where we have sufficient entry-level colleagues
and good quality gender disclosures to allow for meaningful analysis (see table below). In line with expectations, the data shows
broad consistency between male and female outcomes.
Average standard entry level vs. minimum wage by gender as at 31 December 2021
Market Male Female All
UK 115% 114% 114%
US 153% 162% 158%
Mexico 259% 250% 254%
To calculate the above, we have used an average of annualised fixed pay to allow for a like-for-like comparison to include colleagues who work part-
time. For colleagues based in the UK, we have compared the entry level wage against the UK national minimum wage. For the US, our comparison is
against the respective state minimum wage, which is slightly higher than the federal minimum wage. In Mexico, we have used the minimum wage,
which is regulated by the National Minimum Wage Commission.
278 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Link between risk, performance and reward We set out below the key features of our framework, which help
enable us to achieve alignment between risk, performance and
Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk
reward, subject to compliance with local laws and regulations:
management while supporting our business objectives and the
delivery of our strategy.
Alignment between risk and reward
Framework
elements Application
Variable pay The Group variable pay pool is expected to move in line with Group performance, based on a range of financial, non-financial and
pool contextual factors. We also use a countercyclical funding methodology, with both a floor and a ceiling, with the payout ratio generally
reducing as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality. The floor recognises that even in challenging times, remaining competitive is
important. The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance it is not always necessary to continue to increase the variable pay
pool, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance.
The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include:
• Group and business unit financial performance, including capital requirements;
• current and future risks, taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite, financial and resourcing plan and global
conduct outcomes; and
• fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress, which are automatically included in the Committee’s definition of profit for
determining the pool.
In the event that the Group was unable to distribute dividends to shareholders for reasons such as capital adequacy, then the Group may
determine that as a year of weak performance. In such a year, the Group may withhold some, or all, variable pay for employees including
unvested share awards, using the metrics outlined above as a basis for that determination.
Individual • Assessment of individual performance is made with reference to clear and relevant financial and non-financial objectives. Objectives
performance for senior management take into account appropriate measures linked to sustainability risks, such as: reduction in carbon footprint;
scorecard facilitating financing to help clients with their transition to net zero; employee diversity targets; and risk and compliance measures. A
mandatory global risk objective is included in the scorecard of all other employees. All employees receive a behaviour rating as well as
a performance rating, which ensures performance is assessed not only on what is achieved but also on how it is achieved.
Control • The performance and reward of individuals in control functions, including risk and compliance employees, are assessed according to a
function staff balanced scorecard of objectives specific to the functional role they undertake.
• Their remuneration is determined independent of the performance of the business areas they oversee.
• The Committee is responsible for approving the remuneration for the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Group Head of
Internal Audit.
• Group policy is for control functions staff to report into their respective function. Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles are
made by the global function head.
• Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
Variable pay • Variable pay awards may be adjusted downwards in circumstances including:
adjustments – detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute;
and conduct
– involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause
recognition
significant harm to HSBC; and
– non-compliance with the values-aligned behaviours and other mandatory requirements or policies.
• Rewarding positive conduct may take the form of use of our global recognition programme, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to
variable pay awards.
Malus Malus can be applied to unvested deferred awards granted in prior years in circumstances including:
• detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
• past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
• restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
• improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 for a period of seven years, extended to
10 years for employees in PRA and FCA designated senior management functions in the event of ongoing internal/regulatory
investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Clawback may be applied in circumstances including:
• participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
• failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
• reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract of
employment; and
• a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk-management standards,
policies and procedures.
Sales • We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans.
incentives
Identification • We identify individuals as MRTs based on the qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the RTS and using the following key
of MRTs principles that underpin HSBC’s identification process:
– MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank (consolidated) and HSBC UK Bank level.
– MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as required by the regulations.
– When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers an employee’s role within its matrix management structure. The global business and
function that an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
• We also identify additional MRTs based on our own internal criteria, which include compensation thresholds and individuals in certain
roles and grades who otherwise would not be identified as MRTs under the criteria prescribed in the RTS.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 281
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the interest policy operates effectively. The Board has the power to
current Directors from 31 December 2021 to the date of this authorise conflicts where they arise, in accordance with the
report. Companies Act 2006 and HSBC Holdings' Articles of Association.
Listing Rule 9.8.4 and other disclosures Details of all Directors’ conflicts of interest are recorded in the
register of conflicts, which is maintained by the Group Company
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts 2021 forms part of Secretary and Chief Governance Officer's office. The Board agreed
and includes certain disclosures required in the Report of the for 2022 onwards that the conflicts register be reviewed annually
Directors incorporated by cross-reference, including under Listing by the Board and quarterly by the Nomination & Corporate
Rule 9.8.4 and otherwise as applicable by law. Governance Committee. Upon appointment, new Directors are
advised of the policy and procedures for managing conflicts.
Content Page references Directors are required to notify the Board of any actual or potential
Long-term incentives 271 conflicts of interest and to update the Board with any changes to
Dividend waivers 287 the facts and circumstances surrounding such conflicts. Directors
Dividends 287 are requested to review and confirm their own and their respective
Share buy-back 24, 287 closely associated persons' outside interests and appointments
Emissions 46 twice a year. The Board has considered, and authorised (with or
Energy efficiency 46, 53, 55 without conditions) where appropriate, potential conflicts as they
Principal activities of HSBC 13, 30, 97, 362 have arisen during the year in accordance with the said policy and
Business review and future developments 12–41, 43, 122, 135, 388 procedures. All non-executive Directors are re-vetted by the
compliance team every three years from appointment and as part
Directors’ governance
of such process all conflicts checks are refreshed.
Appointment and re-election Directors' indemnity
A rigorous selection process is followed for the appointment of The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings contain a qualifying
Directors. Appointments are made on merit and candidates are third-party indemnity provision, which entitles Directors and other
considered against objective criteria, having regard to the benefits officers to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings
of a diverse Board. Appointments are made in accordance with against claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities.
HSBC Holdings' Articles of Association. The Nomination &
Corporate Governance Committee report sets out further details of HSBC Holdings has granted, by way of deed poll, indemnities to
the Board selection process. The number of Directors (other than the Directors, including former Directors, against certain liabilities
any alternate Directors) must not be fewer than five nor exceed 25. arising in connection with their position as a Director of HSBC
Holdings or of any Group company. Directors are indemnified to
The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director,
the maximum extent permitted by law.
either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board. The
The indemnities that constitute a 'qualifying third-party indemnity
Board may appoint any Director to hold any employment or
provision', as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006,
executive office, and may revoke or terminate any such
remained in force for the whole of the financial year (or, in the
appointment.
case of Directors appointed during 2021, from the date of their
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year appointment). The deed poll is available for inspection at the
term and, subject to continued satisfactory performance based registered office of HSBC Holdings.
upon an assessment by the Group Chairman and the Nomination
& Corporate Governance Committee, are proposed for re-election Additionally, Directors have the benefit of Directors’ and officers’
by shareholders at each AGM. They typically serve two three-year liability insurance.
terms. The Board may invite a Director to serve additional periods Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to
but any term beyond six years is subject to review with an the Trustees of the Group's pension schemes, which were in force
explanation to be provided in the Annual Report and Accounts. for the whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the
date of this report.
Shareholders vote at each AGM on whether to elect and re-elect
Contracts of significance
individual Directors. All Directors that stood for election and re-
election at the 2021 AGM were elected and re-elected by During 2021, none of the Directors had a material interest, directly
shareholders. or indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC
None of the Directors who retired during the year or who are not company. During the year, all Directors were reminded of their
offering themselves for re-election at the 2022 AGM have raised obligations in respect of transacting in HSBC securities and
concerns about the operation of the Board or the management of following specific enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they
the company. have complied with their obligations.
No executive Director is involved in deciding their own Shareholder engagement
remuneration outcome.
The Board is directly accountable to, and gives high priority to
Commitments communicating with, HSBC’s shareholders. Information about
HSBC and its activities is provided to shareholders in its Interim
The terms and conditions of the appointments of non-executive
Reports and the Annual Report and Accounts as well as on
Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the
www.hsbc.com.
expectations of them and the estimated time required to perform
their role. Letters of appointment of each non-executive Director To complement regular publications, there is continual dialogue
are available for inspection at the registered office of HSBC between members of the Board and institutional investors
Holdings. The anticipated time commitment for non-executive throughout the year. For examples of such engagement see the
Directors serving on the Board and as a member of any Group Chairman's governance statement on page 218 and the
committees is no more than 75 days per annum. Directors who in Remuneration Committee Chair's letter on page 254.
addition chair a large committee should expect to commit up to Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the
100 days per annum. Any additional time commitment connected views of shareholders. Enquiries from individuals on matters
with Board-related appointments will be confirmed separately. relating to their shareholdings and HSBC’s business are
welcomed.
Board approval is required for any non-executive Directors’
external commitments, with consideration given to time Any individual or institutional investor can make an enquiry by
commitments and conflicts of interest. contacting the investor relations team, Group Chairman, Group
Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Company
Conflicts of interest
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Our Senior Independent
The Board has an established policy and set of procedures to Director is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that
ensure that the Board’s management of the Directors’ conflicts of
290 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
cannot be resolved or for which the normal channels would not be no intention of altering this policy. However, the definitions of
appropriate. He can be contacted via the Group Company political donations, political parties, political organisations and
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer at 8 Canada Square, political expenditure used in the UK Companies Act 2006 are very
London E14 5HQ. wide. As a result, they may cover routine activities that form part
Annual General Meeting of the normal business activities of the Group and are an accepted
part of engaging with stakeholders. To ensure that neither the
The AGM in 2022 is planned to be held in London at 11:00am on
Group nor any of its subsidiaries inadvertently breaches the UK
Friday, 29 April 2022. Information on how to participate, both in
Companies Act 2006, authority is sought from shareholders at the
advance and on the day, can be found in the Notice of the 2022
AGM to make political donations.
AGM, which will be sent to shareholders on 25 March 2022 and
be available on www.hsbc.com/agm. A live webcast will be HSBC provides administrative support to two political action
available on www.hsbc.com. A recording of the proceedings will committees ('PACs') in the US funded by voluntary political
be available on www.hsbc.com shortly after the conclusion of the contributions by eligible employees. We do not control the PACs,
AGM. Due to the current environment, these arrangements may and all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of
change. Shareholders should monitor our website and contributions are directed by the respective steering committee of
announcements for any updates. Shareholders may send enquiries each PAC, which are comprised of eligible employees. The PACs
to the Board in writing via the Group Company Secretary and Chief recorded combined political donations of $15,500 during 2021
Governance Officer, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London (2020: $100,750).
E14 5HQ or by sending an email to Charitable contributions
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
For details of charitable contributions, see page 77.
General meetings and resolutions
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting Internal control
other than an AGM, as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. A
valid request to call a general meeting may be made by members The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the
representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems,
as carries the right of voting at its general meetings (excluding any and for determining the level and type of risks the Group is willing
paid-up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
general nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and
To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under
may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved
the FCA Handbook and the PRA Handbook, procedures have been
and is intended to be moved at the meeting. At any general
designed: for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use or
meeting convened on such request, no business may be
disposal; for maintaining proper accounting records; and for
transacted except that stated by the requisition or proposed by the
ensuring the reliability and usefulness of financial information used
Board.
within the business or for publication.
Shareholders may request the Directors to send a resolution to
These procedures provide reasonable assurance against material
shareholders for consideration at an AGM, as provided by the UK
misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. They are designed to provide
Companies Act 2006. A valid request must be made by
effective internal control within the Group and accord with the
(i) members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of
Financial Reporting Council‘s guidance for Directors issued in
HSBC Holdings as carries the right of voting at its general
2014, on risk management, internal control and related financial
meetings (excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares),
and business reporting. The procedures have been in place
or (ii) at least 100 members who have a right to vote on the
throughout the year and up to 22 February 2022, the date
resolution at the AGM in question and hold shares in HSBC
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2021.
Holdings on which there has been paid up an average sum, per
member, of at least £100. The key risk management and internal control procedures include
the following:
The request must be received by the company not later than (i) six
weeks before the AGM in question; or (ii) if later, the time at which Global principles
the notice of AGM is published.
The Group's Global Principles set an overarching standard for all
A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and other policies and procedures and are fundamental to the Group’s
must be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A risk management structure. They inform and connect our purpose,
request may be made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK values, strategy and risk management principles, guiding us to do
address, referred to in the paragraph above or by sending an email the right thing and treat our customers and our colleagues fairly at
to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. all times.
Events after the balance sheet date Risk management framework
For details of events after the balance sheet date, see Note 37 on The risk management framework supports our Global Principles. It
the financial statements. outlines the key principles and practices that we employ in
Change of control managing material risks. It applies to all categories of risk and
supports a consistent approach in identifying, assessing,
The Group is not party to any significant agreements that take
managing and reporting the risks we accept and incur in our
effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the
activities.
Group. The Group does not have agreements with any Director or
Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or
employment resulting from a takeover bid. Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group Chief
Branches Executive has been delegated authority limits and powers within
which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the Group, including the
The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services right to sub-delegate those limits and powers. Each relevant Group
through branches and offices in the UK and overseas. Executive Committee member or executive Director has delegated
Research and development activities authority within which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the
business or function for which he or she is accountable.
During the ordinary course of business the Group develops new
products and services within the global businesses. Delegation of authority from the Board requires those individuals
to maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment of significant
Political donations
responsibilities and to oversee the establishment and maintenance
HSBC does not make any political donations or incur political of systems of control that are appropriate to their business or
expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words. We have function. Authorities to enter into credit and market risk exposures
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 291
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
are delegated with limits to line management of Group companies. remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the
However, credit proposals with specified higher-risk operation of the Group's framework of controls. In response to the
characteristics require the concurrence of the appropriate global prolonged Covid-19 pandemic, our business continuity responses
function. Credit and market risks are measured and reported at have been successfully implemented and the majority of service
subsidiary company level and aggregated for risk concentration level agreements continue to be maintained.
analysis on a Group-wide basis. Internal control over financial reporting
Risk identification and monitoring
HSBC is required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-
Systems and procedures are in place to identify, assess, control Oxley Act of 2002 and assess its effectiveness of internal control
and monitor the material risk types facing HSBC as set out in the over financial reporting at 31 December 2021. In 2014, the GAC
risk management framework. The Group‘s risk measurement and endorsed the adoption of the COSO 2013 framework for the
reporting systems are designed to help ensure that material risks monitoring of risk management and internal control systems to
are captured with all the attributes necessary to support well- satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
founded decisions, that those attributes are accurately assessed
The key risk management and internal control procedures over
and that information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks
financial reporting include the following:
to be successfully managed and mitigated.
Entity level controls
Changes in market conditions/practices
The primary mechanism through which comfort over risk
Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes
management and internal control systems is achieved is through
in market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which
assessments of the effectiveness of controls to manage risk, and
could expose the Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational
the reporting of issues on a regular basis through the various risk
damage. The Group employs a top and emerging risks framework,
management and risk governance forums. Entity level controls are
which contains an aggregate of all current and forward-looking
a defined suite of internal controls that have a pervasive influence
risks and enables it to take action that either prevents them
over the entity as a whole and meet the principles of the
materialising or limits their impact.
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
During 2021 due to the prolonged impact of the Covid-19 Commission ('COSO') framework. They include controls related to
pandemic on the global economy, banks continued to play an the control environment, such as the Group's values and ethics,
expanded role to support society and customers. The pandemic the promotion of effective risk management and the overarching
and its impact on the global economy have impacted many of our governance exercised by the Board and its non-executive
customers’ business models and income, requiring significant committees. The design and operational effectiveness of entity
levels of support from both governments and banks. level controls are assessed annually as part of the assessment of
To meet the additional challenges, we supplemented our existing the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. If
approach to risk management with additional tools and practices issues are significant to the Group, they are escalated to the GRC
and these continue to be in place. We continue our focus on the and also to the GAC, if concerning financial reporting matters.
quality and timeliness of the data used to inform management Process level transactional controls
decisions, through measures such as early warning indicators,
Key process level controls that mitigate the risk of financial
prudent active risk management of our risk appetite, and ensuring
misstatement are identified, recorded and monitored in
regular communication with our Board and other key
accordance with the risk framework. This includes the
stakeholders.
identification and assessment of relevant control issues against
Responsibility for risk management which action plans are tracked through to remediation. Further
All employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk details on HSBC’s approach to risk management can be found on
within the scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence page 121. The GAC has continued to receive regular updates on
model. This is an activity-based model to delineate management HSBC’s ongoing activities for improving the effective oversight of
accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the end-to-end business processes, and management continued to
control environment. The second line of defence sets the policy identify opportunities for enhancing key controls, such as through
and guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides advice the use of automation technologies.
and guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the first line of Financial reporting
defence (the risk owners) on effective risk management.
The Group’s financial reporting process is controlled using
The Board delegated authority to the Group Audit Committee documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported
('GAC') and it reviewed the independence, autonomy and by detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements,
effectiveness of the Group's policies and procedures on issued to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each
whistleblowing, including the procedures for the protection of staff reporting period end. The submission of financial information from
who raise concerns of detrimental treatment. each reporting entity is supported by a certification by the
Strategic plans responsible financial officer and analytical review procedures at
reporting entity and Group levels.
Strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global
Disclosure Committee
functions and geographical regions within the framework of the
Group’s overall strategy. Financial resource plans, informed by Chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Disclosure
detailed analysis of risk appetite describing the types and quantum Committee supports the discharge of the Group’s obligations
of risk that the Group is prepared to take in executing its strategy, under relevant legislation and regulation including the UK and
are prepared and adopted by all major Group operating companies Hong Kong listing rules, the UK Market Abuse Regulation and US
and set out the key business initiatives and the likely financial Securities and Exchange Commission rules. In so doing, the
effects of those initiatives. Disclosure Committee is empowered to determine whether a new
event or circumstance should be disclosed, including the form and
The effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk management and
timing of such disclosure, and review certain material disclosures
internal control is reviewed regularly by the Board, the GRC and
made or to be made by the Group. The membership of the
the GAC.
Disclosure Committee consists of senior management, including
During 2021, the Group continued to focus on operational the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer and
resilience and invest in the non-financial risk infrastructure. There Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. The
was a particular focus on material and emerging risks and areas Group's brokers, external auditors and its external legal counsel
undergoing strategic growth. also attend as required. The integrity of disclosures is underpinned
The GRC and the GAC received confirmation that executive by structures and processes within the Global Finance and Global
management has taken or is taking the necessary actions to Risk and Compliance functions that support rigorous analytical
292 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
review of financial reporting and the maintenance of proper To align our approach to inclusion best practices, we participate in
accounting records. As required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the global diversity benchmarks that help us to identify improvement
Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer have opportunities. We also track a large number of diversity and
certified that the Group's disclosure controls and procedures were inclusion metrics, which enable us to pinpoint inclusion barriers,
effective as at the end of the period covered by the Annual Report and take action where required. Our gender diversity statistics are
and Accounts 2021. set out on page 72.
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of Further details of our diversity and inclusion activity, together with our Gender
and Ethnicity Pay Gap Report 2021, can be found at www.hsbc.com/
risk management and internal control over financial reporting was
diversitycommitments.
conducted with reference to the COSO 2013 framework. Based on
the assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the Employment of people with a disability
year ended 31 December 2021, the Group's internal control over
We strongly believe in providing equal opportunities for all
financial reporting was effective.
employees. The employment of people with a disability is included
PwC has audited the effectiveness of HSBC's internal control over in this commitment. The recruitment, training, development and
financial reporting and has given an unqualified opinion. promotion of people with a disability are based on the aptitudes
and abilities of the individual. Should employees become disabled
Going concern
during their employment with us, efforts are made to continue
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, is satisfied that the their employment. Where necessary, we will provide appropriate
Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue operations training, facilities and reasonable equipment.
for a period of at least 12 months from the date of this report, and
Employee development
it therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements. We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where the best want
to develop the skills and experiences that help them fulfil their
For further details, see page 41.
potential. This determines how we develop our people and recruit,
Employees identify and nurture talent. A range of resources bring this to life
including:
At 31 December 2021, HSBC had a total workforce equivalent to
• HSBC University, our platform for learning and development
220,000 full-time employees compared with 226,000 at the end of
with specific business and technical academies;
2020 and 235,000 at the end of 2019. Our main centres of
employment were India with approximately 38,000 employees, the • our My HSBC Career portal, which offers career development
UK with 35,000, mainland China with 30,000, Hong Kong with information and resources; and
28,000, Mexico with 16,000 and the US with 7,000. • HSBC Talent Marketplace, our new online platform that uses AI
Our business spans many cultures, communities and continents. to provide opportunities to learn as we work.
We aim to provide an environment where our colleagues can fulfil Each year, every employee is asked to complete global mandatory
their potential by building their skills and capabilities while training. It plays a critical role in shaping our culture by ensuring
focusing on the development of a diverse and inclusive culture. everyone is focused on issues that are fundamental to working at
We use confidential employee surveys to assess progress and HSBC, from sustainability, to financial crime risk, to our
make changes. We want to provide an open culture, where our intolerance of bullying and harassment.
colleagues feel connected, supported to speak up and where our
leaders encourage and use feedback. Where we make As the opportunities we face change, we provide development to
organisational changes, we support our people, in particular where key populations through business and technical academies. This
there are job impacts. includes our risk academy, which helps us to develop broad
capabilities in traditional areas of risk like financial crime but also
Employee relations in emerging risk issues like climate risk and the ethics of AI and
We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee Big Data.
representative bodies where we have them. It is our policy to Our approach to learning is skills based. Our academies work with
maintain well-developed communications and consultation our businesses to identify the key skills and capabilities we need in
programmes with all employee representative bodies. There have the future. Alongside this, we help colleagues identify, assess and
been no material disruptions to our operations from labour develop the skills that match their ambition and aspirations. In
disputes during the past five years. 2021, as part of our Future Skills programme a ‘Focus 4’ campaign
We are committed to complying with the applicable employment encouraged colleagues to identify four future skills they want to
law and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. prioritise in their development plans. Over four themed weeks,
HSBC’s global employment practices and relations policy provides various events introduced colleagues to areas such as data, digital
the framework and controls through which we seek to uphold that and sustainability skills, as well as personal skills like critical
commitment. thinking and resilience.
Diversity and inclusion Our new platform for learning content is Degreed. This helps
colleagues identify, assess and develop key skills through internal
Our customers, colleagues and communities span many cultures and external training materials in a way that suits them. Content
and continents. We value difference, and believe that diversity can range from quick videos, articles or podcasts to packaged
makes us strong. We are dedicated to building a diverse and programmes or learning pathways.
connected workforce where everyone feels a sense of belonging.
In 2021, we launched the HSBC Talent MarketPlace, an AI-based
Our Group People Committee, which is made up of Group platform, which matches colleagues to projects and experiences
Executive Committee members, governs our diversity and based on their aspirations. By December, this had been rolled out
inclusion agenda. It meets regularly to agree actions to improve to nearly 50,000 colleagues in the US, India, Singapore and the
diverse representation and build a more inclusive culture where UK, and will be rolled out globally in 2022.
our colleagues can bring the best of themselves to work, and
deliver more equal outcomes for our stakeholders. Members of Effective people management and impactful leadership remain
our Group Executive Committee are held to account for the actions critical to our ability to energise for growth. In 2021, we launched
they take on diversity via aspirational targets contained within a refreshed executive development curriculum for our most senior
their performance scorecards. Every colleague at HSBC must treat population. This combines internal programmes and business
each other with dignity and respect to ensure an inclusive school activities with targeted technical programmes on key topics
environment. Our policies make it clear that we do not tolerate and skills.
unlawful discrimination, bullying or harassment on any grounds.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 293
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Health and safety Remuneration
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working HSBC’s pay and performance strategy is designed to reward
environment for everyone. We have adopted global policies, competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable
mandatory procedures, and incident and information reporting performance and attract and motivate the very best people,
systems across the organisation that reflect our core values and regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor
are aligned to international standards. Our global health and safety unrelated to performance or experience with the Group, while
performance is subject to ongoing monitoring and assurance. performing their role in the long-term interests of our stakeholders.
Our chief operating officers have overall responsibility for For further details of the Group’s approach to remuneration, see page 278.
engendering a positive health and safety culture and ensuring that
global policies, procedures and systems are put into practice Employee share plans
locally. They also have responsibility for ensuring all local legal
Share options and discretionary awards of shares granted under
requirements are met.
HSBC share plans align the interests of employees with the
We delivered a range of programmes in 2021 to help us creation of shareholder value. The following table sets out the
understand and manage our health and safety risks: particulars of outstanding options, including those held by
• We continued to provide enhancements to our workplaces employees working under employment contracts that are regarded
globally to minimise the risks of Covid-19, including enhanced as ‘continuous contracts’ for the purposes of the Hong Kong
cleaning, improved ventilation and social distancing measures. Employment Ordinance. The options were granted at nil
consideration. No options have been granted to substantial
• We updated our advice and risk assessment methodology on
shareholders and suppliers of goods or services, nor in excess of
working from home, providing more awareness and best
the individual limit for each share plan. No options were cancelled
practices on good ergonomics and well-being to be adopted as
by HSBC during the year.
we transitioned to new ways of working.
A summary for each plan of the total number of the options that
• We delivered health and safety training and awareness to
were granted, exercised or lapsed during 2021 is shown in the
220,000 of our employees and contractors globally, ensuring
following table. Further details required to be disclosed pursuant
roles and responsibilities were clear and understood.
to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on
• We completed the annual safety inspection on all of our
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited are available on our
buildings globally, subject to local Covid-19 restrictions, to
website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-
ensure we were meeting our standards and continuously
governance/remuneration and on the website of The Stock
improving our safety performance.
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at www.hkex.com.hk, or can be
• We continued to focus on enhancing the safety culture in our obtained upon request from the Group Company Secretary and
supply chain through our SAFER Together programme, Chief Governance Officer, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
covering the five key elements of best practice safety culture,
Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out on
including speaking up about safety, and recognising
page 273.
excellence. Our 2021 safety climate survey results showed a
Note 5 on the financial statements gives details of share-based payments,
continued high level of positive safety culture, significantly
including discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans.
above the industry average.
All-employee share plans
• We commenced a targeted guidance and training programme
for our construction partners in our key markets globally to help HSBC operates all-employee share option plans under which
them understand and deliver industry leading health and safety options are granted over HSBC ordinary shares. Subject to leaver
performance, with over 130 construction workers receiving provisions, options are normally exercisable after three or five
safety passporting training. years. During 2021, options were granted by reference to the
average market value of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the
• Our Eat Well Live Well programme continued educating and
five business days immediately preceding the invitation date, then
informing our colleagues on how to make healthy food and
applying a discount of 20%. The closing price for HSBC Holdings
drink choices. We enhanced the programme to provide digital
ordinary shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange on
educational and information resources, including a suite of
21 September 2021, the day before the options were granted and
videos and recipe ideas. The programme was a key component
as derived from the Daily Official List, was £3.5975.
of HSBC’s winning entry in the 2021 Global Healthy Workplace
Awards. The HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK) will
• We put in place effective storm preparation controls and expire on 24 April 2030, by which time the plan may be extended
processes to ensure the protection of our people and with approval from shareholders, unless the Directors resolve to
operations. In 2021, there were 38 named storms that passed terminate the plan at an earlier date.
over 1,935 of our buildings, resulting in 0 injuries or material The HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan was
business impact. introduced in 2013 and now includes employees based in
28 jurisdictions, although no options are granted under this plan.
Employee health and safety During 2021, approximately 190,000 employees were offered
2021 2020 2019 participation in these plans.
Rate of workplace fatalities per 100,000 employees — — —
Number of major injuries to employees1 14 15 29
All injury rate per 100,000 employees 64 88 189
1 Fractures, dislocation, concussion, loss of consciousness, overnight
admission to hospital.
HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK)
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Dates of awards Exercise price Usually exercisable At Granted Exercised Lapsed At
from to from to from to 1 Jan 2021 during year during year1 during year 31 Dec 2021
(£) (£)
20 Sep 2015 22 Sep 2021 2.6270 5.9640 1 Nov 2019 30 Apr 2027 130,952,539 15,410,381 3,878,418 19,287,652 123,196,850
1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £4.3351.
294 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
HSBC Holdings has codified obligations for transactions in Group
Statement of compliance
securities in accordance with the requirements of the UK Market
The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of securities
217 to 296 and the information referred to therein constitutes the on HKEx, save that the HKEx has granted waivers from strict
'Corporate governance report' and 'Report of the Directors' of compliance with the rules that take into account accepted
HSBC Holdings. The websites referred to do not form part of this practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share
report. plans. During the year, all Directors were reminded of their
obligations in respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities.
Relevant corporate governance codes, role profiles and policies Following specific enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they
have complied with their obligations.
UK Corporate Governance www.frc.org.uk
Code
Hong Kong Corporate www.hkex.com.hk
Governance Code (set out in
Appendix 14 to the Rules
Governing the Listing of
Securities on the Stock
Exchange of Hong Kong
Limited) On behalf of the Board
Descriptions of the roles and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ Mark E Tucker
responsibilities of the: leadership-and-governance/
board-responsibilities Group Chairman
– Group Chairman
HSBC Holdings plc
– Group Chief Executive
Registered number 617987
– Senior Independent Director
22 February 2022
– Board
Board and senior management www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance
Roles and responsibilities of the www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
Board's committees leadership-and-governance/
board-committees
Board’s policies on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/
– diversity and inclusion
board-responsibilities
– shareholder communication
– human rights
– remuneration practices and
governance
Global Internal Audit Charter www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/
corporate-governance-codes/
internal-control
HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both the
UK and Hong Kong. During 2021, HSBC complied with the
provisions and requirements of both the UK and Hong Kong
Corporate Governance Codes.
Under the Hong Kong Code, the audit committee should be
responsible for the oversight of all risk management and internal
control systems. HSBC’s Group Risk Committee is responsible for
oversight of internal control, other than internal control over
financial reporting, and risk management systems. This is
permitted under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 295
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
• the management report represented by the Report of the
Directors’ responsibility statement
Directors includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the Group,
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
together with a description of the principal risks and
Accounts 2021, the Directors’ remuneration report and the
uncertainties that it faces.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
regulations. The Group Audit Committee has responsibility, delegated to it
from the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
financial reporting. The Group Audit Committee report on page
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors
240 sets out how the Group Audit Committee discharges its
have prepared the parent company (‘Company’) and Group
responsibilities.
financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted international
accounting standards. The company has also prepared financial Disclosure of information to auditors
statements in accordance with international financial reporting
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the
standards adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) N0 1606/2002 as it
Directors’ report includes a statement, in the case of each Director
applies in the European Union. In preparing these financial
in office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved,
statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with
that:
International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IFRSs as issued by • so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit
IASB). Under company law, the Directors must not approve the information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
• they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group,
Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant
and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required
are aware of that information.
to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting
standards, international financial reporting standards adopted
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the
On behalf of the Board
European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Mark E Tucker
the financial statements; and Group Chairman
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
HSBC Holdings plc
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and
Group will continue in business. Registered number 617987
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 22 February 2022
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’
remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the Annual Report and Accounts 2021 as they appear on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2021,
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the
Company’s position and performance, business model and
strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the
‘Report of the Directors: Corporate governance report’ on pages
220 to 223 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2021, confirms that,
to the best of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
standards, international financial reporting standards adopted
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the
European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB, give a true and fair
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or
loss of the Group; and
296 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Key audit matters
• Expected credit losses - Impairment of loans and advances (group)
• Investment in associate – Bank of Communications Co., Ltd (‘BoCom’) (group)
• Impairment of investments in subsidiaries (parent)
• Valuation of defined benefit pensions obligations (group)
Materiality
• Overall group materiality: US$970m (2020: US$900m) based on 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
• Overall company materiality: US$920m (2020: US$855m) based on 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall materiality of
US$2bn and was therefore reduced below the group materiality.
• Performance materiality: US$725m (2020: US$675m) (group) and US$690m (2020: US$641m) (company).
The scope of our audit
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud)
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the
audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures
thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do
not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Compared to last year the number of key audit matters has reduced from eight to four. The following are no longer considered to be key
audit matters.
• Impact of Covid-19 (group and company) - Given the impact of Covid-19 on working practices and international travel, the majority of
our interactions continued to be undertaken virtually, including those with the partners and teams for Significant Subsidiaries and
operations centres, and with HSBC Board members and management. Similarly, a substantial part of our audit testing was performed
remotely. We used established practices throughout 2021 for interacting and undertaking our audit testing virtually, consistent with the
hybrid working models at both PwC network teams and HSBC.
• IT access management (group) - Management has remediated a number of the control deficiencies in relation to IT access
management.
• Valuation of financial instruments (group) - The financial instruments where significant pricing inputs are unobservable, the most
material of which are the private equity investments held by Global Banking and Markets and the Insurance business, experienced
reduced market volatility during the year that impacted the determination of the fair value.
• Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets (group) - The risk of impairment at the period end is reduced due to the significant
surplus between the recoverable amounts and the carrying value for the goodwill and intangible asset balances at the year end, after
the full impairment recognised for the WPB LatAm goodwill in 2021.
The remaining four key audit matters are consistent with last year.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 299
Financial
statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Expected credit losses - Impairment of loans and advances (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
Determining expected credit losses (‘ECL’) involves management judgement and is subject to a high degree of estimation uncertainty.
Management makes various assumptions when estimating ECL. The significant assumptions that we focused on in our audit included those with greater
levels of management judgement and for which variations had the most significant impact on ECL. These included assumptions made in determining
forward looking economic scenarios and their probability weightings and estimating material management judgemental adjustments.
The impact of Covid-19, including the nature and extent of government support, supply chain constraints and increasing energy prices, and more recent
factors, including developments in China’s commercial real estate sector, have resulted in unprecedented economic conditions that vary between
territories and industries, leading to uncertainty around judgements made in determining the severity and probability weighting of macroeconomic
variable (‘MEV’) forecasts across the different economic scenarios used in ECL models.
The modelling methodologies used to estimate ECL are developed using historical experience. The impact of the unprecedented economic conditions has
also resulted in certain limitations in the reliability of these methodologies to forecast the extent and timing of future customer defaults and therefore
estimate ECL. In addition, modelling methodologies do not incorporate all factors that are relevant to estimating ECL, such as differentiating the impact on
industry sectors of economic conditions. These limitations are addressed with management judgemental adjustments, the measurement of which is
inherently judgemental and subject to a high level of estimation uncertainty.
Management makes other assumptions which are less judgemental or for which variations have a less significant impact on ECL. These assumptions
include:
• The methodologies used in quantitative scorecards for determining customer risk ratings (‘CRRs’);
• Estimating expected cash flows and collateral valuations for credit impaired wholesale exposures;
• Model methodologies themselves; and
• Quantitative and qualitative criteria used to assess significant increases in credit risk.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We held discussions with the GAC covering governance and controls over ECL, with a significant focus on the continuing impact of Covid-19 and other economic
conditions, including recent developments in China’s commercial real estate sector. We discussed a number of areas, including:
• The severity of MEV forecasts in economic scenarios, and their related probability weightings, across territories;
• Management judgemental adjustments and the nature and extent of analysis used to support those adjustments;
• The criteria and conditions used to assess to what extent management judgemental adjustments continue to be needed;
• Management’s policies, governance and controls over model validation and monitoring; and
• The disclosures made in relation to ECL, in particular the impact of adjustments on determining ECL and the resulting estimation uncertainty.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We assessed the design and effectiveness of governance and controls over the estimation of ECL. We observed management’s review and challenge in
governance forums for (1) the determination of MEV forecasts and their probability weightings for different economic scenarios, and (2) the assessment of
ECL for Retail and Wholesale portfolios, including the assessment of model limitations and any resulting management judgemental adjustments.
We also tested controls over:
• Model validation and monitoring;
• Credit reviews that determine customer risk ratings for wholesale customers;
• The identification of credit impaired events;
• The input of critical data into source systems and the flow and transformation of critical data from source systems to impairment models and
management judgemental adjustments; and
• The calculation and approval of management judgemental adjustments to modelled outcomes.
We involved our economic experts in assessing the significant assumptions made in determining the severity and probability weighting of MEV forecasts.
These assessments considered the sensitivity of ECL to variations in the severity and probability weighting of MEVs for different economic scenarios. We
involved our modelling experts in assessing the appropriateness of the significant assumptions and methodologies used for models and management
judgemental adjustments. We independently reperformed the calculations for a sample of those models and management judgemental adjustments. We
further considered whether the judgements made in selecting the significant assumptions would give rise to indicators of possible management bias.
In addition, we performed substantive testing over:
• The compliance of ECL methodologies and assumptions with the requirements of IFRS 9;
• The appropriateness and application of the quantitative and qualitative criteria used to assess significant increases in credit risk;
• A sample of critical data used in ECL models and to estimate management judgemental adjustments as at 31 December 2021;
• Assumptions and critical data for a sample of credit impaired wholesale exposures; and
• A sample of CRRs applied to wholesale exposures.
We evaluated and tested the Credit Risk disclosures made in the Annual Report.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2021
• Credit risk disclosures, page 137.
• GAC Report, page 245.
• Note 1.2(d): Financial instruments measured at amortised cost, page 321.
• Note 1.2(i): Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets, page 323.
300 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries (company)
Nature of the key audit matter
The macroeconomic and geopolitical environment continues to be challenging, impacting both 2021 and the outlook into 2022 and beyond. These
external factors, as well as HSBC’s strategy, impact the financial position and performance of subsidiaries within the group. These factors were
considered by management in determining if there were potential indicators of impairment that required an impairment assessment for investment in
subsidiaries.
Management compared the net assets to the carrying value of each direct subsidiary of HSBC Holdings plc. Where the net assets did not support the
carrying value or the subsidiary made a loss during the period, management estimated the recoverable amount using the higher of value in use (‘VIU’) or
fair value less cost to sell. Management predominantly used VIU in its impairment tests, unless it believed that fair value would result in a higher
recoverable amount for any subsidiary. The impairment test resulted in a partial reversal of an impairment charge of US$3.1bn in relation to the
investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited (‘HOHU’). This resulted in investment in subsidiaries of US$163bn at 31 December 2021.
The methodology used to estimate the recoverable amount is dependent on various assumptions, both short term and long term in nature. These
assumptions, which are subject to estimation uncertainty, are derived from a combination of management’s judgement, experts engaged by management
and market data. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of management judgement and for which
variations had the most significant impact on the recoverable amount. Specifically, these included HSBC’s strategic planning cycle for 2022 to 2026
including revenue forecasts and cost reduction targets, regulatory capital requirements, long term growth rates and discount rates.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We discussed the partial reversal of the impairment charge for HOHU, the appropriateness of methodologies used and significant assumptions with the
GAC, giving consideration to the macroeconomic outlook and HSBC’s strategy. We considered reasonably possible alternatives for significant
assumptions.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We tested controls in place over significant assumptions and the model used to determine the recoverable amounts. We assessed the appropriateness of
the methodology used, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, to estimate the recoverable amounts. In respect of the significant
assumptions, our testing included the following:
• Challenging the achievability of management’s strategic planning cycle and the prospects for HSBC’s businesses, as well as considering the
achievement of historic forecasts;
• Obtaining and evaluating evidence where available for critical data relating to significant assumptions, from a combination of historic experience and
external market and other financial information;
• Assessing whether the cash flows included in the model were in accordance with the relevant accounting standard;
• Assessing the sensitivity of the VIU to reasonable variations in significant assumptions, both individually and in aggregate; and
• Determining a reasonable range for the discount rate used within the model, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and comparing it to the
discount rate used by management.
We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report in relation to investment in subsidiaries.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2021
• Note 19: Investments in subsidiaries, page 362.
Valuation of defined benefit pensions obligations (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
The group has a defined benefit obligation of US$42.8bn, of which US$32.3bn relates to HSBC Bank (UK) pension scheme.
The valuation of the defined benefit obligation for HSBC Bank (UK) pension scheme is dependent on a number of actuarial assumptions. Management
uses an actuarial expert to determine the valuation of the defined benefit obligation. The valuation methodology uses a number of market based inputs
and other financial and demographic assumptions. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of
management judgement and for which variations had the most significant impact on the liability. Specifically, these included the discount rate, inflation
rate and mortality rate.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We discussed with the GAC the methodologies and significant assumptions used by management to determine the value of the defined benefit obligation.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We tested governance and controls in place over the methodologies and the significant assumptions, including those in relation to the use of
management's experts. We also evaluated the objectivity and competence of management’s expert involved in the valuation of the defined benefit
obligation.
We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used, and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, to estimate the liability. In respect of the
significant assumptions, we used our actuarial experts to understand the judgements made by management and their actuarial expert in determining the
significant assumptions and compared these assumptions to our independently compiled expected ranges based on market observable indices and the
knowledge and opinions of our actuarial experts.
We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report in relation to the defined benefit pension obligation.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2021
• GAC Report, page 246.
• Note 1.2(k): Critical accounting estimates and judgements, page 327.
• Note 5: Employee compensation and benefits, page 331.
302 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
How we tailored the audit scope
We performed a risk assessment, giving consideration to relevant external and internal factors, including Covid-19, climate change,
geopolitical and economic risks, relevant accounting and regulatory developments, HSBC’s strategy and the changes taking place across
the group. We also considered our knowledge and experience obtained in prior year audits. As part of considering the impact of climate
change in our risk assessment, we evaluated management's assessment of the impact of climate risk, which is set out on page 45,
including their conclusion that there is no material impact on the financial statements. In particular, we considered management’s
assessment of the impact on ECL on loans and advances to customers, the financial statement line item we determined to be most likely
to be impacted by climate risk. Management’s assessment gave consideration to a number of matters, including the climate stress testing
performed in 2021.
Using our risk assessment, we tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on
the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the company, the accounting processes and
controls, and the industry in which they operate. We continually assessed risks and changed the scope of our audit where necessary.
Our risk assessment and scoping identified certain entities (collectively the Significant Subsidiaries) for which we obtained audit opinions.
We obtained full scope audit opinions for the consolidated financial position and performance of Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited, HSBC Bank plc, and HSBC North America Holdings Limited. We also obtained full scope audit opinions for the
company financial position and performance of HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC Mexico S.A. We obtained audit
opinions over specific balances for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited - UAE Operations. The audits for HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank
plc were performed by other PwC teams in the UK. All other audits were performed by other PwC network firms.
We continued with our approach for rotating certain smaller locations in and out of scope over a number of reporting periods. These
locations, which are subject to local external audits, are individually relatively small compared to the group. Notwithstanding their size, the
rotational approach is designed to ensure that over time these locations are subject to audit work as part of the group audit. HSBC Bank
Malaysia was removed from the scope of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited audit for 2021 and India was
included.
Group-wide audit approach
HSBC has entity level controls that have a pervasive influence across the group, as well as other global and regional governance and
controls over aspects of financial reporting, such as those operated by the Global Risk function for expected credit losses. A significant
amount of IT and operational processes and controls relevant to financial reporting are undertaken in operations centres run by Digital
Business Services ('DBS') across different locations. Financial reporting processes and controls are performed centrally in HSBC’s Group
Finance function and the four Finance operations centres, including the impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, the
consolidation of the group’s results, the preparation of the financial statements, and management’s oversight controls relevant to the
group’s financial reporting.
For these areas, we either performed audit work ourselves, or directed and provided oversight of the audit work performed by PwC teams
in the UK, Poland, China, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, India and the Philippines. A substantial part of our audit testing in these locations was
performed remotely. Some of this work was relied upon by the PwC teams auditing the Significant Subsidiaries. This audit work, together
with analytical review procedures and assessing the outcome of local external audits, also mitigated the risk of material misstatement for
balances in entities that were not part of a Significant Subsidiary.
Significant Subsidiaries audit approach
We asked the partners and teams reporting to us on the Significant Subsidiaries to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size
of the operations they audited. The performance materiality levels ranged from US$48m to US$690m. Certain Significant Subsidiaries
were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was less than our overall group materiality.
We designed global audit approaches for the products and services that substantially make up HSBC’s global businesses, such as
lending, deposits and derivatives. These approaches were provided to the partners and teams performing audit testing for the Significant
Subsidiaries.
We were in active dialogue throughout the year with the partners and teams responsible for the audits of the Significant Subsidiaries,
including consideration of how they planned and performed their work. We attended Audit Committee meetings for some of the
Significant Subsidiaries. We also attended meetings with management in each of these Significant Subsidiaries at the year-end. Given the
impact of Covid-19 on working practices and international travel, the majority of our interactions continued to be undertaken virtually.
The audit of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited in Hong Kong relied upon work performed by other teams in Hong
Kong and the PwC network firms in India, mainland China and Singapore. Similarly, the audit of HSBC Bank plc in the UK relied upon
work performed by other teams in the UK and the PwC network firms in France and Germany. We considered how the audit partners and
teams for the Significant Subsidiaries instructed and provided oversight to the work performed in these locations. Collectively, Significant
Subsidiaries covered 85% of total assets and 75% of total operating income.
Using the work of others
We continued to make use of evidence provided by others. This included testing of controls performed by Global Internal Audit and
management themselves in some low risk areas. We used the work of PwC experts, for example, economic experts for our work around
the severity and probability weighting of macroeconomic variables used as part of the expected credit loss allowance and actuaries on the
estimates used in determining pension liabilities. An increasing number of controls are operated on behalf of HSBC by third parties. We
obtained audit evidence from work that is scoped and provided by other auditors that are engaged by those third parties. For example, we
obtained a report evidencing the testing of external systems and controls supporting HSBC’s payroll and HR processes.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These,
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually
and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 303
Financial
statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Financial statements – group Financial statements – company
Overall materiality US$970m (2020: US$900m). US$920m (2020: US$855m).
How we determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall
materiality of US$2bn and was therefore reduced below the
group materiality level.
Rationale for benchmark We believe a standard benchmark of 5% of adjusted profit A benchmark of total assets has been used, as the
applied before tax is an appropriate quantitative indicator of company’s primary purpose is to act as a holding company
materiality, although certain items could also be material for with investments in the group’s subsidiaries, not to generate
qualitative reasons. This benchmark is standard for listed operating profits and therefore a profit based measure is not
entities and consistent with the wider industry. We selected relevant.
adjusted profit because, as discussed on page 28,
management believes it best reflects the performance of
HSBC and how the group is run. We excluded the
adjustments made by management on page 28 for certain
customer redress programmes and fair value movements of
financial instruments, as in our opinion they are recurring
items that form part of ongoing business performance.
We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected
misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the
nature and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes.
Our performance materiality was 75% of overall materiality, amounting to US$725m for the group financial statements and US$690m for
the company financial statements.
In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors, including the history of misstatements, our risk
assessment and aggregation risk, and the effectiveness of controls. We concluded that an amount at the upper end of our normal range
was appropriate.
We agreed with the GAC that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$48m (group audit) (2020:
US$45m) and US$48m (company audit) (2020: US$45m) as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted
reporting for qualitative reasons.
Conclusions relating to going concern
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group's and the company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting included:
• Performing a risk assessment to identify factors that could impact the going concern basis of accounting, including the impact of
external risks including geopolitical, Covid-19 and climate change risks.
• Understanding and evaluating the group’s financial forecasts and the group’s stress testing of liquidity and regulatory capital, including
the severity of the stress scenarios that were used.
• Understanding and evaluating credit rating agency ratings and actions.
• Reading and evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements in relation to going concern.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group's and the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least
twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation
of the financial statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the group's and the
company's ability to continue as a going concern.
In relation to the directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or
draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this
report.
Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report
thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information, which includes reporting based on the Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) recommendations. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance
thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider
whether the other information, including the TCFD reporting and other information related to climate change, is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an
apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material
misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed,
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report
based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Report of the Directors, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK
Companies Act 2006 have been included.
304 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain opinions and matters
as described below.
Strategic Report and Report of the Directors’
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Report of the
Directors’ for the year ended 31 December 2021 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with
applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did
not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Report of the Directors’.
Directors’ Remuneration
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.
Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the
corporate governance statement relating to the company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code
specified for our review. Our additional responsibilities with respect to the corporate governance statement as other information are
described in the Reporting on other information section of this report.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate governance
statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit, and we have nothing
material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
• The directors’ confirmation that they have carried out an assessment of the emerging and principal risks;
• The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and an
explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;
• The directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s and company’s ability to continue to
do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements;
• The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the group's and company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and why
the period is appropriate; and
• The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any
necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term viability of the group was substantially less in scope than an audit and
only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statement; checking that the statement is in
alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering whether the statement is consistent with
the financial statements and our knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course
of the audit.
In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
• The directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the
information necessary for the members to assess the group’s and company's position, performance, business model and strategy;
• The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems; and
• The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the GAC.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when the directors’ statement relating to the company’s compliance
with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing Rules for review by
the auditors.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibility statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also
responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) and ISAs will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 305
Financial
statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations
related to breaches of financial crime laws and regulations and regulatory compliance, including regulatory reporting requirements and
conduct of business, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We
also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006. We
evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of
override of controls), and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue or
reduce costs, creating fictitious trades to hide losses or to improve financial performance, and management bias in accounting estimates.
The group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the Significant Subsidiaries auditors so that they could include appropriate
audit procedures in response to such risks in their work. Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team and/or component
auditors included:
• Review of correspondence with and reports from the regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) and Financial
Conduct Authority (‘FCA’);
• Reviewed reporting to the GAC and GRC in respect of compliance and legal matters;
• Review a sample of legal correspondence with legal advisors;
• Enquiries of management and review of internal audit reports, insofar as they related to the financial statements;
• Obtain legal confirmations from legal advisors relating to material litigation and compliance matters;
• Assessment of matters reported on the group’s whistleblowing programmes and the results of management’s investigation of such
matters; insofar as they related to the financial statements.
• Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to the
determination of expected credit losses, the impairment assessments of the investment in BoCom, valuation of defined benefit
pensions obligations and investment in subsidiaries (see related key audit matters);
• Obtaining confirmations from third parties to confirm the existence of a sample of transactions and balances; and
• Identifying and testing journal entries, including those posted with certain descriptions, posted and approved by the same individual,
backdated journals or posted by infrequent and unexpected users.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of instances of non-
compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also,
the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud
may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing
techniques. However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We
will often seek to target particular items for testing based on their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to
enable us to draw a conclusion about the population from which the sample is selected.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements in accordance with ISAs (UK) is located on the FRC’s
website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the
audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s and company’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by management.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the group’s and
company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention
in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future
events or conditions may cause the group to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and
whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the group
and company to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
performance of the group and company audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in
our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we
306 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Notes on the financial statements
Interest rate benchmark reform: Amendments to IFRS 9 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’
HSBC has applied both the first set of amendments (‘Phase 1’) and the second set of amendments (‘Phase 2’) to IFRS 9 and IAS 39
applicable to hedge accounting. The hedge accounting relationships that are affected by Phase 1 and Phase 2 amendments are presented
in the balance sheet as ‘Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income’, ‘Loans and advances to customers’, ‘Debt securities in issue’ and ‘Deposits by banks’. The notional value of the derivatives
impacted by the Ibor reform, including those designated in hedge accounting relationships, is disclosed on page 127 in the section
‘Financial instruments impacted by the Ibor reform’. For further details on Ibor transition, see 'Top and emerging risks' on page 126.
During 2021, the Group transitioned all of its hedging instruments referencing sterling Libor, European Overnight Index Average rate
(‘Eonia’) and Japanese yen Libor. The Group also transitioned some of the hedging instruments referencing US dollar Libor. There is no
significant judgement applied for these benchmarks to determine whether and when the transition uncertainty has been resolved.
The most significant Ibor benchmark in which the Group continues to have hedging instruments is US dollar Libor. It is expected that the
transition out of US dollar Libor hedging derivatives will be largely completed by the end of 2022. These transitions do not necessitate
new approaches compared with any of the mechanisms used so far for transition and it will not be necessary to change the transition risk
management strategy.
For some of the Ibors included under the ‘Other’ header in the table below, judgement has been needed to establish whether a transition
is required, since there are Ibor benchmarks that are subject to computation methodology improvements and insertion of fallback
provisions without full clarity being provided by their administrators on whether these Ibor benchmarks will be demised.
The notional amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in hedge accounting relationships do not represent the extent of the risk
exposure managed by the Group but they are expected to be directly affected by market-wide Ibor reform and in scope of Phase 1
amendments and are shown in the table below. The cross-currency swaps designated in hedge accounting relationships and affected by
Ibor reform are not significant and have not been presented below.
Hedging instrument impacted by Ibor reform
Hedging instrument
Impacted by Ibor reform Not impacted Notional
€2 £ $ Other3 Total by Ibor reform amount1
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Fair value hedges 6,178 — 18,525 6,615 31,318 59,238 90,556
Cash flow hedges 7,954 — 100 8,632 16,686 55,679 72,365
At 31 Dec 2021 14,132 — 18,625 15,247 48,004 114,917 162,921
Fair value hedges 17,792 3,706 32,789 10,128 64,415 57,157 121,572
Cash flow hedges 8,344 2,522 8,705 6,797 26,368 9,495 35,863
At 31 Dec 2020 26,136 6,228 41,494 16,925 90,783 66,652 157,435
1 The notional contract amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of
transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date and they do not represent amounts at risk.
2 The notional contract amounts of euro interest rate derivatives impacted by Ibor reform mainly comprise hedges with a Euribor benchmark, which
are ‘Fair value hedges’ of $6,178m (31 December 2020: $6,000m) and ‘Cash flow hedges’ of $7,954m (31 December 2020: $8,344m).
3 Other benchmarks impacted by Ibor reform comprise mainly of Canadian dollar offered rate (‘CDOR’), Hong Kong interbank offered rate (‘HIBOR’)
and Mexican interbank equilibrium interest rate (‘TIIE’) related derivatives.
Hedging instrument impacted by Ibor reform held by HSBC Holdings
Hedging instrument
Impacted by Ibor reform Not impacted Notional
€ £ $ Other Total by Ibor reform amount
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Fair value hedges 9,944 — 20,035 1,458 31,437 13,921 45,358
At 31 Dec 2021 9,944 — 20,035 1,458 31,437 13,921 45,358
Fair value hedges 4,290 5,393 21,081 3,242 34,006 — 34,006
At 31 Dec 2020 4,290 5,393 21,081 3,242 34,006 — 34,006
16 Financial investments
Carrying amount of financial investments
2021 2020
$m $m
Financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 348,972 402,054
– treasury and other eligible bills 100,158 118,163
– debt securities 246,998 281,467
– equity securities 1,770 2,337
– other instruments 46 87
Debt instruments measured at amortised cost 97,302 88,639
– treasury and other eligible bills 21,634 11,757
– debt securities 75,668 76,882
At 31 Dec 446,274 490,693
356 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Taxation of dividends transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK.
No stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or
Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC
agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
Holdings. For US tax purposes, a US holder must include cash
dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the US information reporting and backup withholding tax
date that such holder or the ADS depositary receives them,
Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale
translating dividends paid in UK pounds sterling into US dollars
of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain
using the exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt. A US
financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to US
holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash dividend must
information reporting and may be subject to a US ‘backup’
include in ordinary income the fair market value of such shares on
withholding tax. General exceptions to this rule happen when the
the dividend payment date, and the tax basis of those shares will
US holder: establishes that it is a corporation (other than an S
equal such fair market value.
corporation) or other exempt holder; or provides a correct taxpayer
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less identification number, certifies that no loss of exemption from
than 61 days, and subject to a foreign corporation being backup withholding has occurred and otherwise complies with the
considered a ‘qualified foreign corporation’ (which includes not applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules. Holders
being classified for US federal income tax purposes as a passive that are not US taxpayers generally are not subject to US
foreign investment company), certain dividends (‘qualified information reporting or backup withholding tax, but may be
dividends’) received by an individual US holder generally will be required to comply with applicable certification procedures to
subject to US taxation at preferential rates. Based on the establish that they are not US taxpayers in order to avoid the
company’s audited financial statements and relevant market and application of such US information reporting requirements or
shareholder data, HSBC Holdings was not and does not anticipate backup withholding tax to payments received within the US or
being classified as a passive foreign investment company. through certain financial intermediaries.
Accordingly, dividends paid on the shares or ADSs generally
should be treated as qualified dividends. Approach to ESG reporting
Taxation of capital gains
The information set out in the ESG review on pages 42 to 88,
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of taken together with other information relating to ESG issues
shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless included in this Annual Report and Accounts 2021, aims to provide
at the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a key ESG information and data relevant to our operations for the
trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency year ended 31 December 2021. The data is compiled for the
or permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have financial year 1 January to 31 December 2021 unless otherwise
been used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, specified. Measurement techniques and calculations are explained
profession, vocation, branch or agency or permanent next to data tables where necessary. There are no significant
establishment. Such gains will be included in income for US tax changes from the previous reporting period in terms of scope,
purposes, and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs boundary or measurement of our reporting of ESG matters. Where
were held for more than one year. A long-term capital gain relevant, rationale is provided for any restatement of information
realised by an individual US holder generally will be subject to US or data that has been previously published. We have also
tax at preferential rates. considered our obligations under the Environmental, Social and
Inheritance tax Governance Reporting Guide contained in Appendix 27 to The
Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is Hong Kong Limited (‘ESG Guide’) and under LR9.8.6R(8) of the
determined to be the US for the purposes of the United States – Financial Conduct Authority’s (‘FCA’) Listing Rules. We will
United Kingdom Double Taxation Convention relating to estate continue to develop and refine our reporting and disclosures on
and gift taxes (the ‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such ESG matters in line with feedback received from our investors and
purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any US federal other stakeholders, and in view of our obligations under the ESG
estate or gift tax chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK Guide and the FCA’s Listing Rules.
inheritance tax on the individual’s death or on a lifetime transfer of
ESG Guide
shares or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or ADSs
(i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at the time of the We comply with the ‘comply or explain’ provisions in the ESG
settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a Guide, save for certain items, which we describe in more detail
national of the UK), (ii) are part of the business property of a UK below:
permanent establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) pertain to a UK • A1(b) on relevant laws/regulations relating to air and
fixed base of an individual used for the performance of greenhouse gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and
independent personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax generation of hazardous and non-hazardous waste: Taking into
Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability for account the nature of our business, we do not believe that
the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or there are relevant laws and regulations in these areas that have
ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal significant impacts on HSBC.
estate or gift tax. • A1.3 on total hazardous waste produced, A1.4 on total non-
hazardous waste produced: Taking into account the nature of
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – ADSs
our business, we do not consider hazardous waste to be a
If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American material issue for our stakeholders. As such, we report only on
Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will include a transfer of total waste produced, which includes hazardous and non-
shares to the depositary) under the current published HMRC hazardous waste.
practice, UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax will be
• A1.6 on handling hazardous and non-hazardous waste: Taking
payable. The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally
into account the nature of our business, we do not consider this
payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the
to be a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding
aggregate rate of 1.5%.
this, we continue to focus on the reduction and recycling of all
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer waste. Building on the success of our previous operational
will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the environmental strategy, we are identifying key opportunities
same transfer. where we can lessen our wider environmental impact,
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to including waste management. For further details, please see
transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate our ESG review on page 51.
instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at
• A2.4 on sourcing water issue: Taking into account the nature of
all times outside the UK, and provided further that any such
our business, we do not consider this to be a material issue for
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 401
Additional
information
Additional information
our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we have implemented physical risk. This is due to transitional challenges including data
measures to further reduce water consumption through the limitations.
installation of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or zero flush
We expect the data limitations related to quantitative scenario
sanitary fittings and continue to track our water consumption.
analysis, specific risk metrics and physical risk targets to be
• A2.5 on packaging material, B2.2 on lost days due to work addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes
injury, B6(b) on issues related to health and safety and labelling available and technology solutions are implemented.
relating to products and services provided, B6.1 on percentage
Scope 3 emissions disclosure
of total products sold or shipped subject to recalls for safety
and health reasons and B6.4 in recall procedures: Taking into Metrics and targets (b) relating to scope 3 emissions metrics: We
account the nature of our business, we do not consider these to currently disclose partial scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions
be material issues for our stakeholders. including business travel and financed emissions. In relation to
financed emissions, we are disclosing scope 3 greenhouse gas
This is aligned with the materiality reporting principle that is set
emissions for the oil and gas, and the power and utilities sectors.
out in the ESG Guide. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ on
Future disclosure on scope 3 financed emissions (customers) and
page 44 for further information on how we determine what
supply chain emissions (suppliers), and related risks is reliant on
matters are material to our stakeholders.
both our customers and suppliers publicly disclosing their carbon
TCFD recommendations and recommended emissions and related risks. We aim to disclose financed
disclosures emissions for additional sectors by 2023.
As noted on page 19, we have considered our ‘comply or explain’ Our approach to disclosure of financed emissions for additional
obligation under the FCA’s Listing Rules, and confirm that we have sectors can be found on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
made disclosures consistent with the TCFD Recommendations responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
and Recommended Disclosures in this Annual Report and Other matters
Accounts 2021 save for certain items, which we describe below:
Strategy (b) relating to acquisitions/divestments and access to
Targets setting capital: We have considered the impact of climate-related issues
Metrics and targets (c) relating to short-term targets: Given that on our businesses, strategy, and financial planning, but not
climate scenarios are mainly focused on medium- to long-term specifically in relation to acquisitions/divestments or access to
horizons, rather than short term, we have set interim 2030 targets capital. Due to transitional challenges such as process limitations,
for on-balance sheet financed emissions for the oil and gas, and we do not disclose the climate-related impact in these areas. We
power and utilities sectors. HSBC intends to review the financed will aim to further enhance our processes in relation to
emissions baseline and targets annually, where relevant, to help acquisitions/divestments and access to capital in the medium
ensure that they are aligned with market practice and current term.
climate science. Metrics and targets (c) relating to water usage target: We have
Impacts on financial planning and performance described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
Strategy (b) relating to financial planning and performance: We do However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do
not currently fully disclose the impacts of climate-related issues on not consider water usage to be a material target for our business
financial planning, how these serve as an input to the financial and, therefore, we have not included a target in this year’s
planning process, the impact of climate-related issues on our disclosure.
financial performance (for example, revenues and costs) and
With respect to our obligations under LR9.8.6R(8) of the FCA’s
financial position (for example, assets and liabilities), in each case
Listing Rules, as part of considering what to measure and publicly
due to transitional challenges including data and system
report, we perform an assessment to ascertain the appropriate
limitations.
level of detail to be included in the climate-related financial
Metrics and targets (a) relating to internal carbon prices and disclosures that are set out in our Annual Report and Accounts.
climate-related opportunities metrics: We do not currently fully Our assessment takes into account factors such as the level of our
disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, or other exposure to climate-related risks and opportunities, the scope and
business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, objectives of our climate-related strategy, transitional challenges,
and the nature, size and complexity of our business. See ‘How we
including revenue from products and services, forward-looking
decide what to measure’ on page 44 for further information.
metrics consistent with our business or strategic planning time
horizons, or internal carbon prices, in each case due to transitional
Cautionary statement regarding forward-
challenges including data and system limitations.
looking statements
We expect the data and system limitations related to financial
planning and performance, internal carbon prices and climate- The Annual Report and Accounts 2021 contains certain forward-
related opportunities metrics to be addressed in the medium term looking statements with respect to HSBC’s financial condition;
as more reliable data becomes available and technology solutions results of operations and business, including the strategic
are implemented. priorities; financial, investment and capital targets; and ESG
targets, commitments and ambitions described herein.
Impacts of transition and physical risk
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements
Strategy (c) relating to quantitative scenario analysis: We do not
about HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking
currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk
statements. Words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expects’,
quantitatively, due to transitional challenges including data
‘targets’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’,
limitations and evolving science and methodologies.
‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and ‘reasonably possible’, or the negative
Metrics and targets (a) relating to detailed climate-related risk thereof, other variations thereon or similar expressions are
exposure metrics for retail and wholesale: We do not fully disclose intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements
metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related risks on retail are based on current plans, information, data, estimates and
lending, parts of wholesale lending and other financial projections, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on
intermediary business activities (specifically credit exposure, them. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they
equity and debt holdings, or trading positions, each broken down are made. HSBC makes no commitment to revise or update any
by industry, geography, credit quality, average tenor). This is due forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
to transitional challenges including data limitations. occurring or existing after the date of any forward-looking
Metrics and targets (c) on targets related to physical risk: We do statements. Written and/or oral forward-looking statements may
not currently disclose targets used to measure and manage also be made in the periodic reports to the US Securities and
402 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021
Exchange Commission, summary financial statements to serving their consumer markets; expropriation, nationalisation,
shareholders, proxy statements, offering circulars and confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating to
prospectuses, press releases and other written materials, and in foreign ownership; the UK’s relationship with the EU following
oral statements made by HSBC’s Directors, officers or employees the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, which may continue to be
to third parties, including financial analysts. Forward-looking characterised by uncertainty, particularly with respect to the
statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Readers are regulation of financial services, despite the signing of the
cautioned that a number of factors could cause actual results to Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the UK and the EU;
differ, in some instances materially, from those anticipated or passage of the Hong Kong national security law and
implied in any forward-looking statement. These include, but are restrictions on telecommunications, as well as the US Hong
not limited to: Kong Autonomy Act, which have caused tensions between
China, the US and the UK; general changes in government
• changes in general economic conditions in the markets in
policy that may significantly influence investor decisions; the
which we operate, such as new recessions and fluctuations in
costs, effects and outcomes of regulatory reviews, actions or
employment and creditworthy customers beyond those
litigation, including any additional compliance requirements;
factored into consensus forecasts (including, without limitation,
and the effects of competition in the markets where we operate
as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic); the Covid-19 pandemic,
including increased competition from non-bank financial
which may continue to have adverse impacts on our income
services companies; and
due to lower lending and transaction volumes, lower wealth
and insurance manufacturing revenue, and volatile interest • factors specific to HSBC, including our success in adequately
rates in markets where we operate, as well as, more generally, identifying the risks we face, such as the incidence of loan
the potential for material adverse impacts on our financial losses or delinquency, and managing those risks (through
condition, results of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital account management, hedging and other techniques); our
position and credit ratings; deviations from the market and ability to achieve our financial, investment, capital and ESG
economic assumptions that form the basis for our ECL targets, commitments and ambitions (including with respect to
measurements (including, without limitation, as a result of the the commitments set forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy
Covid-19 pandemic); potential changes in HSBC’s dividend and our targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed
policy; changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates, emissions in the oil and gas and power and utilities sectors),
including the accounting impact resulting from financial which may result in our failure to achieve any of the expected
reporting in respect of hyperinflationary economies; volatility in benefits of our strategic priorities; model limitations or failure,
equity markets; lack of liquidity in wholesale funding or capital including, without limitation, the impact that the consequences
markets, which may affect our ability to meet our obligations of the Covid-19 pandemic have had on the performance and
under financing facilities or to fund new loans, investments and usage of financial models, which may require us to hold
businesses; geopolitical tensions or diplomatic developments additional capital, incur losses and/or use compensating
producing social instability or legal uncertainty, such as controls, such as judgemental post model adjustments, to
diplomatic tensions, including between China and the US, the address model limitations; changes to the judgements,
UK, the EU, India and other countries, and developments in estimates and assumptions we base our financial statements
Hong Kong and Taiwan, alongside other potential areas of on; changes in our ability to meet the requirements of
tension, which may affect the Group by creating regulatory, regulatory stress tests; a reduction in the credit ratings
reputational and market risks; the efficacy of government, assigned to us or any of our subsidiaries, which could increase
customer, and HSBC's actions in managing and mitigating ESG the cost or decrease the availability of our funding and affect
risks, in particular climate risk, nature-related risks and human our liquidity position and net interest margin; changes to the
rights risks, each of which can impact HSBC both directly and reliability and security of our data management, data privacy,
indirectly through our customers and which may result in information and technology infrastructure, including threats
potential financial and non-financial impacts; illiquidity and from cyber-attacks, which may impact our ability to service
downward price pressure in national real estate markets; clients and may result in financial loss, business disruption and/
adverse changes in central banks’ policies with respect to the or loss of customer services and data; changes in insurance
provision of liquidity support to financial markets; heightened customer behaviour and insurance claim rates; our dependence
market concerns over sovereign creditworthiness in over- on loan payments and dividends from subsidiaries to meet our
indebted countries; adverse changes in the funding status of obligations; changes in accounting standards, including the
public or private defined benefit pensions; societal shifts in implementation of IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which may
customer financing and investment needs, including consumer have a material impact on the way we prepare our financial
perception as to the continuing availability of credit; exposure statements and (with respect to IFRS 17) may negatively affect
to counterparty risk, including third parties using us as a the profitability of HSBC’s insurance business; changes in our
conduit for illegal activities without our knowledge; the ability to manage third-party, fraud and reputational risks
discontinuation of certain key Ibors and the development of inherent in our operations; employee misconduct, which may
near risk-free benchmark rates, as well as the transition of result in regulatory sanctions and/or reputational or financial
legacy Ibor contracts to near risk free benchmark rates, which harm; changes in skill requirements, ways of working and
exposes HSBC to material execution risks, and increases some talent shortages, which may affect our ability to recruit and
financial and non-financial risks; and price competition in the retain senior management and diverse and skilled personnel;
market segments we serve; and changes in our ability to develop sustainable finance and
climate-related products consistent with the evolving
• changes in government policy and regulation, including the
expectations of our regulators, and our capacity to measure the
monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and
climate impact from our financing activity (including as a result
other regulatory authorities in the principal markets in which
of data limitations and changes in methodologies), which may
we operate and the consequences thereof (including, without
affect our ability to achieve our climate ambition, our targets to
limitation, actions taken as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic); reduce financed emissions in our oil and gas and power and
initiatives to change the size, scope of activities and
utilities portfolio and the commitments set forth in our thermal
interconnectedness of financial institutions in connection with
coal phase-out policy, and increase the risk of greenwashing.
the implementation of stricter regulation of financial institutions
Effective risk management depends on, among other things,
in key markets worldwide; revised capital and liquidity
our ability through stress testing and other techniques to
benchmarks, which could serve to deleverage bank balance
prepare for events that cannot be captured by the statistical
sheets and lower returns available from the current business
models it uses; our success in addressing operational, legal and
model and portfolio mix; changes to tax laws and tax rates
regulatory, and litigation challenges; and other risks and
applicable to HSBC, including the imposition of levies or taxes
uncertainties we identify in ‘Top and emerging risks’ on pages
designed to change business mix and risk appetite; the
124 to 131.
practices, pricing or responsibilities of financial institutions
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 403
Additional
information
Abbreviations
E
Currencies
EAD¹ Exposure at default
£ British pound sterling
EBA European Banking Authority
CA$ Canadian dollar
EC European Commission
€ Euro
ECB European Central Bank
HK$ Hong Kong dollar
ECL Expected credit losses. In the income statement, ECL is
MXN Mexican peso recorded as a change in expected credit losses and other
RMB Chinese renminbi credit impairment charges. In the balance sheet, ECL is
SGD Singapore dollar recorded as an allowance for financial instruments to which
only the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
$ United States dollar
EEA European Economic Area
A
Eonia Euro Overnight Index Average
ABS¹ Asset-backed security
EPC Energy performance certificate
ADR American Depositary Receipt
EPS Earnings per ordinary share
ADS American Depositary Share
ESG Environmental, social and governance
AGM Annual General Meeting
EU European Union
AI Artificial intelligence
Euribor Euro interbank offered rate
AIEA Average interest-earning assets
EVE Economic value of equity
ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee
F
AML Anti-money laundering
AML DPA Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US FAST-Infra Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable Transition-
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012 Infrastructure
ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
AT1 Additional tier 1 FFVA Funding fair value adjustment estimation methodology on
derivative contracts
B
FPA Fixed pay allowance
Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision FRB Federal Reserve Board (US)
Basel II¹ 2006 Basel Capital Accord FRC Financial Reporting Council
Basel III¹ Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and FSB Financial Stability Board
liquidity rules
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
BGF Business Growth Fund, an investment firm that provides
FTE Full-time equivalent staff
growth capital for small and mid-sized businesses in the UK
and Ireland FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange index
FVOCI¹ Fair value through other comprehensive income
BoCom Bank of Communications Co., Limited, one of China’s largest
banks FVPL¹ Fair value through profit or loss
BoE Bank of England FX Foreign exchange
Bps¹ Basis points. One basis point is equal to one-hundredth of a FX DPA Three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US
percentage point Department of Justice, entered into in January 2018
BVI British Virgin Islands G
C GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles
CAPM Capital asset pricing model GAC Group Audit Committee
CDS¹ Credit default swap GBM Global Banking and Markets, a global business
CEA Commodity Exchange Act (US) GDP Gross domestic product
CET1¹ Common equity tier 1 GEC Group Executive Committee
CGUs Cash-generating units GLCM Global Liquidity and Cash Management
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business GMP Guaranteed minimum pension
CMC Capital maintenance charge GPSP Group Performance Share Plan
CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker GRC Group Risk Committee
COSO 2013 Committee of the Sponsors of the Treadway Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
Commission (US) GTRF Global Trade and Receivables Finance
CP¹ Commercial paper H
CRD IV¹ Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive
Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks
CRR¹ Customer risk rating
HKEx The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
CRR II¹ Revised Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive, as
HKMA Hong Kong Monetary Authority
implemented
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs
CSA Credit support annex
HNAH HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
CSM Contractual service margin
Holdings ALCO HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee
CVA¹ Credit valuation adjustment
Hong Kong Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s
D Republic of China
Deferred Shares Awards of deferred shares define the number of HSBC HQLA High-quality liquid assets
Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
entitled, generally between one and seven years from the
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank plc, also known as the non-ring-fenced bank
date of the award, and normally subject to the individual
remaining in employment HSBC Bank HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
Middle East
Dodd-Frank Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
HSBC Bank USA HSBC Bank USA, N.A., HSBC’s retail bank in the US
(US)
HSBC Canada The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company DoJ US Department of Justice
Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada and HSBC
DPD Days past due Securities Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes
DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and HSBC HSBC Continental Europe
investment contracts Continental
DVA¹ Debt valuation adjustment Europe
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021 405
Additional
information
Additional information
HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance Performance Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee
company (formerly Household International, Inc.) shares¹ share plans that are subject to corporate performance
conditions
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC
HSBC Private HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in Ping An Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the
Bank (Suisse) Switzerland second-largest life insurer in the PRC
HSBC UK HSBC UK Bank plc, also known as the ring-fenced bank POCI Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
HSBC USA The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of PPI Payment protection insurance
HSBC Bank USA) and HSBC Bank USA, consolidated for PRA Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
liquidity purposes PRC People’s Republic of China
HSI HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. Principal plan HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
HSSL HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg) PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business and
HTIE HSBC International Trust Services (Ireland) Limited long-term investment contracts with DPF
I PwC The member firms of the PwC network, including
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
IAS International Accounting Standards
R
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IBA ICE Benchmark Administration RAS Risk appetite statement
Ibor Interbank offered rate Repo¹ Sale and repurchase transaction
ICAAP Internal capital adequacy assessment process Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell
IEA International Energy Agency RFR Risk-free rate
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards RMM Group Risk Management Meeting
ILAAP Internal liquidity adequacy assessment process RNIV Risk not in VaR
IMA Internal model approach RoE Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
IMM Internal model method RoTE Return on average tangible equity
IRB¹ Internal ratings-based RWA¹ Risk-weighted asset
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association S
J SABB The Saudi British Bank
JV Joint venture SAPS Self-administered pension scheme
SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
K
SBTi Science Based Targets initiative
KMP Key Management Personnel
SDG United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
L SEC Securities and Exchange Commission (US)
LCR Liquidity coverage ratio ServCo group Separately incorporated group of service companies
established in response to UK ring-fencing requirements
LGBT+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender. The plus sign
denotes other non-mainstream groups on the spectrums of Sibor Singapore interbank offered rate
sexual orientation and gender identity SIC Securities investment conduit
LGD¹ Loss given default SME Small and medium-sized enterprise
Libor London interbank offered rate SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate
Long term For our strategic goals, we define long term as five to six Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed
years, commencing 1 January 2020 by HSBC
LTI Long-term incentive Sonia Sterling Overnight Index Average
LTV¹ Loan to value SPE¹ Special purpose entity
M T
Mainland China People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong and Macau TCFD¹ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
Medium term For our strategic goals, we define medium term as three to THBFIX Thai Baht Interest Rate Fixing
five years, commencing 1 January 2020 TNFD Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
MENA Middle East and North Africa TSR¹ Total shareholder return
MREL Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities
U
MRT¹ Material Risk Taker
MSS Markets and Securities Services, HSBC’s capital markets and UAE United Arab Emirates
securities services businesses in Global Banking and Markets UK United Kingdom
UN United Nations
N
US United States of America
Net operating Net operating income before change in expected credit
income losses and other credit impairment charges/Loan impairment V
charges and other credit provisions, also referred to as VaR¹ Value at risk
revenue
VIU Value in use
NGO Non-governmental organisation
W
NII Net interest income
NIM Net interest margin WEF World Economic Forum
NPS Net promoter score WPB Wealth and Personal Banking, a global business
NSFR Net stable funding ratio 1 A full definition is included in the glossary to the Annual Report and
NYSE New York Stock Exchange Accounts 2021 which is available at www.hsbc.com/investors.
NZBA Net-Zero Banking Alliance
O
OCI Other comprehensive income
OECD Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development
OTC¹ Over-the-counter
P
PACTA Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment
PBT Profit before tax
PCAF Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials
PD¹ Probability of default
406 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2021