Opening up a world of opportunity
Our ambition is to be the preferred
international financial partner for our clients.
Our purpose, ambition and values reflect our
strategy and support our focus on execution.
Read more on our values and strategy
on pages 4 and 11.
Contents
Strategic report Risk review Our approach to ESG reporting
We embed our ESG reporting and Task Force
2 Highlights 132 Our approach to risk on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
4 Who we are 135 Top and emerging risks (‘TCFD’) within our Annual Report and
6 Group Chairman’s statement 142 Areas of special interest Accounts. Our TCFD disclosures are
8 Group Chief Executive’s review 142 Our material banking risks highlighted with the following symbol: TCFD
11 Our strategy
14 ESG overview Corporate governance report This Strategic Report was approved by the
20 Board decision making and Board on 21 February 2023.
engagement with stakeholders 240 Biographies of Directors and
(Section 172 (1) statement) senior management Mark E Tucker
24 Remuneration 259 Board committees Group Chairman
26 Financial overview 276 Directors’ remuneration report
31 Global businesses
38 Risk overview Financial statements A reminder
42 Long-term viability and going The currency we report in is US dollars.
concern statement 313 Independent auditors’ report
324 Financial statements Adjusted measures
Environmental, social and 335 Notes on the financial statements We supplement our IFRSs figures with
governance (‘ESG’) review non-IFRSs measures used by management
Additional information internally that constitute alternative
44 Our approach to ESG performance measures under European
46 Environmental 418 Shareholder information Securities and Markets Authority guidance
73 Social 427 Abbreviations and non-GAAP financial measures defined
85 Governance in and presented in accordance with US
Securities and Exchange Commission
Financial review rules and regulations. These measures are
highlighted with the following symbol:
98 Financial summary
109 Global businesses and Further explanation may be found on page 29.
geographical regions
128 Reconciliation of alternative None of the websites referred to in this
performance measures Annual Report and Accounts 2022 for the year
ended 31 December 2022 (including where a
link is provided), and none of the information
contained on such websites, are incorporated
by reference in this report.
HAAnc S cnB ouC ua nlH Rts oe 2 lpd 0oi 2 nrt2 g asn pdl c C O o ur v e co r v im er a fe g a e t : u O re p s e S n ti i t n t, g o n u e p o a f w HS o B rl C d ’ s o t f w o o p b p r o o r n t z u e n li i o ty ns. Touching the lion’s
paw was said to bring good luck, and that tradition continues today. The lions,
Stephen and Stitt, designed by British sculptor Henry Poole, were commissioned
to celebrate the opening of the newly-rebuilt HSBC building on the Bund in
Shanghai in 1923. Stephen and Stitt represent the strength and endurance that @HSBC
is part of our heritage. Loyal and proud, they stand guard outside our offices in linkedin.com/company/hsbc
Hong Kong, London and Shanghai, and symbolise good fortune and stability. facebook.com/HSBC
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
Performance in 2022
HSBC is one of the world’s leading
international banks.
We have a clear strategy to deliver revenue
and profit growth, enhance customer service
and improve returns to shareholders.
Delivery against our
Return on average tangible equity Common equity tier 1 capital ratio
financial targets 9.9% 14.2%
In assessing the Group’s financial Target: ≥12% from 2023 onwards. Target: >14%, managing in the range of
performance, we use a range of financial (2021: 8.3%) 14% to 14.5% in the medium term; and
measures that focus on the delivery of manage the range down further long term.
sustainable returns for our shareholders Adjusted operating expenses (2021: 15.8%)
and maintaining our financial strength. $30.5bn
Dividend per share
For our financial targets, we define medium $0.32
Target: 2022 adjusted operating expenses
term as three to four years and long term as
five to six years, commencing 1 January 2020. broadly stable compared with 2021.
Further explanation of performance against (2021: $30.1bn) 2022 payout ratio: 44%
Group financial targets can be found on page 26. Updated target: dividend payout ratio
Gross risk-weighted asset reduction of 50% for 2023 and 2024, excluding
$128bn material significant items.
Previous target: sustainable cash dividends
with a payout ratio of 40% to 55% from
Since the start of the programme.
2022 onwards.
Target: >$110bn by the end of 2022.
Strategic performance
Capital allocation to Asia Sustainable finance and investment
indicators 47% $210.7bn
Our strategy supports our ambition of being Tangible equity as a percentage of the Cumulative total provided and facilitated
the preferred international financial partner Group’s (excluding associates, holding since January 2020.
for our clients. companies, and consolidation adjustments). (2021: $126.7bn)
(2021: 42%)
We are committed to building a business Net zero in our own operations
for the long term, developing relationships Net new invested assets 58.5%
that last. $80bn
Cumulative reduction in absolute greenhouse
Read more on our strategic progress on page 11.
Generated in 2022, of which $59bn were in Asia. gas emissions from 2019 baseline.
Read more on how we set and define our
(2021: 50.3%)
environmental, social and governance metrics
on page 16. Gross cost saves
Read more on our financed emissions scope, $5.6bn Financed emissions targets
methodology and terminology on page 50, 8 sectors
and our definition of sustainable finance and
investment on page 57. Delivered from our cost-reduction programme,
with an expected additional $1bn in 2023, and Number of sectors where we have set
a total programme cost of $6.5bn. on-balance sheet financed emissions targets.
Gender diversity
33.3%
Women in senior leadership roles.
(2021: 31.7%)
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 1
Strategic
report
Highlights
Strategic progress
– We have made progress in implementing – As part of our efforts to improve the – We have continued to invest and grow
our transformation programme, returns profile of the Group, we surpassed in the areas in which we are strongest.
establishing a platform for future our gross RWA reduction target, In our Wealth business in Asia, we
growth. generating cumulative gross RWA attracted net new invested assets
– During 2022, we took further actions to reductions of $128bn since the start of $59bn in 2022.
reshape the Group. In November 2022, of the programme in 2020.
we announced the planned sale of – Our cost-reduction programme continued
our banking business in Canada, which to make progress, with a further $2.3bn
is expected to be completed in late of gross cost savings recognised in 2022.
2023, subject to regulatory and Since the start of the programme in
governmental approvals. In addition, 2020, we have realised gross savings
we are in the process of disposing of of $5.6bn, with cost to achieve spend
our retail banking operations in France, as of $6.5bn. While our three-year cost to
well as exiting our businesses in Greece achieve programme has now concluded,
and Russia, subject to regulatory and the Group-wide focus on cost discipline
governmental approvals. remains resolute.
ESG highlights
Transition to net zero Build inclusion and resilience Act responsibly
– We have set interim 2030 targets for – Having surpassed our 2020 target to reach – We conducted a review of our salient
on-balance sheet financed emissions 30% women in senior leadership roles, we human rights issues, including
for eight sectors. These include six have made progress towards our goal stakeholder consultation with non-
sectors for which we have reported to achieve 35% by 2025, with 33.3% governmental organisations (‘NGOs’)
2019 and 2020 emissions: oil and gas; achieved in 2022. We continue to make and potentially affected groups.
power and utilities; cement; iron, steel and progress towards the target we set in 2020 – We aim to be a top-three bank for customer
aluminium; aviation; and automotive. We to at least double the number of Black senior satisfaction. While our net promoter scores
have also set targets for thermal coal power leaders within five years. have improved in many of our key markets,
and thermal coal mining. We recognise that – We have stepped up efforts to support we have more work to do to improve our
methodologies and data for measuring customers in the face of inflation and position relative to peers, as some have
emissions will continue to evolve. the rising cost of living, particularly in the improved their performance more quickly.
– We published an updated energy policy, UK. We have focused on early intervention, – We have launched a sustainable
which is an important mechanism to help using data analysis to identify potentially procurement mandatory procedure for
phase down the financed emissions of impacted customers in our WPB and CMB our employees and a new supplier code
our energy portfolio in line with a 1.5ºC businesses, signpost to relevant resources, of conduct to help ensure our sustainability
pathway. We also updated our thermal and provide tailored support. objectives are embedded in the way we
coal phase-out policy with new targets – We are working to make the banking operate and do business with suppliers.
to reduce absolute on-balance sheet experience more accessible in both physical
financed emissions from thermal and digital spaces. We are committed to
coal mining and coal-fired power, ensuring that our digital channels are
and extended the policy to exclude usable by everyone, regardless of
finance for the specific purposes of ability. The introduction of features such
new metallurgical coal mines. as safe spaces, quiet hours and talking
– Since 2020, we have provided and ATMs are helping to make our physical
facilitated $210.7bn of sustainable spaces more accessible as well.
finance and investment, an increase
of $84.2bn in the past year.
– Within our own operations, we have made
a 58.5% cumulative reduction in our
absolute greenhouse gas emissions
from a 2019 baseline. We also published
supply chain emissions as part of our
scope 3 disclosures for the first time.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 3
Strategic report
Who we are
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services organisations in the world.
We aim to create long-term value for our shareholders and capture opportunity.
Our values
Our values help define who we are as an organisation, and are key to our
long-term success.
We value difference We succeed together We take responsibility We get it done
Seeking out different Collaborating across Holding ourselves Moving at pace and
perspectives boundaries accountable and making things happen
taking the long view
Our strategy
Our strategy supports our ambition of being the preferred international financial
partner for our clients, centred around four key areas.
Focus on our Digitise at scale Energise for growth Transition to net zero
strengths We continue to invest We are building We are helping the
In each of our global in our technology and a dynamic and transition to a net
businesses, we continue operational capabilities inclusive culture, zero economy by
to focus on areas where to drive operating and empowering our transforming ourselves,
we are strongest and productivity across people by helping them and supporting our
have opportunities businesses and develop future skills. customers to make
to grow. geographies and to their own transitions.
offer better client
experience.
For further details on our strategy, see pages 11 to 13.
Our global reach
Our global businesses serve around 39 million customers worldwide
through a network that covers 62 countries and territories.
Our customers range from individual savers Assets of Approximately
and investors to some of the world’s biggest $3.0tn 39m
companies, governments and international
organisations. We aim to connect them
Customers bank with us1
to opportunities and help them to achieve
their ambitions.
Operations in We employ approximately
62 219,000
Countries and territories Full-time equivalent staff
For further details of our customers and approach to
geographical information, see page 108.
1 Our customer numbers exclude those acquired through
our purchase of L&T Investment Management.
4 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
Who we are
Our global We serve our customers through three global businesses.
businesses
On pages 31 to 37 we provide In each of our global businesses, Each of the chief executive
an overview of our performance we focus on delivering growth officers of our global businesses
in 2022 for each of our global in areas where we have distinctive reports to our Group Chief
businesses, as well as our capabilities and have significant Executive, who in turn reports to
Corporate Centre. opportunities. the Board of HSBC Holdings plc.
Wealth and Personal Banking Commercial Banking Global Banking and Markets
(’WPB’) (‘CMB’) (’GBM’)
We help millions of our customers Our global reach and expertise We provide a comprehensive
look after their day-to-day help domestic and international range of financial services
finances and manage, protect businesses around the world and products to corporates,
and grow their wealth. unlock their potential. governments and institutions.
For further details, see page 31. For further details, see page 33. For further details, see page 35.
Adjusted revenue by Wealth and Personal Banking Commercial Banking Global Banking and Markets
global business1
44% 29% 27%
1 Calculation is based on adjusted revenue of our global businesses excluding Corporate Centre, which is also excluded
from the total adjusted revenue number. Corporate Centre had negative adjusted revenue of $596m in 2022.
Our stakeholders Building strong relationships with our stakeholders helps enable us to deliver
our strategy in line with our long-term values, and operate the business in a
sustainable way.
Our stakeholders are the people Many of our employees are Our size and global reach mean
who work for us, bank with us, customers and shareholders, our actions can have a significant
own us, regulate us, and live in while our business customers are impact. We are committed to
the societies we serve and the often suppliers. We aim to serve, doing business responsibly, and
planet we all inhabit. These creating value for our customers thinking for the long term. This is
human connections are complex and shareholders. key to delivering our strategy.
and overlap.
Customers Employees Investors Communities Regulators and Suppliers
governments
For further details of how we are engaging with our stakeholders, see page 15.
Our section 172 statement, detailing our Directors’ responsibility to stakeholders, can be found on page 20.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 5
Strategic report
Group Chairman’s statement
As we signalled at our interim results, we are
committed to ensuring our shareholders share
the benefits of our improved performance. The
Board approved a second interim dividend for
2022 of $0.23 per share, bringing the full year
dividend for 2022 to $0.32 per share. We are
establishing a dividend payout ratio of 50%
of reported earnings per share for 2023 and
2024, excluding material significant items, and
we aim to restore the dividend to pre-Covid-19
levels as soon as possible. We also intend to
return to paying quarterly dividends from the
start of 2023.
Subject to completion of the planned sale
of our banking business in Canada, the
Board’s intention is to consider the payment
of a special dividend of $0.21 per share as
a priority use of the proceeds generated.
A decision in relation to any potential dividend
would be made following the completion
of the transaction, currently expected in
late 2023, with payment following in early
2024. Any remaining additional surplus
capital is expected to be allocated towards
opportunities for organic growth and
Mark E Tucker investment alongside share buy-backs,
Group Chairman which would be in addition to any existing
share buy-back programme.
The global economy remains volatile, but our strategy is
Board operations
delivering improved returns for shareholders and HSBC In 2022, the Board met in person in London,
Hong Kong, New York and Riyadh – on each
is well placed to compete as the economy recovers.
occasion also undertaking a wide range of
engagements with clients, colleagues,
government officials and regulators. The
importance of engaging with our teams was
also underlined by the appointment of José
At the start of 2022, the ongoing impact The reshaping of our portfolio continued with (Pepe) Meade as Board member with specific
of Covid-19 was the most dominant the announcement of the planned sale of our responsibility for employee liaison. At the
factor within the external environment. banking business in Canada. We continued to same time as holding some in-person
While further outbreaks in Hong Kong develop our Wealth capabilities, especially in meetings, the continued use of virtual
and mainland China significantly Asia, and this strategy gained traction in 2022. meetings enabled us to retain the benefits
impacted economic growth, the Russia- Our increased investment in technology has of greater efficiency and reduced costs.
Ukraine war and rising inflation and improved the customer experience and made
interest rates had an even greater impact our processes more efficient. Meanwhile, we At the 2022 Annual General Meeting, Irene
on the global economy in 2022. They are continued to support our clients to transition Lee and Pauline van der Meer Mohr stepped
also likely to continue to have a greater to net zero, and also took further important down from the Board. I am enormously
economic impact than the pandemic in steps towards our ambition of aligning our grateful to them for their important and
2023, as we are already seeing with a financed emissions to net zero by 2050. Given valuable contributions to the Board, the
cost of living crisis affecting many of the urgency of today’s global energy crisis, it is committees and the subsidiary entities on
our customers and colleagues. now even more important that we continue to which they have served. Irene remains an
actively engage our clients on how they intend independent non-executive Director of The
to prepare their businesses for a low-carbon Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Strong financial performance and higher future. Limited and independent non-executive
capital distributions chair of Hang Seng Bank Limited. Geraldine
We supported our customers through the In 2022, reported profit before tax was Buckingham joined the Board as an
challenges that they faced at the same time as $17.5bn, a decrease of $1.4bn compared with independent non-executive Director on 1 May.
executing our strategic plan. The first phase of 2021 due to the $2.4bn impairment on the
our transformation is now complete. The work planned sale of our French retail banking Following Ewen Stevenson’s departure,
that we have done has enabled us to emerge operations. Adjusted profit before tax was Georges Elhedery became Group Chief
from the pandemic a stronger bank, better $24.0bn, an increase of $3.4bn on last year. All Financial Officer and joined the Board on
aligned to the international needs of our of our businesses grew profits in 2022, and we 1 January 2023. On behalf of the Board, I
customers. maintained our strong capital, funding and would like to again thank Ewen for all that
liquidity positions. he has done for the bank. His leadership,
financial expertise and operational rigour
have been invaluable to HSBC, and he
leaves with our very best wishes.
6 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
Group Chief Executive’s review
The difference compared with three years ago learning about digital and data, and
” The difference
is that our international connectivity is now sustainability also increased by 13% last
compared with three underpinned by good broad-based profit year, underlining the importance of these
generation around the world. Already the critical future skills.
years ago is that leading bank in Hong Kong, we gained market
share last year in key products including The transition to net zero will offer increasingly
our international
customer deposits, insurance and trade significant commercial opportunities in the
connectivity is now finance. We are also the leading foreign bank future. We have continued to make good
in mainland China by revenue and are pleased progress towards our ambition of providing
underpinned by good to have received seven main licence approvals and facilitating $750bn to $1tn of sustainable
since 2020. Our business in India delivered financing and investment by 2030. At the end
broad-based profit
$0.9bn of profit before tax last year and of 2022, the cumulative total for sustainable
generation around facilitated the equivalent of around 9% of financing and investment since 2020 had
India’s exports. In the Middle East, we reached more than $210bn. We published an
the world.” delivered $1.8bn of profits and were the updated energy policy, which commits us to
number one bank in capital markets league no longer provide new finance or advisory
tables. HSBC UK delivered $5bn of profits and services for the specific purpose of projects
was the number one bank for trade finance, pertaining to new oil and gas fields and related
while our non-ring-fenced bank in Europe infrastructure whose primary use is in
delivered $2.1bn of profits and around 35% conjunction with new fields. As per our policy,
of its client business was booked outside the we will continue to provide finance to maintain
region. Our US business has now had nine supplies of oil and gas in line with declining
consecutive quarters of profitability after its current and future global demand, while
turnaround, while our business in Mexico accelerating our activities in support
delivered a return on tangible equity of 18%. of clean energy. We have also set interim
2030 targets for on-balance sheet financed
The cost savings that we have made have emissions for eight sectors. These include
been reinvested in technology, which has in six sectors for which we have reported 2019
turn enabled us to change the way we operate and 2020 emissions. We recognise that
as a business. Technology spending was 19% methodologies and data for measuring
higher in 2022 than in 2019. Much of this emissions will continue to evolve, and our
investment has been used to rebuild and own disclosures will therefore continue to
upgrade platforms, which we have then rolled develop as a result. In 2023, we will publish
out globally. Our upgraded mobile banking our first bank-wide climate transition plan.
app is available in 24 markets and has around
13 million active users, while our upgraded Strong overall financial performance
digital trade finance platform has been rolled in 2022
out in the UK and Hong Kong, ensuring that The progress that we have made transforming
Our core purpose is ‘opening up a world of market-leading businesses are well positioned HSBC and investing in growth has helped
opportunity’ and that, in essence, is what we for the next 10 years. In 2022, we launched to drive an improved financial performance
do by helping our personal and corporate HSBC Orion, our new proprietary tokenisation in 2022. A strong net interest income
customers to move money between countries platform using blockchain technology for bond performance reflected higher global interest
and do business across borders. This is still issuances. We’re also partnering with fintechs rates, but there was also good underlying
the best way for us to create value, and what around the world to use their capabilities in growth across the business in key areas,
makes us a world leading bank for international our products. Finally, we are investing in particularly those linked to our international
and mid-market customers. We are the greater automation, which we expect to network.
number one trade finance bank, and trade reap the benefits from for years to come.
revenue was up 13% in 2022, surpassing the Overall, the Group delivered $17.5bn of
good level of growth in the previous year. Empowering our people has underpinned reported profit before tax, which was
Trade also increased in all regions. everything that we have achieved over the $1.4bn lower than in 2021. This was due to
past three years – and it will underpin the a net expected credit loss charge of $3.6bn
We are also one of the leading global foreign next phase of our strategy too. Reducing compared with a net release of $0.9bn last
exchange houses and a leading payments management layers has helped to increase year, as well as the impairment of $2.4bn
company globally, with over $600tn of our speed and agility. In our last staff survey, relating to the planned sale of our retail
payments processed in 2022. Our global the number of colleagues who report that banking operations in France. Adjusted
connectivity has made international our work processes allow them to work efficiently profit before tax was $24bn, up $3.4bn.
fastest-growing revenue segment in Wealth was 6 percentage points above the sector
and Personal Banking. Products like Global benchmark. Confidence within the Adjusted revenue was 18% higher than the
Money and our Wealth platforms are organisation has also increased. 77% of same period last year, as net interest income
specifically designed to meet the international colleagues told us they are confident about grew strongly in all of our global businesses.
needs of our retail and wealth customers. our future, which is 3 percentage points up There was also a strong performance in Global
These customers also provide around double on 2021. We have continued to make steady Foreign Exchange. Our reported return on
the average revenue of domestic-only progress against our medium-term targets on tangible equity for 2022 was 9.9%. Excluding
customers. gender and ethnicity representation, while significant items, we delivered a return on
the number of hours that colleagues spent tangible equity of 11.6%.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 9
Strategic report | Our strategy
Delivery in 2022
Our strategy centres on four key pillars: focus on our areas of strengths, digitise at scale to adapt our operating model for the future, energise our
organisation for growth, and support the transition to a net zero global economy.
Focus on our strengths
In our global businesses
In each of our global businesses, we continue to focus on areas where we are strongest and have opportunities to grow.
Wealth and Personal Banking Commercial Banking Global Banking and Markets
Adjusted revenue for our Wealth and Personal Adjusted revenue for our Commercial Banking Adjusted revenue for our Global Banking
Banking business was $24.4bn in 2022, up business reached $16.2bn in 2022, up 29% and Markets business was $15.4bn in 2022,
16% compared with 2021. This was driven by compared with 2021. Adjusted revenue rose in up 10% compared with 2021, driven by
growth in Personal Banking, where adjusted all regions, and notably in Hong Kong, which strong performances in Global Payments
revenue was $15.9bn, up 37%. We continued grew by 36%. Fee income increased by 8% to Solutions and Markets and Securities
to make progress in executing our Wealth, $3.7bn, reflecting growth in Global Payments Services, primarily from our Global Foreign
Asset Management and Insurance strategy, Solutions and Global Trade and Receivables Exchange business. During the year, we
attracting net new invested assets of $80bn, Finance. continued to drive efforts for cross-business
compared with $64bn in 2021, with $59bn line collaboration through referrals and
coming from Asia. Our Asia Insurance value Our digital propositions have gained cross-sell of products, with adjusted
of new business reached $1.1bn, up 24%. significant traction, with payments processed collaboration revenue of approximately
on HSBCnet mobile increasing by nearly 62% $3.7bn in 2022, compared with approximately
We continued to grow our digital propositions during the year. Kinetic, our digital business $3.5bn in 2021. Our Global Banking and
during the year. We launched Global Money in banking account for SMEs in the UK, gained Markets franchise remains an internationally
the UK and Australia, with the proposition now approximately 29,000 customers, taking its connected one, with our clients doing
live in eight markets. This new proposition overall customer base to approximately business with us in multiple markets. In 2022,
recorded approximately $11bn of transactions 53,000. Business Go, our new global digital our clients in Europe and the Americas drove
in 2022, enabling customers to make cheaper platform for SMEs, has gone live and has approximately $2.6bn of client business into
and faster international payments. We also grown to over 95,000 users as of 2022. Asia and the Middle East, an increase of
signed up more than 900,000 users to our approximately 30%.
Pinnacle financial planning app to bring the In 2022, we launched our first Banking-as-a-
total user base to over 1 million. Service proposition in the US with Oracle We continued to develop our digital
Netsuite, embedding HSBC’s banking propositions with the launch of HSBC Orion,
Within our Wealth business, in partnership products within Oracle’s Cloud enterprise a new proprietary tokenisation platform to
with BlackRock, we launched Prism, a hybrid resource planning platform. issue digital bonds based on distributed
advisory service to help investors make more ledger technology.
informed investment decisions. We continue to actively help our clients with
their climate transition goals, and have We also extended our sustainable investment
$80bn completed the global roll-out of our core product range, launching a biodiversity
sustainable product suite covering loans, trade screened equity index created in partnership
finance and bonds. We also launched our with biodiversity data specialist Iceberg data
Net new invested assets in 2022. enhanced HSBC Sustainability Tracker for lab and Euronext.
Business Banking customers.
c.$2.6bn
$3.7bn
Client business1 booked in the
Fee income in 2022. East from clients managed in
the Americas and Europe.
1 Client business differs from reported revenue as it relates to certain client-specific income, and excludes certain products (including Principal Investments,
GBM ’other’ and asset management), Group allocations, recoveries and other non-client-related and portfolio level revenue. It also excludes Hang Seng. GBM
client business includes an estimation of client-specific day-one-trade-specific revenue from Markets and Securities Services products, which excludes ongoing
mark-to-market revenue and portfolio level revenue such as hedging. Cross-border client business represents the income earned from a client’s entity domiciled
in a different geography than where the client group’s global relationship is managed. ‘Booking location’ represents the geography of the client’s entity or
transaction booking location where this is different from where the client group’s global relationship is managed.
12 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
Our strategy
Digitise at scale
We continued to invest in our technology and significant priority. During the year, just under transformed, for example, in Singapore, our
operational capabilities to drive productivity half of our Wealth and Personal Banking Wealth and Personal Banking customers can
across businesses and geographies, and to customers were active users of our mobile now open an account even before they arrive
improve customer experience. In 2022, $6.1bn, applications, an increase from 42.7% in 2021, in their new country via their mobile phones.
or 20%, of our overall adjusted operating and over 75% of our Commercial Banking
expenses were dedicated to technology, customers were active on our digital To improve our operational efficiency, we
up from $5.6bn in 2021. applications, an increase from 71.0%. continue to deploy technologies at scale in our
Furthermore, in Wealth and Personal Banking, organisation. Our Cloud adoption rate, which
Enhancing our digital propositions to improve nearly half of sales were generated digitally. is the percentage of our technology services
customer engagement and journeys remains a Our customer journeys continue to be on the private or public Cloud, increased from
27% to 35%.
Energise for growth
Empowering and energising our colleagues structure. We achieved 33.3% female hours spent on these future-ready skills
is crucial for inspiring a dynamic culture. Our representation in senior leadership positions (digital, data, and sustainability) increased
Employee engagement index, our headline by the end of 2022, and are on track to achieve to approximately 375,777 hours, up from
measure of employee satisfaction, rose to 73% our target of 35% by 2025. In 2022, we also 334,651 hours in 2021.
in 2022 from 67% in 2019, our baseline year. set a Group-wide ethnicity strategy to better
The participation rate of the survey also rose represent the communities we serve. We are We outline how we put our purpose and
from 50% to 78%. on track to meet this, with 2.5% of leadership values into practice in the following ‘ESG
roles held by colleagues of Black heritage overview‘ section.
We remained focused on creating a diverse in 2022.
and inclusive environment, especially in senior For further details on how we plan to energise
leadership roles, which are those classified as We continued to help our colleagues develop for growth, see the Social section in the ESG
review on page 73.
band 3 and above in our global career band future-ready skills. In 2022, the total learning
Transition to net zero
In November, we participated in COP27 to So far, we have set interim 2030 targets for a total of $84.2bn of sustainable finance and
play our part in bringing together the public on-balance sheet financed emissions for eight investments, bringing our cumulative amount
and private sector to mobilise the transition sectors. We also published updated energy since 1 January 2020 to $210.7bn of our
to a net zero global economy. We also made and thermal coal phase-out policies during the $750bn to $1tn ambition by 2030.
good progress on our ambitions, including year, which are important mechanisms to help
expanding our financed emissions targets to phase down our financed emissions in these Unlocking new climate solutions
eight sectors in total, reducing our greenhouse areas while supporting our customers in their In 2022, Climate Asset Management, the
gas emissions, and supporting our customers own transition plans. We plan to extend our dedicated natural capital investment manager
in their transition to a net zero future including financed emissions analysis to new sectors – formed as a joint venture with climate change
the launch of new climate solutions. shipping, agriculture, commercial real estate investment and advisory firm Pollination,
and residential real estate – in future achieved commitments of more than $650m
Becoming a net zero bank disclosures. We remain committed to setting across its two natural capital strategies. We
We continue to pursue our climate ambition facilitated emissions targets, and aim to also officially launched Pentagreen, a joint
to become net zero in our operations and continue to engage with industry initiatives venture with Temasek, to finance the
supply chain by 2030, and align our financed to produce a consistent and comparable development of sustainable infrastructure
emissions to the Paris Agreement goal of cross-industry approach. in south-east Asia.
net zero by 2050. In 2022, we reduced our
absolute greenhouse emissions in our Supporting customers through transition For further details on our climate ambition,
operations to 285,000 tonnes COe, which We have made progress in our ambition to see the Environmental section in the ESG
2 review on page 46.
represents a 58.5% reduction from our support our customers through their transition
2019 baseline. to net zero. In 2022, we provided and facilitated
Growth and returns
Looking ahead, we will continue to build on our areas of strength, using our international connectivity and strong geographical diversity
spanning every region. We will also continue to drive our transaction banking, wealth and digital platforms in order to grow fee income. Cost
discipline remains a priority for us, while we drive investment in technology to increase productivity and growth. As a result, we expect to
achieve more than 12% RoTE from 2023 onwards – the highest in a decade – and have substantial distribution capacity in 2023 and 2024.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 13
Strategic report
ESG overview
We conduct our business to support the sustained success
of our customers, people and other stakeholders.
Our approach
We are guided by our purpose: to open up opportunities, challenges, related risks and diversity, and we focus on employee sentiment,
a world of opportunity for our colleagues, progress we make. To deliver on our ambition, and support our colleagues’ resilience through
customers and communities. Our purpose is we require enhanced processes, systems, well-being and learning resources.
underpinned by our values: we value difference; controls, governance and new sources of data.
we succeed together; we take responsibility; We continue to invest in our climate resources We strive to provide inclusive and accessible
and we get it done. Our purpose and values and skills, and develop our business banking for our customers. We help our
help us to deliver our strategy and unlock management process to integrate climate customers to build financial resilience by
long-term value for our stakeholders. impacts. As we enhance our systems, providing resources that help them manage
processes, controls and governance, certain their finances, and services that help them
Our approach to ESG is shaped by our purpose aspects of our reporting will rely on manual protect what they value. This is critical in
and values and a desire to create sustainable sourcing and categorisation of data. Given the challenging times, as we continue to support
long-term value for our stakeholders. As an challenges on data sourcing as well as the our stakeholders in the wake of Covid-19 and
international bank with significant breadth evolution of our processes as mentioned in the face of a rising cost of living.
and scale, we understand that our climate, above, this has had an impact on certain
economies, societies, supply chains and climate disclosures including thermal coal. In Finally, we give back to our communities
people’s lives are interconnected. We recognise 2023, we will continue to review our approach through philanthropic giving, disaster relief
we can play an important role in tackling ESG to our disclosures, with our reporting needing and volunteering.
challenges. We focus our efforts on three to evolve to keep pace with market
areas: the transition to net zero, building developments. Act responsibly
inclusion and resilience, and acting responsibly. We are focused on running a strong and
We set out in more detail the steps we are sustainable business that puts the customer
Transition to net zero taking on our climate ambitions in the ESG first, values good governance, and gives our
The transition to net zero is one of the biggest review on page 47. stakeholders confidence in how we do what
challenges for our generation. Success will we do. Our conduct approach guides us to do
require governments, customers and finance Build inclusion and resilience the right thing and to focus on the impact we
providers to work together. Our global footprint Building inclusion and resilience helps us to have for our customers and the financial
means that many of our clients operate in create long-term value. By removing barriers markets in which we operate. Customer
high-emitting sectors and regions that face the and being a fair and equitable bank, we can experience is at the heart of how we operate.
greatest challenge in reducing emissions. This attract the best talent, serve a wider customer We aim to act responsibly and with integrity
means that our transition will be challenging base and support our communities. across the value chain.
but is an opportunity to make an impact.
An inclusive, healthy and stimulating On page 16, we have set out ways that we
We recognise that to achieve our climate environment for our people helps us to succeed. have supported our stakeholders through a
ambition we need to be transparent on the We have set goals for gender and ethnic challenging year.
ESG disclosure map and directory
Transition to Read more on our approach to the transition to net zero Page 46
net zero
Read more on our progress made against our ambition Page 50
to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050
Our climate ambition Read more on our progress made against our $750bn Page 57
to $1tn sustainable finance and investment ambition
Read more on our ambition to achieve net zero in our Page 62
own operations by 2030
We make disclosures consistent with Task Force
Detailed Task Force on Climate-related
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) Page 68
Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
recommendations, highlighted with the symbol: TCFD
Build Read more on how we are building an inclusive
Diversity and inclusion disclosures Page 74
inclusion environment that reflects our customers and
and communities, and our latest pay gap statistics
Pay gap disclosures P age 75
resilience
Act How we govern ESG Read more on our ESG governance approach and Page 86
responsibly human rights
Human rights and modern slavery disclosures Page 87
How our ESG targets link to executive Read more on our ESG targets embedded in executive Page 16;
remuneration remuneration Pages 282 to 287
Our ESG Data Pack Our ESG Data Pack provides more granular ESG
information, including the breakdown of our sustainable www.hsbc.com/esg
finance and investment progress, and complaints volumes
14 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
ESG overview
Engaging with our stakeholders and our material ESG topics
Engaging with our stakeholders is core to engagements outlined in the table below. as well as the ESG Guide under the Hong
being a responsible business. To determine Disclosure standards such as the TCFD, Kong Stock Exchange Listing Rules and
material topics that our stakeholders are World Economic Forum (‘WEF’) Stakeholder other applicable rules and regulations, are
interested in, we conduct a number of Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability considered as part of the identification of
activities throughout the year, including Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’), material issues and disclosures.
Material topics highlighted by
Our stakeholders How we engage the engagement1
Customers Our customers’ voices are heard through our interactions with them, – Customer advocacy
surveys and by listening to their complaints – Cybersecurity
Employees Our colleagues’ voices are heard through our employee Snapshot survey, – Employee training
Exchange meetings, and our ‘speak-up’ channels, including our global – Diversity and inclusion
whistleblowing platform, HSBC Confidential
– Employee engagement
Investors We engage with our shareholders through our AGMs, virtual and in-person – Thermal coal policies
meetings, conferences and our annual investor survey – Energy policies
– Becoming a net zero bank
in our own operations and
financed emissions
Communities We welcome dialogue with external stakeholders, including non-governmental – Financial inclusion and
organisations (‘NGOs’) and other civil societies groups. We engage directly on community investment
specific issues and by taking part in external forums and working groups
Regulators and We proactively engage with regulators and governments to facilitate strong – Anti-bribery and corruption
governments relationships through virtual and in-person meetings and by responding to – Conduct and product
consultations individually and jointly via industry bodies responsibility
Suppliers Our code of conduct for suppliers of goods and services sets out how we engage – Supply chain management
with our suppliers on ethical and environmental performance – Human rights
1 These form part of our ESG disclosures suite together with other requirements, and are not exhaustive or exclusive to one stakeholder group. For further details on
our disclosures, see our ESG review and ESG Data Pack, as well as our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Supporting our customers facing a rising cost of living hub’ on our public website. The and offering extensions to collection periods.
cost of living hub provides useful articles and tools to help Other measures in 2022 included:
We know that many of our customers around budget, manage money and gain access to
the world are facing increasing cost of living the range of support we are providing. Other – improving our customer support and
pressures from higher inflation, and we are measures in 2022 included: education, including through webinars and
committed to helping them. our financial well-being website, to guide
– conducting a review of our existing tools how best to improve financial resilience and
Colleagues across our global businesses have and services, helping to ensure requests forecast cash flows;
been reaching out to customers to provide for borrowing remained affordable; – enhancing the identification of customers
them with increased access to support, such – helping those most in need with temporary exhibiting signs of financial vulnerability, by
as free financial health checks, as well as support, such as reducing overdraft using data and front-line insights provided
proactively contacting those who we believe borrowing costs in eligible accounts; from relationship management teams;
could benefit from additional assistance.
– providing the opportunity to mortgage – increasing the education provided to our
customers coming to the end of an existing colleagues on the various forms of financial
Proactive support
fixed rate to secure a new rate earlier; and support available to clients; and
We have focused our support on our
customers in the UK, which is our largest – removing the payments of penalties for – proactively getting in touch with customers
market to be affected by rising cost of customers in need of funds having to to help ensure awareness of available
living pressures, using our guidelines close fixed-rate savers accounts early. support, including communicating with over
and procedures to help provide the right 40,000 SMEs, and increasing the number of
outcomes. We also engage closely and In our CMB business, our focus has been outbound calls in the fourth quarter of 2022
regularly with our key regulators to help towards helping Business Banking clients by 190%, when compared with the previous
ensure we meet their expectations of financial exhibiting signs of financial vulnerability, as well quarter, to those displaying signs of lower
institutions’ activities more generally during as participating in local government-backed financial resilience.
volatile markets. initiatives targeted at extending financial
support to SMEs. When a customer is in need For further details on our conduct and product
For our personal customers in financial of assistance, we review on a case-by-case responsibilities, see the ESG review on page 94.
For further details of how we are supporting our
difficulty, we enhanced our range of digital basis, with potential solutions including
colleagues amid rising inflation, see page 25.
resources, with the launch of a new ‘Rising repayment holidays, extending loan repayments
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 15
Strategic report | ESG overview
Our ESG ambitions, metrics and targets
TCFD
We have established ambitions and targets that To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a assessment. For a summary of how all
guide how we do business, including how we number of measures are included in the financial and non-financial metrics link to
operate and how we serve our customers. These annual incentive and long-term incentive executive remuneration, see pages 282 to
include targets designed to help us achieve our scorecards of the Group Chief Executive, 287 of the Directors’ remuneration report.
environment and social sustainability goals. They Group Chief Financial Officer and Group
also help us to improve employee advocacy, the Executives that underpin the ESG metrics The table below sets out some of our key
diversity of senior leadership and strengthen our in the table below. ESG metrics that we use to measure our
market conduct. The targets for these measures progress against our ambitions. For further
are linked to the pillars of our ESG strategy: We have developed a forward-looking details of how well we are doing, see the
transitioning to net zero, building inclusion roadmap to consider greater use of ESG ESG review on page 43.
and resilience, and acting responsibly. measures in executive performance
Environmental: Financed Sustainable finance and Net zero in our own
emissions2 investment3 operations4
Transition to 8 sectors $210.7bn 58.5%
net zero1
Number of sectors where we have Cumulative total provided and Cumulative reduction in absolute
set on-balance sheet financed facilitated since January 2020. operational greenhouse gas
emissions targets. (2021: $126.7bn) emissions from 2019 baseline.
Ambition: Achieve net zero in our Ambition: Provide and facilitate (2021: 50.3%)
financed emissions by 2050. $750bn to $1tn of sustainable Ambition: Achieve net zero in our own
finance and investment by 2030. operations and supply chain by 2030.
Social:
Gender diversity5 Ethnic diversity5 Employee engagement6
33.3% 37% 73%
Build inclusion increase
and resilience
Women in senior leadership roles. Of Black colleagues in senior Employee engagement score.
(2021: 31.7%) leadership roles from 2020 baseline. (2021: 72%)
Target: Achieve 35% women in (2021: 17.5% increase) Target: Maintain 72% in the Snapshot
senior leadership roles by 2025. Target: Double the number of Black Employee engagement index.
colleagues in senior leadership roles
between 2020 and 2025.
Governance:
Conduct training7 Customer satisfaction8
98% 4 out of 6 5 out of 6
Acting
responsibly
Employees who completed conduct WPB markets that sustained CMB markets that sustained
training in 2022. top-three rank and/or improved top-three rank and/or improved
(2021: 99%) in customer satisfaction. in customer satisfaction.
Target: At least 98% of employees (2021: 5 out of 6) (2021: 2 out of 6)
complete conduct and financial Target: To be ranked top three and/or Target: To be ranked top three and/or
crime training each year. improve customer satisfaction rank. improve customer satisfaction rank
1 For further details of our approach to transition to net zero, methodology and PwC’s limited assurance reports, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
2 S ee page 52 for further details on our targets for six of these sectors, which include oil and gas; power and utilities; cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
and automotive. See page 66 for further details about our thermal coal mining and coal fired power targets, as well as our thermal coal phase-out policy.
3 I n October 2020, we announced our ambition to provide and facilitate between $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For further details
and breakdown, see the ESG review on page 58. For details on how this target links with the scorecards, see page 282.
4 T his absolute greenhouse gas emission figure covers scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 business travel emissions. For further details of how this target links with the
scorecards, see page 282.
5 S enior leadership is classified as those at band 3 and above in our global career band structure. The progress for the ethnicity target is tracked from a 31 December
2020 baseline against our 2020 commitment to double the number of Black senior leaders. We have since refined our approach to ethnicity by focusing on targets
by market. For further details, see the ESG review on page 75. For details on how this target links with the scorecards, see page 282.
6 For further details, see the ESG review on page 77. For details on how this target links with the scorecards, see page 282.
7 T he completion rate shown relates to the financial crime ‘Take another look’ training module and conduct ‘Taking responsibility’ training module in 2022.
8 T he markets where we report rank positions for WPB and CMB – the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China, India, Mexico and Singapore – are in line with the annual
executive scorecards. This represents a change from 2021, when the metric was based on all markets where benchmarking studies were run. For further details
of customer satisfaction, see the ESG review on page 89. For further details of how this target links with the scorecards, see page 282.
16 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
ESG overview
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
TCFD
The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force – For financed emissions we do not plan – We do not fully disclose impacts from
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures to set 2025 targets. We set targets in line climate-related opportunities on financial
(‘TCFD’) recommendations set an important with the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (‘NZBA‘) planning and performance including on
framework for understanding and analysing guidelines by setting 2030 targets. While revenue, costs and the balance sheet,
climate-related risks, and we are committed the NZBA define 2030 as intermediate, we quantitative scenario analysis, detailed
to regular, transparent reporting to help use different time horizons for climate risk climate risk exposures for all sectors and
communicate and track our progress. We management. We define short term as time geographies or physical risk metrics. This
will advocate the same from our customers, periods up to 2025; medium term is between is due to transitional challenges in relation
suppliers and the industry. 2026 and 2035; and long term is between to data limitations. We expect these data
2036 and 2050. These time periods align limitations to be addressed in the medium
We have set out our key climate-related to the Climate Action 100+ disclosure term as more reliable data becomes
financial disclosures throughout the Annual framework. In 2022, we disclose interim available and technology solutions are
Report and Accounts 2022 and related 2030 targets for on-balance sheet financed implemented.
disclosures. In 2022, while recognising that emissions for eight sectors as we outline – We currently disclose partial scope 3
further work lies ahead as we develop our on page 18. For the shipping sector, we greenhouse gas emissions including
management and reporting capabilities, chose to defer setting a baseline and target business travel, supply chain and financed
we made certain enhancements to our until there is sufficient reliable data to emissions. In relation to financed emissions,
disclosures. These include reporting relevant support our work, allowing us to more we published on-balance sheet financed
quantitative results from our first internal accurately track progress towards net zero. emissions for six sectors as detailed on page
climate-related scenario analysis, including In March 2022, we said we would set capital 18. Future disclosure on financed emissions,
the carbon prices that we used. We also markets emissions targets for the oil and and related risks is reliant on our customers
began to incorporate climate-related gas, and power and utilities sectors based publicly disclosing their carbon emissions
considerations into our annual financial on the industry reporting standard from and related risks. We aim to disclose
planning cycle, and disclosed how the Partnership for Carbon Accounting financed emissions for additional sectors
management has considered the impact Financials (’PCAF’) once published. We in our Annual Report and Accounts 2023
of climate-related risks on our financial remain committed to setting facilitated and related disclosures. Our approach
position and forward-looking performance. emissions targets, and aim to continue to to disclosure of financed emissions for
engage with industry initiatives to produce
additional sectors can be found at:
We have considered our ‘comply or explain’ a consistent and comparable cross-industry www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
obligation under the UK’s Financial Conduct approach. We intend to review the financed responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
Authority’s Listing Rules, and confirm that we emissions baselines and targets annually,
have made disclosures consistent with the 11 where relevant, to help ensure that they are For a full summary of our TCFD disclosures,
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended aligned with market practice and current including detailed disclosure locations for
Disclosures save for certain items, which we climate science. additional information, see pages 68 to 72.
summarise below. The additional information section on
page 423 provides further detail.
Connecting international investors to sustainable solutions
We are connecting investors around the world with governments to support the transition to
net zero. In May, we helped the Indonesian government raise $3.25bn in an Islamic bond,
known as a sukuk, with $1.5bn of the proceeds dedicated to be used exclusively for eligible
spending that delivers on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, with guidance and
support from the UNDP. We were joint lead manager and joint bookrunner, and were also
mandated as joint green structuring adviser. The order book topped $10bn, with most of the
buyers from Asia and the Middle East.
The deal demonstrated how our specialist expertise can build trusted relationships. We have
been discussing green financing solutions with the Indonesian government since 2018 and
were previously appointed to structure both its green and sustainability financing
programmes.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 17
Strategic report | ESG overview
How we measure our net zero progress
TCFD
One of our strategic pillars is to support the We also recognise that we require enhanced strategy, with how we plan to embed this into
transition to a net zero global economy. Our capabilities and new sources of data, as set our processes, infrastructure, governance and
ambition is to align our financed emissions out on page 47. engagement. We plan to publish this in 2023,
to the Paris Agreement goal to achieve net and update on progress annually thereafter.
zero by 2050 or sooner. The Paris Agreement We continue to track our progress against our
aims to limit the rise in global temperatures ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to We acknowledge this is a journey and
to well below 2°C, preferably to 1.5°C, above $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by recognise that regular reassessment will be
pre-industrial levels. To limit the rise in global 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary, needed to take into account climate scenarios,
temperatures to 1.5°C, the global economy and our ambition to achieve net zero in our better data and revisions in reporting
would need to reach net zero greenhouse own operations and supply chain by 2030. We standards, as well as to reflect real world
gas emissions by 2050. also recognise that green finance taxonomies developments and trends. Our modelling
are not consistent globally, and evolving inputs and assumptions will be impacted over
We have set interim 2030 targets for on- taxonomies and practices could result in time by the evolution of external parameters,
balance sheet financed emissions for eight revisions in our sustainable finance reporting such as policy and regulatory changes across
sectors. These include six sectors for which we going forward. our markets, technology innovation uptake,
have reported 2019 and 2020 emissions: oil and macroeconomic events beyond our
and gas; power and utilities; cement; iron, steel In the year ahead we plan to set interim targets control. As a result of this, certain metrics and
and aluminium; aviation; and automotive. We for financed emissions across additional targets may need to be revised. In the following
have also set targets for thermal coal power sectors and will continue our transformation table, we set out our metrics and indicators
and thermal coal mining. We remain programme to embed the climate transition and assess our progress against them.
committed to setting facilitated emissions into our core business and risk processes. We
targets, and aim to continue to engage with will continue to work on our climate transition For further details of our approach to
industry initiatives to produce a consistent plan, which will bring together – in one place measuring financed emissions, including
scope, methodology, assumptions and
and comparable cross-industry approach. – our financed emissions targets and climate
limitations, see page 50.
Climate strategic pillars
and ambition Metrics and indicators Progress to date
Becoming a Number of sectors analysed We have published on-balance sheet financed emissions for six
net zero bank for financed emissions1 sectors including cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; and
automotive. We also continue to disclose our financed emissions for
Align our financed the oil and gas and power and utilities sectors2 (see pages 50 to 56).
emissions to achieve net
zero by 2050 or sooner
Be net zero in our Absolute operational greenhouse gas 58.5% cumulative reduction in absolute greenhouse gas emissions
operations and supply emissions (tonnes COe)3 from 2019 baseline (see page 62)
2
chain by 2030 or sooner
Percentage of renewable electricity Increase from 37.5% in 2021 to 48.3% (see page 62)
sourced across our operations
Percentage of energy consumption 24.0% cumulative reduction in energy consumption from 2019
reduced baseline (see page 62)
Supporting our Sustainable finance and investment $210.7bn cumulative progress since 2020 (for further breakdown
customers provided and facilitated ($bn)4 see page 58)
Support our customers in
their transition to net zero
and a sustainable future
Unlocking new climate Natural capital investment Climate Asset Management, which forms part of our goal to unlock
solutions new climate solutions, received commitments of over $650m for its
two strategies: the Natural Capital Strategy and the Nature Based
Help transform Carbon Strategy (for further details of our approach to responsible
sustainable infrastructure investment, see page 60)
into a global asset class,
and create a pipeline of Climate technology investment Achieved our initial goal to fund $100m to climate technology
bankable projects companies, and subsequently raised our target to $250m (see page 60)
Philanthropic investment to climate Committed $95.8m to our NGO partners since 2020, as part of the
innovation ventures, renewable energy, Climate Solutions Partnership (see page 84)
and nature-based solutions
1 For further details of our approach and methodology, see our Financed Emissions – Approach and Methodology Update at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
2 Our disclosures for our 2019 emissions for our oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors have been revised. For further details, see page 55.
3 O ur reported scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions of our own operations in 2022 are related to business travel. For further details on scope 1, 2 and 3, and our progress
on greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy targets, see page 63 and our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg. For further details of our methodology and
PwC’s limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
4 The detailed definitions of the contributing activities for sustainable finance are available in our revised Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2022. For
this, together with our ESG Data Pack and PwC’s limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
18 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
ESG overview
Responsible business culture
We have the responsibility to help protect our of Black employees in senior leadership roles. For this reason, we focus our support on
customers, our communities and the integrity To date we have achieved a 37% increase programmes that help develop employability
of the financial system. In this section, we through leadership development, inclusive and financial capability. We also support
outline our requirements under the Non- hiring practices and developing the next climate solutions and innovation, and
Financial Reporting Directive. generation of high-performing talent. We have contribute to disaster relief when needed.
made good progress, but we know there is For further details of our programmes,
Employee matters more to be done. see the ‘Communities’ section of the ESG
We are opening up a world of opportunity for review on page 83.
our colleagues through building an inclusive To support our ambition, we have placed a
organisation that values difference, takes strong focus on enhancing the quality and Human rights
responsibility and seeks different perspectives transparency of our ethnicity data through the Our commitment to respecting human rights,
for the overall benefit of our customers. expansion of our self-identification capability. principally as they apply to our employees, our
As our self-disclosures improve, we can use suppliers and through our financial services
At times our colleagues may need to speak this data to develop market-specific goals that lending and investment, is set out in our
up about behaviours in the workplace. We are connected to the communities we serve. Statement on Human Rights. This statement,
encourage colleagues to speak to their line along with our statements under the UK’s
manager in the first instance, and our annual The table below outlines high-level Modern Slavery Act, is available on www.
employee Snapshot survey showed that diversity metrics. hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
84% of colleagues have trust in their direct business/esg-reporting-centre. For further
manager. We recognise that at times people All employees details, see the ‘Human rights’ section of the
may not feel comfortable speaking up through ESG review on page 87.
the usual channels. HSBC Confidential is our Male 48%
global whistleblowing channel, allowing our Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
Female 52%
colleagues past and present to raise concerns We require compliance with all applicable
confidentially and, if preferred, anonymously Senior leadership1 anti-bribery and corruption laws in all markets
(subject to local laws). and jurisdictions in which we operate. We
Male 67% set a high standard globally in our global
We promote an environment where our anti-bribery and corruption policy, which
Female 33%
colleagues can expect to be treated with also focuses on the spirit of relevant laws
dignity and respect. We are an organisation Holdings Board and regulations to help demonstrate our
that acts where we find behaviours that fall commitment to ethical behaviours and
short. Our index measuring colleagues’ Male 67% conduct as part of our environmental,
confidence in speaking up increased by social and corporate governance.
Female 33%
1 percentage point to 76% in 2022,
significantly above the industry benchmark. Environmental matters
1 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 For details of our climate ambition
and above in our global career band structure.
We aspire to be an organisation that is and carbon emission metrics, see
representative of the communities which the ESG review on page 46.
we serve. To help achieve this, we have set For further details of how we look after our people,
including our diversity targets, transformation
commitments on the gender and ethnic
employee metrics and how we encourage our
diversity of our senior leadership. employees to speak up, see the Employees Non-financial information statement
section of the ESG review on page 74. This section primarily covers our non-
We have committed to achieving a target of financial information as required by the
35% of senior leadership roles held by women regulations. Other related information can
(classified as those at band 3 and above in our Social matters be found as follows:
global career band structure) by 2025. We We have a responsibility to invest in the
remain on track, having achieved 33.3% long-term prosperity of the communities For further details of our key performance
in 2022. where we operate. We aim to provide people indicators, see page 1.
with the skills and knowledge needed to thrive For further details of our business model,
see page 4.
In July 2020, we set out our early global in the post-pandemic environment, and
For further details of our principal risks and
ethnicity commitments to double the number through the transition to a sustainable future.
how they are managed, see pages 38 to 41.
Equipping our colleagues with sustainability skills
We are developing a range of sustainability-related resources and initiatives to help equip our
colleagues with the skills to be able to support our net zero ambition. We expanded mandatory
training that educates all colleagues on our approach to sustainability. In October, we launched
the Sustainability Academy to equip specific colleagues with key skills to improve their
understanding of topics ranging from climate change to biodiversity. We launched an ESG-
themed recognition campaign through the ‘At Our Best’ platform that encouraged colleagues to
recognise each other’s ESG contributions. The campaign was well supported with nearly 200,000
unique recognitions made, an increase of 50% on the previous year’s Spotlight campaign.
For further details on the Sustainability Academy, see page 82.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 19
Strategic report
Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders
The Board is committed to effective engagement with all our
stakeholders and seeks to understand their interests and the
impacts on them when making decisions.
Section 172 (1) statement
This section, from pages 20 to 23 forms Group Chief Executive and the Group challenges, which can then be factored into
our section 172(1) statement. It describes Chairman promote best governance practice future decision making.
how the Directors have performed their by requiring that materials contain appropriate
duty to promote the success of the company, information to allow Directors to take informed The Board recognises that to promote the
including how they have considered and decisions in keeping with their duties. The Group’s success, the right culture must exist
engaged with stakeholders and, in particular, Corporate Governance and Secretariat team throughout the organisation, be clearly
how they have taken account of the matters supports the provision of relevant information understood and be consistently applied. This is
set out in section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the by providing governance guidance and supported by HSBC’s values, which help us
Companies Act 2006. direction regarding the key areas for succeed together by connecting, collaborating
consideration in relation to section 172 factors and acting with a shared purpose. Each Board
The Board understands its fundamental in order to help the Directors to understand the meeting begins with a ‘cultural moment’,
role in formulating and overseeing the Group’s likely consequences of their decisions which includes observations of behaviours
strategy to achieve long-term success and long term. within the Group aligned to our purpose and
fulfil its purpose of opening up a world of values. The Board and its committees also
opportunity. Every scheduled Board meeting The Group Chief Executive’s regular report receive updates on conduct issues and any
features the Group’s strategy as an item of to the Board provides insights into key consequences for stakeholders at its meetings,
discussion. When taking principal decisions, stakeholder sentiments by highlighting the in particular from the Group Chief Risk and
the Directors remain mindful that the matter interactions he has held with customers, Compliance Officer and Group Human
for consideration should be aligned to one of regulators, employees and other stakeholders, Resources Officer. The Group’s refreshed
the four strategic pillars. For further details and the importance of – and learnings from conduct approach, approved in 2021, also
of our purpose, values and strategy, see – these engagements. This informs the Board as helps to support the consistent application of
pages 4 and 11 to 13. to how the Group fosters its relationships with conduct principles across the organisation,
stakeholders and how the Group’s business acknowledging the importance of maintaining
The Board, together with senior management, affects the environment and the communities a good reputation for high standards of
have given high priority to the format and it serves. Directors also participate in a variety business conduct. For further details on
content of papers presented to the Board and of stakeholder engagement events, which the Board’s oversight of culture, see the
its committees for their consideration. The support their understanding of key issues and ‘Corporate governance report’ on page 255.
Stakeholder engagement and key considerations for the Board
The Board continued to focus on its attracted hundreds of shareholders to attend in Board members engaging directly with the UK
engagement with our key stakeholders, person to receive an update on the Group’s regulator. The Group Chairman and the Group
acknowledging that this engagement is core strategy and discuss the latest financial Chief Executive also met regularly with
to being a responsible business and furthers performance with the Group Chairman, the government officials globally to continue to
the fulfilment of our strategy. In discharging Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief foster strong international relations. In addition,
their responsibilities, the Directors sought to Financial Officer. We are focused on treating certain Board members also continued to be
understand, and have regard to, the interests our shareholders fairly, by having a consistent actively involved in climate initiatives and
and priorities of the Group’s key stakeholders, approach to engagement and communication attend global events such as the Group Chief
including in relation to material decisions that with them, and this approach is demonstrated Executive’s attendance at the COP27 Summit
were taken by the Board during the course of by our refreshed shareholder communication in Egypt.
the year. policy. Such a policy helps to support the
Board to act fairly between members of the During Board meetings, the Directors
Virtual and physical meetings company. continued to balance discussions on the
During 2022, the Board was able to resume Group’s performance, emerging risks and
its active engagement with stakeholders in Doing business responsibly duties to shareholders, while remaining
person following two years of Covid-19-related Maintaining a transparent and trusting conscious of responsibilities to support
restrictions. The Board met physically in relationship with our regulators remains key communities and help customers. Feedback
several international locations, where it was to helping us ensure that we do business from – and engagement with – stakeholders
able to carry out engagements with a wide responsibly and that we are able to respond helps inform the Board on the execution of its
range of stakeholders. For further details of to challenges appropriately. In addition to responsibilities.
how we engaged with our stakeholders, continuous assessment meetings with the UK
see pages 21 and 253. regulator (including with Board committee On pages 22 and 23, we set out four
chairs), the Group Chairman, the Group Chief examples that demonstrate how the Board
We hosted our second hybrid AGM and Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer made certain decisions while considering
engaged directly with our investors leading met with our regulators in the UK and Hong stakeholders, in accordance with the
up to and during the event. The Informal Kong on a regular basis. These included Directors’ section 172 duties, and how the
Shareholders’ Meeting in Hong Kong also meetings in connection with our recovery and decisions support or accelerate the delivery
resumed for the first time since 2019 and resolution planning, which involved several of the Group’s strategy.
20 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Stakeholder engagement key events in 2022
Stakeholders Engagement Impact
Customers – Engagement events with customers ranging from small – By formally and informally engaging with customers
We recognise that the greater businesses to multinational companies, in key markets. and potential customers, the Board can form a deeper
our understanding of our – Meetings with business customers in key industries to understanding of why clients do business with us and
customers’ needs, the better discuss plans regarding the transition to net zero. how they contribute to achieving our purpose
we can help support them to and ambition.
– Board reporting on retail customer surveys including
achieve their financial aims net promoter scores and millennial retail customers’ – Meetings with clients help the Board to understand how
and succeed in our purpose satisfaction. the Group can work to achieve its commitment to
and strategy. transition to net zero.
– Customer surveys provide insights into how our
customers perceive our services and inform how
we can drive meaningful improvements.
Employees – Employee events, including leadership forums, – Meeting with colleagues across jurisdictions allowed
We want to continue to be a webcasts, townhalls, global jams, off-sites and the Board to hear directly the employee voice on
positive place to work and build employee Exchanges. important issues.
careers, with the success of the – Extensive interaction with employee resource groups – These interactions helped inform the Board when it
Group’s strategy dependent across multiple events in many jurisdictions. considers people matters such as career development,
upon having motivated people – Several dedicated talent sessions, including with women policies and business operations, including technology
with the expertise and skills and other diverse talent pools. needs. Engagement also helps the Board to
required to deliver it. contextualise employee Snapshot survey results.
– Next Gen gatherings for graduates, including dedicated
focus group interactive sessions. – The appointment of a dedicated workforce engagement
non-executive Director has created a different way for
the employee voice to be heard and demonstrates the
Board’s commitment to understanding what matters to
our people.
Investors – Numerous meetings with analysts and several – Regular and ad hoc interactions with institutional and
We seek to understand investor roadshows to discuss interim and year-end results. retail investors allow for updates on strategy delivery,
needs and sentiment through – Remuneration Committee Chair investor meetings with including the transition to net zero. This in turn helps the
ongoing dialogue and a variety top investors and proxy advisers. Board understand investor sentiment on material matters
of engagements with both retail throughout the year.
– Annual retail investor events such as the AGM in the UK
and institutional investors. and the Informal Shareholders’ Meeting in Hong Kong. – Such engagements also serve to inform investors of key
developments so that they are well informed and able
to respond appropriately when significant events are
communicated.
Communities – Forums and summits supporting ESG causes, such as – The Directors’ participation at a range of community
We seek to play an important the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero, the Financial initiatives helps them to experience first-hand the
role in supporting the Services Task Force of the Sustainable Markets Initiative positive effect the Group has on local communities
communities in which we and the World Economic Forum. as an employer, sponsor, collaborator and supporter.
operate through our corporate – Visits to local community education facilities in the – The Board recognises that the Group can influence
social responsibility and broader UK and Dubai to promote initiatives and collaboration, meaningful change in many ways, including by
engagement activities. including a ‘future coders’ event and a local educating, encouraging broader thinking, helping to
sustainability project. shape policy and formulating worldwide solutions,
creating safe environments and achieving net
zero ambitions.
Regulators and – Various meetings across our key markets with – Frequent and varied engagement between the Board
governments governmental officials, including leaders, ministers and government officials and regulators provides an
Maintaining constructive and ambassadors. opportunity for an open, two-way communication. It is
dialogue and relations with – Regular meetings with our many regulators, including also critical in ensuring that the Board understands and
the relevant authorities in the in the UK and Hong Kong, and elsewhere. meets its regulatory obligations.
markets in which we operate – Meetings with non-government bodies and – Meeting with international officials allows the Board to
helps support the effective organisations including the European Central Bank, communicate the Group’s strategy, perspectives and
functioning of economies Bank of England, Monetary Authority of Singapore, insights while ensuring that Directors remain abreast of
globally and the achievement State Bank of India, Public Investment Fund and the political and regulatory trends. It also allows the Board to
of our strategic aims. Bank for International Settlements. share perspectives on standards of best practice across
industries and regions.
Suppliers – Regular reports and updates from the Group Chief – Meeting with our suppliers helps Directors understand
We engage with suppliers, Operating Officer on supplier matters. our suppliers’ challenges and how we can work
which helps us operate our – Meetings with existing and prospective auditors collaboratively to succeed, particularly in achieving our
business effectively and as part of the audit tender process. net zero ambitions.
execute our strategy. – A meeting with customers (who are also our suppliers) – It is key for the Board to understand the Group’s supply
in the Middle East. chain and how suppliers’ operations are aligned to our
purpose and values.
– Interactive sessions with catering and real estate
suppliers including on their net zero plans. – This supports the Board when approving its Modern
Slavery Act Statement.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 21
Strategic report | Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Principal decisions
The Board operates having regard to the duties of the Directors, including the relevant matters
set out in section 172(1)(a)-(f) of the Companies Act 2006. The following examples demonstrate
how these Board decisions, taken in 2022, align to each of our four strategic pillars.
Focus on our strengths The Board, together with senior management, it to take a decision. Transaction terms were
keep under review potential inorganic carefully negotiated to provide certainty for
opportunities to help accelerate the delivery of the Group’s employees in Canada. The Board
our strategy and deliver value for shareholders. also acknowledged that completion of the
In 2022, to further the Group’s strategy and transaction would require engagement with
The Board undertook a ambition, and following a strategic review, the additional key stakeholders, including
Board took the decision for the Group to sell its employees, customers and suppliers.
strategic review of the
Canadian business to Royal Bank of Canada.
Group’s Canada business The Board considered there to be a number of
The review considered HSBC Canada’s benefits to the disposal, including simplifying
in support of the Group’s
relatively low market share and whether it the Group structure and helping to further the
strategic aims. was in the Group’s best interests to invest aim of becoming a market leader in wealth
in HSBC Canada’s expansion and growth in management, with a particular focus on Asia.
the context of opportunities in other markets. In addition, the transaction would unlock
It was concluded that the best course of significant value for the Group and realise a
strategic action was for the Group to sell HSBC good return for our shareholders.
Canada. The Board’s decision to approve the
sale was aligned to the Group’s strategic pillar For the reasons set out above, in taking this
of focus on our strengths. decision, the members of the Board exercised
their statutory duties including the duty to act
The implications of the transaction for several in the way that they considered, in good faith,
key stakeholders were considered and many would be most likely to promote the long-term
stakeholders were engaged with, including success of the company for the benefit of its
Canadian government officials and regulators members as a whole.
in both the UK and Canada. Financial and
legal advisers were engaged throughout the
process to provide specialist advice to help
inform the Board’s understanding and allow
Energise for growth Our strategic pillar, energise for growth, global headquarters location. The Board
includes a commitment to inspire a dynamic recognised the importance of taking this
culture where the best talent want to work. decision early enough to provide sufficient
Throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, we saw notice to relevant suppliers, including the
how we could continue to deliver our work affected landlords, to best prepare for any
The Board approved commitments through a hybrid working model changes. Our UK regulators were also
and the value that hybrid working brings for engaged with in good time to ensure that
a review of its our clients and colleagues. Our workstyle they were informed of our intentions to
headquarters’ office approach is helping us to attract and retain stay in London.
diverse talent, while enabling us to reduce
location in London to our office footprint. An important Board consideration factored
support its employees into the new office environment review
We want our head office to connect included that it should be more digitally
in creating a more people, drive collaboration, foster alternative enabled, so as to help us work smarter
dynamic and agile workstyles and promote well-being. With and develop future-ready skills. The Board
this in mind, in September 2022, the Board also acknowledged that the new office
environment in which considered a proposal to review the location environment should be designed in a
to work. of our global headquarters. While we are sustainable way to help meet our net zero
committed to remain in London, the success commitments. In taking this decision, the
of hybrid working has meant our workspace Board focused on its strategic aspiration to
requirements are changing, creating the have a more flexible and dynamic workspace
opportunity to drive a new real estate model that meets the needs of everyone. The Board
fit for a modern bank. took into account the section 172 factors along
with the relevant stakeholder engagement,
The views from several stakeholders helped which informed its decision to commence the
to shape this key decision. Employee surveys review with a view to best promote the
provided evidence to support hybrid working, success of the company for the long term.
which informed the decision to review the
22 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Transition to net zero The Board has remained focused on need to balance the responsibility of
its commitments, following the climate facilitating a just transition, helping to ensure
change resolution passed at the 2021 AGM, continued access to affordable energy sources
to support our customers on their transitions in the markets we serve, and supporting an
to a low-carbon future. accelerated transition.
The Board remained
In 2022, the Board approved an update to the Since publication of the energy policy,
active and directly
thermal coal phase-out policy. It also approved stakeholder engagement has continued,
engaged on the Group’s the publication of an updated energy policy, including with key institutional investors to
which was considered well aligned to our discuss the policy, its impacts and alignment
response to the climate
strategic approach to transition to net zero. with our ambition to help finance our clients’
change agenda, The energy policy seeks to balance three transition to net zero. Extensive engagement
objectives: driving down global greenhouse also continues to take place among employees
agreeing an updated
gas emissions; the need to enable an orderly and with clients as we begin the
energy policy aligned to transition that builds resilience in the longer implementation of the policy.
term; and the need to support a just and
our ambition to support
affordable transition. In developing this policy, In taking the decision to approve the energy
the transition to a net the Board was informed of the engagement policy and in overseeing the Group’s climate
undertaken with several internal and external commitments, the Board gave due regard
zero global economy.
stakeholders including: governments, major to the section 172 factors, in particular the
clients, large institutional investors and leading impact of the decision on the environment
scientific and international bodies and industry and communities the company serves,
participants. The Board took into consideration our continuing valuable relationships with
the active role we are seeking to play in customers and investors, and the long-term
supporting and accelerating the energy success of the company.
transition in the markets we serve and the
crucial importance of engaging with our
customers on their own transition plans. The
Board also considered the long-term impacts
of the policy on its stakeholders including the
Digitise at scale The Group’s digital strategy aims to ensure The Board also receives updates from the
that ways of working for colleagues, as Group Chief Operating Officer on the various
well as the experience of our customers, ways the Group is furthering its digital
are technologically advanced and efficient. strategy. Vision 27, which is our long-term
Digitise at scale means we are focused on technology strategy, featured regularly on
The Group is committed creating and delivering fast, easy, digital the Board agenda and was launched at the
customer experiences by partnering with beginning of 2022. Its aim is to help transform
to creating and delivering technology innovators and working together HSBC into a digital-first bank over the next five
on fast, easy, digital to enable new customer benefits. The Board’s years. One of the Vision 27 initiatives is the
oversight of our digital strategies and policies development of a digital technology map,
customer experiences. is important given that these are critical in which is a bespoke tool developed to capture
helping to ensure the Group’s resiliency and all of the Group’s applications and systems
customer security. and provide insight and data points on these
including usage by businesses, regions and
The Group Chief Executive regularly reports entities. The Board and the Technology
to the Board on his engagements with – and Governance Working Group have also
feedback from – customers on the Group’s challenged management on the prioritisation
digital strategy progress. The Board has of digital initiatives, as well as the demise of
engaged with many customers over the past legacy and non-strategic applications, as part
year, and is focused on ensuring that of efforts to streamline the large and complex
our customers’ experiences meet their technology architecture. This is a key focus
expectations. Customer survey insights in helping to improve the resiliency and
throughout 2022 have been used to deepen efficiency of our systems for colleagues
understanding of the digital landscape and customers.
challenges customers face, and to help drive
solutions. Consequently, the Group has led In taking these decisions, whether by the
several key digital customer deliveries in 2022, Board directly, or the business through its
with approximately 49% of customers being delegated authority, the digital needs of
mobile active and around 48% of retail sales customers and employees are taken into
being performed through digital channels. account in order to create long-term success
Delivery of these new initiatives improved of the company and become a truly data-led
customer experiences across our global organisation.
markets in 2022, and supported the Group’s
efforts to execute at speed and automate at
scale – a cornerstone of our strategy.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 23
Strategic
report
Global businesses
Commercial Banking
We support businesses in 54 countries and territories, ranging from small
enterprises to large companies operating globally.
Contribution to Group adjusted profit We help businesses grow by supporting and make banking with us easier. With our
before tax their financial needs, facilitating cross- clients and partners we have made progress in
border trade and payments, and delivering our sustainability strategy. We act as
providing access to products and a trusted transition partner, seeking to provide
services. We help them access sustainable supply chain solutions, and aim to
international markets, provide expert capture growth opportunities as we transition
financial advice and offer access to into a new low-carbon economy. Strong
a full suite of HSBC solutions from performance in Global Payments Solutions
$7.7bn across the Group’s other businesses. (‘GPS’) continued due to interest rate rises and
19% growth in fee income. This was partly
(32%) We continued our investment in technology, offset by an adjusted ECL charge in 2022
launching new products to support customers relative to a net release in 2021.
2022 2021 2020 2022 vs 2021
Adjusted results $m $m $m $m %
Net operating income 16,215 12,538 12,889 3,677 29
Change in expected credit (1,858) 225 (4,710) (2,083) >(200)
losses and other credit
impairment charges
Operating expenses (6,642) (6,554) (6,475) (88) (1)
Share of profit in associates 1 1 (1) — —
and JVs
Profit before tax 7,716 6,210 1,703 1,506 24
RoTE excluding significant 14.2 10.8 1.3
items (%)1
Funding digital growth 1 Since 1 January 2021, the UK bank levy has been included in the calculation of this measure. Comparative
data have not been re-presented.
and innovation
We are helping technology companies
Divisional highlights
to grow in Asia by providing them with
specialist financing solutions. These
19% 43%
include Grab, a leading south-east Asian
platform, which has been on a journey
of growth over the last decade.
Growth in adjusted net fee income Growth in adjusted net interest income
in GPS, supported by repricing and across all CMB products, notably in
Based in Singapore, the company started
strategic initiatives. GPS (up 149%) and GTRF (up 24%).
as a ride-hailing app in 2012, and has
since expanded to provide transport,
food delivery and digital payments
Adjusted profit before tax Net operating income
services. It has become an everyday,
($bn) ($bn)
multi-use platform for more than
$7.7bn $16.2bn
33 million consumers every month.
2022 7.7 2022 16.2
2021 6.2 2021 12.5
2020 1.7 2020 12.9
2019 2019
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 33
Strategic report
Risk overview
Active risk management helps us to achieve our strategy,
serve our customers and communities and grow our
business safely.
Managing risk
Geopolitical tensions have resulted in an Key risk appetite metrics
increasingly fragmented macroeconomic,
Risk
trade and regulatory environment. The global
Component Measure appetite 2022
economic slowdown and high inflationary
pressures are exacerbating the risks linked to Capital CET1 ratio – end point basis ≥13.0% 14.2%
this fragmentation.
Change in Change in expected credit losses and other credit ≤0.50% 0.24%
expected credit impairment charges as a % of advances: (WPB)
Global commodity markets have been losses and
significantly impacted by the Russia-Ukraine other credit Change in expected credit losses and other credit ≤0.45% 0.40%
war, leading to supply chain disruptions and impairment impairment charges as a % of advances:
increased prices for both energy and non- charges1 wholesale (GBM, CMB)
energy commodities. This, combined with
extensive monetary policy loosening at the 1 Includes change in expected credit losses and other impairment charges and advances related to assets
height of the Covid-19 pandemic, contributed that are held for sale.
to a sharp increase in inflation, creating
further challenges for central banks and our
customers. The continuation of – or any further Our risk appetite outcomes to calibrate our risk appetite and
escalation in – the Russia-Ukraine war could Our risk appetite defines our desired forward- to review the robustness of our strategic and
have additional economic, social and political looking risk profile, and informs the strategic financial plans, helping to improve the quality
consequences. These include further sanctions and financial planning process. It provides an of management’s decision making. The results
and trade restrictions, longer-term changes in objective baseline to guide strategic decision from the stress tests also drive recovery and
the macroeconomic environment, and the risk making, helping to ensure that planned resolution planning to help enhance the Group’s
of higher and sustained inflation, including business activities provide an appropriate financial stability under various macroeconomic
continued increases in energy and non-energy balance of return for the risk assumed, while scenarios. The selection of stress scenarios is
prices. Interest rates have increased in reaction remaining within acceptable risk levels. Risk based upon the identification and assessment
to inflationary pressures and we have adapted appetite supports senior management in of our top risks, emerging risks and our risk
our interest rate risk management strategy allocating capital, funding and liquidity appetite. During 2022, assessments were made
in response. optimally to finance growth, while monitoring of the impact on the Group of the Russia-
exposure to non-financial risks. Ukraine war and the consequences from
China’s policy measures issued at the end of the deteriorating global economic outlook.
2022 have increased liquidity and the supply Capital and liquidity remain at the core of our
of credit to the mainland China commercial risk appetite framework, with forward-looking The results of the most recent stress test,
real estate sector. Recovery in the underlying statements informed by stress testing. We referred to as the solvency stress test,
domestic residential demand and improved continue to develop our climate risk appetite as published by the Bank of England (‘BoE’) in
customer sentiment will be necessary to we engage with businesses on including climate December 2021 confirmed the Group was
support the ongoing health of the sector. We risk in decision making and starting to embed sufficiently capitalised.
will continue to monitor the sector closely, climate risk appetite into business planning.
notably the risk of further idiosyncratic real The BoE’s 2022 annual cyclical scenario stress
estate defaults and the potential associated At 31 December 2022, our CET1 ratio and ECL test, originally due for submission in June
impact on wider market, investor and charges were within their defined risk appetite 2022, was rescheduled to commence in
consumer sentiment. Given that parts of the thresholds. Wholesale ECL charges increased September 2022 in light of the uncertainty
global economy are in, or close to, recession, towards the end of 2022, with additional stage related to the Russia-Ukraine war, and was
the demand for Chinese exports may 1 and 2 allowances recorded, as a result of the submitted in January 2023.
also diminish. uncertain macroeconomic environment.
Monitoring of measures against our risk As a result of this postponement, our own
We continued to focus on improving the appetite remains a key focus. During 2022, internal stress test will now be conducted in
quality and timeliness of the data used to we enhanced the monitoring and forecasting the first quarter of 2023, and will explore the
inform management decisions, through of our CET1 ratio through regular reviews in potential impacts of key vulnerabilities to which
measures such as early warning indicators, periods of high volatility. we are exposed across certain key regions,
prudent active management of our risk including a lower interest-rate environment,
appetite, and ensuring regular communication Stress tests additional macroeconomic headwinds including
with our Board and key stakeholders. We regularly conduct stress tests to assess the lower oil prices and the introduction of foreign
resilience of our balance sheet and our capital exchange shocks. This focused internal stress
While the financial performance of our adequacy, as well as to provide actionable test will consider the impacts of the various risk
operations varied in different geographies, our insights into how key elements of our portfolios scenarios on those specific regions across all
balance sheet and liquidity remained strong. may behave during a crisis. We use the risk types and on capital resources.
38 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
Risk overview
Managing risk continued
Climate risk Climate risk relates to the financial and For further details of our TCFD disclosures, see
To support the requirements for assessing non-financial impacts that may arise as a the ‘ESG review‘ on page 43.
the impacts of climate change, we have result of climate change and the move to a
developed a set of capabilities to execute greener economy. Climate risk can impact us Our operations
climate stress testing and scenario analysis. either directly or through our relationships with We remain committed to investing in the
These are used to help improve our our clients. This includes potential climate risk reliability and resilience of our IT systems
understanding of our risk exposures for risk arising as a result of our net zero ambition, and critical services, including those provided
management and business decision making. which could lead to reputational concerns, by third parties, that support all parts of
In 2021, the Prudential Regulation Authority and potential legal and/or regulatory action if our business. We do so to help protect our
requested all major UK banks to run a we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on customers, affiliates and counterparties, and to
climate-related stress test to explore the our business activities or if we fail to achieve help ensure that we minimise any disruption to
impacts of a set of scenarios: an early policy our stated net zero targets. Our most material services that could result in reputational, legal
action, a late policy action and no additional exposure to climate risk relates to corporate and regulatory consequences. In our approach
policy action scenario. This was followed in and retail client financing activity within our to defending against these threats, we invest in
the first half of 2022 with a second round to banking portfolio. We also have significant business and technical controls to help us
explore our strategic responses to such responsibilities in relation to asset ownership detect, manage and recover from issues,
scenarios. We also conducted climate change by our insurance business, employee pension including data loss, in a timely manner.
stress testing exercises for the European plans, and asset management business.
Central Bank and the Monetary Authority of We have made progress with the
Singapore, and in the second half of 2022 we We seek to manage climate risk across all implementation of our business transformation
ran an internal climate scenario analysis to our businesses in line with our Group-wide plans. We seek to manage change execution
identify challenges and opportunities to our risk management framework, and are risk so we can prioritise, manage and deliver
net zero strategy, as well as to inform capital incorporating climate considerations within change initiatives effectively and safely, and
planning and risk appetite. our existing risk types to reflect our strategic at the scale, complexity and pace required.
ambition to align to net zero.
For further details of our approach to climate For further details on our risk management
risk stress testing, see ‘Insights from scenario For further details of our approach to climate risk framework and risks associated with our banking
analysis’ on page 67. management, see ‘Climate risk‘ on page 221. and insurance manufacturing operations, see
pages 142 to 144.
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks
The Russia-Ukraine war has continued to the affordability of debt and may eventually to support businesses and individuals have
elevate geopolitical instability and has resulted bring into question its sustainability in some ceased, this has impacted the level of credit
in the use of significant sanctions and trade countries. Among emerging markets, countries losses, which in turn may have impacted
restrictions against Russia by the UK, the that need to refinance maturing US dollar- the longer-term reliability of loss and
US and the EU, as well as other countries. denominated debt in the context of a strong capital models.
In response to such sanctions and trade dollar may face increasing difficulties.
restrictions, Russia has implemented The relationship between China and several
certain countermeasures. Our businesses also continue to consider the countries, including the UK and the US,
impact of the increasing cost of living on our remains complex. The UK, the US, the EU
The Russia-Ukraine war, alongside the customers. We are engaging closely with our and other countries have imposed various
economic impacts that continue to result from key regulators to help ensure we continue to sanctions and trade restrictions on Chinese
the Covid-19 pandemic, has contributed to meet their expectations of financial institutions’ persons and companies, and may continue
increased commodity prices, which, combined activities at a time of market volatility. to impose further measures. In response to
with extensive monetary policy loosening foreign sanctions and trade restrictions, China
during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, Higher inflation and interest rate expectations has imposed sanctions and introduced new
has led to a sharp increase in inflation. In around the world – and the resulting economic laws and trade restrictions that could impact
response, central banks both in developed and uncertainty – have had an impact on ECL. the Group and its customers. Further
emerging markets tightened monetary policy The combined pressure of higher inflation and sanctions and counter-sanctions, whether in
sharply in 2022. Inflation is expected to abate interest rates may impact the ability of our connection with Russia or China, may affect
in the coming months, albeit only gradually as customers to repay debt. We have continued the Group and its customers by creating
the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war is likely to to carry out enhanced monitoring of model regulatory, reputational and market risks.
keep energy and food prices at high levels. outputs and the use of model overlays. This
includes management adjustments based Negotiations between the UK and the EU over
Fiscal deficits are likely to remain high in on the expert judgement of senior credit the operation of the Northern Ireland Protocol
both developed and emerging markets as risk managers to reflect the uncertainty in are continuing. While there are signs that
further public spending is rolled out to help the current market inflation and interest rate differences may be diminishing, failure to
private sector manage rising prices, against a conditions in the forecasts from the underlying reach agreement could have implications for
backdrop of slower growth and higher interest macroeconomic scenarios. Inflation and rising the future operation of the EU-UK Trade and
rates. This could increase the strains on highly interest rates have been considered both Cooperation Agreement.
leveraged sovereigns, corporates and directly in certain models, and assessed via
households. While the average maturity of adjustments where not directly considered.
sovereign debt in developed markets has While many of the government programmes
lengthened, rising interest rates could reduce implemented during the Covid-19 pandemic
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 39
Strategic report | Risk overview
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks continued
In August 2022, the US Inflation Reduction it is unclear at this time what, if any, impact We continue to monitor, and seek to manage,
Act introduced a minimum tax of 15% with the US Inflation Reduction Act will have on the potential implications of all the above
effect from 1 January 2023. It is possible that HSBC’s US tax rate and US financial results, developments on our customers and our
a minimum tax could result in an additional and HSBC will continue to evaluate its impact business.
US tax liability over our regular US federal as further information becomes available. In
corporate tax liabilities in a given year, based on addition, potential changes to tax legislation For further details on our approach to
differences between the US book and taxable and tax rates in the countries and territories in geopolitical and macroeconomic risks,
see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 135.
income (including as a result of temporary which we operate could increase our effective
differences). Given its recent pronouncement, tax rate in the future.
Risks related to Covid-19
While the immediate impact of the Covid-19 We continue to monitor the situation closely
pandemic on the global economy has largely and, given the remaining uncertainties related
abated in most markets, it continues to disrupt to the post-pandemic landscape, additional
economic activity in mainland China and Hong mitigating actions may be required.
Kong despite the easing in December 2022 of
the domestic Covid-19 restrictions that have For further details on our approach to the risks
adversely impacted China’s economy, Asia related to Covid-19, see ‘Areas of special interest’
on page 142.
tourism and global supply chains. The return
to pre-pandemic levels of social interaction
across all our key markets continues to vary
as governments respond differently to new
waves of infection.
Ibor transition
The publication of sterling, Swiss franc, these ‘synthetic’ interest rates from March compliance risk, resilience risk, financial
euro and Japanese yen Libor interest rate 2023 and March 2024. reporting risk, legal risk, model risk and market
benchmarks, as well as Euro Overnight Index risk. The level of these key risks is diminishing
Average (‘Eonia’), ceased from the end of Additionally, prior to the cessation of the in line with our process implementation and
2021. Our interbank offered rate (‘Ibor’) publication of US dollar Libor from 30 June the transition of our legacy contracts. We have
transition programme – which is tasked with 2023, we have implemented the majority of sought to implement mitigating controls,
the development of new near risk-free rate required processes, technology and RFR where required, and continue to actively
(‘RFR’) products and the transition of legacy product capabilities throughout the Group, in manage and monitor these risks.
Ibor products – has continued to support the preparation for upcoming market events and
transition of the limited number of remaining the continued transition of legacy US dollar For further details on our approach to Ibor
contracts in sterling and Japanese yen Libor, Libor and other demising Ibor contracts. transition, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on
page 135.
which were published using a ‘synthetic’
interest rate methodology during 2022. We are We continue to be exposed to risks associated
prepared for the cessation of the publication of with Ibor transition, which include regulatory
Top and emerging risks
Our top and emerging risks report identifies Top risks are those that have the potential Our suite of top and emerging risks is subject
forward-looking risks so that they can be to have a material adverse impact on the to regular review by senior governance
considered in determining whether any financial results, reputation or business model forums. We continue to monitor closely the
incremental action is needed to either prevent of the Group. We actively manage and take identified risks and ensure management
them from materialising or to limit their effect. actions to mitigate our top risks. Emerging actions are in place, as required.
risks are those that, while they could have a
material impact on our risk profile were they
to occur, are not considered immediate and
are not under active management.
40 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Strategic
report
Risk overview
Risk Trend Description
Externally driven
Geopolitical and Our operations and portfolios are subject to risks associated with political instability, civil unrest and military
macroeconomic conflict, which could lead to disruption of our operations, physical risk to our staff and/or physical damage to
risks our assets. Heightened geopolitical tensions, alongside other factors, have also disrupted supply chains globally.
Inflation, rising interest rates and slower Chinese economic activity may prompt a global recession that would
affect our credit portfolio.
Technology and We face a risk of service disruption resulting from technology failures or malicious activities by internal or
cybersecurity risk external threats. We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical events and changes to the threat landscape.
We operate a continuous improvement programme to protect our technology operations and to counter a
fast-evolving cyber threat environment.
Evolving regulatory The regulatory and compliance risk environment has become more complex, in part due to heightened geopolitical
environment risk tensions. There has been increased regulatory focus on operational and cyber resilience, crypto-asset-related risks
and sanctions. These, alongside other regulatory priorities, may result in change requirements across the Group in
the short to medium term. We continue to monitor regulatory and wider industry developments closely, and
engage with regulators as appropriate.
Financial crime risk We continue to support our customers against a backdrop of increasingly complex geopolitical, socio-economic
and technological challenges, including the Russia-Ukraine war. HSBC is monitoring the impacts of the war on the
Group, and using its sanctions compliance capabilities to respond to evolving sanctions regulations, noting the
challenges that arise in implementing the unprecedented volume and diverse set of sanctions and trade restrictions.
Ibor transition risk We remain exposed to regulatory compliance, legal and resilience risks as contracts transition away from the
remaining demising Ibor benchmarks to new reference rates. We continue to consider the fairness of client
outcomes, our compliance with regulatory expectations and the operation of our systems and processes. The
key risks are diminishing in line with our process implementation and we are progressing well in transitioning
contracts in the remaining demising Ibors, specifically US dollar Libor.
Environmental, We are subject to ESG risks relating to climate change, nature and human rights. These risks have increased
social and owing to the pace and volume of regulatory developments globally, and due to stakeholders placing more
governance (‘ESG’) emphasis on financial institutions’ actions and investment decisions in respect of ESG matters. Failure to meet
risks these evolving expectations may result in financial and non-financial costs, including adverse reputational
consequences.
Digitalisation and Developments in technology and changes in regulations have enabled new entrants to the banking industry and
technological new products and services offered by competitors. Along with opportunities, new technology can introduce new
advances risks. This challenges us to continue to innovate to take advantage of new digital capabilities to best serve our
customers by adapting our products, and to attract and retain customers and employee talent, while ensuring
that the risks are understood and managed with appropriate controls.
Internally driven
Risks associated Our businesses, functions and geographies are exposed to risks associated with employee retention and talent
with workforce availability, and compliance with employment laws and regulations. Heightened demand for talent in key labour
capability, capacity markets and continuing Covid-19-related challenges have led to increased attrition and attraction challenges,
and environmental and continuing pressure on employees. We monitor hiring activities and levels of employee attrition, and each
factors with potential business and function has workforce plans in place to aim to ensure effective workforce forecasting to meet
impact on growth business demands.
Risks arising from We procure goods and services from a range of third parties. It is critical that we have appropriate risk
the receipt of management policies and processes to select and govern third parties, including third parties’ supply
services from networks, particularly for key activities that could affect our operational resilience. Any deficiency in the
third parties management of risks associated with our third parties could affect our ability to support our customers
and meet regulatory expectations.
Model risk Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes reliance on models. We use models in both
financial and non-financial contexts, as well as in a range of business applications such as customer selections,
product pricing, financial crime transaction monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting.
Evolving regulatory requirements are driving material changes to the way model risk is managed across the
banking industry, with particular focus on capital models. New technologies such as machine learning are
driving changes to the model landscape.
Data risk We use data to serve our customers and run our operations, often in real-time within digital experiences and
processes. If our data is not accurate and timely, our ability to serve customers, operate with resilience or meet
regulatory requirements could be impacted. We need to ensure that non-public data is kept confidential, and that
we comply with the growing number of regulations that govern data privacy and cross-border movement of data.
Change execution Failure to effectively prioritise, manage and/or deliver transformation across the organisation impacts our ability
risk to achieve our strategic objectives. We aim to monitor, manage and oversee change execution risk to ensure our
change portfolios and initiatives continue to deliver the right outcomes for our customers, people, investors and
communities.
Risk heightened during 2022 Risk remained at the same level as 2021 Risk decreased during 2022
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 41
Strategic report
Long-term viability and going
concern statement
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the principal risks are the Group’s top and – reports and updates regarding regulatory
the Directors are required to provide a viability emerging risks as set out on page 40. These and internal stress testing. The Group
statement that must state whether the Group include geopolitical and macroeconomic risks, internal stress test has been delayed from
will be able to continue in operation and meet including rising global inflationary pressures, the fourth quarter of 2022 to the first quarter
its liabilities, taking into account its current the Russia-Ukraine war and its impact on of 2023 and will include overlays applied
position and the principal risks it faces. They sanctions and trade restrictions, disrupted to the 2022 annual cyclical scenario for
must also specify the period covered by, and supply chains globally and slower Chinese HSBC-specific vulnerabilities, including
the appropriateness of, this statement. economic activity, all of which have geopolitical issues (and related
increased to a heightened level during 2022. macroeconomic headwinds) along with
The Directors have specified a period of three Digitalisation and technological advances and the continued impact of Covid-19. It will
years to 31 December 2025. They are satisfied environmental, social and governance risks also consider the impacts of various risk
that a forward-looking assessment of the remained at a heightened level during 2022. scenarios across all risk types and on capital
Group for this period is sufficient to enable a resources. The 2022 Bank of England annual
reasonable statement of viability. In addition, The Directors assessed that all of the top and cyclical scenario, originally due in June
this period is covered by the Group’s stress emerging risks identified are considered to 2022, was also postponed in light of the
testing programmes, and its internal be material and, therefore, appropriate to uncertainty related to the Russia-Ukraine
projections for profitability, key capital ratios be classified as the principal risks to be war. The exercise commenced on 26
and leverage ratios. Notwithstanding this, considered in the assessment of viability. September 2022, with the submission
our stress testing programmes also cover They also appraised the impact that these made to the Bank of England in early
scenarios out to five years and our assessment principal risks could have on the Group’s risk January 2023 and the results due to be
of risks are beyond three years where profile, taking account of mitigating actions published mid-2023. The initial results of this
appropriate (see page 135): planned or taken for each, and compared this exercise indicated the Group is sufficiently
with the Group’s risk appetite as approved capitalised to withstand a severe but
– This period is representative of the by the Board. plausible adverse stress;
time horizon to consider the impact – the results of our 2022 internal climate
of ongoing regulatory changes in the In carrying out their assessment of the scenario analysis exercise. In 2022, the
financial services industry. principal risks, the Directors considered Group delivered its first internal climate
– Our updated business plan covers a wide range of information including: scenario analysis exercise with internal
2023–2027. scenarios being formed with reference to
– details of the Group’s business and external publicly available climate scenarios.
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, operating models, and strategy (see Using these external scenarios as a
is satisfied that the Group as a whole has page 12); template, the Group adapted them by
adequate resources to continue operations for – details of the Group’s approach to managing incorporating unique climate risks and
a period of at least 12 months from the date of risk and allocating capital; vulnerabilities to which the organisation is
this report, and it therefore continues to adopt – a summary of the Group’s financial position exposed. No issues were identified around
the going concern basis in preparing the considering performance, its ability to the going concern status of the Group.
financial statements. maintain minimum levels of regulatory Further details of the insights from the 2022
climate scenario analysis are explained from
capital, liquidity funding and the minimum
Based upon their assessment, the Directors requirements for own funds and eligible page 67;
have a reasonable expectation that the Group liabilities over the period of the assessment. – reports and updates from management on
will be able to continue in operation and meet Notable are the risks which the Directors risk-related issues selected for in-depth
liabilities as they fall due over the next three believe could cause the Group’s future consideration;
years. results or operations to adversely impact – reports and updates on regulatory
any of the above; developments;
In making their going concern and viability
assessments, the Directors have considered – enterprise risk reports, including the – legal proceedings and regulatory matters
a wide range of detailed information relating Group’s risk appetite profile (see page 132) set out in Note 35 on the financial
to present and potential conditions, including and top and emerging risks (see page 135); statements; and
projections for profitability, cash flows, capital – the impact on the Group due to the – reports and updates from management on
requirements and capital resources. Russia-Ukraine war; instability in China’s the operational resilience of the Group.
commercial real estate sector; structural
The Directors carried out a robust assessment changes from the Covid-19 pandemic and Aileen Taylor
of the emerging and principal risks facing the strained economic and diplomatic tensions Group Company Secretary and Chief
Group to determine its long-term viability, between China and the US, the UK, the Governance Officer
including those that would threaten its EU and other countries;
solvency and liquidity. They determined that 21 February 2023
42 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Environmental,
social and
governance
review
Our ESG review sets out our approach to
our environment, customers, employees
and governance. It also explains how we
aim to achieve our purpose and deliver
our strategy in a way that is sustainable
and how we build strong relationships
with all of our stakeholders.
44 Our approach to ESG
46 Environmental
73 Social
85 Governance
How we present our TCFD disclosures
Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 17
and additional information is included on pages 68 and
423. Further details have been embedded in this section
and the Risk review section on pages 221 to 230. Our
TCFD disclosures are highlighted with the following
symbol: TCFD
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 43
ESG review
Our approach to ESG
We are on a journey to incorporate environmental, social and
governance principles throughout the organisation, and are taking
steps to embed sustainability into our purpose and corporate strategy.
About the ESG review
Our purpose is: ‘Opening up a world of Environmental – Transition to net zero
opportunity’.
– Since 2020, we have provided and facilitated $210.7bn of sustainable finance and investment
towards our ambition of $750bn to $1tn by 2030. We monitor developments in taxonomies
To achieve our purpose and deliver our
and changing market guidelines in this space.
strategy in a way that is sustainable, we
are guided by our values: we value difference; – In December, we updated our energy policy as an important mechanism to help deliver our
we succeed together; we take responsibility; financed emissions targets and phase down fossil fuel financing in line with our net zero
and we get it done. ambition, and introduced further restrictions for thermal and metallurgical coal.
– We have introduced on-balance sheet financed emissions targets for eight sectors, noting
We also need to build strong relationships the limitations of evolving methodologies and data quality.
with all of our stakeholders, who are the
people who work for us, bank with us, Read more in the Environmental section on page 46.
own us, regulate us, and live in the societies
we serve and on the planet we all inhabit.
Social – Building inclusion and resilience
Transition to net zero – In 2022, 33.3% senior leadership roles were occupied by women, with a target to achieve
We have continued to take steps to implement 35% by 2025. We have put in place important foundations to support our goal of doubling
our climate ambition to become net zero in our the number of Black employees in senior leadership roles by 2025.
operations and our supply chain by 2030, and – Employee engagement, which is our headline measure, increased to 73% in 2022 following
align our financed emissions to net zero by a five-point increase from 2019, and was three points above benchmark.
2050. We have expanded our coverage
of sectors for on-balance sheet financed Read more in the Employees section on page 74.
emissions targets, noting the challenge of
evolving methodologies and data limitations. Governance – Acting responsibly
In addition, our operating environment for
climate analysis and portfolio alignment is – We conducted a review of our salient human rights issues, including stakeholder consultation
developing. We continue work to improve our with non-governmental organisations (‘NGOs’) and potentially affected groups.
data management processes and are setting – Our customer satisfaction performance, using the net promoter score, improved in many
targets to align our provision of finance with markets in which we operate. However, we still have work to do to improve our rank position
the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement. against competitors, as some have accelerated their performance faster than us.
In March 2022, we announced plans to Read more in the Governance section on page 85.
turn our net zero ambition for our portfolio
of clients into business transformation across
the Group. The plan involves the publication of We are committed to ensuring our Acting responsibly
a Group-wide climate transition plan in 2023. people – and particularly our leadership – Our governance pillar focuses on
We continued our work to review and update are representative of the communities that our approach to acting responsibly
our wider financing and investment policies we serve, and that we support their well-being and recognises topics such as human
critical to achieving net zero by 2050, which and development so they can learn and grow rights, conduct and data integrity.
included publishing an updated energy policy in their careers. We are equally committed
and thermal coal phase-out policy in to ensuring there are no unnecessary barriers Our policies and procedures help us provide
December 2022. to finance for our customers. We have an the right outcomes for customers, including
ambition to create a welcoming, inclusive those with enhanced care needs, which in
We are also working with peers and industry and accessible banking experience. 2022 took into account the current cost of
bodies to help mobilise the financial services living crisis. Customer experience is at the
industry to take action on climate change, Inclusion goes hand-in-hand with resilience. heart of how we operate and is measured
biodiversity and nature. We build resilience for our colleagues by through customer satisfaction and customer
supporting their physical, mental and financial complaints.
Building inclusion and resilience well-being, and by ensuring they are equipped
Our social pillar is centred around building with the skills and knowledge to further their We continue our journey to embed ESG
inclusion and resilience for our colleagues careers during a period of significant economic principles across the organisation, including
and customers, as well as in the communities transformation. For our customers, we build incorporating climate change-related risks
we serve. resilience primarily through education – by within the risk management framework,
helping them to understand their finances and training our workforce, incorporating
how to manage them effectively. climate-related targets within executive
scorecards, and engaging with customers
and suppliers.
44 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Our approach to ESG
How we decide what to measure
We listen to our stakeholders in a number of regulations to choose what we measure and globally consistent set of sustainability
different ways, which we set out in more detail publicly report in this ESG review. standards, we continued to report against
within the ‘ESG overview’ on page 14. We use the core World Economic Forum (‘WEF’)
the information they provide us to identify the Under the ESG Guide, ’materiality’ is ‘Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics’ and
issues that are most important to them and considered to be the threshold at which ESG Sustainability Accounting Standards
consequently also matter to our own business. issues become sufficiently important to our Board (‘SASB’) metrics this year.
investors and other stakeholders that they
Our ESG Committee and other relevant should be publicly reported. We are also Consistent with the scope of financial
governance bodies regularly discuss the new informed by stock exchange listing and information presented in our Annual Report
and existing themes and issues that matter to disclosure rules globally. We know that what and Accounts, the ESG review covers the
our stakeholders. Our management team then is important to our stakeholders evolves over operations of HSBC Holdings plc and its
uses this insight, alongside the framework of time and we plan to continue to assess our subsidiaries. Given the relative immaturity
the ESG Guide (which refers to our obligations approach to help ensure we remain relevant of ESG-related data and methodologies in
under the Environmental, Social and in what we measure and publicly report. general, we are on a journey towards
Governance Reporting Guide contained improving completeness and robustness.
in Appendix 27 to The Rules Governing the Recognising the need for a consistent
Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange and global set of ESG metrics, we monitor For further information on our approach to
of Hong Kong Limited), and the LR9.8.6R(8) the developments related to International reporting, see the ‘Additional information’
section of page 422.
of the Financial Conduct Authority’s (‘FCA’) Sustainability Standard Board (‘ISSB’) and
Listing Rules, and other applicable laws and other standard setters. In the absence of a
Our reporting around ESG
We report on ESG matters throughout our Annual Report and Accounts, including the ’ESG overview’ section of the Strategic Report (pages 14 to 19),
this ESG review (pages 44 to 96), and the ‘Climate risk’ and ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ sections of the Risk review (pages 221 to 230).
In addition, we have other supplementary materials, including our ESG Data Pack, which provides a more granular breakdown of ESG information.
Detailed data Additional reports Indices
ESG Data Pack 2022 UK Pay Gap Report 2022 SASB Index 2022
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2022 WEF Index 2022
Green Bond Report 2022
HSBC UN Sustainable Development Goals Bond and Sukuk Report 2022
For further details of our supplementary materials, see our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Assurance relating to ESG data
TCFD
HSBC Holdings plc is responsible for For 2022, ESG data is subject to stand-alone – our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3
preparation of the ESG information and independent limited assurance reports (business travel) greenhouse gas emissions
all the supporting records, including selecting by PwC in accordance with International data (see page 63); and supply chain
appropriate measurement and reporting Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 emissions data; and
criteria, in our Annual Report and Accounts, (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other – our 2019 baseline for financed emissions
ESG Data Pack and the additional reports than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial covering 38% of assets under management
published on our website. Information’ and, in respect of the greenhouse for our asset management business (see
gas emissions, in accordance with page 56).
We recognise the importance of ESG International Standard on Assurance
disclosures and the quality of data underpinning Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements The work performed by external parties to
it. We also acknowledge that our internal on Greenhouse Gas Statements’, issued by support their limited assurance report is
processes to support ESG are in the process the International Auditing and Assurance substantially less than the work performed for
of being developed and currently rely on manual Standards Board, on the following specific a reasonable assurance opinion, like those
sourcing and categorisation of data. Certain ESG-related disclosures and metrics: provided over financial statements.
aspects of our ESG disclosures are subject
to enhanced verification and assurance – our Green Bond Report 2022 (published Our data dictionaries and methodologies
procedures including the first and second line in December 2022); for preparing the above ESG-related metrics
of defence. We aim to continue to enhance our – our financed emissions for 2019 and 2020 and third-party limited assurance reports
approach in line with external expectations. for six sectors (see page 50); can be found on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-
– our progress towards our ambition to provide are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable reporting-centre.
finance and investment (see page 57);
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 45
ESG review | Environmental
Environmental
TCFD
Transition to net zero
We are developing new solutions to the climate crisis
and supporting the transition of our customers,
industries and markets to a net zero future, while
moving to net zero ourselves.
At a glance
Transition to net zero Our approach to climate risk Impact on reporting and financial
Our net zero ambition represents one of our We recognise that to achieve our climate statements
four strategic pillars. At the core of it is an ambition we need to enhance our approach We have assessed the impact of climate risk
ambition to support our customers on their to managing climate risk. We have established on our balance sheet and have concluded that
transition to net zero, so that the greenhouse a dedicated programme to develop strong there is no material impact on the financial
gas emissions from our portfolio of clients climate risk management capabilities. statements for the year ended 31 December
reaches net zero by 2050. We also aim to be 2022. We considered the impact on a number
net zero in our operations and supply chain by We manage climate risks in line with our risk of areas of our balance sheet including
2030. We have made good progress on our management framework and three lines of expected credit losses, classification and
net zero ambition, including publishing an defence model. We also use stress testing measurement of financial instruments,
updated energy policy as an important and scenario analysis to assess how these goodwill and other intangible assets, our
mechanism to meeting our financed emissions risks will impact our customers, business owned properties, as well as our long-term
targets, and expanding our financed emissions and infrastructure. This approach gives the viability and going concern. As part of
targets to eight sectors in total. We aim to Board and senior management visibility and assessing the impact on our financial
provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of oversight of the climate risks that could have statements we conducted scenario analysis to
sustainable finance and investment to support the greatest impact on HSBC, and helps us understand the impact of climate risk on our
our customers in their transition to net zero identify opportunities to deliver sustainable business (see page 67). For further details on
and a sustainable future by 2030. We continue growth in support of our climate ambition. our climate risk exposures, see page 145.
to engage with our clients on their transition
plans and to provide them with financing For further details on our approach to climate risk For further details of how management has
solutions to support their sustainability goals. management, see ‘Environmental, social and considered the impact of climate-related risks
governance risk’ on page 139, ‘Climate risk’ on on its financial position and performance see
page 221 and ‘Insights from scenario analysis’ on our ‘Critical accounting estimates and
page 226. judgements’ in Note 1 ‘Basis of preparation and
significant accounting policies’ from page 335.
In this section
Transition Understanding our climate To achieve our climate ambition we need to be transparent on the Page 47
to net zero reporting opportunities, challenges, related risks and progress we make.
Our approach to the We aim to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and in Page 49
transition our own operations and supply chain by 2030.
Financed emissions We aim to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050 Page 50
or sooner.
Supporting customers Our ability to help finance the transformation of businesses and Page 57
through transition infrastructure is key to building a sustainable future for our customers
and society.
Unlocking climate We are working closely with a range of partners to help accelerate Page 60
solutions and innovations investment in natural resources, technology and sustainable infrastructure.
Biodiversity and natural By addressing nature-related risks and investing in nature, we have an Page 61
capital strategy opportunity to help accelerate the transition to net zero.
Our approach to our own Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank is to achieve net zero carbon Page 62
operations emissions in our operations and supply chain by 2030 or sooner.
Our approach Managing risk for our We manage climate risk across all our businesses in line with our Page 64
to climate risk stakeholders Group-wide risk management framework.
Our approach to Our sustainability risk policies seek to ensure that the financial Page 65
sustainability policies services that we provide to customers do not contribute to
unacceptable impacts on people or the environment.
Insights from scenario Enhancing our climate change stress testing and scenario analysis Page 67
analysis capability is crucial in identifying and understanding climate-related
risks and opportunities.
Our approach to Task Force on Climate- Our TCFD index provides our responses to each of the 11 Page 68
climate reporting related Financial recommendations and summarises where additional information
Disclosures (‘TCFD’) can be found.
46 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Transition to net zero
TCFD
Understanding our climate reporting
The transition to net zero is one of the Limited international alignment on green Need for enhanced governance,
biggest challenges for our generation taxonomies processes, systems, controls and data
We recognise that our planet urgently needs Green finance taxonomies are not consistent Our climate ambition requires enhanced
drastic and lasting action to protect our globally, and evolving taxonomies and capabilities including governance, processes,
communities, businesses and the natural practices could result in revisions in our systems and controls. We also need new
environment from the damaging effects of sustainable finance reporting going forward. sources of data, some of which may be
climate change. We recognise that there can be differing views difficult to assure using traditional verification
of external stakeholders in relation to these techniques. We continue to invest in our
Our ability to meet our net zero ambition – evolving taxonomies, and we will seek to align climate resources and skills, and develop
to align the financed emissions of our portfolio to enhanced industry standards as they our business management process to
to net zero by 2050, and to become net zero are further developed. We aim to increase integrate climate impacts. Our activities are
in our operations and supply chain by 2030 transparency across the different types of underpinned by efforts and investment to
– relies on the pace of change taking place in green and transition finance and investment develop our data and analytics capabilities and
the real economy and action among a broad categories going forward, and plan to engage to help ensure that we have the appropriate
set of stakeholders, including policymakers. with standard setters to help evolve processes, systems, controls and governance
This will include responsible actions from sustainable finance product standards to best in place to support our transition.
both HSBC and our clients to address incentivise science-based decarbonisation,
climate change. particularly in high transition risk sectors. We are taking steps to establish an ESG data
utility tool to help streamline and support
We acknowledge that to achieve our climate Engagement with clients on their data needs across the organisation. We are
ambition we need to be transparent on the transition at an early stage enhancing our processes, systems, controls
opportunities, challenges, related risks Success will require governments, clients and governance to help achieve the required
and progress we make. Our reporting will and finance providers to work together. Stable scale to meet the demands of future ESG
need to evolve to keep pace with market and strong policy environments are critical reporting. Certain aspects of our reporting rely
developments and we will aim to overcome to accelerating the energy transition. Active on manual sourcing and categorisation of
challenges with regard to consistency across engagement between public and private data. This categorisation of data is not always
different markets in which we operate. The stakeholders is fundamental to de-risk new aligned with how our businesses are currently
role of standard setters and regulators will be technologies and markets and establish new managed. We also have a dependency on
important in achieving standardisation. We business structures. emissions data from our clients. Given the
have highlighted below some of the limitations manual nature, enhanced verification and
and challenges that our organisation, and the We established a new process to assess client assurance procedures are performed on a
wider industry, face with regard to climate transition plans for our largest energy sector sample basis over this reporting including the
reporting. clients and those involved in thermal coal to first and second line of defence. Our models
help inform areas for further engagement and undergo independent review by an internal
Our transition will be challenging but we guide business decisions. We acknowledge model review group, and we obtain limited
have an opportunity to make an impact that our assessment of client transition plans is assurance on our financed emissions and
Our global footprint means that many of our in the initial stages and our engagement with sustainable finance disclosures from external
clients operate in high-emitting sectors and clients on their plans and progress will need parties including our external auditors.
regions that face the greatest challenge in to continue to be embedded.
reducing emissions in the critical decades
ahead to 2050. Their ability to transition In December 2022, following extensive
effectively will be key to reaching a global consultation with scientific and industry
net zero economy in time, but they are often bodies, we published our updated energy
faced with increasingly high energy demand, policy and an update to our thermal coal
relatively new carbon-intensive assets, and phase-out policy. These policies acknowledge
lower level of investments into clean a need to phase down financing of fossil fuels
technologies. while also investing at scale in climate
solutions to enable a transition to net zero.
Our approach is rooted in engagement
with our clients to provide them with the
capital and tools to help them transform
their business models and decarbonise. It
is also rooted in the reality that a just and
inclusive transition requires us to consider
region-specific challenges and opportunities.
Additionally, countries are moving at different
speeds and, given our geographical and
sectoral spread, we will naturally have one
of the most complex transitions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 47
ESG review | Environmental
Understanding our climate reporting continued
Capturing the full-scope of our emissions Disclosure challenges for year-end the developments in industry standards
Having set on-balance sheet 2030 emissions reporting for the publication of such emissions and
targets for the oil and gas, and power and Given the challenges on data sourcing, as well associated targets, and, as mentioned
utilities sectors, we have now expanded as the evolution of our processes and industry above, we will seek to align to the PCAF
our coverage to include heavy industry and standards as mentioned above, there has standard when published. However, we will
transport sectors, which are key drivers of been an impact on certain climate disclosures: aim to provide transparency on our 2019
energy demand. These sectors cover the most and 2020 facilitated emissions for the oil and
emissions-intensive parts of our portfolio. – Thermal coal exposures: We acknowledge gas, and power and utilities sectors as they
We plan to extend our analysis to four that our processes, systems, controls and become available, which may be in advance
additional sectors – shipping, agriculture, governance are not yet designed to fully of the PCAF standard being available.
commercial real estate and residential real identify and disclose thermal coal – Shipping financed emissions targets: For
estate – in our Annual Report and Accounts exposures, particularly for exposures within the shipping sector, we have chosen to defer
2023 and related disclosures. broader conglomerates. We are reassessing setting a baseline and target until there is
the reliability of our data and reviewing sufficient reliable data to support our work,
Our initial focus has been on on-balance sheet our basis of preparation to help ensure that allowing us to more accurately track
financing, including project finance and direct we are reporting all relevant thermal coal progress towards net zero.
lending. We also have facilitated emissions exposures aligned to our thermal coal policy.
from our capital markets activities, through our As a result, we have not reported thermal Continuing to evolve our climate
underwriting in debt and equity capital markets coal exposures in this Annual Report and disclosures
and syndicated lending. We aim to update Accounts 2022. We expect that our updated In 2023, we plan to publish our first Group-
our targets and baselines to include both thermal coal exposure dating back to wide climate transition plan to provide further
on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet 31 December 2020 will be made available details of our strategic approach to net zero
activities following the publication of the for reporting as soon as practicable in 2023, and how we plan to transform our organisation
industry standard for capital markets although this is dependent on availability to execute our ambition. We also aim to
methodology by the Partnership for Carbon and quality of data. publish an updated deforestation policy and
Accounting Financials (‘PCAF’). This should – Facilitated emissions: In March 2022, build out our financed emissions portfolio
give guidance on how to apportion the we said we would set capital markets coverage to include agriculture, residential real
emissions responsibility between a facilitator emissions targets for the oil and gas, and estate, commercial real estate and shipping,
and an investor within capital markets activities. power and utilities sectors based on the and plan to update our targets for certain
industry reporting standard from the PCAF sectors to include facilitated emissions once
Our Asset Management business released once published. We have chosen to defer the PCAF standard is launched.
a coal phase-out policy in September 2022, setting targets for facilitated emissions
and made its initial emissions disclosure until the PCAF standard for capital markets In 2023, we will continue to review our
in November 2022 with a portfolio is published, which is expected in 2023. approach to disclosures, with our reporting
decarbonisation target for 2030 to align We had intended to disclose facilitated needing to evolve to keep pace with market
investments with the goals of the Paris emissions for 2019 and 2020 for the oil developments.
Agreement. The commitment covers listed and gas, and power and utilities sectors
equity and corporate fixed income where for transparency, as we did last year. For details of assurance around ESG data,
data and methodologies are most mature. However, following internal and external see page 45.
We will also consider the inclusion of assurance reviews performed during the For details of our approach to calculating
emissions on our insurance business. year, we identified certain data and process financed emissions and the relevant data and
methodology limitations, see page 52.
limitations and have deferred the publication
For details of our sustainable finance and
of our facilitated emissions for 2019 and
investment ambition, see page 57.
2020 for these two sectors while additional
For details of our approach to thermal coal,
verification procedures are performed. We see page 66.
aim to provide these disclosures as soon as
practicable in 2023. We continue to monitor
Awarded as a green lease leader
We are carrying out a programme to promote green lease clauses across our global
portfolio of leased buildings, which commit our landlords to helping us reduce our impact
on the environment. As part of this programme, in May 2022, we agreed to move our US
headquarters to The Spiral office tower at 66 Hudson Boulevard in Manhattan, New York,
which we expect to reduce our total energy consumption by 60% compared with 2021.
The Spiral is on track to achieve industry leading LEED Gold and Fitwel certifications for
sustainability and building health. Alongside our real estate broker JLL, and our landlord
Tishman Speyer, we were recognised by the Green Lease Leaders Organisation with a Green
Lease Leaders Team Transaction Award – Platinum Level, for our collaboration to improve
the energy efficiency and sustainability of buildings.
48 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Our approach to the transition
We are committed to a net zero future. Our We aim to align our financed emissions to net our customers on their transition plans to form
global footprint means we play a significant zero by 2050 or sooner. We are setting targets a core part of our approach as we pursue
role in the sectors and regions most critical to on a sector by sector basis that are consistent our targets. We acknowledge that our
the transition to net zero. Many of our clients with net zero outcomes by 2050. In assessing assessment of client transition plans is in the
operate in the high-emitting sectors and financed emissions, we focus on those parts initial stages and our engagement with clients
regions that face the greatest challenge in of the sector that we consider are most on their plans and progress will need to
reducing emissions. This means we can have material in terms of greenhouse gas continue to be embedded.
a significant impact in helping to drive down emissions, and where we believe engagement
emissions in the real economy, but this is and climate action have the greatest potential We aim to become net zero in our operations
a challenging process that will take time. to effect change, taking into account industry and supply chain by 2030. This covers our
and scientific guidance. direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions,
The Paris Agreement aims to limit the rise known as scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. As well
in global temperatures to well below 2°C, We have set interim 2030 targets for on- as transforming our own operations and
preferably to 1.5°C, compared with pre- balance sheet financed emissions for eight supply chain to net zero, we are asking our
industrial levels. To limit the rise in global sectors. These include six sectors for which we suppliers to do the same.
temperatures to 1.5°C, the global economy have reported 2019 and 2020 emissions: oil
would need to reach net zero greenhouse gas and gas; power and utilities; cement; iron, steel The next section provides further details on
emissions by 2050. We are committed to a and aluminium; aviation; and automotive. We how we are measuring our progress on our
science-aligned phase-down of fossil fuel have also set targets for thermal coal power financed emissions ambition. For further details
finance in line with the Paris Agreement. and thermal coal mining. of the progress made to date on our own
operations and supply chain, see page 62. The
We have committed to publish our own In 2022, we established a process to assess diagram below shows how these ambitions
Group-wide climate transition plan in 2023. client transition plans to help inform areas map to our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
This plan will bring together our climate for further engagement and guide business
strategy, science-based targets, and how decisions. We expect engagement with
we plan to embed this into our processes,
policies, governance and capabilities. It
will outline, in one place, not only our
commitments, targets and approach to Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
net zero across the sectors and markets we To measure and manage our carbon emissions, we follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
serve, but also how we are transforming our global framework, which identifies three scopes of emissions. Scope 1 represents the direct
organisation to embed net zero and help emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the indirect emissions resulting from the use of
finance the transition. Our approach to nature electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 represents indirect emissions attributed to
and enabling a just and resilient transition upstream and downstream activities taking place to provide services to customers. Our
will also be incorporated into our climate upstream activities include business travel and emissions from our supply chain including
transition plan. transport, distribution and waste. Our downstream activities include those related to
investments and financed emissions.
Our net zero policies
In December 2022, we published our updated Under the protocol, scope 3 emissions are also broken down into 15 categories, of which we
policy covering the broader energy system, provide reporting emissions data for three related to upstream activities, which are: purchased
including upstream oil and gas, oil and gas goods and services (category 1); capital goods (category 2); and business travel (category 6).
power generation, coal, hydrogen, renewables We also provide reporting data for one category related to downstream activities, which is
and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and energy investments and financed emissions (category 15)
from waste. The policy seeks to balance three
related objectives: driving down global For further breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
greenhouse gas emissions; enabling an
orderly transition that builds resilience in Our own Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 3 Our financed
the longer term; and supporting a just and operations and Indirect Indirect Direct Indirect emissions
supply chain
affordable transition. In December, we also
expanded our thermal coal phase-out policy, See page 63 See page 51
in which we committed to not providing new
finance or advisory services for the specific
purposes of the conversion of existing Electricity, Purchased Company
coal-to-gas-fired power plants, or new hea s t t i e n a g m a nd g s o e o r d v s ic a e n s d facilities
metallurgical coal mines. Our updated cooling (category 1)
energy and thermal coal phase-out policies
Company
were drafted in consultation with leading vehicles
independent scientific and international bodies
and investors. Details on the policies can be
found in ‘Our approach to sustainability
policies’ on page 65. Business Capital Investments and
travel goods financed emissions
(category 6) (category 2) (category 15)
Working with our customers and suppliers
We believe we can make the most significant
impact by working with our customers Upstream activities HSBC Holdings Downstream activities
to support their transition to a net zero
global economy.
1 HSBC-sponsored shuttles only
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 49
ESG review | Environmental
Financed emissions
TCFD
We announced our ambition to become a net the greenhouse gas emissions associated with shipping sector, we noted significant data
zero bank in October 2020, including an aim those activities. They form part of our scope 3 gaps. We have therefore chosen to defer
to align our financed emissions to net zero emissions, which include emissions associated setting a baseline and target for this sector
by 2050 or sooner. We plan to publish initial with the use of a company’s products and until there is sufficient reliable data to support
financed emissions targets for 2030, and in services. We also recognise that we have more our work.
five-year increments thereafter. We remain to do to embed these targets in our business,
committed to working with our customers including enhanced capabilities and new We plan to measure and report progress on an
to support their journey towards a net zero sources of data as set out on page 47. annual basis, and plan to extend our analysis
future, and deploying capital towards to four new sectors – shipping, agriculture,
decarbonisation solutions for the most In 2021, we started measuring our financed commercial real estate and residential real
emissions-intensive sectors. emissions for two emissions-intensive sectors: estate – in our Annual Report and Accounts
oil and gas, and power and utilities. On the 2023 and related disclosures. For the new
Our analysis of financed emissions considers following pages, we present the progress for sectors, we plan to set production intensity
on-balance sheet financing, including project both sectors against the on-balance sheet targets. We believe these targets are robust as
finance and direct lending. We distinguish financed emissions baseline that we now they are linked to real world production, and
between ‘on-balance sheet financed’ and measure ourselves against. We have also allow us to deploy capital towards solutions for
‘facilitated’ emissions where necessary. begun measuring the financed emissions progressive decarbonisation, supporting our
Financed emissions link the financing we and setting targets for four additional sectors: clients’ transition plans.
provide to our customers and their activities in cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
the real economy, and provide an indication of and automotive. During our analysis of the
Our approach to financed emissions
In our approach to assessing our financed propulsion systems for new aircraft is where To calculate annual on-balance sheet financed
emissions, our key methodological decisions attention needs to be prioritised to meet net emissions, we used drawn balances as at
were shaped in line with industry practices zero targets. By estimating emissions and 31 December in the year of analysis related to
and standards. We recognise these are setting targets for customers that directly wholesale credit and lending, which included
still developing. account for, or indirectly control the majority business loans, trade and receivables finance,
of emissions in each industry, we can focus and project finance as the value of finance
Coverage of our analysis our engagement and resources where we provided to customers. We excluded products
For each sector, we focused our analysis on believe the potential for change is highest. that were short term by design, which are
the parts of the value chain where we believe typically less than 12 months in duration,
the majority of emissions are produced based With regards to the different types of following guidance from the Partnership for
upon industry benchmarks, and to help greenhouse gases measured, we include Carbon Accounting Financials (‘PCAF’), and
reduce double counting of emissions. CO and methane (measured in COe) for to reduce volatility.
2 2
For aviation, we have focused on scope 1 the oil and gas sectors, and CO only for
2
emissions from airlines and scope 3 from the remaining sectors due to data availability
aircraft lessors as we believe the use of and greenhouse gas emissions materiality
lower emissions aviation fuels and different within each sector.
The chart below shows the scope of our financed emissions analysis of the six sectors, including upstream, midstream and downstream
activities within each sector.
Coverage of
Sector Scope of emissions Value chain in scope greenhouse gases
Oil and gas 1, 2 and 3 Upstream Midstream D ownstream Integrated/ CO/methane
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. transport) (e.g . fuel use) diversified 2
Upstream Midstream Downstream
Power and utilities 1 and 2 (e.g. generation) (e
a
.
n
g
d
. t
d
ra
is
n
t
s
ri
m
bu
is
t
s
io
io
n
n
)
(e.g. retail) CO 2
Cement 1 and 2 Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream (e.g clinker Downstream CO
materials, e xtraction ) and cement manufacturing) (e.g. construction ) 2
Iron, steel and Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream
aluminium 1 and 2 materials, extr action) (e.g. ore to steel) (e.g. construction) CO 2
Aviation
1 for airlines, Upstrea m Midstream Downstream
CO
3 for aircraft lessors (e.g. parts manufacture rs) (e.g. aircraft manufacturing) (e.g. airlines and air less ors) 2
Automotive 1, 2 and 3 (e. U g. p s s u tr p e p a l m iers) (e.g m . M a m i n d o u s t f t o a r r e c a v tu m e r h e i ) cle D ( o e w .g n . s re tr t e a a il m ) CO 2
Key: Included in analysis
50 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Setting our targets An evolving approach
We set targets for sectors based on We believe methodologies for calculating
decarbonisation pathways that are financed emissions and setting targets should
constructed using the Net Zero Emissions be transparent and comparable, and should
by 2050 scenario produced by the provide science-based insights that focus
International Energy Agency (‘IEA’). engagement efforts, inform capital allocation
and develop solutions that are both timely
Following guidance from the Net-Zero Banking and impactful. We continue to engage with
Alliance (‘NZBA’) and the Science Based regulators, standard setters and industry
Targets Initiative (‘SBTi’) this scenario bodies to shape our approach to measuring
has low reliance on negative emissions financed emissions and managing portfolio
technologies, or the possibility for the rise alignment to net zero. We also work with
in global temperatures to exceed 1.5°C before data providers and our clients to help us
cooling again. The scenario makes reasonable gather data from the real economy to improve
Connecting the offshore
assumptions about the potential for carbon our analysis.
sequestration through nature-based solutions energy industry
and land use change. Scenarios used in our analysis are modelled
upon allocation assumptions of the available
The global transition to a net zero
Our approach for financed emissions carbon budget and actions that need to be
economy provides opportunities for
accounting does not rely on purchasing taken to drive the global transition to 1.5°C
companies looking to create new
offsets to achieve any financed emissions outcomes. Assumptions include technology
connections to renewable energy
targets we set. development and/or adoption, shifts in
sources. UK-based JDR Cable Systems,
the energy mix, the retirement of assets,
which is part of TFK Group, links global
Meeting our targets for 2030 is dependent behavioural changes and implementation of
offshore energy sources to the land
on immediate and significant deployment of policy levers, among others. We expect that
using its subsea cable technology. As it
available clean technology solutions, as shown scenario developers will be continually working
looks to expand its production, and with
by the IEA’s Net Zero by 2050 roadmap for the to improve the usability, accuracy and
the backing of UK Export Finance, we
global energy sector. Innovation in this decade granularity of pathways.
helped to provide a £100m investment
needs to be accompanied by large‐scale
loan to finance the building of a new
construction of infrastructure to enable the
facility in Cambois, near Blyth,
implementation of cleaner technologies. This
Northumberland. The new facility,
will require strong policy support and public
which occupies the site of a former
and private capital to be deployed at scale.
coal-fired power station, will help JDR
expand its product portfolio. It is
We also recognise that the supply and
expected to complete in 2024.
demand side of the market need to move
concurrently. The reduction of fossil fuels in
favour of clean energy supply needs to be
matched by an increase in demand from
industry, buildings and transport to consume
clean energy. Both the supply and demand
still require significant policy support to
enable this transition economically.
Leading the electric battery charge in Indonesia
We are supporting Hyundai in its journey to produce only electrical vehicles by 2040. We
acted as a mandated lead arranger and lender towards a $711m loan to a joint venture
company between Hyundai Motor, Kia, Hyundai Mobis and LG Energy Solution. The
financing will help fund the construction of an electric vehicle battery manufacturing plant in
Karawang, Indonesia, which would be the first in south-east Asia. The facility will have an
annual production capacity of 10 gigawatt hours (‘GWh’)-worth of lithium-ion battery cells.
As the electric vehicle battery sector continues to grow, the facility will help establish
Indonesia as an electric vehicle supply chain hub in Asia and be a crucial contributor to
Hyundai’s net zero ambitions in the region.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 51
ESG review | Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Data and methodology limitations
Our financed emissions estimates and included in our analysis, in particular scope 3 our portfolio-level financed emissions
methodological choices are shaped by the emissions. In the absence of client-reported are weighted by the ratio of our financing
availability of data for the sectors we analyse. emissions, we estimate them using proxies in relation to the value of the financed
based on company production and revenue company. We believe this introduces
– We are members of Partnership for Carbon figures, and validated key data inputs with volatility and are assessing if portfolio
Accounting Financials (‘PCAF’), which our global relationship managers. Although weight is more appropriate. We remain
seeks to define and develop greenhouse we sought to minimise the use of non- conscious that the economic value used
gas accounting standards for financial company-specific data, we applied industry in the financed emissions calculation is
institutions. PCAF developed the Global averages in our analysis where company- sensitive to changes in drawn amounts or
GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard specific data was unavailable. As data market fluctuations, and we plan to be
for the Financial Industry, which focuses improves, estimates will be replaced with transparent around drivers for change to
on measuring and reporting financed reported figures. Our 2019 emissions for our portfolio financed emissions where possible.
emissions. The PCAF Standard provides oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors – The classification of our clients into sectors
guidance on assigning data quality scoring have been revised as a result of changes to is performed with inputs from subject
per asset class, creating data transparency data sources. matter experts and will also continue to
and encouraging improvements to data – Third-party data sets that feed into our evolve with improvements to data and
quality in the medium and long term. analysis may have up to a two-year lag in our sector classification approach.
– We found that data quality scores varied reported emissions figures, and we are – The operating environment for climate
across the different sectors and years of our working with data providers to help analysis and portfolio alignment is also
analysis, although not significantly. While reduce this. maturing. We continue to work to improve
we expect our data quality scores to – The methodology and data used to assess our data management processes, and are
improve over time, as companies continue financed emissions and set targets are new implementing steering mechanisms to align
to expand their disclosures to meet growing and evolving, and we expect industry our provision of finance with the goals and
regulatory and stakeholder expectations, guidance, market practice, and regulations timelines of the Paris Agreement.
there may be fluctuations within sectors to continue to change. We plan to refine our
year on year, and/or differences between analysis using appropriate data sources and Our methodology for financed emissions is set
the data quality scores between sectors current methodologies available for the out in our Financed Emissions Methodology,
due to changes in data availability. sectors we analyse. which is available at www.hsbc.com/
who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
– The majority of our clients do not yet report – In line with the PCAF Standard, to calculate esg-reporting-centre.
the full scope of greenhouse gas emissions sector-level baselines and annual updates,
Targets and progress
We have set out in the table below our defined targets for the on-balance sheet financed emissions for the following sectors: oil and gas; power
and utilities; cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; and automotive. On the following pages, we provide more granular details on our financed
emissions within these sectors.
Sector 2019 baseline 2020 progress 2030 target Unit1 Target type Target scenario
Oil and gas 33.0 30.1 (34)% Mt COe Absolute IEA NZE 2050
2
Power and utilities2 589.9 509.6 138 tCO/GWh Intensity IEA NZE 2050
2
Cement 0.64 0.64 0.46 tCO/t cement Intensity IEA NZE 2050
2
Iron, steel and aluminium3 1.8 2.0 1.05 (1.43) tCO/t metal Intensity IEA NZE 2050
2
Aviation 84.0 103.9 63 tCO/million rpk Intensity IEA NZE 2050
2
Automotive 191.5 176.2 66 tCO/million vkm Intensity IEA NZE 2050
2
1 Our absolute and intensity emission metrics and targets are measured based on the drawn exposures of the counterparties in scope for each sector, which is a
subset of our total loans and advances. For the oil and gas sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide (‘Mt COe’) and intensity
2
is measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide per exajoule (‘Mt COe/Ej’); for the power and utilities sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
2
per gigawatt hour (‘tCO/GWh’); for the cement sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide per tonne of cement (‘tCO/t cement’); for the iron, steel and
2 2
aluminium sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide per tonne of metal (‘tCO/t metal’); for the aviation sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide
2
per million revenue passenger kilometres (‘tCO/million rpk’); and for the automotive sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide per million vehicle kilometres
2
('tCO/million vkm’).
2
2 Our power and utilities target units have been revised from our 2021 analysis, and the target has been revised from 0.14 Mt COe/TWh to 138 tCO/GWh due to
2 2
rounding. The target value remains unchanged.
3 W hile the iron, steel and aluminium 2030 target is aligned with the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario, we also reference the Mission Possible Partnership
Technology Moratorium scenario, whose 2030 reference range is shown in parentheses.
52 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
20192020 2025 2030
tnemec
t/2OCt
Cement 2020 progress
tCO2/t cement from baseline
0
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
20192020 2025 2030
e2OCtM
Oil and gas 2020 progress
Mt CO2e from baseline
(9)%
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
20192020 2025 2030
hWG/2OCt
Environmental
Financed emissions continued
When assessing the changes from 2019 Covid-19 pandemic led to anomalies in our global average, the baselines may be
to 2020, it is important to emphasise the portfolio’s financed emissions for 2020. the same.
long-term commitment that is needed to meet
our 2030 interim targets and how changes For some sectors, our financed emissions We plan to report financed emissions and
to exposure and market fluctuations impact baseline will be different from the Net Zero progress against our targets annually and to
yearly updates. Movement from one year to Emissions by 2050 reference scenario be transparent in our disclosures about the
the next may not reflect future trends for the baseline. Where we have applied an absolute methodologies applied. However, financed
financed emissions of our portfolio, and as we reduction target such as for the oil and gas emissions figures may not be reconcilable or
are at the beginning of our journey to track sector, and the target is defined as a comparable year on year, and targets may
and measure progress, we believe it would be percentage reduction from the baseline they require recalibration as data, methodologies
premature to infer future trends from the 2019 will be the same. Similarly, when the sector and reference scenarios develop.
to 2020 progress at this stage. In addition, the portfolio intensity is very similar to that of the
Oil and gas Power and utilities Cement
For the oil and gas sector, we cover all scopes For the power and utilities sector, we include We cover scope 1 and 2 for all companies with
for upstream as well as integrated companies scope 1 and 2, and focus on power generation clinker and cement manufacturing facilities. In
to help ensure we include the vast majority of only. We also follow the IEA Net Zero Emissions line with the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050
CO and methane emissions created by crude by 2050 scenario and target an on-balance scenario, we target an on-balance sheet
2
oil and natural gas extraction and consumption. sheet financed emissions intensity of 138 financed emissions intensity of 0.46 tonnes of
In line with the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per carbon dioxide per tonne of cement (‘tCO/t
2
scenario, we target an absolute reduction of gigawatt hour (‘tCO/GWh’) by 2030, using 2019 cement’) by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline.
2
34% in on-balance sheet financed emissions as our baseline. The power and utilities sector Some emission reductions can be achieved
by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline. We believe is expected to expand significantly as the through energy efficiency. However, we believe
decarbonising the energy system, and therefore electrification of transport, heating and other that to significantly reduce fuel and process
our ability to meet our targets, requires activities will drive an increase in electricity emissions from cement manufacturing, and
electrification of the economy, combined with a demand. To enable this growth through our ability to meet our targets, large-scale
shift from consuming fossil fuels towards the low-emission sources of electricity, we have investments are required in new technologies,
use of more renewable electricity and chosen an intensity target. We believe financing such as clinker substitution, alternative fuel use
alternative fuels. for renewable electricity will need to increase such as bioenergy, and carbon capture use and
significantly to help us meet our targets, storage. Our 2020 emission intensity stayed
Due to data quality and modelling alongside smart grids and energy storage. level with 2019, as there were no significant
improvements, we have revised our 2019 changes to the emission intensity of our clients.
baseline to 33.0 million tonnes of carbon dioxide Due to data quality and modelling The PCAF score for the cement sector is 2.2
(‘Mt COe’). The sector’s PCAF data quality improvements, we have revised our 2019 for scope 1 and 2 in 2019, which is higher
2
score is 2.7 for scope 1 and 2, and 2.9 for scope baseline to 589.9 tCO/GWh, which is higher compared with other sectors, as we have
2
3 in 2019, indicating that we need to find better than the IEA global average. The PCAF score is reported emissions data for a large portion of
data sources, such as reported and verified 3.3, for scope 1 and 2 in 2019, as many of our our clients, and have only needed to estimate
emissions. Many clients report scope 1 and 2, smaller clients are not disclosing their scope 1 to emissions through production or revenue
but for scope 3 we have had to estimate many 2 emissions. These have mostly been estimated proxies for the smaller clients in our portfolio.
data points using production and revenue using production or revenue, which will be
proxies, in line with PCAF guidance. In 2020, replaced when we have reported and verified
absolute financed emissions decreased 9%, emissions from clients. In 2020, the emissions
mostly as a result of changes in our portfolio intensity of our portfolio decreased by 14% as a
during the first year of the Covid-19 pandemic. result of clients moving their generation mix to
lower emission sources and portfolio shifts.
Power and utilities2 2020 progress
tCO2/GWh from baseline
(14)%
Key:
Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario On-balance sheet financed emissions intensity
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 53
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0
20192020 2025 2030
latem
t/2OCt
Iron, steel and aluminium3 2020 progress
tCO2/t metal from baseline
11%
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
20192020 2025 2030
kpr
noillim/2OCt
Aviation 2020 progress
tCO2/million rpk from baseline
24%
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
20192020 2025 2030
mkv
noillim/2OCt
ESG review | Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Iron, steel and aluminium Aviation Automotive
We cover scope 1 and 2 for midstream iron, In the aviation sector, we included airlines’ For the automotive sector, we look at scope 1, 2
steel and aluminium production. Due to the low scope 1 emissions and aircraft lessors’ scope 3 and 3 emissions from the manufacturing of
materiality of the aluminium sector’s financed emissions, as we believe this captures direct vehicles, and tank-to-wheel exhaust pipe
emissions within our portfolio, we have emissions from aircraft as the main source of emissions for light-duty vehicles. We excluded
combined them with our iron and steel financed emissions. We exclude military and dedicated heavy-duty vehicles from our analysis, following
emissions. For the iron, steel and aluminium cargo flights. As per the IEA Net Zero Emissions industry practice. We will consider including
sector, we target an on-balance sheet financed by 2050 scenario, we target an on-balance them at a later stage of our analysis as data and
emissions intensity of 1.05 (1.43) tonnes of sheet financed emissions intensity of 63 tonnes methodologies develop. We target an on-
carbon dioxide per tonne of metal (‘tCO/t of carbon dioxide per revenue passenger balance sheet financed emissions intensity of 66
2
metal’) by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline. kilometre (‘tCO/rpk’) by 2030, using 2019 as our tonnes of carbon dioxide per vehicle kilometre
2
We use the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 baseline. To reach these intensity levels, and (‘tCO/vkm’) by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline.
2
scenario as our core target scenario, and have help meet our targets, we believe the sector This is in line with the IEA Net Zero Emissions by
included the net zero-aligned Mission Possible needs significant policy support investments 2050 scenario, modified to match the share of
Partnership Technology Moratorium as an into alternative fuels, such as sustainable new in-year vehicle sales for light-duty vehicles.
alternative scenario. We recognise that our aviation fuel, and new aircraft to reduce We believe decarbonisation of the automotive
ability to meet our targets in so-called ‘hard-to- emissions. Sustainable aviation fuel is currently sector, and therefore our ability to meet our
abate’ sectors is dependent on strong policy too costly and in limited supply, so the industry’s targets, needs large-scale investments in new
support to unlock widespread investment and decarbonisation efforts are highly dependent on electric vehicle and battery manufacturing
the scaling up of crucial nascent technologies. partnerships between energy companies, plants, widespread charging infrastructure, and
We will continue to monitor the progress in the airlines and aircraft manufacturers. Due to government policies to support electric vehicles.
uptake of low-carbon technologies, and assess the travel disruption caused by the Covid-19 Our 2020 intensity reduced by 8% as a result of
real economy progress against the IEA and pandemic in 2020, emissions intensity figures clients manufacturing more efficient vehicles,
Mission Possible Partnership scenarios. increased significantly as aeroplanes carried and the increased sales of electric vehicles. The
The emissions intensity in 2020 rose due to fewer passengers on average. This can be PCAF score for the automotive sector is only
increased financing to the aluminium sector, seen in the IEA numbers as well as our client 3.3 for scope 1 and 2, and 3.4 for scope 3 in
which has a higher carbon intensity than that portfolio. For the aviation sector, the PCAF 2019, as most companies only report their
of steel. The PCAF score is 2.5 in 2019, as only score is 2.8 for scope 1 and 2, and 2.8 for scope scope 1 and 2 emissions. We had to estimate
a small number of clients have reported 3 in 2019, as emissions or production data is scope 3 emissions using vehicle production
emissions, and for many we have had to available for most clients, although we continue numbers. Increased self-reporting of
make estimates based on their revenue. to have a challenge with finding reported scope 3 emissions from clients would
emissions from smaller firms. significantly improve data quality.
Automotive 2020 progress
tCO2/million vkm from baseline
(8)%
Key:
Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario On-balance sheet financed emissions intensity MPP Tech Moratorium
Our analysis of shipping emissions
As part of our work in 2022, we analysed financed emissions for the shipping sector to establish a baseline. During our analysis we noted
significant data gaps in reported emissions and data from external vendors at the company level. For scope 1 emissions, which are typically
the easiest to source, we would have needed to have made estimates using outstanding amounts rather than production or revenue indicators,
which would have resulted in the least accurate data quality scoring. We have therefore chosen to defer setting a baseline and target for this
sector until there is sufficient reliable data to support our work, allowing us to more accurately set a baseline and track progress towards net
zero. We will continue to engage with strategic clients within the sector to encourage disclosure and discuss their transition plans. We believe
the shipping industry will require significant policy support and innovation to allow for the use of lower emissions fuels in existing as well as
new ships. On the supply side, the provision of low-carbon fuels will need to increase sufficiently to meet this new demand.
54 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Financed emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of financed emissions using 2019 and 2020 data.
On-balance sheet financed emissions – wholesale credit lending and project finance1,2
PCAF data quality score3,†
Scope 1–2 Scope 3 Emissions Scope 1
Sector Year (Mt CO 2 )† (Mt CO 2 )† intensity and 2 Scope 3
Oil and gas4, 5 2019 3.7 29.3 72.2 2.7 2.9
2020 3.3 26.8 71 2.7 2.9
Power and utilities4,5 2019 12.1 N/A 589.9 3.3 N/A
2020 11.8 N/A 509.6 3.2 N/A
Cement 2019 2.2 N/A 0.64 2.2 N/A
2020 1.3 N/A 0.64 2.3 N/A
Iron, steel and aluminium 2019 3.2 N/A 1.8 2.5 N/A
2020 2.7 N/A 2 2.8 N/A
Aviation 2019 6.2 0.11 84 2.8 2.8
2020 4.9 0.08 103.9 2.6 3
Automotive 2019 0.11 4.0 191.5 3.3 3.4
2020 0.14 4.9 176.2 3.2 3.3
1 Total amount of short-term finance excluded for all sectors listed is $9.3bn in 2019 and $7.6bn in 2020
2 Total loans and advances analysed in 2019 were $38.3bn representing 1.7% of wholesale credit and lending and project finance at 31 December 2019, and in 2020
were $34.7bn representing 1.7% of wholesale credit and lending and project finance at 31 December 2020.
3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based financing for on-balance sheet financed emissions.
4 In the Annual Report and Accounts 2021 the units for power and utilities were reported last year as MtCOe, and are now read Mt CO. Oil and gas absolute
2 2
emissions are measured in MtCOe. This year we amended the units for the power and utilities sector from Mt COe/TWh’ to tCO/GWh to align to market practice.
2 2 2
While the target value remains unchanged this has led to a revision in the figure reported from 0.14 Mt COe/TWh’ to 138 tCO/GWh.
2 2
5 O ur 2019 emissions for our oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors have been revised due to changes in data impacting drawn amounts of client lending, and
amendments to the assumptions governing the in-scope client population.
† D ata is subject to independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions Methodology
and PwC's limited assurance report, which are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
Our analysis of facilitated emissions
In March 2022, we said we would set capital markets emissions targets for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors based on the industry
reporting standard from the PCAF once published. We have chosen to defer setting targets for facilitated emissions until the PCAF standard for
capital markets is published, which is expected in 2023. We had intended to disclose facilitated emissions for 2019 and 2020 for the oil and gas,
and power and utilities sectors for transparency, as we did last year. However, following internal and external assurance reviews performed
during the year, we identified certain data and process limitations and have deferred the publication of our facilitated emissions for 2019 and
2020 for these two sectors while additional verification procedures are performed. We aim to provide these disclosures as soon as practicable
in 2023.
We continue to monitor the developments in industry standards for the publication of such emissions and associated targets, and, as
mentioned above, we will seek to align to the PCAF standard when published. However, we will aim to provide transparency on our 2019
and 2020 facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors as they become available, which may be in advance of
the PCAF standard being available.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 55
ESG review | Environmental
Financed emissions continued
Embedding financed emissions into our business
Our net zero ambition is underpinned by our We are placing climate and sustainability at the
relationships with customers and collective heart of our engagement with customers, and
engagement, so that we are able to support in particular those customers with the greatest
our customers to take action to address potential to effect change. In 2022, we
climate change in their own activities. requested and assessed transition plans for EU
and OECD managed clients in scope of our
To achieve this, we aim to embed how thermal coal phase-out policy. We have also
we manage and assess financed emissions requested and are assessing transition plans
within our financing portfolios to provide for our major oil and gas clients (see page 49).
a basis for informing client engagement
Backing green SMEs in
and business management decisions from We aim to provide and facilitate $750bn to
a climate perspective. $1tn of sustainable finance and investment the UK
by 2030 to support our customers in their
In 2022, we developed an operating model transition to net zero and a sustainable future.
Panthera Group, a family-run
across our Global Sustainability teams to In 2022, we also started to develop an
construction company, launched
strengthen our processes, systems, controls approach for allocating financing to scale
EnviroHoard, the UK’s first construction
and governance. The Global Sustainability technologies critical to reach net zero.
hoarding system to be verified as net
function also established a Sustainability
zero carbon. In March, we supported
Centre of Excellence, a team of sustainability Our own climate transition plan will bring
the firm with the first ever loan through
specialists with deep subject matter expertise together our financed emissions targets and
our $500m Green SME Fund, which we
on new climate technologies, climate analytics climate strategy, with how we plan to embed
announced at COP26 as part of our
and transition planning and assessment, to this into our processes, infrastructure,
commitment to supporting small and
help us fulfil our net zero commitments and governance and engagement.
medium-sized businesses in their
serve our customers.
transition to net zero. Panthera will use
The next section provides further detail on how
the loan to grow its business in the UK.
The Global Sustainability Centre of Excellence, we are embedding net zero considerations into
In 2022, Panthera reduced 446 tonnes
together with the Group Risk and Compliance, our customer engagement and unlocking
of carbon emissions through its
and Global Finance functions, have continued finance to support our customers on their
installations, and set up a partnership
to develop our approach, including working to transition to net zero and a sustainable future.
with Circular Ecology and Trees for
embed financed emissions into our business
Cities to help offset the carbon impact
activities and culture. We have strengthened
of its installations.
our climate data and analytics capability to
help inform decision making and portfolio
management, as well as expanded the
resources to support business engagement.
Reducing emissions in our assets under management
In July 2021, our asset management Our baseline represents the emissions metrics and methodologies required to align
business, HSBC Asset Management, signed associated with our investing activities portfolios to net zero.
up to the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, in terms of emissions per dollar invested
which encourages investment firms to relevant of the assets under management in The PCAF data quality score for our baseline
commit to manage assets in line with the scope for this assessment. We will review emissions was 2.63. Data is subject to limited
attainment of net zero emissions by 2050. our interim target at least every five years, assurance by PwC in accordance with
with a view to increasing the proportion International Standard on Assurance
In November 2022, HSBC Asset Management of assets under management covered until Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance
announced its ambition of reducing scope 1 100% of assets are included. Implementation Engagements other than Audits or Reviews
and 2 carbon emissions by 58% by 2030 for of our net zero targets remains subject to of Historical Financial Information’, and with
38% of its total assets under management, consultation with our key stakeholders. We respect of the greenhouse emissions, in
consisting of listed equity and corporate fixed plan to stay actively engaged to help support accordance with International Standard on
income, which amounted to $193.9bn at our investors on their own decarbonisation Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance
31 December 2019. goals, and continue to apply resources in Engagements on Greenhouse Gas
the development of climate solutions. Statements’, issued by the International
A baseline year of 2019 was chosen for our Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
calculations as it offered a more realistic To support the development of HSBC Asset For the methodology, PwC’s limited
picture of the level of carbon emissions Management’s climate strategy and goal to assurance report, and details on HSBC Asset
intensity than the period after the pandemic. deliver on its target, it has chosen to align to Management’s net zero ambition, see www.
Our baseline for the emission intensity of our the Institutional Investors Group on Climate assetmanagement.hsbc.com/net-zero.
portfolio in 2019 was 131tCoe/M$ invested, Change’s net zero investment framework,
2
which includes scope 1 and 2 emissions of which was created for investors to provide
companies in our portfolio. a common approach around the actions,
56 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Supporting customers through transition
TCFD
We understand that financial institutions have – We supported Panthera Group, a family-run
a critical role to play in achieving the transition construction company, to finance and grow Sustainable finance and investment
to a net zero global economy. We believe the the UK’s first construction hoarding system We define sustainable finance and
most significant contribution we can make is to be verified as zero carbon, (see page 56). investment as any form of financial service
by mobilising finance to support our portfolio – We expanded our green mortgage offering that integrates ESG criteria into business
of customers in their transition to decarbonise. to our retail customers in Hong Kong, or investment decisions. This includes
mainland China, India and Türkiye, as well financing, investing and advisory activities
Mobilising sustainable finance for our as electric vehicle and energy efficiency that support the achievement of UN
customers loans to customers in Hong Kong, Egypt Sustainable Development Goals (‘SDGs’),
Given our global presence and relationships and Argentina. including but not limited to the aims of the
with our customers across industries, we Paris Agreement on climate change.
– We committed to working collaboratively
recognise the role we can play in catalysing
with the government of Egypt in its Nexus
the global transition to net zero. We are well The SDGs, also known as the Global Goals,
of Food, Water and Energy programme to
positioned to help finance the transition were adopted by all UN member states in
identify ways to use scarce public finances
in developing and emerging economies, 2015 as a universal call to action to end
effectively and efficiently, and help raise
mobilising capital to help enable sustainable poverty, achieve gender equality, reduce
private finance to support priority projects
business models and an inclusive, just and inequality, protect the planet and ensure
from its national climate change strategy.
resilient transition. that all people enjoy peace and prosperity
by 2030.
As part of the Just Energy Transition
In 2022, we continued to expand the horizons
Partnership, which aims to mobilise capital
of sustainable finance through our products, We have reviewed and updated these
towards emerging and developing economies
services and partnerships to help enable definitions to reflect our updated climate
to support their national climate strategies, we
emissions reduction in the real economy: ambition, which is available at www.hsbc.
agreed to support the facilitation of at least
com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
$10bn of private sector financing for projects
– We launched a $5bn sustainable finance business/esg-reporting-centre.
in Indonesia and $7.8bn for projects in
scheme to support businesses of all sizes
Vietnam over the next three to five years.
to transition to low-carbon operations in
China’s Greater Bay Area, with successful
In addition, we were also mandated to act on $210.7bn
loan applicants entitled to a range of
12 ESG-related government bonds, including
additional services including training,
inaugural issuances for the governments of
subsidised third-party assessments and
assistance from a newly formed team Singapore, Canada and Uruguay. In 2022, Cumulative progress since 2020 on
with sustainable financing expertise. we secured six awards at the Environmental our ambition to provide and facilitate
Finance Bond Awards, revealing the high sustainable finance and investment.
– We created a sustainable supply regard in the market for our structuring and (Ambition: $750bn to $1tn by 2030)
chain finance programme for apparel engagement work across green, social and
company PVH Corp in the US to finance sustainability bonds during 2021. In the IFR
environmentally and socially friendly Awards 2022, we were named ESG Financing
production at its manufacturing facilities House of the Year. We were also recognised
(see page 97). by Euromoney as the Best Bank for
Sustainable Finance in Asia for the fifth
consecutive year, and in the Middle East
for the fourth.
Embedding net zero transition into our client engagement
In 2022, we requested and assessed transition plans for EU and OECD managed clients in
scope of our thermal coal phase-out policy. We also requested and are assessing transition
plans for our major oil and gas clients. In 2023, we expect to complete assessments for
remaining clients in scope of our thermal coal phase-out policy. Similarly, we expect to
complete assessments for major oil and gas and power and utilities clients globally as well
as other clients in EU and OECD markets in scope of our energy policy.
Our assessments consider historical emissions and disclosures, emissions reduction targets,
details of transition plans to achieve targets, and evidence of activities in line with these plans.
Our assessment framework helps us to understand our clients’ transition plans, develop an
engagement strategy to help support them on their transition journey and help us achieve our
net zero ambition. We acknowledge that our assessment of client transition plans is in the
initial stages and our engagement with clients on their plans and progress will need to
continue to be embedded.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 57
ESG review | Environmental
Supporting customers through transition continued
Financing the transition Cumulative progress
We aim to help our customers transition 2022 2021 2020 since 2020
to net zero and a sustainable future through Sustainable finance summary1 ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn)
providing and facilitating between $750bn Balance sheet-related transactions provided 42.1 26.0 10.3 78.4
and $1tn of sustainable finance and
investment by 2030. Our sustainable finance Capital markets/advisory (facilitated) 34.6 48.7 30.0 113.3
ambition has promoted green, sustainable Investments (assets under management – flows) 7.5 7.7 3.7 19.0
and socially-focused business alongside
sustainable infrastructure and energy Total contribution2 84.2 82.4 44.1 210.7
systems, and enhanced investor capital
Sustainable finance classification by theme
through sustainable investment.
Green use of proceeds3 29.0 27.1 18.8 74.9
Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and
facilitated $185.3bn of sustainable finance, Social use of proceeds3 6.7 11.3 9.7 27.8
$19.0bn of sustainable investment and $6.4bn Other sustainable use of proceeds3,4 12.6 11.7 8.3 32.7
of sustainable infrastructure, as defined in our
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Sustainability-linked5 28.4 24.6 3.5 56.5
Dictionary 2022. This included 36% where Sustainable investments – Asset Management6 7.5 7.7 3.7 19.0
the use of proceeds were dedicated to green
financing, 13% to social financing, and 15% to Total contribution2,7 84.2 82.4 44.1 210.7
other sustainable financing. It also included 1 T his table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2022,
27% of sustainability-linked financing and 9% which includes green, social and sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the limits
of net new investments flows managed and agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided, the proportional share of facilitated capital markets/
distributed on behalf of investors. advisory activities and the net new flows of sustainable investments within assets under management. In 2022,
green liabilities were removed from the data dictionary, which resulted in $0.3bn removed from the published
2021 cumulative total.
In 2022, our underwriting of green, social,
2 T he $210.7bn cumulative progress since 2020 is subject to limited assurance by PwC in accordance with
sustainability and sustainability-linked bonds International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits
for clients decreased in line with the overall or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. For our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary
market, although remained at 15% of our 2022 and PwC’s limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
total bond issuances. On-balance sheet esg-reporting-centre.
sustainable lending transactions increased 3 For green, social and other sustainable use of proceeds, our capital markets products are aligned to either
by 53%, compared with 2021. The ICMA’s Green Bond Principles, Social Bond Principles or Sustainability Bond Guidelines. Our lending labelled
products are aligned to the LMA’s Green Loan Principles, the LMA’s Social Loan Principles or our sustainable
outstanding sustainable finance on-balance
trade instruments, which align the use of proceeds to the UN SDGs.
sheet position was in excess of $24bn at
4 Sustainability use of proceeds can be used for green, social or a combination of green and social purposes.
31 December 2022.
5 Our sustainability-linked-labelled products are aligned to either the ICMA Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles
or LMA Sustainability-Linked Loan Principles. The coupon or interest rate is linked to sustainability key
Sustainability-linked bonds are a recent performance indicators and the funds can be used for general purposes. Of the cumulative total of $56.5bn,
innovation in the debt capital markets, which $10.1bn relates to sustainability linked bonds and $46.4bn relates to sustainability linked loans. Within the
allow investors to manage their sustainability sustainability linked loans, $13.1bn relates to lending to customers within the six high transition risk sectors
strategies by linking targets, and progress (i.e. automobiles, chemicals, construction and building materials, Metals and mining, oil and gas, and power
and utilities) as described on page 223.
towards them, to the issuers’ financing costs.
6 Net flows of HSBC-owned sustainable investment funds that have been assessed against the Sustainable
These products do not require definitions of
Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2022.
use-of-proceeds as they are linked to issuers’
7 A dditional detailed information in relation to our sustainable finance and investment progress can be found in
broader sustainability commitments.
the ESG Data Pack.
Issuer commitments and strategies continue Our approach to financing net zero Our data dictionary defining our sustainable
to develop and be included in medium- to In 2022, we started developing a strategy to finance and investments continues to evolve,
long-term sustainability plans. We expect help us orient how we allocate our financing and is reviewed annually to take into account the
evolving standards, taxonomies and practices we
that sustainability-linked bonds will become solutions and capital to support our clients’
deem appropriate. Our review involves reviewing
increasingly meaningful for transparency in transition to net zero and help deliver a and strengthening our product definitions, where
issuer performance against science-based significant decarbonisation impact to the appropriate adding and deleting qualifying
transition pathways and other sustainability global economy. The approach, based on the products, making enhancements to our internal
goals. We have supported customers within IEA’s Net Zero by 2050 scenario, identifies the standards, and evolving reporting and
governance. Our progress will be published each
the high transition risk sectors to issue infrastructure, technologies and new business
year, and we will seek to continue for it to be
sustainability-linked bonds which support models critical for industries to transition to net
independently assured.
the transition to the net zero economy and zero. We recognise that we will need to adapt
The detailed definitions of the contributing
a sustainable future. our capabilities in specific products and activities for sustainable finance and investment
sectors to capture business opportunities and are available in our revised Sustainable Finance
We are working closely with industry bodies, help finance the transition. In 2022, we made and Investment Data Dictionary 2022. For our
such as the International Capital Markets several investments to play a catalytic role, ESG Data Pack, Sustainable Finance and
Investment Data Dictionary and third-party
Association (‘ICMA’), to establish a robust including through Pentagreen Capital, an
limited assurance report, see www.hsbc.com/
set of standards for the market. The ICMA innovative financing vehicle set up in who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles provide partnership with Temasek, to accelerate esg-reporting-centre.
guidelines on what is core, material and sustainable infrastructure in south-east Asia,
relevant in terms of key performance and with Breakthrough Energy Catalyst to gain
indicators, and provides advice on how expertise in nascent, ‘new-economy, sectors
targets should be assessed. aligned with our clients’ net zero ambitions.
58 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Supporting customers through transition continued
Responsible and sustainable investment In 2022, HSBC Asset Management’s fixed
First ESG underwriting
We offer a broad suite of ESG capabilities income, equity and stewardship teams held
across asset management, global markets, over 1,000 meetings with companies in our guide for life and health
wealth, private banking and securities services, portfolios. These included discussions on
enabling institutional and individual investors to climate-related matters, with more than 60 insurance
generate financial returns, manage risk and of these having specific, targeted outcomes
pursue ESG-related opportunities. with climate objectives. We continue to Our insurance business, HSBC Life,
engage with issuers, encouraging the co-sponsored and co-led the first
Our Asset Management business seeks reporting of emissions data, the setting of ESG underwriting guide for the life
to drive innovation at scale, and bring new emissions reduction targets, the assessment and health insurance sector. The guide
propositions to the market for investors, of climate risk, and the development of robust was published by the United Nations
including sustainable exchange-traded funds transition strategies. Environment Programme Finance
and lower-carbon investment solutions. We Initiative (‘UNEP FI’) Principles for
are committed to further developing our We expanded our investment offering for Sustainable Insurance, a set of
sustainable product range across asset classes private banking and wealth clients with the principles endorsed by the United
and strategies, as well as enhancing our launch of 22 sustainable investing mutual Nations and the insurance industry.
existing product set for ESG criteria where it is funds and exchange-traded funds in 2022.
in the investors’ interests to do so. In 2022, we We offer a range of sustainable investment This guide, which was published in June
launched 24 funds with a sustainable focus. products across other asset classes, including 2022, provides a framework for life and
equities, fixed income, discretionary and health insurers to evaluate a range of
In our aim to support the transition to more alternatives. We enhanced our ESG thematic ESG risks and factors on the mortality,
sustainable ways of dealing with resources products offering linked to indices. For morbidity, longevity and hospitalisation
and waste, through the circular economy, example, we collaborated with Euronext and risks when underwriting.
HSBC Asset Management launched the HSBC Iceberg Datalab to design the first broad-based
Global Investment Fund (’HGIF’) Global Equity biodiversity screened equity index family. These include risk mitigation strategies
Circular Economy fund. alongside best practices for insurers
At HSBC Life, our insurance business, we are to consider.
To support its net zero ambition, HSBC Asset focused on ensuring our customers have more
Management continued to add to the range of access to ESG investment fund options The guide was put together in
products aligned to Paris-aligned benchmarks, aligned to their ESG preferences. ESG funds collaboration with a global team of
launching two exchange-traded funds in 2022 invest only in companies with strong ESG sustainability experts from 11 other
that invest in emerging markets and Asia- credentials or in key ESG-related areas. We member companies of the UNEP FI
Pacific. These benchmarks’ underlying assets increased the availability of ESG investment Principles for Sustainable Insurance.
are selected in such a manner that the fund options within our investment-linked Its purpose is to reinforce the key role
resulting benchmark portfolio's greenhouse products. During 2022, we launched in Hong insurers need to play in helping to solve
gas emissions are aligned with the long-term Kong a new protection-linked plan with three the major ESG challenges of our time,
global warming target of the Paris Agreement. ESG fund choices now available, and we such as the spread of infectious
launched our first ESG fund in Mexico. diseases, biodiversity and nature loss,
social inequality, and mental health
and well-being.
Accelerating growth in geothermal and recovered energy
Ormat Technologies Inc., which has been operating in renewable energy production for more
than 50 years, has developed expertise and global experience in the supply and development of
geothermal, recovered energy and energy storage solutions. We supported Ormat in June 2022
with the issuance of a $431m green convertible bond, the proceeds of which will support Ormat
grow its business and develop its renewable green energy projects.
Ormat now has a total generating portfolio of approximately 1.1 gigawatts, including a
geothermal and solar generation portfolio across the US, Kenya, Guatemala, Indonesia,
Honduras and Guadeloupe, as well as holding an energy storage portfolio in the US.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 59
ESG review | Environmental
Unlocking climate solutions and innovations
TCFD
We understand the need to find new solutions Asset Management offers investment We continue to unlock new climate solutions,
to increase the pace of change if the world is solutions that generate competitive risk- focusing on supporting innovation in critical
to achieve the Paris Agreement’s goal of being adjusted returns for investors, and nature- areas such as green technologies. In January
net zero by 2050. enhancing ecosystems to help protect 2022, we announced our investment of $100m
biodiversity and accelerate the transition as an anchor partner in Breakthrough Energy
We are working closely with a range of to net zero. Catalyst, a programme that uses private-public
partners to accelerate investment in natural capital to accelerate the development of four
resources, technology and sustainable In December 2022, Climate Asset Management critical climate technologies: direct air capture,
infrastructure to help reduce emissions and announced it had received commitments of clean hydrogen, long-duration energy storage
address climate change. over $650m for its two strategies: and sustainable aviation fuel.
Sustainable infrastructure – the Natural Capital Strategy, which invests Our philanthropic programme, Climate
Addressing climate change requires the in agriculture, forestry and environmental Solutions Partnership, aims to scale up climate
rapid development of a new generation of assets, with the aim to deliver impact at innovation ventures and nature-based
sustainable infrastructure, particularly for scale alongside long-term financial returns; solutions, as well as help the energy sector
emerging markets. and transition towards renewable sources in Asia
– the Nature Based Carbon Strategy, which (for further details, see page 84).
During 2022, we demonstrated our targets nature restoration and conservation
commitment to catalysing financing for projects in developing economies, Our climate technology venture debt and
sustainable infrastructure projects, with the prioritising community benefits while venture capital platforms invest in companies
launch of Pentagreen Capital, a debt financing generating high-quality carbon credits. that are developing innovative technological
vehicle we set up in partnership with Temasek solutions that help companies and
(see below). One of Climate Asset Management’s governments understand, track and reduce
first investments was the Restore Africa their greenhouse gas emissions. We
We continue to take a leading role in the Programme, in partnership with the Global expanded our venture debt platform to
FAST-Infra initiative, which we helped EverGreening Alliance, announced in support climate technology hardware and
conceive, working with the IFC, OECD, the November 2021. The programme, which software companies that are growing rapidly.
World Bank’s Global Infrastructure Facility and is the world’s largest community-based In 2022, we achieved our initial goal to fund
the Climate Policy Initiative, under the auspices land-restoration project, aims to benefit $100m to climate technology companies
of the One Planet Lab. Through the FAST-Infra 1.5 million smallholder farmers and their through this platform, and consequently
initiative, we helped launch in 2021 the communities through the restoration of up to increased our commitment to $250m. In
Sustainable Infrastructure (SI) Label – a 2 million hectares of degraded land across six 2022, we committed an additional $100m
consistent, globally applicable labelling sub-Saharan countries. The programme has to fund women and minority entrepreneurs
system designed to identify and evaluate started being implemented in Kenya, Uganda through our venture debt platform.
sustainable infrastructure assets. The initiative and Malawi, with plans for Zambia, Tanzania
continues to grow, with the appointment in and Ethiopia to follow in 2023. HSBC Asset Management also launched
November 2022 of a consortium with global a venture capital strategy that invests in
expertise in sustainability standards, global Climate Asset Management is a founding transformative early stage companies enabling
finance, software and data platforms, to member of the Natural Capital Investment decarbonisation and de-pollution of industries.
manage the secretariat of the SI Label, so Alliance, whose 15-strong membership of The strategy invests across four investment
the label becomes an enduring and widely investment firms aims to have mobilised $10bn themes: power transformation, transport
adopted standard. towards nature-based economic themes. electrification, supply chain sustainability
and climate risk mitigation. We seeded the
Natural capital as an emerging Backing new technology and innovation strategy with capital in November 2021,
asset class Addressing climate change requires and it has since invested in three start-up
Climate Asset Management, a joint venture we innovative ideas. By connecting financing companies. HSBC Asset Management
launched with Pollination in 2020, forms part with fresh thinking, we can help climate continues to actively fundraise for this
of our goal to unlock new climate solutions. solutions to increase in scale to support strategy, aiming to raise additional funds
Combining expertise in investment sustainable growth. from institutional and private wealth clients
management and natural capital, Climate over the course of 2023.
Accelerating sustainable infrastructure in Asia
In August 2022, we officially launched Pentagreen Capital, a sustainable infrastructure debt
financing vehicle set up in partnership with Temasek. Pentagreen’s goal is to accelerate the
development of sustainable infrastructure in Asia by removing the barriers that can prevent
marginally bankable projects from accessing capital. With a combined $150m of seed
capital committed by the founding partners, the Singapore-based company aims to provide
more than $1bn of loans over the next five years, targeting opportunities initially in south-
east Asia. Its primary focus will be on clean transport, renewable energy and energy storage,
and water and waste management.
60 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Biodiversity and natural capital strategy
We recognise that achieving net zero goes – We participated in a pilot test of a draft – Through the Climate Solutions Partnership,
hand in hand with halting and reversing nature version of the Taskforce on Nature-related our philanthropic collaboration with the
loss. Nature loss, which refers to the decline Financial Disclosures (‘TNFD’) framework World Resources Institute and WWF, we
of natural capital, ecosystem services and for risk and opportunity management and issued two reports on the hurdles and
biodiversity, is one of the greatest systemic disclosure, which helped us understand its success factors for scaling up nature-based
risks to the global economy and the health implications and provide feedback ahead solutions.
of people and the planet. According to The of its release in September 2023.
Nature Conservancy, natural climate solutions – We intend to publish a new deforestation For further details of our approach to nature and
can provide up to 37% of the emission policy, informed by scientific and related initiatives, see our Statement on Nature in
the ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/
reductions needed by 2030. At the same time international guidance, in 2023. For further who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
climate change is accelerating nature loss, and details of our biodiversity and natural esg-reporting-centre.
consequently the ability for nature to mitigate capital-related policies, see ‘Our approach
climate change impacts. to sustainability policies’ on page 65. Our presence in environmentally
sensitive areas
We understand we need to do more to embed Reducing nature loss As a global organisation, our branches, offices
nature-related issues into our sustainability We are making progress with the investment and data centres may be located in – or near
policies and climate transition plan, and we and financing of biodiversity and nature-based – areas of water stress and/or protected areas
are committed to strengthening our risk solutions through client products and services of biodiversity, as we support our customers
management approach and engaging with and partnerships. In 2022, these included: and communities in these locations.
our customers.
– In August 2022, our asset management Approximately 58.5% of our global offices,
Understanding our exposure business, HSBC Asset Management, branches and data centres are located in areas
In 2022, we made progress with launched a biodiversity exchange-traded identified as being subject to high and very
understanding how to assess and monitor fund that enables investors to incorporate high water stress, accounting for 39.7% of
nature-related risks, as well as how to create sustainable considerations within their our annual water consumption. These are
effective transition plans with the aim of portfolios (see below). predominantly urban or city centre locations
halting our contribution to nature loss from with large, concentrated populations. Our
– Our Global Private Banking business
our business activities: industry is a low user of potable water, and we
launched a biodiversity strategy for our
have implemented measures to further reduce
private bank clients in Hong Kong and
– We conducted analysis on how reliant our water consumption through the installation of
Singapore, which focuses on investing
large corporate clients were on ecosystem flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or zero
in companies that are well positioned
services, including the nature-related flush sanitary fittings.
to harness, regenerate and protect
benefits crucial for the provision of food and
biodiversity through the circular and
drinking water, which demonstrated that our In addition, 1.6% of our global office, branch
bio-based economy.
clients were highly dependent on water and data centre portfolio lies in protected
availability. areas and areas of biodiversity. We strive
– To improve our understanding of the through our design, construction and
potential credit risks that nature-related risks operational standards to ensure that, where
pose to our customers, we worked with the possible, our premises do not adversely affect
Cambridge Institute on Sustainability the environment or natural resources in
Leadership, by evaluating the impact of these areas.
three months of water shortage on a sample
of our customer portfolio comprising heavy
industry companies in east Asia.
Building biodiversity risk awareness into ETFs
Asset owners and managers have a role to play in addressing potential transition and physical
risks. Our asset management business, HSBC Asset Management, launched the first of its
kind biodiversity screened exchange-traded fund, which provides investors with the
opportunity to consider biodiversity risk factors in their portfolios. This exchange-traded fund
tracks the Euronext ESG Biodiversity Screened Index series, which was jointly developed by
HSBC, Euronext and Iceberg Data Lab. The Biodiversity Footprint Score excludes companies
from the index that do not sufficiently consider biodiversity impacts as well as those with poor
ESG credentials and/or business activities deemed harmful towards biodiversity.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 61
ESG review | Environmental
Our approach to our own operations
TCFD
Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank We are tracking the impact on our emissions Engaging with our supply chain
is to achieve net zero carbon emissions in from our colleagues working from home, as Our supply chain is critical to achieving our net
our operations and supply chain by 2030 they continue to embrace more flexible ways zero ambitions, and we are partnering with our
or sooner. of working. We calculated the electricity used suppliers on this journey. In 2020, we began
by our colleagues working from home was 5% the three-year process of encouraging our
Reduce, replace and remove of our total electricity consumption in 2022. largest suppliers to make their own carbon
We have three elements to our strategy: This only includes energy consumption from commitments, and to disclose their emissions
reduce, replace and remove. We plan to first the IT equipment and lighting. We do not via the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure
focus on reducing carbon emissions from report employee home working emissions Project) supply chain programme. The target
consumption, and then replacing remaining in our scope 1 and 2 performance data. for 2022 was for suppliers representing 60%
emissions with low-carbon alternatives in line of total supplier spend to have completed
with the Paris Agreement. We plan to remove Business travel and employee commuting the CDP questionnaire. In total, suppliers
the remaining emissions that cannot be In 2022, our travel emissions remained below representing 63.5% of total supplier spend
reduced or replaced by procuring, in 50% of pre-pandemic levels in 2019, with completed the CDP questionnaire.
accordance with prevailing regulatory international travel restrictions remaining for
requirements, high-quality offsets at a much of the year in key Asia markets, slowing We will continue to engage with our supply
later stage. the return to business travel. We are closely chain through CDP, and through direct
managing the gradual resumption of travel discussions with our suppliers on how they
Our energy consumption through internal reporting and review of can further support our transition to net zero.
In October 2020, we announced our ambition emissions, and through the introduction of
to reduce our energy consumption by 50% internal carbon budgets, in line with our aim In 2022, we also formalised our supply
by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, and in 2022 to halve travel emissions by 2030, compared chain sustainability strategy through the
we achieved 24%. We plan to do this by with pre-pandemic levels. With hybrid working update of our supplier code of conduct
optimising the use of our real estate portfolio, embedded across the organisation, the use and the development of our sustainable
and carrying out a strategic reduction in our of virtual working practices has reduced the procurement procedures. The new procedures
office space and data centres. We are using need for our colleagues to travel to meet with set out the minimum requirements and
new technology and emerging products to other colleagues and customers. We continue operational information required to help
make our spaces more energy efficient, such to focus on reducing the environmental impact ensure our sustainability objectives relating to
as in the UK, where an additive to our boiler from the vehicles we use in our global climate change, the environment, human
systems helped make heating in our branches markets, and accelerate the use of electric rights, and diversity and inclusion are clearly
13% more efficient. vehicles. In 2022, we reduced the company addressed in the way that we operate and
car fleet size by 24%. We are now aiming to conduct business with suppliers.
As part of our ambition to achieve 100% ensure that all new vehicles ordered are fully
renewable power across our operations by electric or hybrid vehicles where possible. Focus on natural resources
2030, we continue to look for opportunities to Alongside our net zero operations ambition,
procure green energy in each of our markets. our aim is to be a responsible consumer
A key challenge remains the limited of natural resources. Through design,
opportunity to pursue power purchase construction and operational standards,
agreements or green tariffs in key markets we strive to ensure that, wherever possible,
due to regulations. our premises do not adversely affect the
environment or natural resources. We have
identified specific focus areas including waste,
paper and sustainable diets, and are exploring
key opportunities to reduce our wider
environmental impact over the coming decade.
Our environmental and sustainability management
policies
Our buildings policy recognises that regulatory and environmental requirements vary across
geographies and may include environmental certification. The policy is supported by
Corporate Services procedures on environmental and sustainability management, ensuring
HSBC’s properties continually reduce their overall direct impact on the environment. Detailed
design considerations documented in our Global Engineering Standards aim to reduce or
avoid depletion of critical resources like energy, water, land and raw materials. Suppliers are
required to adhere to strict environmental management principles and reduce their impact on
the environment in which they operate.
62 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Our approach to our own operations continued
Emissions from our energy and travel In 2022, we collected data on energy use Energy and travel greenhouse gas
in 2022 and business travel for our operations in 28 emissions in tonnes COe
2
We report our emissions following the countries and territories, which accounted for
2022 2021
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which incorporates approximately 92.4% of our FTEs. To estimate
the scope 2 market-based emissions the emissions of our operations in entities Scope 11 19,000 22,000
methodology. We report greenhouse gas where we have operational control and a small
emissions resulting from the energy used in presence, we scale up the emissions data from Scope 21 224,000 307,000
our buildings and employees’ business travel. 92.4% to 100%. We then apply emission uplift
Scope 3 (category 6)
Due to the nature of our primary business, rates to reflect uncertainty concerning the business travel1 42,000 12,000
carbon dioxide is the main type of greenhouse quality and coverage of emission measurement
gas applicable to our operations. While the and estimation. This is consistent with both the Total 285,000 341,000
amount is immaterial, our current reporting Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s
Included energy UK 9,000 10,000
also incorporates methane and nitrous oxide Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty
for completeness. We do not report employee Management in National Greenhouse Gas
Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes
home working emissions in our scope 1 and 2 Inventories and our internal analysis of data
COe per FTE
performance data. Our environmental data for coverage and quality. 2
our own operations is based on a 12-month 2022 2021
period to 30 September. For further details on our methodology and
relevant environmental key facts, see the ESG Total 1.30 1.52
Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
In 2022, we continued to decrease our
emissions from our energy consumption and Energy consumption in kWh in 000s
travel, achieving a 58.5% reduction compared
2022 2021
with our 2019 baseline. This was mainly
attributed to travel restrictions and the Total Group 797,000 833,000
reduction of usage of our buildings due to
the Covid-19 pandemic. We also implemented UK only 222,000 227,000
over 400 energy conservation measures that
amounted to an estimated energy avoidance in 1 Data in 2022 is subject to PwC’s limited assurance
excess of 11.9 million kWh and increased our report in accordance with International Standard
consumption of renewable electricity to 48.3%. on Assurance engagements 3410 (Assurance
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements). For
further details, see GHG Reporting Guideline 2022
and third-party limited assurance report at www.
hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/
esg-reporting-and-policies.
Emissions from our supply chain in 2022
Emissions (tonnes COe) Data quality score1
2
Scope 3 categories Year Scope 1–2 Scope 3 Total Scope 1–2 Scope 3
Category 1 – Purchased goods and services 2, 3 2022 218,000 648,000 866,000 3.1 3.3
2021 252,000 617,000 869,000 3.0 3.3
Category 2 – Capital goods 2, 3 2022 30,000 114,000 144,000 3.1 3.4
2021 31,000 96,000 127,000 3.1 3.3
The data we receive through our engagement have applied a data quality score to the intensity of our suppliers. The CDP-provided
with CDP has enabled us to report our supply sources of data we used to determine industry averages rose, increasing the
chain emissions for the first time. Our counterparty emissions. Our initial supply emissions for our suppliers where we do not
methodology uses supplier emissions data chain emission figures may require updating have emissions data. However, in 2022 there
where we have it from 500 of our largest as data availability changes over time and was a decrease in carbon intensity of suppliers
suppliers, through CDP. Where we do not methodology and climate science evolve. who disclose their emissions compared with
have emissions data for suppliers, we use For further details, see our GHG Reporting 2021, particularly in servers and data centres.
industry average carbon intensities and spend Guidance. While the carbon intensity of our supply chain
data to define the contribution to our supply decreased, a rise in spend on services in 2022
chain emissions. As more of our suppliers In 2022, emissions from our supply chain led to a 1% increase in emissions compared
report their emissions, we should be able increased by 16% compared with 2019, as with 2021.
to include more accurate data and fewer a result of an increase in spend – particularly in
industry averages in the calculation. We IT services – and a rise in the average carbon
1 D ata quality scores where 1 is high and 5 is low, based on the quality of emissions data. This is a weighted average score based on HSBC supplier spend and is in line
with HSBC’s financed emissions reporting methodology
2 Supply chain emissions calculated using a combination of supplier emissions data and industry averages.
3 Data in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 for scope 3 (purchased goods and service) and scope 3 (capital goods) is subject to PwC’s limited assurance report in accordance
with International Standard on Assurance engagements 3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting
Guideline 2022 and third-party limited assurance report at www.hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/esg-reporting-and-policies.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 63
ESG review | Environmental
Our approach to climate risk
TCFD
Managing risk for our stakeholders
Climate risk relates to the financial and Group-wide risk management framework. Our management business. In the table below, we
non-financial impacts that may arise as a most material exposure to climate risk relates set out our duties to our stakeholders in our
result of climate change and the move to to corporate and retail client financing activity four most material roles.
a greener economy. We manage climate within our banking portfolio. We also have
risk across all our businesses and are significant responsibilities in relation to asset For further details of our approach to climate risk,
incorporating climate considerations within ownership by our insurance business, see ‘ESG risk’ on page 139 and ‘Climate risk’ on
page 221.
our traditional risk types in line with our employee pension plans and asset
Banking Employee pensions Asset management Insurance
We manage the climate risk in our Our pension plans manage climate Climate risk management is a key We consider climate risk in our
banking portfolios through our risk risk in line with their fiduciary feature of our investment decision portfolio of assets.
appetite and policies for financial duties towards members and local making and portfolio management
and non-financial risks. regulatory requirements. approach.
Climate risk
This helps enable us to identify We monitor climate risk exposure We also engage with companies We have established an evolving
opportunities to support our internally for our largest plans on topics related to climate ESG programme to meet changing
customers, while continuing to based on asset sector allocation change. external expectations and
meet stakeholder expectations. and carbon emissions data where customer demands.
available.
Customers Employees Customers InvestorsCustEommpelrosyeesCommCuunsittoEiemmseprlsoInyveeesstorsR go e v g e u r lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ayIs nnedvee CssotmormsunitiCeSsuusptopmliIenerrvsseCstoomCrR gsumo esv gtuoe unmr lin atiet meorssr e s n Et a s nmdp loCyeoemsmR go euv gEne umirtlSn aipeut mslopor epys nle it aees nrssd InCvuessR gttooeovmgresuer l nraSst muopr eIspnn ltvaiseenrsdst ors CoEmmmpSulCounuypiestpiteeolsismeCresormsmCuunsittoiemR gseo erv gseIunr l n avtemEosmr etsonp rt alssonydR ge o eev gse u r lEn atmm oCrpe sunlo st ayts noeSdmeu CseporpmsliemrInsuvneitsietoSsrusppliIenErvsmesptlooryR gseo eev gse u rCl n aot m omr e smnC t auus nnsditto iemsCeormsInmvuesntiotSireusspR gpo eliv geerusr lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ays R g neo edev g Cse uor lmn at mmor eus n nt ais ntideS suppliIenrvsestoSruR gspo epv gle uier l n arst m or e s n t a s nd CommunitSieusppliers R go e v g e u r l n at m or e s n t a s nd Suppliers
Banking by companies are considered throughout mandates between 2019 and 2021, will
Our banking business is well positioned the investment decision-making process. continue to report against the 2030 targets,
to support our customers managing their Investment teams through portfolio and aim to widen the coverage of its
own climate risk through financing. For our management tools assess, examine and assessment and reporting over time.
wholesale customers, we use our transition determine the level of potential ESG risks that
and physical risk questionnaire as part of our could impact the current and future value For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK)
risk framework to understand their climate of issuers. Pension Scheme’s annual TCFD statements and
climate action plan, see https://futurefocus.staff.
strategies and risk. We have set out a suite of
hsbc.co.uk/active-dc/information-centre/
policies to guide our management of climate One of our key approaches to manage climate other-information.
risk, including our recently updated energy risk is through engaging with the companies
policy and thermal coal phase-out policy (see we invest in. Our HSBC Asset Management Insurance
page 65). We continue to develop our climate Stewardship Plan outlines our approach to In 2022, our Insurance business, which has life
risk appetite and utilise metrics to help engaging with issuers, including on the topic insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in eight
manage climate exposures in our wholesale of climate change. markets and total assets under management
and retail portfolios. Climate scenario analysis of approximately $126bn, updated its
is used as a risk assessment tool to provide Employee pensions sustainability policy to align with the Group’s
insights on the long-term effects of transition The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension new thermal coal phase-out policy. An ESG
and physical risks across our corporate and Scheme, our largest plan with $33bn assets policy on corporate underwriting was also
retail banking portfolios, as well as our own under management, aims to achieve net zero introduced.
operations (for further details, see page 67). greenhouse gas emissions across its defined
benefit and defined contribution assets by Risk appetite was reviewed relating to key ESG
Asset management 2050. To help achieve this, it is targeting an aspects. ESG standards were embedded into
HSBC Asset Management managed interim emissions reduction of 50% by 2030, insurance product development processes
over $608bn assets at the end of 2022, from 2019 levels, for its equity and corporate and operational capabilities.
of which more than $55bn were held in bond mandates. This commitment was made
sustainable investments. The majority of in the context of wider efforts to manage the In response to multiple and differing ESG
the remaining assets were invested in impact of climate change on the Scheme’s regulatory initiatives and developments, HSBC’s
ESG-integrated strategies. investments and the consequent impact on insurance entities in the EU have implemented
the financial interests of members. key disclosure-related regulatory requirements.
When assessing the impact of climate-related These requirements mainly impact insurance-
risk to our portfolios, we are increasingly During 2022, a framework was put in place to based investment products manufactured by
considering both physical and transition risks. assess progress towards the 2030 targets. The HSBC entities in the EU. Related requirements
As a result, we have integrated ESG and Scheme, which has reported emission for the UK and other jurisdictions are expected
climate analysis to help ensure that risks faced reductions for the equity and corporate bond to be introduced in the near future.
64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Our approach to sustainability policies
TCFD
We recognise that businesses can have an Supporting the transition As part of our oversight of sustainability risk
impact on the environment, individuals and Reinforcing our ambition to support our clients’ policies, we operate an assurance framework
communities around them. We continue to transition to lower carbon through transition that is designed to take a more holistic view of
develop, implement and refine our approach financing, we updated our thermal coal risks, including by:
to working with our business customers to phase-out policy, which we explain further
understand and manage these issues. We on the following page, as well as our energy – ESG news screening, taking a risk-based
have joined various partnerships to support policy, which we set out below. approach, across the sustainability risk
our role in this, including the World Economic policies;
Forum’s Principles for Financing a Just and Governance and implementation – overseeing clients considered to be of
Urgent Energy Transition. HSBC’s relationship managers are the primary higher risk;
point of contact for our customers and are
– reviewing client files across the
Our policies responsible for checking whether our
sustainability risk policies; and
Our sustainability risk policies cover customers meet applicable policies. Within
agricultural commodities, chemicals, energy, our Group Risk and Compliance function, – monitoring of the sustainability risk client
forestry, mining and metals, thermal coal, we have reputational and sustainability risk portfolio against a defined set of key control
UNESCO World Heritage Sites and Ramsar- specialists who are responsible for reviewing, indicators overseen by the Sustainability
designated wetlands. We also apply the implementing and managing our sustainability Risk Oversight Forum.
Equator Principles when financing projects. risk policies as well as our application of the
Equator Principles. Our global network of The framework is used to monitor the
These policies define our appetite for business more than 75 sustainability risk managers is in-scope portfolio and keep track if there
in these sectors and seek to encourage supported by regional reputational risk is a deterioration in the risk ratings. With
customers to meet good international standards managers across the Group who have the respective risk rating assigned, our
of practice. Where we identify activities that additional oversight responsibilities for sustainability risk specialists will agree
could cause material negative impacts, we will sustainability risk. the necessary actions to help mitigate
only provide finance if we can confirm clients unacceptable risks with the business.
are managing these risks responsibly. Such The Wholesale Reputational and Sustainability
customers are subject to greater due diligence Risk team also became part of Risk Strategy, Where considered appropriate, a submission
and generally require additional approval by with expanded Group-wide responsibilities, to can be made to the Reputational Risk and
sustainability risk specialists. strengthen the governance and oversight of Client Selection Committee to agree an
sustainability risk policies, and to reflect the appropriate course of action.
Our sustainability policies are aligned with evolution of the sustainability agenda.
our approach to climate risk, and our net
zero ambition. The Sustainability Risk Oversight Forum, made
up of senior members of the Group Risk and
For further details on how we manage Compliance function and global businesses,
sustainability risk, as well as our full policies, continued to oversee the development and
see www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
implementation of policies that seek to
responsibility/sustainability-risk.
identify, manage and mitigate the Group’s
sustainability risk.
Our energy policy
In December 2022, we published our the specific purpose of projects pertaining The IEA’s 2021 Net Zero by 2050 report
updated policy covering the broader energy to new oil and gas fields and related highlights that an orderly transition requires
system, including upstream oil and gas, infrastructure whose primary use is in continued financing and investment in
oil and gas power generation, hydrogen, conjunction with new fields. Engagement on existing oil and gas fields to maintain the
renewables and hydropower, nuclear, transition plans is a key part of our approach. necessary output. We will therefore continue
biomass and energy from waste. The We will continue to provide finance or to provide finance to maintain supplies of
policy seeks to balance three related advisory services to energy sector clients at oil and gas in line with current and future
objectives: supporting the reduction of the corporate level, where clients’ transition declining global oil and gas demand, while
global greenhouse gas emissions; enabling plans are consistent with our 2030 portfolio- accelerating our activities to support clean
an orderly transition that builds resilience in level financed emissions targets and net zero energy deployment.
the longer term; and supporting a just and by 2050 commitment. If a client’s transition
affordable transition. Central to our approach plan is not produced, or if, after repeated As part of our previously announced ambition
is our commitment to supporting clients who engagement, is not consistent with our to provide $750bn to $1tn in sustainable
are taking an active role in the transition. targets and commitments, we will not finance and investment by 2030 to support
provide new finance and may withdraw our customers in all sectors, we will support
In line with the policy, we will no longer existing financing. critical areas such as renewable energy and
provide new finance or advisory services for clean infrastructure.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 65
ESG review | Environmental
Our approach to sustainability policies continued
Our thermal coal phase-out policy Biodiversity and natural capital-related in our baseline reporting as at 31 December
In December 2021, we published a policy to policies 2020, we are making progress against
phase out thermal coal financing in EU and Our sustainability risk policies restrict these targets.
OECD markets by 2030, and globally by 2040. financing activities that have material
This incorporated project finance, direct negative impacts on nature. While a number Our 2020 baseline comprised thermal coal
lending, and arranging or underwriting of of our sectoral policies have such restrictions, power generation and mining exposures
capital markets transactions to in-scope our forestry and agricultural commodities within the power and utilities, and metals
clients, as well as the refinancing of existing policies focus specifically on a key impact: and mining sectors, as defined in our TCFD
finance facilities. deforestation. These policies require disclosures. We are in the process of expanding
customers involved with major deforestation- the on-balance sheet exposures that are
In line with our commitment to review our risk commodities to operate in accordance in-scope for our thermal coal policy to include
policy and targets each year, taking into with sustainable business principles, as well those outside of these two TCFD sectors.
account evolving science and internationally as require palm oil customers to obtain
recognised guidance, we expanded the policy certification and commit to ‘No Deforestation, Our processes, systems, controls and
in 2022. We committed to not provide new No Peat and No Exploitation’ (see ‘Our respect governance are not yet designed to fully
finance or advisory services for the specific for human rights’ on page 87). While we seek identify and disclose thermal coal exposures,
purposes of the conversion of existing to work with our clients to help ensure their particularly for exposures within broader
coal-to-gas-fired power plants, unless alignment with our policies, we have conglomerates. Until our systems, processes,
the client demonstrates to us its intention withdrawn banking services to customers controls and governance are enhanced,
to transition to abated power generation, who have not engaged, for example, in certain aspects of our reporting will rely on
consistent with our targets and commitments; meeting our certification requirements. manual sourcing and categorisation of data.
and the plants do not operate in We are reassessing the reliability of our data
environmentally or socially critical areas. We As part of our net zero commitment, we and reviewing our basis of preparation to help
also committed to not provide new finance or are reviewing our current policy protections in ensure that we are reporting all relevant
advisory services for new metallurgical coal this area, and aim to release a revised policy, thermal coal exposures aligned to our thermal
mines. With the updated policy, we informed by scientific and international coal policy. As a result, we have not reported
additionally committed to: guidance, in 2023. thermal coal exposures in this Annual Report
and Accounts 2022. We expect that our
– reduce absolute on-balance sheet finance For further details of our approach to biodiversity updated thermal coal exposures dating back
emissions by 70% in both the thermal coal and natural capital-related activities, see to 31 December 2020 will be made available
‘Biodiversity and natural capital strategy’
power and thermal coal mining sectors for reporting as soon as practicable in 2023,
on page 61.
by 2030; although this is dependent on availability and
– apply an amended definition of thermal Exposure to thermal coal quality of data.
coal expansion as it pertains to mergers In our thermal coal policy published in
and acquisitions activity; and December 2021, we disclosed our intention to Thermal coal financed emissions targets
As mentioned earlier, our financed emissions
– decline new relationships with companies reduce thermal coal financing exposure by at
target is a reduction of 70% in both the
that operate thermal coal assets in least 25% by 2025, and by 50% by 2030, using
thermal coal power and thermal coal mining
environmentally and socially critical areas. our 2020 Task Force on Climate-related
sectors by 2030, using a 2020 baseline. We
Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) as our baseline.
now intend to publish our baseline financed
Using the same methodology and data used
emissions alongside our updated thermal coal
exposures as mentioned above.
Asset management policy
In September 2022, our asset management portfolios beyond 2030 for EU and OECD
business, HSBC Asset Management, markets, and 2040 for all other markets.
published its own policy on how a phase-out The policy includes some restrictions on
of thermal coal would impact on investments investment exposure to thermal coal ahead
it makes on behalf of clients. of these deadlines, as well as commitments
to undertake enhanced due diligence on the
The policy aligns with the commitment made transition plans of investee companies with
by HSBC Asset Management under the Net thermal coal exposure. Companies held in
Zero Asset Managers initiative to support investment portfolios that do not develop
investing aligned with net zero greenhouse credible plans to transition away from
gas emissions by 2050, or sooner. thermal coal could face voting sanctions,
and ultimately a divestment of holdings.
Under its policy, HSBC Asset Management
will not hold listed securities of issuers with For further details of the policy, see www.
more than de minimis revenue exposure assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/
attachments/common/coal-policy-b2b-
to thermal coal in its actively managed
en-09162022.pdf.
66 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Insights from scenario analysis
TCFD
Scenario analysis supports our strategy by
Analysing the outputs significant investments. This will have an
assessing our position under a range of climate
Climate scenario analysis allows us to model impact on profitability, leading to higher
scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of
how different potential climate pathways may credit risk in the transition period. A delayed
climate change, plan for the future and meet
affect our customers and portfolios, particularly transition will be even more disruptive due to
our growing regulatory requirements. in respect of credit losses. As the chart below lower levels of innovation that limits the ability
shows, losses are influenced by their exposure to decarbonise effectively, and rising carbon
Having run our first Group-wide climate
to a variety of climate risks under different prices that squeeze profit margins.
change scenario analysis exercise in 2021, we
climate scenarios.
produced several climate stress tests for global
Overall, our scenario analysis shows that the
regulators in 2022, including the Monetary
Under the Current Commitments scenario, we level of credit losses can be mitigated if we
Authority of Singapore and the European
expect moderate levels of losses relating to support our customers in enhancing their
Central Bank. We also conducted our first
transition risks. However, the rise in global climate transition plans.
internal climate scenario analysis.
warming will lead to increasing levels of
physical risk losses in later years. A gradual For the full internal climate scenario analysis,
We continue to develop how we produce transition towards net zero, as shown in the including our assessment of the impacts of climate
our climate scenario analysis exercises so change on our corporate lending, retail mortgage
Net Zero scenario, still requires fundamental
that we can have a more comprehensive and commercial real estate portfolios, see Insights
understanding of climate headwinds, risks shifts in our customers’ business models, and from scenario analysis on page 226.
and opportunities that will support our
strategic planning and actions. Modelled climate losses
How credit losses from climate risks have been modelled under different scenarios.1
In climate scenario analysis, we consider,
jointly:
<1.5x
– t
m
ra
o
n
v
s
in
iti
g
o n
to
r i
a
s k
n e
a
t
r i
z
s
e
in
ro
g
e
fr
c
o
o
m
n o
th
m
e
y
p
, i
r
n
o
c
c
l
e
u
s
d
s
in
o
g
f
ments
($bn)
>1.5x
changes in policy, technology, consumer mpair
b
co
e
u
h
l
a
d
v
e
io
a
u
c
r
h
a
i
n
m
d
p
s
a
t
c
a
t
k e
b
h
o
o
rr
l
o
d
w
er
e
p
rs
e
’
r c
o
e
p
p
e
t
r
i
a
o
t
n
in
,
g
w hich mulative i
income, financing requirements and asset Cu
values; and
– physical risk arising from the increased 2021 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
frequency and severity of weather events, Net Zero Downside Transition Risk Net Zero2
such as hurricanes and floods, or chronic Current Commitments Counterfactual1 Downside Transition Risk2
shifts in weather patterns, which could each 1 The counterfactual scenario is modelled on a scenario where there will be no losses due to climate change.
impact property values, repair costs and lead
2 The dotted lines in the chart show the impact of modelled expected credit losses following our strategic
to business interruptions. responses to reduce the effect of climate risks under the Net Zero and Downside Transition Risk scenarios.
We also analyse how these climate risks
impact how we manage other risks within our Use of climate scenario outputs Next steps
organisation, including credit and market risks, We are starting to consider climate scenario We plan to continue to enhance our
and on an exploratory basis, operational, analysis in core decision-making processes, capabilities for climate scenario analysis
liquidity, insurance, and pension risks. including strategic and financial planning, risk and use the results for decision making,
management, capital assessment, business particularly in respect of:
Our climate scenarios decision making, client engagement, and
In our 2022 internal climate scenario analysis Group reporting. It helps to inform our strategy – our risk appetite, by identifying business-
exercise, we used four scenarios that were and supports how we capture opportunities critical metrics and using scenario analysis
designed to articulate our view of the range of while minimising risks, and enabling HSBC to test, calibrate, and monitor against
potential outcomes for global climate change. to navigate through the climate transition. thresholds;
– client engagement, by identifying the
These scenarios, which reflect different levels We use the analysis to anticipate climate- climate opportunities – such as supporting
of physical and transition risk and are varied related impacts for our customers by the growth of renewables, biomass, electric
by severity and probability, were: the Net Zero identifying new opportunities where possible, vehicles – and vulnerabilities by engaging
scenario, which aligns with our net zero strategy including targeted financing to support their with and supporting our customers; and
and is consistent with the Paris Agreement; the transition journey. – strategy, by using the range of scenario
Current Commitments scenario, which assumes analysis outcomes to shape our strategy
that climate action is limited to the current We have considered climate risk in our annual across business and regions.
governmental commitments and pledges; the financial planning cycle. In order to do this, we
Downside Transition Risk scenario, which reviewed the inclusion of ECL outcomes from
assumes that climate action is delayed until our internal climate scenario analysis using the
2030; and the Downside Physical Risk scenario, Current Commitments scenario because we
which assumes climate action is limited to deem it the most likely to transpire over the
current governmental policies. planning horizon.
For further details of these scenarios, and how
they were designed to identify, measure and
assess our material climate vulnerabilities, see
‘Insights from scenario analysis’ in the ‘Climate
risk’ section on page 226.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 67
ESG review | Environmental
Our approach to climate reporting
TCFD
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
The table below sets out the 11 TCFD recommendations and summarises where additional information can be found.
We have considered our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, and confirm that we have made
disclosures consistent with the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures, save for certain items, which we summarise below and
in the additional information section on page 423.
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Governance
a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities
Process, frequency and training – The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in Page 86
developing the approach, execution and associated reporting. It has enhanced its oversight of and 256
ESG matters, with a dedicated agenda item on this topic introduced for 2022. It considered ESG
at seven meetings during the year.
– Board members receive ESG-related training as part of their induction and ongoing development, Page 86
and seek out further opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area. and 252
Sub-committee accountability, processes – The Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) maintains oversight of delivery plans to ensure that the Page 272
and frequency Group develops robust climate risk management capabilities. The GRC also has oversight over and 275
ESG-related initiatives and reviews these to assess the risk profile. It considered ESG risk at four
meetings in 2022.
– The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) reviews and challenges ESG and climate-related reporting, Page 263
processes, systems and controls and considered these matters in detail at five meetings during and 268
the year. The GAC, supported by the executive-level ESG Committee and Group Disclosure and
Controls Committee, provided close oversight of the disclosure risks in relation to ESG and
climate reporting, amid rising stakeholder expectations.
Examples of the Board and relevant Board – The Board considered whether to establish a Board committee dedicated to ESG issues, but Page 255
committees taking climate into account instead decided that the best way to support the oversight and delivery of the Group’s climate and 256
ambition and ESG strategy was to retain governance at Board level.
– In 2022, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy through regular dashboard
Page 255
reports and detailed updates including: reviews of net zero policies, financed emissions target
setting and climate-aligned financing initiatives.
– The Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive met regularly with government officials
Page 20
globally to continue to foster strong international relations. In addition, certain Board members
also continued to be actively involved in climate initiatives and attend global events such as the
Group Chief Executive’s attendance at the COP27 Summit in Egypt.
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities
Who manages climate-related risks and – The Group Executive Committee enhanced its governance model of ESG matters with the Page 86
opportunities ESG Committee and supporting forums. These support senior management in the delivery and 255
of the Group’s ESG strategy, key policies and material commitments by providing oversight
over – and management and coordination of – ESG commitments and activities.
– The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, and Group Chief Sustainability Page 86
Officer hold joint responsibility for the ESG Committee. It oversees all areas of environmental, and 251
social and governance issues, with support from accountable senior management in relation
to their particular areas of responsibilities. Key representatives from the functions and global
businesses attend to provide insights on the implementation of the ESG strategy across the
Group, allowing the ESG Committee to make recommendations to the Board in respect of
ESG matters.
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the chief risk officers of our PRA-regulated Page 86
businesses are the senior managers responsible for climate financial risks under the UK Senior
Managers Regime.
How management reports to the Board – The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and implementation of strategy Page 248
to the Group Chief Executive. The Group Chief Executive is supported in his management of and 249
the Group by recommendations and advice from the Group Executive Committee (’GEC’),
an executive forum comprising members of senior management that include chief executive
officers of the global businesses, regional chief executive officers and functional heads.
– Key representatives from the functions and global businesses attend the ESG Committee Page 251
to provide insights on the implementation of the ESG strategy across the Group, allowing
the ESG Committee to make recommendations to the Board in respect of ESG matters.
68 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Processes used to inform management – The ESG Committee supports Group executives in the development and delivery of ESG strategy, Page 86
key policies and material commitments by providing oversight, coordination and management of and 251
ESG commitments and activities. We also recognise that we require enhanced capabilities and
new sources of data.
– The Climate Risk Oversight Forum oversees all global risk activities relating to climate risk Page 222
management, including physical and transition risks. Equivalent forums have been established
at regional level.
– The Sustainability Target Operating Model Steering Committee oversees the implementation Page 86
of the Group’s organisational plan for the internal infrastructure, both within the Sustainability
function and the wider Group, to help deliver our climate ambitions.
Strategy
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term
Processes used to determine material risks – To support the requirements for assessing the impacts of climate change, we have developed a set of Page 38
and opportunities capabilities to execute climate stress testing and scenario analysis. These are used to improve our and 47
understanding of our risk exposures for risk management and business decision making. Given the
challenges on data sourcing and processes, there has been an impact on certain climate disclosures.
– Climate scenario analysis was used as a risk assessment tool to provide insights on the long-term
Page 64
effects of transition and physical risks across our corporate and retail banking portfolios, as well as
our own operations.
– Our sustainable finance ambition has enabled sustainable infrastructure and energy systems,
Page 58
promoted decarbonisation efforts across the real economy, and enhanced investor capital through
sustainable investment.
Relevant short, medium, and long term – We aim to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and in our own operations and Page 49
time horizons supply chain by 2030.
– We aim to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment for our
Page 57
customers in their transition to net zero and a sustainable future.
– We have taken these time horizons into our consideration. Our assessment of climate risks
covers three distinct time periods: short term is up to 2025, medium term is 2026 to 2035; Page 139
and long term is 2036 to 2050.
Transition or physical climate-related issues – We enhanced our transition and physical risk questionnaire and scoring tool, which helps us to assess Page 222
identified and improve our understanding of the impact of transition and physical risk on our customers’
business models, and used it for our corporate clients in high climate transition risk sectors.
– We are supporting our customers in their transition through our sustainable finance and investment
Page 58
ambition. Our sustainable finance data dictionary includes a detailed definition of contributing activities.
– In the UK, in line with our retail portfolio, the main perils that drive potential credit losses relate to
coastal, river and surface water flooding, although the impacts from these perils are not expected Page 229
to cause significant damages. Around 20% of our financed properties are in London, and most are
protected by the Thames Barrier.
Risks and opportunities by sector and/or – We identified six key sectors where our wholesale credit customers have the highest exposure Page 223
geography to climate transition risk, based on their carbon emissions. These are automotive, chemicals,
construction and building materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities.
– We continued to improve our identification and assessment of climate risk within our retail
Page 224
mortgage portfolio, with increased investments in physical risk data and enhancements to our
internal risk assessment capabilities and models. We completed detailed analysis for the UK,
Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia, which together represent 73.8% of balances of the global
mortgage portfolio.
– Opportunities include sustainable finance, sustainable investment and sustainable infrastructure. For Page 58
a detailed breakdown of our sustainable finance progress by geography, see the ESG Data Pack.
Concentrations of credit exposure to – We report our exposure to the six high transition risk sectors in the wholesale portfolio. For Page 223
carbon-related assets (supplemental details, see the ESG Data Pack.
guidance for banks) – Since 2020, we have rolled out the questionnaire so that it included our largest customers in the
next highest climate transition risk sectors: agriculture, industrials, real estate, and transportation.
This was done across a larger geographical scope.
Climate-related risks (transition and – As a result of our climate scenario analysis, our largest and most impacted sectors – power and Page 227
physical) in lending and other financial utilities, construction and building materials, and chemicals – are subject to increased levels of
intermediary business activities transition risks due to their ongoing exposure to higher carbon-emitting activities.
(supplemental guidance for banks) – HSBC Asset Management is increasingly considering both physical and transition risks. As a result, Page 64
it integrated ESG and climate analysis to help ensure that risks faced by companies are considered
throughout the investment decision-making process.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 69
ESG review | Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning
Impact on strategy, business, and financial – Transition to net zero represents one of our four strategic pillars. We aim to be net zero in our operations Page 49
planning and supply chain by 2030 and in our financed emissions by 2050.
– Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our position under a range of climate scenarios.
Page 48
It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet our growing regulatory
and 67
requirements. We acknowledge that our systems, processes, controls and governance are developing.
– We continue to develop how we produce our climate scenario analysis exercises so that we can have a
more comprehensive understanding of climate headwinds, risks and opportunities that will support our Page 67
strategic planning and actions.
– We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of climate-related issues on financial planning, and Page 423
particularly the impact of climate-related issues on our financial performance and financial position.
In addition, we have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy,
and financial planning, but not specifically in relation to acquisitions/divestments. Due to transitional
challenges such as process limitations, we do not disclose the climate-related impact in these areas.
We expect to further enhance our disclosure and processes in relation to acquisitions/divestments in
the medium term.
– We have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy, and financial Page 423
planning. Our access to capital may be impacted by reputational concerns as a result of climate action
or inaction. In addition, if we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on our business activities or if we
fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we could face greenwashing risk resulting in significant
reputational damage, impacting our revenue generating ability and potentially our access to capital.
Impact on products and services – We aim to help our customers’ transition to net zero and a sustainable future through providing Page 58
and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
Impact on supply chain and/or value chain – We will continue to engage with our supply chain through CDP, and through direct discussions Page 62
with our suppliers on how they can further support our transition to net zero.
– We also have significant responsibilities in relation to asset ownership by our insurance business,
Page 64
employee pension plans and asset management business.
Impact on adaptation and mitigation – In October 2020, we announced our ambition to reduce our energy consumption by 50% by Page 62
activities 2030, against a 2019 baseline. As part of our ambition to achieve 100% renewable power across
our operations by 2030, we continue to look for opportunities to procure green energy in each of
our markets. A key challenge remains the limited opportunity to pursue power purchase
agreements or green tariffs in key markets due to regulations.
Impact on operations – Climate change poses a physical risk to the buildings that we occupy as an organisation, Page 229
including our offices, retail branches and data centres.
– We use stress testing to evaluate the potential for impact to our owned or leased premises. Our
scenario stress test, conducted in 2022, analysed how seven different climate change-related
hazards – comprising coastal inundation, extreme heat, extreme winds, wildfires, riverine
flooding, soil movement due to drought, and surface water flooding – could impact 500 of our
critical and important buildings.
Impact on investment in research and – Our Climate Solutions Partnership is a five-year $100m philanthropic initiative that aims to Page 84
development identify and remove barriers to scale for climate change solutions. Working with the World
Resources Institute, WWF and over 50 local partners, our support focuses on start-up
companies developing carbon-cutting technologies, nature-based solutions, renewable energy
initiatives in Asia and the WWF-led Asia Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme.
How we are striving to meet investor – During Board meetings, the Directors continued to balance discussions on the Group’s Page 20
expectations performance, emerging risks and duties to shareholders, while remaining conscious of
responsibilities to support communities and help customers.
– In 2022, the Board approved an update to the thermal coal phase-out policy. It also approved the Page 23
publication of an updated energy policy.
Transition plan to a low-carbon economy – We have committed to publish our own climate transition plan in 2023. This plan will outline, in Page 49
one place, not only our commitments, targets and approach to net zero across the sectors and
markets we serve, but how we are transforming our organisation to embed net zero and finance
the transition.
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C
or lower scenario
Embedding climate into scenario analysis – Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our position under a range of climate Page 67
scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet our and 226
growing regulatory requirements.
– In 2022, we delivered our first internal climate scenario analysis exercise where we used four
scenarios that were designed to articulate our view of the range of potential outcomes for global
climate change. The analysis considered the key regions in which we operate, and assessed the
impact on our balance sheet between the 2022 and 2050 time period.
Key drivers of performance and how these – Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential climate pathways may Page 67
have been taken into account affect our customers and portfolios, particularly in respect of credit losses. Under the Current and 226
Commitments scenario, we expect moderate levels of losses relating to transition risks. However,
the rise in global warming will lead to increasing levels of physical risk losses in later years.
70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Scenarios used and how they factored in – The scenario assumptions used for our climate stress testing exercise include varying levels of Page 226
government policies governmental climate policy changes, macroeconomic factors and technological developments.
However, these scenarios rely on the development of technologies that are still unproven, such
as global hydrogen production to decarbonise aviation and shipping. For details of the
assumptions, see the ESG Data Pack.
How our strategies may change and adapt – The nature of the scenarios, our developing capabilities, and limitations of the analysis lead Page 67
to outcomes that are indicative of climate change headwinds, although they are not a direct and 226
forecast.
– Developments in climate science, data, methodology, and scenario analysis techniques will help
Page 226
us shape our approach further. We therefore expect this view of risk to change over time.
– We plan to continue to enhance our capabilities for climate scenario analysis and use the results
for decision making, particularly in respect of strategy, by using the range of scenario analysis Page 67
outcomes to shape our strategy across business and regions.
– We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk quantitatively, due
to transitional challenges including data limitations and evolving science and methodologies. Page 423
Risk management
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
Traditional banking risk types considered – Our initial approach to managing climate risk was focused on understanding physical and P age 221
transition impacts across five priority risk types: wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk,
reputational risk, resilience risk and regulatory compliance risk.
Process – We have integrated climate risk into our existing risk taxonomy, and incorporated it within the Page 47
risk management framework through the policies and controls for the existing risks where and 221
appropriate. We also recognise that we require enhanced capabilities and new sources of data.
– We consider greenwashing to be an important emerging risk that is likely to increase over time,
Page 47
as we look to develop capabilities and products to achieve our net zero commitments, and work
and 221
with our clients to help them transition to a low-carbon economy. We also recognise that green
finance taxonomies are not consistent globally, and evolving taxonomies and practices could
result in revisions in our sustainable finance reporting going forward.
– We also use stress testing and scenario analysis to assess how these climate risks will impact our Page 46
customers, business and infrastructure.
Integration into policies and procedures – In 2022, we incorporated climate considerations into our UK mortgage origination process for Page 223
our retail mortgage business and new money request process for our key wholesale businesses.
We also continued to enhance our climate risk scoring tool, which will enable us to assess our
customers’ exposures to climate risk. We also published our updated energy policy, covering the
oil and gas, power and utilities, hydrogen, renewables, nuclear and biomass sectors, as well as
updated our thermal coal phase-out policy after its initial publication in 2021.
– We are integrating climate risk into the policies, processes and controls across many areas of our
Page 223
organisation, and we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities
mature over time.
Consider climate-related risks in traditional – In 2022, we expanded our scope to consider climate risk impacts on our other risk types P age 221
banking industry risk categories (including treasury risk and traded risk) in our risk taxonomy. and 226
(supplementary guidance for banks) – We also analysed in our internal scenario analysis exercise how climate risks impact how we
Page 67
manage other risks within our organisation, including credit risk, and on an exploratory basis:
market, operational, liquidity, insurance, and pension risks.
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks
Process and how we make decisions – The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee receive regular updates on our Page 222
climate risk profile, top and emerging climate risks, and progress of our climate risk programme.
– Our climate risk appetite supports the oversight and management of the financial and non-financial
Page 47
risks from climate change, and supports the business to deliver our climate ambition in a safe and
and 223
sustainable way. We recognise that we require enhanced systems, processes, controls, governance
and new sources of data.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk
management framework
How we have aligned and integrated our – Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three Page 221
approach lines of defence model, which sets out how we identify, assess, and manage our risks.
– In February 2022, we refreshed a high-level assessment of how climate risk may impact risk
Page 222
types within the HSBC taxonomy over a 12-month horizon, and how the level of risk may increase
over longer time horizons.
– We developed our first internal climate scenario exercise, where we used four bespoke scenarios that
Page 222
were designed to articulate our view of the range of potential outcomes for global climate change.
How we take into account interconnections – Through our dedicated climate risk programme, we continued to embed climate considerations Page 135
between entities and functions throughout the organisation, including updating the scope of our programme to cover all risk
types, expanding the scope of climate-related training, developing new climate risk metrics to
monitor and manage exposures, and the development of our internal climate scenario exercise.
– We updated our climate risk management approach to cover all risk types in our risk taxonomy. Page 222
– We expanded the scope of climate-related training for employees to cover additional topics, such
Page 222
as greenwashing risk, and increased the availability of training to the broader workforce.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 71
ESG review | Environmental
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Disclosure
Recommendation Response location
Metrics and targets
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management
process
Metrics used to assess the impact of – We continue to disclose our wholesale loan exposure to the six high transition risk sectors, which Page 223
climate-related risks on our loan portfolio are automotive, chemicals, construction and building materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and
power and utilities. The wholesale loan exposure is used as a metric to assess impact of climate risk
and help inform risk management, together with our transition risk questionnaire results.
– We continue to measure climate risk in our most material mortgage market, which is the UK,
Page 224
where the primary physical risk facing properties is flooding. We also continue to identify the
current and potential EPC ratings for individual properties within the UK mortgage portfolio.
For further details, see our ESG Data Pack.
– Our climate risk management information dashboard includes metrics relating to our key climate
Page 423
risks, and is reported to the Global Climate Risk Oversight Forum. However, we do not fully
disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related risks on retail lending, parts of
wholesale lending and other financial intermediary business activities.
Metrics used to assess progress against – We continue to track our progress against our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of P age 18
opportunities sustainable finance and investment by 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary. The breakdown and 57
of our sustainable finance and investment progress is included in our ESG Data Pack.
– We do not currently fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital
Page 47
deployment or other business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, including revenue
and 423
from products and services designed for a low-carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent
with our business or strategic planning time horizons. In addition, we do not currently disclose internal
carbon prices due to transitional challenges such as data challenges. We recognise that we require
enhanced systems, processes, controls, governance and new sources of data.
Board or senior management incentives – To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a number of measures are included in the annual incentive Page 16
and long-term incentive scorecards of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and 286
and Group Executives.
Metrics used to assess the impact of – As part of our internal climate scenario analysis, we carried out a detailed physical risk assessment of Page 224
climate risk on lending and financial four of our most material retail mortgage markets – the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia –
intermediary business (supplemental which represent 73.8% of balances in our retail mortgage portfolio. In 2022, we disclose our loan
guidance for banks) maturity within the UK mortgage portfolio.
– We do not fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related risks on retail lending, Page 423
parts of wholesale lending and other financial intermediary business activities (specifically credit
exposure, equity and debt holdings, or trading positions, each broken down by industry, geography,
credit quality, average tenor).
b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks
Our own operations – We reported our scope 1, 2 and part of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the P age 18
energy used in our buildings and employees’ business travel. In 2022, we started to disclose our and 63
scope 3 supply chain emissions.
Greenhouse gas emissions for lending and – We expanded our coverage of sectors for on-balance sheet financed emissions. We also set out P age 18
financial intermediary business the data and methodology limitations related to the calculation of scope 3 financed emissions. and 50
(supplemental guidance for banks) – In 2022, HSBC Asset Management started to measure scope 1 and 2 emissions of companies
Page 56
in its portfolio.
– Future disclosure on financed emissions, and related risks is reliant on our customers publicly
disclosing their carbon emissions and related risks. We aim to disclose financed emissions for Page 423
additional sectors in our Annual Report and Accounts 2023 and related disclosures.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets
Details of targets set and whether they are – One of our strategic pillars is to support the transition to a net zero global economy. To support Page 18
absolute or intensity based our ambition to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050 or sooner, we have set
interim 2030 targets for on-balance sheet financed emissions for eight sectors.
– For financed emissions we do not plan to set 2025 targets. We set targets in line with the Net-Zero Page 423
Banking Alliance (‘NZBA‘) guidelines by setting 2030 targets. In 2022, we disclose interim 2030
targets for on-balance sheet financed emissions for eight sectors.
– We do not currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk, or internal carbon
price targets. This is due to transitional challenges and data limitations. But we considered
physical risk and carbon prices as an input in the climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to
further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available. In addition,
we do not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In 2022, we are internally reviewing
and enhancing the green bond framework, with further refinement to be undertaken in 2023. Our
continued monitoring of evolving taxonomies and practices over time could result in revisions in
our reporting going forward and lead to differences year-on-year as compared with prior years.
We do not consider water usage to be a material target for our business and therefore we have not
included a target in this year’s disclosure.
Other key performance indicators used – We also use other indicators to assess our progress including energy consumption and Page 62
percentage of renewable electricity sourced.
72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Social
Social
Building inclusion and resilience
We aim to play an active role in opening up a world of
opportunity for our customers, colleagues and communities as
we bring the benefits of connectivity and global economy to
more people around the world.
At a glance
Our relationships We are equally committed to ensuring there Building inclusion and resilience can also
Our purpose is opening up a world of are no unnecessary barriers to finance for our mean working to address gaps where we
opportunity, and we aim to bring that customers. Customers should not find it more think we can make a difference. From working
purpose to our customers, colleagues difficult to access finance because of their for fair pay and representation for our
and the communities in which we operate. gender, their sexual orientation, their colleagues, to opening up access to finance
neurodiversity or their disability. We have an to underserved customer groups, to ensuring
Inclusion is key to opening up a world of ambition to create a welcoming, inclusive and HSBC branches and offices are safe spaces
opportunity. It involves a commitment to accessible banking experience that opens up for everyone, we are committed to fairness
remove unnecessary barriers to our people, a world of opportunity for our customers. and inclusivity.
our customers and our communities in
realising their potential. Creating an inclusive Inclusion goes hand-in-hand with resilience. Finally, we aim to give back by engaging with
environment for our colleagues enables them We build resilience for our colleagues by our communities through philanthropic giving,
to flourish, and supports the strong and supporting their physical, mental and financial disaster relief and volunteering. We are
purposeful delivery of our strategy. well-being, and by ensuring they are equipped focusing these efforts on our priorities: the just
with the skills and knowledge to further their transition to net zero and building inclusion
We are committed to ensuring our colleagues careers during a period of significant and resilience.
– and particularly our leadership – are economic transformation.
representative of the communities that we We believe building inclusion and resilience
serve, and that we support their well-being For our customers, we build resilience through helps us to create long-term value and growth.
and development so they can learn and grow education: by helping them to understand their By removing unnecessary barriers and striving
in their careers. We do this because we know finances and how to manage them effectively, to be a fair and equitable bank, we can attract
that when we build an inclusive, healthy and and by creating propositions that simplify the and retain the best talent, support a wider
stimulating workplace for our people, the banking experience while helping wealth customer base to achieve their goals over
whole Group succeeds. to grow. We also build resilience through the long term, and stimulate growth in our
products and services that protect what our communities. This is how we open up a
customers value – their health, their families, world of opportunity for our colleagues, our
their homes and their belongings. customers and our communities.
In this section
Promoting diversity Our approach to diversity We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive Page 74
and fostering and inclusion environment that reflects our customers and communities.
inclusion
Creating a diverse
environment
Fostering an inclusive
culture
Building a healthy Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey and report insights to our Group Page 77
workplace Executive Committee and the Board.
Being a great place to work As the Covid-19 pandemic tested our colleagues, we expect the Page 79
way we work to change as the workforce meets new demands.
Well-being Our global well-being programme is a key enabler of our people Page 80
strategy, especially as we move to a more hybrid way of working.
Developing skills, Learning and skills We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where colleagues can Page 81
careers and development develop skills and experiences that help them fulfil their potential.
opportunities
Energising our colleagues We are committed to offering colleagues the chance to develop Page 82
for growth their skills while building pipelines of talented colleagues to
support the achievement of our strategic priorities.
Building customer Our approach to customer We aim to support financial well-being and remove barriers Page 83
inclusion and inclusion and resilience people can face in accessing financial services.
resilience
Engaging with our Building a more inclusive We focus on a number of priorities where we can make a Page 84
communities world difference to the community and support sustainable growth.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 73
ESG review | Social
Promoting diversity and fostering inclusion
Our approach to diversity and inclusion
Our purpose, ‘Opening up a world of To achieve progress, we are focused on Our approach extends beyond our colleagues
opportunity’, explains why we exist as an specific Group-wide priorities for which we and opens up a world of opportunity to our
organisation and is the foundation of our hold senior executives accountable. Alongside customers and the communities in which we
diversity and inclusion strategy. Promoting Group targets, some executives have local operate. As we set out on the following pages,
diversity and fostering inclusion contributes to priorities, such as combating social inequality we are pleased to report progress in 2022,
our ‘energise for growth’ priority. By valuing in the UK, and the promotion of Hispanic although we acknowledge there is more work
difference, we can make use of the unique representation in the US, to allow flexibility for to be done.
expertise, capabilities, breadth and a broader diversity and inclusion agenda that
perspectives of our colleagues for the is contextually relevant.
benefit of our customers.
How we hold ourselves to account
We set meaningful goals We report and track progress We benchmark our performance
Our executive Directors and Group Data is critical and gives our Group Executive We use external disclosures and
Executives have goals within their annual Committee regular progress checks against benchmarks to measure the progress
performance scorecards that are tied to its goals. Our measures to track progress we are making, and to provide us with
remuneration plans. In 2022, we continued consist of: insight into what actions to prioritise.
to make progress against our three goals to: In 2022, we achieved:
– a quarterly inclusion dashboard, which
– achieve a 35% representation of women tracks progress against goals with specific – the Parker Review target of having at
in senior leadership roles by 2025; data on hiring, promotion and exit ratios; least one Director from a minority ethnic
– achieve a 3.4% representation of Black – a formal assessment of the Group Executive group on its Board, with three Board
heritage colleagues in senior leadership Committee’s performance against its three members;
roles in the UK and US combined by goals, run by our executive compensation – Stonewall’s Gold standard and rank as a
2025, aligned to our commitment to team, at the half-year, third quarter and the top global LGBTQ+ inclusion employer;
double the number of Black colleagues end of the year, which is then reported to – a score of 87.2 in the Bloomberg
in leadership positions globally; and the Group Remuneration Committee; and Gender Equality Index, which tracks
– achieve a satisfaction score of at least – semi-annual inclusion review meetings the performance of public companies
75% in our Inclusion index, which looks where our Head of Inclusion meets each committed to transparency in gender
at the inclusivity of our culture by Group Executive to review data and their data reporting. This was 13.1 percentage
measuring our colleagues’ feelings of progress against their goals, and to discuss points above the financial sector average.
belonging, trust and psychological actions and provide recommendations to
safety, as recorded within our employee support further progress.
Snapshot survey.
A data driven approach to inclusion
Our approach to collecting ethnicity data through colleagues’ self-identification underpins our ethnicity strategy to better reflect the
communities we serve. Allowing colleagues to self-identify helps us to set market representation goals. We have enabled 91% of our
workforce to be able to share their ethnic heritage with us. A total of 55% of our colleagues have now made disclosures on their ethnic
background, where legally permissible.
Strong self-declaration rates in the UK and US have enabled us to develop our ethnicity strategy with market-specific Black heritage
representation goals. We define Black heritage to include all colleagues in the UK who identify as Black or mixed race where one of the
ethnicities is stated as Black, and in the US for all colleagues who identify as Black or African-American.
Employees can also share their disability, gender identity and sexual orientation data where legally and culturally acceptable to do so.
These self-identification options are enabled for 90%, 81% and 70% of our workforce, respectively.
Engaging with diversity at the Board level
We have a designated non-executive Director In 2022, we continued our Bank Director
responsible for workforce engagement, Programme that invites a diverse group of
whose role is to bring the voice of the senior leaders from across the Group to gain
employee into the boardroom. Our employee exposure to boards and develop board skills.
resource group leadership community is an This programme is building an internal pool
important contributor and communicator of diverse talent that we will be able to assign
related to workforce engagement. to roles with our subsidiary boards.
Additionally, non-executive Directors are
aligned to each of our employee resource For further details of Board diversity, see our
groups. Corporate governance report on page 247.
74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Social
Creating a diverse environment
Women in senior leadership Black colleagues in senior leadership G Ge e n n d d e e r r d d i i v v e e r r s s i i t t y y d s a ta ta ti stics
After achieving our ambition of having 30% of We are on track to double the number of Black
senior leadership positions held by women in colleagues in senior leadership roles globally Holdings 8 67%
2020, we set a new goal to reach 35% by 2025. by 2025, having increased the number of Board
4 33%
We remain on track, with 33.3% of senior Black senior leaders by 37% since 2020.
leadership roles held by women at the end of Group 17 81%
Executives
2022, an increase of 1.6 percentage points since During 2022 we set a new Group-wide
4 19%
2021. A total 35.7% of all external appointments ethnicity strategy with the principle of better
into senior positions were female, down from reflecting the communities we serve. We test Combined 170 66%
37.8% in 2021, and 38.1% of all promotions into this principle by comparing our workforce Group
Executives and 89 34%
senior leadership roles were female. to national census data and setting goals to
direct reports1
narrow material representation gaps over
Talent programmes, including Accelerating time. Our analysis highlighted Black heritage Subsidiary 616 66%
Female Leaders, helped increase the visibility, representation gaps in the UK and the US. We directors2
315 34%
sponsorship and network of our high- therefore set a goal of having 3.4% of Black
performing senior women. Since starting the heritage colleagues in senior leadership roles Senior 6,226 67%
programme in 2017, 38% of participants have in the UK and US combined by 2025. While leadership3
3,103 33%
either been promoted or taken a lateral move we are on track to meet this, with 2.5% of
to develop their careers. We have also retained leadership roles held by Black heritage Middle 18,897 63%
87% of colleagues who have completed colleagues in 2022, we know there is more to management3
11,257 37%
the programme. be done to be representative of the societies
we serve. 53,363 51%
Junior
In our Accelerating into Leadership management3
51,541 49%
programme, which prepares high potential, Our ethnicity strategy is overseen by a
mid-level colleagues for future leadership roles, committee of senior leaders, led by our 107,863 48%
44% of participants in 2022 were women. Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. All employees
115,907 52%
The committee provides strategic direction
We also had more than 2,600 women to the Global Ethnicity Inclusion Programme.
Male Female
participating in our Coaching Circles
programme, which involves senior leaders In 2022, we continued to focus on inclusive 1 Combined Group Executives and direct reports
advising and supporting colleagues to develop hiring, investing in talent and growing includes HSBC Group Executives and their
their leadership skills and build their networks. leadership effectiveness. We have launched direct reports (excluding administrative staff)
as at 31 December 2022.
programmes to provide sponsorship and
Our succession planning for key leadership mentoring such as Solaris in the UK, which 2 Directors (or equivalent) of subsidiary companies
that are included in the Group’s consolidated
roles includes an assessment of the diversity supports talented Black female colleagues, and
financial statements, excluding corporate
of our succession plans. We are improving the a Black heritage programme in Global Banking directors.
gender diversity of those in roles deemed most and Markets, where 25% of participants at 3 In our leadership structure, we classify: senior
critical to the organisation, and successors to Director level secured promotion within 12 leadership as those at career band 3 and above;
those roles. In 2022, 36% of the succession months of commencing the programme. In middle management as those at global career
pool for these roles were women. 2023, we will extend the programme to band 4; and junior management as those at global
career bands 5 and 6.
Commercial Banking colleagues and to
In our support of our people throughout the colleagues in the US, with an additional focus
different stages of their lives and careers, and on Hispanic colleagues. To help us attract
in our aim to enable equal participation at diverse talent, we partner with specialist
work, we introduced gender neutral parental recruitment organisations that engage
leave in the US and Australia, and improved ethnically diverse talent. We also introduced
paid maternity and paternity leave in Mexico reverse mentoring, which pairs Group
and Argentina. Executives with Black heritage colleagues.
Representation and pay gaps shape of our workforce. There are more men or ethnic heritage and have processes to
We have reported gender representation and than women in senior, higher-paid roles and ensure that remuneration is free from bias.
pay gap data since 2017 for the UK, and more women than men in junior roles. Given We review our pay practices and undertake
extended this to include gender data for the differences in variable pay levels across a pay equity review annually, including an
UK, the US, mainland China, Hong Kong, these roles, the increase in the 2021 variable independent third-party review of equal pay
India and Mexico, alongside ethnicity data for pay pool contributed to the slight widening in major markets. If pay differences are
the UK and US. In 2022, we extended this to of our pay gap for 2022. identified that are not due to objective,
include gender data for Singapore and the tangible reasons such as performance, skills
UAE. This covers over 70% of our workforce. While we are confident in our approach or experience, we make adjustments.
to pay equity, until women and ethnically
In 2022, our mean aggregate UK-wide diverse colleagues are proportionately For further details on our representation data,
gender pay gap was 45.2%, compared with represented across all areas and levels of the pay gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.
com/diversitycommitments and the ESG Data
44.9% in 2021, and the ethnicity pay gap organisation we will continue to see gaps in
Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
was 0.4%, compared with -0.8% in 2021. average pay. We are committed to paying
Our UK gender pay gap is driven by the colleagues fairly regardless of their gender
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 75
ESG review | Social
Fostering an inclusive culture
In our annual Snapshot survey’s Inclusion Looking to the future on disability Empowering diverse customers
index, which measures our colleagues’ sense Our ambition is to become a leading disability Aligned to our purpose of opening up a
of belonging, psychological safety, perception confident employer and a digitally accessible world of opportunity, we are committed
of fairness and trust, we achieved a financial services provider. In 2022, we to identifying and removing the different
favourability score of 76% in 2022, one point continued to focus on driving our digital barriers customers face in accessing financial
higher than our goal, and four points above accessibility programme so that our products services. In 2022, we contributed to this
the financial services industry benchmark. and service can be accessible for all. through several initiatives, including the
launch of a $1bn lending fund to invest in
There was a three-point increase in colleagues For our customers and colleagues, we female-owned businesses. We introduced
feeling able to speak up without fear of improved the accessibility of our public new processes to support refugees fleeing
negative consequences. This was a positive websites, mobile applications and internal the conflict in Ukraine so they can access the
indicator of our strengthening culture of systems. AbilityNet, the digital accessibility financial services they need to set up a new
inclusion, which is a critical component of charity, benchmarked HSBC as having the life in the UK. We also sponsor the Hong Kong
our ‘energise for growth’ strategy. most accessible website compared with other Lutheran Social Service to develop the ‘Health
local competitor banks in 10 of 13 of our key dollar fun’ app to boost digital literacy among
To educate our leaders and colleagues on Wealth and Personal Banking markets. the elderly.
driving an inclusive culture, we provided
a number of inclusive leadership training We are transforming our internal systems to For further details of how we are making
programmes, and enhanced our ‘Making be digitally accessible. In 2022, we engaged financial services more accessible and fair,
see ‘Our approach to customer inclusion and
HSBC more inclusive’ training. More than over 2,000 colleagues in digital accessibility
resilience’ on page 83.
10,500 colleagues also completed inclusive awareness and training, supported by the
hiring training, which is aimed at enabling fair launch of a digital accessibility hub, which
Creating more equal communities
and inclusive hiring decisions that are in line provides training and knowledge resources.
We partner with external organisations to
with our hiring principles. The hub achieved the best digital accessibility
open up opportunities for those groups who
award at the 2022 Digital Impact Awards.
have historically been disadvantaged. In 2022,
Employee resource groups
initiatives included:
Our employee resource groups foster an We are looking to extend our UK workplace
inclusive culture, and contribute significant adjustments process to other key markets,
– working with the Indian Academy for
value to tens of thousands of colleagues, ensuring our colleagues have the right tools
Self-Employed Women to provide business
with networks focused on a range of issues, and technologies to perform their roles. The
training and support to access digital
including: age, disability, parents and careers, programme will help colleagues with a
marketplaces;
ethnicity, gender and LGBTQ+. physical or sensory disability, long-term
mental health conditions or neurodiversity – partnering with Rural Education and
Our employee resource groups celebrate key needs to get advice and request additional Development India to train 500 youths
dates in the diversity calendar and hold events equipment or software to enable them to do from migrant and rural families to equip
for colleagues to raise awareness, and build their work. them with skills for the healthcare and
apparel sector; and
empathy and allyship. These included Pride,
our network for LGBTQ+ colleagues and allies, In 2022, HSBC UK was recognised as a Gold – supporting the National Council of
holding a global ‘24 hours of Pride’ campaign Standard employer, following an assessment Social Service in Singapore to support
that engaged our workforce to collectively by the Business Disability Forum, with a score employability services for persons who
celebrate our LGBTQ+ colleagues. Our of 95.8%, the highest score awarded. We have recovered from mental health issues.
Embrace network for ethnicity hosted its were praised on our commitment, drive and
first global summit, attended by over 1,300 innovation with regards to disability inclusion.
colleagues, including senior leaders across In 2023, we will continue to progress the
three regions. execution of our disability confidence strategy
with a particular focus on improving the
experiences of colleagues with a disability
across the key stages of their career journeys.
Starting our journey on social mobility
We believe in the principle that the We also joined ProgressTogether, a
circumstances of someone’s birth membership body of firms aimed at
should not define their future. addressing career progression and retention
for those identifying with a lower socio-
In 2022, we began to collect the socio- economic background. We established our
economic diversity data of our colleagues ‘Strive’ employee resource group, which will
within the UK, with the aim to improve social support and advocate for colleagues from
mobility. We will use this data to help us lower socio-economic backgrounds. We
understand the representation and plan to expand Strive to other markets as
progression of colleagues from lower our work matures.
socio-economic backgrounds.
76 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG review | Social
Listening to our colleagues continued
Employee engagement
We use eight Snapshot indices to measure key areas of focus and compare against peer institutions, including a new index focused on inclusion
that we introduced in 2022. The table below sets out how we performed.
vs HSBC vs
Index Score1 2021 benchmark2 Questions that make up the index
Employee 73% +1 +3 I am proud to say I work for this company.
engagement I feel valued at this company.
I would recommend this company as a great place to work.
Employee 72% +1 +2 I generally look forward to going to work.
focus My work gives me a feeling of personal accomplishment.
My work is challenging and interesting.
Strategy 75% +3 +4 I have a clear understanding of this company’s strategic objectives.
I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
I feel confident about this company’s future.
Change 76% +2 +2 Leaders in my area set a positive example.
leadership My line manager does a good job of communicating reasons behind important changes that are made.
Senior leaders in my area communicate openly and honestly about changes to the business.
Speak-up 76% +1 +8 My company is genuine in its commitment to encourage colleagues to speak up.
I feel able to speak up when I see behaviour which I consider to be wrong.
Where I work, people can state their opinion without the fear of negative consequences.
Trust 77% +1 +3 I trust my direct manager.
I trust senior leadership in my area.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
Career 68% +1 +4 I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I believe that we have fair processes for moving/promoting people into new roles.
My line manager actively supports my career development.
Inclusion 76% +1 +4 I feel a genuine sense of belonging to my team.
(new)3 I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I feel able to be myself at work.
I trust my direct manager.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
Where I work, people can state their opinion without the fear of negative consequences.
1 Each index comprises constituent questions, with the average of these questions forming the index score.
2 W e benchmark Snapshot results against a peer group of global financial services institutions, provided by our research partner, Karian and Box. Scores for each
question are calculated as the percentage of employees who agree to each statement. For further details on the constituent questions and past results, see the
ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
3 The Inclusion index was introduced in 2022. It comprises questions that were asked in earlier surveys, so we are able to report a comparison with 2021.
For further details of well-being, see page 80, and for further details of inclusion, see page 76.
What we learned One of the other top five factors identified to Our Snapshot survey showed 65% of
All eight of our Snapshot indices improved influence the Employee engagement score is colleagues reported they intend to stay with
slightly in 2022. Employee engagement, which colleagues’ confidence in the company’s HSBC for five or more years, a one-point
is our headline measure, was three points future. Within the Strategy index, employees increase, while 19% said they intend to leave
above benchmark and one point above 2021 recorded feeling increasingly confident about in the next two years, a two-point decrease.
levels, and exceeded our target to maintain the future of the company and understanding Despite this, involuntary turnover decreased
engagement levels during the year. The of our strategic objectives. to 3.3% and voluntary turnover increased to
Strategy index continued to improve in relation 14.1%, as labour markets picked up globally.
to the financial services’ benchmark. With inflationary pressures and the rising cost Both our Snapshot and voluntary leaver
of living around the world, pay and financial surveys tell us that career development
Our colleagues continued to cite our well-being are growing concerns among and pay and benefits continue to be key
approach to hybrid and flexible working as a colleagues. We saw an increase in comments influencing factors for voluntary attrition,
reason to recommend HSBC, a theme that relating to pay in the Snapshot survey, and and they remain central to our people strategy.
has been consistent since 2020. A greater self-reported financial well-being declined by For further details of how we help our people
proportion of colleagues also said they four points, despite a four-point increase in develop their careers, see ‘Developing skills,
experienced a positive environment employees reporting that they know how to careers and opportunities’ on page 81.
and culture, as well as saw training and get support about their financial capability. For
progression opportunities, helping to further details of our approach to financial
drive our Employee engagement score. well-being, see page 80.
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Social
Being a great place to work
We continued to support our colleagues Different markets are at different stages of
Our approach to fair
during the Covid-19 pandemic, and ensured embedding hybrid working, and in 2022 some
their safe return to the office. In 2022, we continued to operate under Covid-19 conditions. pay and performance
made it a priority to support even more
colleagues to work flexibly, while ensuring we Getting the balance right
As part of our approach to performance
are there for our customers when and where While working at home eliminates
management, we ask colleagues to
they need us. commuting time and provides more
set goals with the support of their line
opportunities to balance work and life,
managers, which are regularly reviewed.
Hybrid working is a key part of our flexible some benefits of being together in person
We encourage people managers to hold
working proposition and requires trust. We cannot be recreated remotely.
regular performance and development
have empowered our people to find the right
conversations, incorporating feedback,
balance, guided by the three principles of: Overall, we have seen that colleagues
and discussing well-being and progress.
in hybrid roles feel more productive and
In the Snapshot survey, 76% of
– customer focus, by delivering excellent engaged than those who are unable to
colleagues indicated they were happy
outcomes for our customers; work remotely. However, nearly half of
with the support their manager provided
– team commitment, by connecting with our colleagues told us that the networks
for career development.
each other, building our community and of people they regularly interacted with
collaborating; and decreased during the pandemic, and they
While our overall Career index, which
missed social connections.
– two-way flexibility, by providing more measures employee sentiment towards
choice on how, when and where we work, career development, improved by
As a result, we have equipped leaders to
suitable for the roles we perform. one point, results from our employee
achieve the right balance of remote and
listening channels indicated that
in-person working for their teams. Our people
Our flexible working approach sentiment around pay and career
managers have access to in-person and
Colleagues consistently tell us that our opportunities were key factors in
on-demand learning to develop the skills
approach to flexible and hybrid working is colleagues’ decisions to leave HSBC.
needed to lead hybrid teams effectively.
a key reason to recommend HSBC as an In 2023, we will review our approach to
Nearly 8,000 hybrid working learning
employer. In June 2022, our ‘Future of work’ pay and performance to ensure we are
curriculums were completed by our people
survey showed 81% of colleagues speak able to motivate colleagues in a way that
leaders in 2022. In addition, we ran targeted
positively about our approach to flexible and is authentic to our culture and values.
events to stimulate a successful return to the
hybrid working, and 80% feel it improves their Our approach will help colleagues have
office and create new hybrid working habits.
work-life balance. clarity on performance expectations,
awareness of development
With more colleagues adopting balanced hybrid
In 2022, we refreshed our flexible working opportunities and access to resources.
working patterns, the Snapshot survey showed
policies to provide more choice and make it
77% of colleagues said they have enough
easier to request a flexible working As part of this programme, we are
opportunities to connect and collaborate with
arrangement. Choices include flexible and proposing to simplify assessments
people outside their immediate teams.
staggered hours, job sharing, reduced hours of colleagues and shift the focus to
and hybrid working. These new policies are conversations about performance and
Our offices will continue to evolve to support
available to more than 90% of colleagues, growth, while improving transparency
increased collaboration. We are rolling out a
including our branch network and non- and structure in our fixed and variable
digital app in several locations that will offer
permanent employees. We have encouraged pay design.
greater visibility of who is in the office to
teams to have open conversations about
support teams coming together.
flexible working opportunities. For further details of our approach to
colleague remuneration see page 281, and
86%
for details of our average standard entry
More colleagues than ever are working in
level wages compared with local minimum
a hybrid way, where working time is split
wage, see our ESG Data Pack at www.
between the office and home or another Of people managers are confident their hsbc.com/esg.
location. According to our Snapshot survey
teams have the right balance of remote and
in September, 59% of our colleagues work
in-person working to meet customer and
in a hybrid way, compared with 37% in 2021.
stakeholder needs.
Greater front-line flexibility with far reaching benefits
Colleagues have embraced hybrid working across our eight global service centres that
support our customer operations and services. Through a ‘Hello hybrid’ campaign, over
38,000 employees completed hybrid skills e-learning and nearly 850 colleagues took part in
team dialogue sessions. The campaign helped our colleagues identify the best of remote and
office working for their differing customer needs, cultures and regulatory requirements. As a
result of the campaign, employee sentiment improved by 6% for the question ‘I generally look
forward to my work day.’ In our main contact centres, colleagues now spend up to 67% of
their working time on customer-facing activities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 79
ESG review | Social
Well-being
We want our colleagues to be at their best Physical well-being programmes on healthy financial habits
at work, so we invest significantly in their The Snapshot survey revealed a decrease in and saving strategies. Since their launch,
well-being and will continue to seek new physical well-being, with 71% of colleagues over 2,400 colleagues have used these
ways to provide support. Guided by data rating their physical health as positive, programmes.
and colleague feedback, the pillars of our compared with 75% in 2021.
well-being programme are mental, physical, We review our approach to employee share
financial and social well-being. In our In February, we ran a survey about our ownership plans in line with country demand,
employee Snapshot survey carried out in employee benefits, which showed 37% of operational capacity and local legislation. In 2022,
September, 70% of our colleagues said they colleagues wanted more support with physical we expanded our global share plan to colleagues
believe HSBC cares about their well-being. activity and exercise. In response, we ran a in Bahrain, Qatar and Kuwait, meaning that 90%
five-month pilot with 2,000 colleagues to test of our people globally now have access to share
Mental well-being mobile apps that incentivise physical activity. ownership plans. We continue to look to offer the
Supporting our colleagues’ mental health The pilot showed that the use of apps and plan in new locations.
remains a top priority, with the Covid-19 community challenges helped up to 70% of
pandemic still presenting mental health users increase their physical activity, to In the UK, we introduced a green car scheme
challenges in many countries. Our Snapshot varying degrees. As a result, we are looking to encourage colleagues to transition to
survey revealed an increase in mental at expanding the initiative to more countries electric vehicles and benefit from reduced
well-being, with 84% of colleagues rating in 2023. running costs and CO emissions.
2
their mental health as positive, compared with
82% in 2021. It also revealed that 73% of We have continued to provide access to Social well-being
colleagues felt comfortable talking to their private medical insurance in the majority of We introduced social well-being as a new
manager about their mental health, a slight our countries and territories, covering 98% of pillar of our programme in 2022, to focus on
increase from 72% in 2021. permanent employees. In certain countries we social connections and work-life balance.
provide on-site medical centres that the
We have continued to make telephone majority of colleagues can access. Snapshot surveys showed 75% of colleagues
counselling services and Headspace, a say they can integrate their work and personal
meditation app, available to all colleagues We have enhanced fertility, adoption, and life positively, a slight decrease compared with
globally. Use of these services increased surrogacy benefits for our colleagues in the 76% in 2021. We will continue to facilitate this
by 3% and 28% in 2022, respectively. US and Canada. We are also expanding our by enabling flexible working arrangements,
gender dysphoria benefits for LGBTQ+ including hybrid working, in line with our
More than 240,000 colleagues and contractors colleagues in the UK and Philippines future of work initiative (see page 76).
took part in mental health awareness training from 2023. Colleagues feel more confident talking to their
as part of global mandatory training. Our manager about work-life balance, with 80%
voluntary mental health e-learning has now Financial well-being saying they do, compared with 77% in 2021.
been completed by 30,000 employees, with Our Snapshot survey revealed a decrease in
people managers making up 17% of the financial well-being, with 60% of colleagues In 2021, we upgraded our At Our Best
completions. We also provide an in-depth reporting positively, compared with 64% in recognition online platform, which allows
classroom course designed for line managers 2021. We believe this is an impact of rising for real-time recognition and appreciation
and those wanting to be mental health inflation and cost of living in many countries. between colleagues. The upgrade enables
champions, which has been completed by colleagues to record and send video messages
800 colleagues. However, colleagues felt more supported to to accompany recognitions. In 2022, there
manage their financial well-being, at 62%, an were more than 1.2 million recognitions made,
To celebrate World Mental Health Day, we ran increase of four points from 2021. The same an 11% increase on 2021. We also enabled
a global awareness campaign on alleviating survey revealed that 81% of colleagues felt colleagues globally to donate their points
stigma and encouraging colleagues to feel they had the right skills and knowledge to directly to humanitarian relief agencies
able to speak up if they need help. Throughout manage their day-to-day finances, and 77% supporting those impacted by the war in
October, we held over 100 virtual events, said they are well prepared to meet their Ukraine. To date more than 1,100 colleagues
featuring internal and external experts financial goals. have made personal donations to this cause.
providing advice on mental health and
well-being related topics. Our benefits survey showed that 31% of Awards
colleagues want more support around CCLA Global 100 Mental Health
financial education. In response, we have Benchmark
continued to promote our financial education – Ranked #1 global employer
Promoting a culture of well-being
In July 2022, we became a founding member of the World Wellbeing Movement, a coalition
of global leaders from business, civil society and academia. A key objective of the movement
is to develop a simple and universally acceptable standard for measuring well-being that
leads to meaningful action. We believe that having a standard ESG indicator on well-being
will improve transparency and enable organisations to better target actions to create positive
change.
80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Social
Developing skills, careers and opportunities
Learning and skills development
We aim to build a dynamic environment We use people analytics, strategic workforce
Identifying and retaining
where our colleagues can develop skills and planning, and learning needs analysis to identify
undertake experiences that help them fulfil current and future skills demand, and to help future talent
their potential. Our approach helps us to colleagues develop in new areas that match
meet our strategic priorities and support their aspirations and support career growth.
The starting point to identifying talent is
our colleagues’ career goals.
having a fair and inclusive recruitment
Throughout 2022 we continued to run
process. To help managers hire in line
Our resources skills campaigns to create the impetus for
with our principles, we have launched
The way we work and the way we learn has individual-led learning, and have used our
compulsory inclusive hiring training. In
changed, driven by the adoption of hybrid skills influencer network of more than
2022, over 5,000 managers received the
working styles and digital capabilities. We use 1,800 colleagues to build engagement and
certification, in addition to 13,500 in 2021.
a range of resources to help colleagues take enthusiasm around the Talent Marketplace,
ownership of their development and career, and opportunities for development.
Our talent programmes have been
including:
designed to enable talented employees
Evolving how we learn
to make the successful transition into
– HSBC University, which is our home for During the Covid-19 pandemic, we
more complex roles and to support
learning and skills accessed online and strengthened our digital offering to enable
participants in planning for a long-term
through a network of training centres. colleagues to develop their skills in a hybrid
career at HSBC. Our key programmes
Learning is organised through technical environment. Our colleagues can access
include:
academies aligned to businesses and HSBC University online via our Degreed
functions, complemented with enterprise- learning platform, using it to identify, assess
– Accelerating Female Leaders, which
wide academies on topics of strategic and develop skills through internal and
increases the visibility, sponsorship
importance; external courses and resources in a way
and network of female participants.
which suits them.
– My HSBC Career Portal, which offers career
Colleagues are supported with
development information and resources to
development plans to help them
Degreed materials range from short videos,
help colleagues manage the various stages
prepare for the next level of
articles or podcasts to packaged programmes
of their career, from joining through to
leadership, and matched with
or curated learning pathways that link content
career progression; and
sponsors from our senior leadership
in a logical structure. By December, more than
– HSBC Talent Marketplace, which is our and external executive coaches;
187,000 colleagues were registered on the
online platform that uses artificial
platform. In 2022, overall training volumes – Accelerating into Leadership, which
intelligence (‘AI’) to match colleagues
were 28.8 hours per FTE, up from 26.7 hours prepares participants for leadership
interested in developing specific skills with
per FTE in 2021. roles through peer-based development
opportunities that exist throughout our
activities, senior sponsorship and
global network.
However, we recognise that most executive coaches. Topics of focus
development happens while our colleagues include network building, developing
Learning foundations
work, through regular coaching, feedback and resilience and navigating the
We expect all colleagues, regardless of their
performance management. To enable even organisation. We measure the
contract type, to complete global mandatory
more opportunities for colleagues to grow in retention of colleagues post-
training each year. This training plays a critical
this way, our Talent Marketplace matches programme to assess the success; and
role in shaping our culture, ensuring a focus on
colleagues to projects and new experiences – ‘UGrow’, which is our programme
the issues that are fundamental to our work
based on their aspirations and career goals. that supports the retention and
– such as sustainability, financial crime risk, and
In 2022, we rolled the platform out to an development of colleagues while
our intolerance of bullying and harassment.
additional 83,000 colleagues across 18 strengthening our leadership pipeline.
New joiners attend our Global Discovery
countries and territories. Over 150,000 The programme offers masterclasses
programme, which is designed to build their
colleagues now have access to the platform, focused on career planning, driving
knowledge of the organisation and engage
and to date over 3,000 projects and results and adaptability for aspiring
them with our purpose, values and strategy.
networking requests have been facilitated, and colleagues.
over 70,000 hours of activity have taken place.
As the risks and opportunities our business
Our global emerging talent programmes
faces change, our technical academies adapt
Training at HSBC welcomed over 800 graduates and 600
to offer general and targeted development.
6.3 million interns to the organisation in 2022. Our
Our Risk Academy provides learning for
programmes are a key enabler of our
every employee in traditional areas of risk
broader diversity goals (see page 74). In
management such as financial crime risk,
Training hours carried out by our 2022, our graduate intake was 48%
but also offers more specific development
colleagues in 2022. female, and comprised graduates from
for those in high-risk roles and for emerging
(2021: 5.9 million) 46 nationalities and over 30 ethnicities.
issues, such as climate risk, or the ethics and
We welcomed our graduates with a
conduct of AI and big data.
28.8 hours three-day induction programme, which
introduced them to key topics such as
Preparing for the future
our purpose, values and strategy, as
Our approach to learning is skills based.
Training hours carried out per FTE in 2022. well as our role in delivering a
Our academy teams work with businesses and
(2021: 26.7 hours) sustainable future.
functions to identify the key skills and
capabilities they need now, and in the future.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 81
ESG review | Social
Energising our colleagues for growth
We are committed to offering colleagues the Supporting our Asia wealth strategy Our Country Leadership Programme aims
chance to develop their skills while building At the heart of our ambition to offer best-in to prepare and develop future country CEOs
pipelines of talented colleagues to support class international wealth management and executives for highly complex roles.
the achievement of our strategic priorities. services to our customers is the accelerated The programme builds the confidence and
expansion of our offering in Asia. To achieve competence of leaders across themes such
It remains critical to our ability to energise this, we are providing opportunities for our as managing cyber risk, building regulatory
for growth that we demonstrate the right colleagues to reskill and build career resilience relationships, representing HSBC’s net zero
leadership, and create the optimal conditions through our Accelerating Wealth Programme. ambitions and upholding customer-centricity.
for our people to perform. Our leadership and The programme offers a skills-based Participants learn through simulation exercises
culture is guided by our purpose, values and development plan for colleagues who and coaching from seasoned executives,
delivering our strategy. are looking to pursue a career in wealth subject matter experts and Board members.
management. Participants on the programme
The Sustainability Academy are allocated 20% of their working week to Leadership development for our colleagues
To support our ambitions to become net zero focus on learning and skills development. at managing director level includes new
in our own operations by 2030, and to align They are then regularly assessed to ensure programmes that have been created in
our financed emissions to the Paris Agreement they are making progress with developing partnership with business schools and
goal of net zero by 2050, we launched the the right skills to meet our client needs. industry practitioners. Topics focus on a range
Sustainability Academy in 2022. The academy of issues, including critical skills areas such as
is available to all colleagues across the Group We recognise the role that diverse experiences influence, inclusion, and Agile methodologies.
and serves as a central point for colleagues to can bring to our customers, and have
access learning plans and resources, and therefore ensured that the programme is open We recognise the importance of people
develop practical skills. to colleagues from all global businesses and managers in shaping the experience of our
functions based in Asia. colleagues. We have revised our training for
The academy has resources to help all people managers to better support living our
colleagues understand broad topics such Building leadership capabilities purpose, values and strategy, and to reflect
as climate change or biodiversity, and is We have strengthened the training we give to the challenges of retaining talent. Our core
supplemented with more advanced content leaders at all levels of the Group to ensure they leadership development programme is made
for key groups of colleagues who are are equipped with the skills and knowledge up of four modules that are available in
supporting customers through their transition. to energise and develop our colleagues. face-to-face and virtual formats. The
We intend to align content to support business programme is focused on the role and
outcomes by educating our colleagues on We have continued the executive leadership expectations of managers, how to design and
topics such as energy efficiency, renewable programme for our most senior leaders, organise work, how to handle relationships
energy, sustainability and ESG reporting. creating a programme of high-quality modules with employees and how to nurture a
that draws on internal and external expertise. productive team environment.
As part of our strategy to align the provision The programme focuses on the shifting
of finance to the Paris Agreement, the expectations of leaders, embedding the clarity
Sustainability Academy is supporting our and alignment to achieve our goals and
colleagues to build their knowledge and tackling strategic change. We complemented
capability in the sectors in which we have this with educational resources focused on the
begun to measure and set financed emissions opportunities presented by Cloud, artificial
targets, including the oil and gas, and power intelligence, and blockchain technology.
and utilities sectors.
We will continue to update the academy with
new research and content related to ESG
issues, including those related to social and
governance issues.
Supporting UK emerging talent
In the UK, we have continued to broaden our emerging talent programmes beyond
traditional graduate and internship schemes. Our programmes support those from non-
traditional education backgrounds, and are supportive of our social mobility ambitions,
outlined on page 75. In 2022, we provided over 180 apprenticeship opportunities for external
and internal applicants. We have also provided over 600 structured work placements for
secondary school students, and developed partnerships with Brampton Manor, Generating
Genius and the #merky foundation to provide financial literacy support to over 6,400 14 to
16 year olds. We have recently launched a career accelerator programme, in partnership
with Zero Gravity, which involves over 120 of our graduates providing career coaching and
mentorship to university students. HSBC UK also uses its apprenticeship levy to support
work opportunities at small and medium-sized business through a partnership with West
Midlands Combined Authority.
82 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG review | Social
Engaging with our communities
Building a more inclusive world
We have a long-standing commitment to – In India, the Babuji Rural Enlightenment and Charitable giving in 2022
support the communities in which we operate. Development Society teaches rural farmers
We aim to provide people with the skills and sustainable farming practices, including soil
knowledge needed to thrive in the post- and water management, helping them to
pandemic environment, and through the increase their income.
transition to a sustainable future.
We also work with our charity partners
We are empowering our people and those around the world to promote employability
in our communities to develop skills for the and financial capabilities in disadvantaged
future. Through our charitable partnerships communities, and to respond to local needs:
and volunteering opportunities, our people
share their skills and create a positive impact – We support The Prince’s Trust Group to Social, including Future Skills: 50%
in society. help marginalised young people in Australia, Environment, including the Climate
Canada, India, Malaysia, Malta and the Solutions Partnership: 20%
Our global reach is our unique strength. UK to develop employable skills. Local priorities: 16%
Bringing together diverse people, ideas and – Our award-winning partnership with the Disaster relief and other giving: 14%
perspectives helps us open up opportunities Scouts has led to the creation of the first
and build a more inclusive world. ever Money Skills Activity Badge for
Beaver and Cub groups in the UK. Total cash giving towards charitable
Building community and future skills programmes
– We support Feeding America to help users
Our Future Skills strategy, launched in 2018, $116.8m
of food banks in the US get on-site job skill
has supported over 6.6 million people through
training.
more than $197m in charitable donations.
Current projections from our charity partners – We work with the China Volunteer Service
indicate our support during 2022 reached Foundation to improve the financial
more than 1.45 million people through capability of elderly people in Beijing, Hours volunteered during work time
donations of $41m. Shanghai, and Guangzhou. >67,000
In anticipation of global economies Our support for Covid-19 relief efforts also
transitioning towards a low-carbon future, continued in 2022, with a door-to-door
our colleagues and charity partners initiated vaccination programme in Hong Kong aiming People reached through our Future Skills
programmes that help people and to help 10,000 elderly or people with programme
communities respond to opportunities and disabilities. 1.45m
challenges through building relevant skills:
Community engagement and
– In the Middle East, we partner with the volunteering
Posterity Institute and the Arab Youth We offer paid volunteering days, and Awards
Council for Climate Change to develop encourage our people to give time, skills Investor and Financial Education
an open-source curriculum for teaching and knowledge to causes within their Awards 2022 Hong Kong
sustainability skills in higher education communities. In 2022, our colleagues gave – IFEA (Corporate) Gold Award
institutions in the region. over 67,000 hours to community activities
during work time.
– In Argentina, the Academia Solar
programme aims to train students in
Engagement with pressure groups
design, installation and commissioning
We aim to maintain a constructive
of photovoltaic solar energy systems.
dialogue on important topics that are often
raised by campaigning organisations and
pressure groups.
Climate Solutions Partnership
Our Climate Solutions Partnership is a five-year $100m philanthropic initiative that aims to
identify and remove barriers to scale for climate change solutions. Working with the World
Resources Institute, WWF and over 50 local partners, our support focuses on start-up
companies developing carbon-cutting technologies, nature-based solutions, renewable
energy initiatives in Asia and the WWF-led Asia Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme.
Since 2020, we have committed $95.8m of our $100m funding target to non-governmental
organisation (‘NGO’) partners, supporting projects with the potential to make significant
impacts in the mission to achieve a net zero, resilient and sustainable future.
84 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Governance
Governance
Acting responsibly
We remain committed to high standards of governance.
We work alongside our regulators and recognise our
contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance
Our relationship lines, listen carefully to customer feedback so We strive to meet our responsibilities to
We act on our responsibility to run our we know where we need to improve, and take society, including through being transparent in
business in a way that upholds high standards steps to do this. our approach to paying taxes. We also seek to
of corporate governance. ensure we respect global standards on human
We are committed to working with our rights in our workplace and our supply chains,
Customer experience is at the heart of how regulators to manage the safety of the and continually work to improve our
we operate. It is imperative that we treat our financial system, adhering to the spirit and compliance management capabilities.
customers well, that we listen, and that we act the letter of the rules and regulations
to resolve complaints quickly and fairly. We governing our industry. For further details of our corporate
measure customer satisfaction through net governance, see our corporate
governance report on page 239.
promoter scores across each of our business
In this section
Setting high How ESG is governed We expect that our ESG governance approach is likely to continue to Page 86
standards of develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and
governance stakeholder expectations.
Human rights Our respect for human As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we strive for continual Page 87
rights improvement in our approach to human rights.
Customer Customer satisfaction While customer satisfaction improved during the year, we have work Page 89
experience to do to improve our rank position against competitors.
How we listen We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and Page 90
manage complaints.
Integrity, conduct Safeguarding the We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and P age 92
and fairness financial system reduce its impact on our organisation, customers and communities
that we serve.
Whistleblowing Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our P age 92
colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.
A responsible approach We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which Page 93
to tax we operate.
Acting with integrity We aim to act with courageous integrity and learn from past events Page 93
to prevent their recurrence.
Conduct: Our product Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on Page 94
responsibilities the impact we have on our customers and the geographies in which
we operate.
Our approach with We require suppliers to meet our compliance and financial stability Page 94
our suppliers requirements, as well as to comply with our supplier code of
conduct.
Safeguarding data Data privacy We are committed to protecting and respecting the data we hold Page 95
and process, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the
geographies in which we operate.
Cybersecurity We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, Page 96
detect and mitigate cyber threats.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 85
ESG review | Governance
Setting high standards of governance
TCFD
How ESG is governed
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG
strategy, overseeing executive management
How HSBC’s climate
in developing the approach, execution and
strategy is cascaded
associated reporting. Progress against our ESG
ambitions is reviewed through Board discussion Opportunities Risks
and review of key topics such as updates on
our climate ambition and transition, customer
experience and employee sentiment. The Board Board level governance
is regularly provided with specific updates on
ESG matters, including the energy policy, human
rights and employee well-being. Board members
receive ESG-related training as part of their HSBC Holdings Board
induction and ongoing development, and seek
out further opportunities to build their skills and
experience in this area. For further details of Group Executive Committee Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee
Board members’ ESG skills and experience, see
page 240. For further details of their induction
and training in 2022, see page 252. Management level governance
ESG Committee Group Risk Management Meeting
Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG matters,
the governance activities are managed through Supports the development and delivery Receives updates on climate risk,
a combination of specialist governance of the Group’s ESG strategy, key and reviews climate risk appetite
infrastructure and regular meetings and policies and material commitments by and top and emerging climate risks.
providing oversight, coordination and
committees, where appropriate. These include
management of ESG commitments Chair: Group Chief Risk and
the Group Disclosure and Controls Committee
and initiatives. Compliance Officer
and Group Audit Committee, which provide
oversight for the scope and content of ESG Co-Chairs: Group Company Secretary
disclosures, and the Group People Committee, and Chief Governance Officer, and
which provides oversight support for the Group Chief Sustainability Officer
Group’s approach to performance
management. For some areas, such as climate
where our approach is more advanced, Supporting governance
dedicated governance activities exist to support
the wide range of activities, from sustainable
finance solution development in the
Sustainability Execution Climate Risk Oversight Forum
Review Group
Sustainability Execution Review Group to Oversees global risk activities relating
climate risk management in the Climate Risk Oversees the delivery of our ambition to climate risk management, including
Oversight Forum. to provide and facilitate $750bn to physical and transition risks. Equivalent
$1tn of sustainable finance and forums have been established at
investment, and realisation of regional level.
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer
commercial opportunities.
and the chief risk officers of our PRA-regulated
Chair: Group Head of Risk Strategy
businesses are the senior managers responsible Chair: Group Chief Executive and Macroeconomic Risk
for climate financial risks under the UK Senior
Managers Regime. Climate risks are considered
in the Group Risk Management Meeting and
the Group Risk Committee, with scheduled Regional, global business and global functions
updates provided, as well as detailed reviews
of material matters, such as climate-related Examples of ESG-related management governance
stress testing exercises. The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.
Digital Business Group Reputational Sustainability Human Rights
The diagram on the right provides an illustration Services Executive Risk Committee Target Operating Steering
of our ESG governance process, including how Committee Oversees global Model Steering Committee
the Board’s strategy on climate is cascaded and Oversees the global executive support Committee Oversees the
implemented throughout the organisation. It delivery of ESG for identification, Oversees the Group’s evolving
identifies examples of forums that manage both activities within our management and implementation approach to human
own operations, ongoing monitoring of the Group’s rights and provides
climate-related opportunities and risks, along
services and of reputational risks. organisational plan enhanced
with their responsibilities and the responsible
technology for the internal governance.
chair. The structure of the process is similar for elements of our Chair: Group infrastructure,
the escalation of problems, with issues either strategy. Chief Risk and both within the Chair: Group
resolved in a given forum or raised to the Compliance Officer Sustainability Chief Risk and
appropriate level of governance with appropriate Chair: Group Chief function and the Compliance Officer
scope and authority. Operating Officer wider Group,
to deliver our
climate ambitions .
We expect that our ESG governance approach
Chair: Group Chief
is likely to continue to develop, in line with Sustainability
our evolving approach to ESG matters Officer
and stakeholder expectations.
86 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Governance
Human rights
Our respect for human rights
As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we Our salient human rights issues
recognise the role of business in respecting Illustration of HSBC Group’s inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.
human rights. Our approach covers all aspects
HSBC activities
of internationally recognised human rights and
is guided by the UN Guiding Principles on Provider of products and
Business and Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and the services
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Personal Business
Inherent human rights risks Employer Buyer customers customers Investor1
Refreshing our salient human rights issues
In 2022, building on an earlier human rights Right to Freedom from forced ◆ ◆ ◆
decent labour
review that had identified modern slavery and
work
discrimination as priority issues, we reviewed Just and favourable ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
our salient human rights issues following the conditions of work
methodology set out in the UNGPs. These are Right to health and safety ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
the human rights at risk of the most severe at work
potential negative impact through our business
activities and relationships. It is important to Right to equality and freedom from ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
discrimination
understand these as inherent risks, based on
the nature of our business. Identifying and Right to privacy ◆ ◆ ◆
regularly reviewing these risks helps us to
Cultural and land rights ◆ ◆ ◆
validate and evolve our overall approach to
human rights. Right to dignity and justice ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆
Through this review, we identified the following 1 Investor includes our activities in HSBC Asset Management.
five human rights risks (salient human rights
issues) inherent to HSBC’s business globally: self-determination and the enjoyment of additional analysis allows us to focus our
culture, religion and language, and the rights efforts as we review the range of measures
– Right to decent work: This covers freedom of indigenous people. already in place to manage risks, and consider
from forced labour including freedom from – Right to dignity and justice: This includes enhancements.
slavery and child labour and protection from freedom of opinion and expression and
inhumane, harsh or degrading treatment or freedom from arbitrary arrest, detention Managing risks to human rights
punishment. It also includes the right to just or exile. In 2022, we began the process of adapting our
and favourable conditions of work including risk management procedures to reflect what
the right to reasonable working hours, fair The assessment also considered our business we learned from the work on salient human
working conditions and pay. It also covers the activities and relationships in the context of rights issues described above. This included
right to health and safety at work, including our roles: as an employer; as a buyer of goods the development of Group guidance on human
appropriate living conditions for workers as and services; as a provider of financial rights, which incorporates the salient human
well as protection of their mental and products and services to personal customers rights issues assessment and provides
physical health and safety while at work. and, separately, to business customers; and as colleagues with practical advice, including
– Right to equality and freedom from an investor, including all investment activities. case studies, on how to identify, prevent,
discrimination: This covers the right to equal mitigate and account for how we address our
opportunity and freedom from discrimination We assessed how each of these five roles impacts on human rights.
on the basis of protected characteristics. might intersect with our five salient human
– Right to privacy: This includes the right to rights issues. The table above shows the areas We incorporated additional human rights
protection against interference with privacy. where we assessed severe negative impacts elements into our existing procurement
on human rights would be most likely to arise, processes and supplier code of conduct,
– Cultural and land rights: This includes in the absence of action to mitigate them. This and we extended existing human rights due
Stakeholder engagement
As part of the process of validating our – interviewing of our largest investors to hear These stakeholder engagements and input
assessment of our salient human rights their assessments of the potential human from external human rights experts led us to
issues, we engaged with a range of internal rights impacts associated with the financial alter or extend our initial assessments in
and external stakeholders. These included: services industry, and we listened to their several ways. For example, our discussions
expectations of us in responding to the with civil society groups helped us
– drawing on the experience of our risks; and understand the potential impact of our
employee groups, which gave us valuable – discussing our salient human rights issues investments on all five of our salient human
feedback on human rights challenges in with some of our key suppliers, our large rights issues. Engagement with investors in
the workplace; business customers and the companies in HSBC informed our assessment of the way
– working with civil society groups with which we invest, to understand their views in which our salient human rights issues
expertise in one or more of our salient of human rights impacts in different parts of overlap with our approach to climate change
human rights issues, who could represent the world and to develop collaborative and our commitment to a just transition (see
the views of potentially impacted people; approaches to addressing those impacts. next page).
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 87
ESG review | Governance
Our respect for human rights continued
diligence processes for suppliers and business Financial crime controls We built on this experience in developing
customers. We continued to develop our The risk of us causing, contributing or being access to banking services for customers
in-house capability on human rights, including linked to adverse human rights impacts is in the UK and in Hong Kong with no fixed
by launching online resources for all staff and also mitigated by our financial crime risk abode, providing over 4,000 accounts under
delivering bespoke human rights training for management framework, which includes our these programmes.
520 employees across our network. global policies and associated controls.
We also responded to the devastating effects
The actions we are taking to address these For further details of how we fight financial crime, of the conflict in Ukraine by introducing a
salient human rights issues are consistent see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and- new process to help refugees to access the
responsible-business/fighting-financial-crime.
with our values, and will help us to meet our financial services they need to set up a new
commitments on diversity and inclusion, and life in the UK. Over 9,000 people fleeing the
Other policies
those we have made under the UN Global conflict have opened a bank account with us.
HSBC’s Principles for the Ethical Use of Data
Compact and the World Economic Forum
and Artificial Intelligence describe how we
metrics on risk for incidents of child, forced For further details of our work to support
or compulsory labour. seek to respect rights to privacy while making vulnerable communities, see page 83.
use of these technologies.
For further details of the actions we have taken to Effectiveness
respect the right to decent work, see our Annual Driving change The table below includes indicative metrics we
Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at We continued to be active participants in use to measure year-on-year continual
www.hsbc.com/modernslaveryact. industry forums, including the Thun Group of improvement to our human rights processes.
For further details of the actions taken to Banks, which is an informal group that seeks to
respect the right to equality and freedom from promote understanding of the UNGPs within
discrimination, see ’Our approach to diversity
the sector. Contracted suppliers who had
and inclusion’ on page 74.
either confirmed adherence to the
HSBC has been an active member of the code of conduct or provided their
Sector policies 93%
Mekong Club since 2016. We are a regular own alternative that was accepted
Some of our business customers operate in
participant in its monthly financial services by our Global Procurement
sectors in which the risk of adverse human
working group and use its informative function (%)
rights impact is greater. Our sector policies for
typological toolkits, infographics, and other
agricultural commodities, energy, forestry, No-cost accounts held for
multimedia resources covering current and
mining and metals cover human rights issues customers who do not qualify for
such as forced labour, harmful or exploitative emerging human trafficking and modern a standard account or who might 716,957
child labour, land rights, the rights of slavery issues. Our Compliance teams need additional support due to
indigenous peoples, including ‘free prior and regularly collaborate and engage with the social or financial vulnerability
Mekong Club in designing bank-wide
informed consent’, workers’ rights, and the Employees who have received
health and safety of communities. knowledge sharing and training sessions. bespoke training on human rights 520
Through our membership of international Supporting those impacted and those Votes against management for 87
potentially at risk reasons including human rights1
certification schemes such as the Forestry
We continued to expand our Survivor Bank
Stewardship Council, the Roundtable on Concerns raised related to
programme, which has now benefited over
Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator Principles, bullying, harassment, 1,159
2,000 survivors of modern slavery and human
we actively support the continual improvement discrimination and retaliation
trafficking in the UK, and is a model for
of standards aimed at respecting human rights.
making financial services more accessible to
vulnerable communities worldwide.
Our sector policies are reviewed periodically to 1 T he figure represents the number of resolutions at
ensure they reflect our priorities. investee company shareholder meetings (including
AGMs) where votes were cast against management
For further details of our policy prohibitions and for reasons related to human rights.
other financing restrictions, see our sector-
specific sustainability risk policies at www.hsbc.
com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
managing-risk/sustainability-risk.
Working for a just transition
We aim to play a leading role in mobilising the transition to a global net zero economy, not just by
financing it, but by helping to shape and influence the global policy agenda. When designing and
implementing low-carbon pathways it is important to consider the communities and areas of the
economy that will be facing the greatest challenges. This aligns closely with our commitments on
human rights more broadly. This was demonstrated in June 2022 when HSBC and US fashion
group PVH Corp. announced the first sustainable supply chain finance programme that includes
human rights performance standards.
For further details on this programme, see page 58. See also our paper on Just and Inclusive Climate
Transition for investors at www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/attachments/common/
news-and-articles/articles/campaign-2022-11-02-hsbc-responsible-investment-insights-q4-2022.pdf.
88 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG review | Governance
How we listen
To improve how we serve our customers, we
How we handle complaints
must be open to feedback and acknowledge
when things go wrong. We have adapted Our principles Our actions
quickly to support our customers facing
Making it easy for Customers can complain via the channel that best suits them. We
new challenges and new ways of working,
customers to provide a point of contact along with clear information on next
especially as a result of Covid-19-related
complain steps and timescales.
lockdown restrictions.
All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise
Acknowledging
We aim to be open and consistent in how empathy to acknowledge our customers’ issues. Complaints are
complaints
we track, record and manage complaints, escalated if they cannot be resolved at first point of contact.
although as we serve a wide range of
Keeping the
customers – from personal banking and We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout
customer up to
wealth customers to large corporates, the complaint resolution process via their preferred channel.
date
institutions and governments – we tailor our
approach in each of our global businesses. As Ensuring fair We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and
the table on the right demonstrates, we have a resolution ensure the right outcome for our customers.
consistent set of principles that enable us to
We provide customers with information on their rights and the
remain customer-focused throughout the Providing available
appeal process if they are not satisfied with the outcome of the
complaints process. rights
complaint.
For further details on complaints volumes by Undertaking root Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and
geography, see our ESG Data Pack at www. cause analysis address any systemic issues and to inform process improvements.
hsbc.com/esg.
Wealth and Personal Banking (‘WPB’)
In 2022, we received approximately 1.2 million accessing and using our digital platforms. We
complaints from customers. The ratio of are addressing these by seeking to improve our WPB complaint volumes1
complaints per 1,000 customers per month digital capabilities, timely staff reinforcement, (per 1,000 customers per month)
in our large markets decreased slightly from enhanced guidance of how to use our digital 2022 2021
2.4 to 2.3. platforms and improved customer journeys.
Total2 2.3 2.4
In the UK, complaints fell 8% partly due to a The decrease in complaints in Mexico was
decline in transaction disputes, which had driven by improvements in fraud detection, UK3 1.4 1.4
risen during the Covid-19 pandemic. The as our fraud teams took actions to protect
reduction in these complaint volumes can also customers, including carrying out an upgrade
Hong Kong3 1.0 0.7
be attributed to journey improvements we to a monitoring tool for credit and debit cards
made to deal with these disputes more quickly. and making adjustments to fraud rules.
Mexico3 5.1 5.5
We continue to be focused on improving the
customer experience to reduce complaint In our private bank in 2022, we received 331
volumes further during 2023. complaints, a 23% decrease on 2021, largely
1 A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction
due to the reduction in administration and about WPB’s activities, products or services
The increase in complaints in Hong Kong was service issues. Within this category a high where a response or resolution is explicitly or
mainly related to reduced operations in our proportion were attributable to processing or implicitly expected.
branches during Covid-19-related restrictions, client reporting delays/errors. In 2022, the 2 Markets included: Hong Kong, mainland China,
France, the UK, UAE, Mexico, Canada and the US.
an increase in fraudulent activities, and the private bank resolved 344 complaints.
3 The UK, Mexico and Hong Kong make up 86% of
migration by customers towards new ways of
total complaints.
Acting on feedback
In 2022, we launched a Group-wide plan to standardise our customer-focused approach This allows us to have a structured approach
deliver an improved experience for our in our processes. to manage feedback.
customers around the world. The plan will
strengthen our capabilities to hear, understand For our colleagues focused on improving our In Hong Kong, we analyse customer feedback
and act on what our customers are telling customers’ experiences, we enhanced and and detect their pain points at an early stage
us on a regular basis. Across markets we launched regular forums in 15 of our key through a feedback mechanism. Our
enhanced our measurement and tracking markets to ensure systematic reviews are colleagues are now able to reach out to
capabilities, and developed the skills and tools carried out to prioritise feedback and our customers with unhappy experiences
our colleagues need to improve their customer implement improvements quickly regarding proactively to resolve their outstanding issues.
experience each day. We also sought to our customers’ online and offline experiences.
90 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG review | Governance
Integrity, conduct and fairness
Safeguarding the financial system
We have continued our efforts to combat controls, and the application of machine
financial crime and reduce its impact on our learning to improve the accuracy and
organisation, customers and the communities timeliness of our detection capabilities. These
that we serve. Financial crime includes fraud, new technologies should enhance our ability
bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions to respond effectively to unusual activity and
and export control violations, money be more granular in our risk assessments.
laundering, terrorist financing and This helps us to protect our customers, the
proliferation financing. organisation and the integrity of the global
financial system against financial crime.
We are committed to acting with integrity,
and have a financial crime risk management Our anti-bribery and corruption policy
framework that is applicable across all global Our global anti-bribery and corruption policy
businesses and functions, and all countries requires that all activity must be: conducted
The scale of our work
and territories in which we operate. The without intent to bribe or corrupt; reasonable
financial crime risk framework, which is and transparent; considered to not be lavish
overseen by the Board, is supported by our nor disproportionate to the professional Each month, on average, we monitor
financial crime policies that are designed to relationship; appropriately documented over 1.2 billion transactions for signs of
enable adherence to applicable laws and with business rationale; and authorised at financial crime. During 2022, we filed
regulations globally. Annual mandatory an appropriate level of seniority. Our global over 73,000 suspicious activity reports
training is provided to all colleagues, with anti-bribery and corruption policy requires to law enforcement and regulatory
additional targeted training tailored to certain that we identify and mitigate the risk of our authorities where we identified potential
individuals. We carry out regular risk customers and third parties committing financial crime. In addition, we screen
assessments, identifying where we need to bribery or corruption. Among other controls, approximately 117 million customer
respond to evolving financial crime threats, as we use customer due diligence and records monthly for sanctions exposure.
well as monitoring and testing our financial transaction monitoring to identify and help
crime risk management programme. mitigate the risk that our customers are
involved in bribery or corruption. We perform
We continue to invest in new technology, anti-bribery and corruption risk assessments
99%
including through the deployment of a on third parties that expose us to this risk.
capability to monitor correspondent banking
activity, the enhancements to our fraud
monitoring capability and our trade screening Total percentage of employees who have
received financial crime training, including
on anti-bribery and corruption.
Whistleblowing
We want colleagues and stakeholders to have action, dismissal, and adjustments to variable Compliance sets the whistleblowing policy
confidence in speaking up when they observe pay and performance ratings. and procedures, and provides the Group
unlawful or unethical behaviour. We offer a Audit Committee with periodic updates on
range of speak-up channels to listen to the We promote our full range of speak-up their effectiveness. Specialist Compliance
concerns of individuals and have a zero channels to colleagues to help ensure their teams and investigation functions own
tolerance for acts of retaliation. concerns are handled through the most whistleblowing controls, with monitoring in
effective route. In 2022, 18% fewer concerns place to determine control effectiveness.
Listening through whistleblowing were raised through HSBC Confidential
channels compared with 2021. Of the concerns For further details of the role of the Group Audit
Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC investigated through the HSBC Confidential Committee in relation to whistleblowing, see
page 266.
Confidential, is one of our speak-up channels, channel in 2022, 83% related to behaviour
which allows our colleagues and other and conduct, 11% to security and fraud risks,
HSBC Confidential concerns raised
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially 6% to compliance risks and less than 1% to
in 2022:
and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to other categories.
1,817
local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC
Confidential concerns are raised through an The Group Audit Committee has overall
independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines oversight of the Group’s whistleblowing
(2021: 2,224)
and a web portal in multiple languages. We arrangements, and the chair of the
also provide and monitor an external email Group Audit Committee acts as HSBC’s
Substantiation rate of concerns
address for concerns about accounting, whistleblowers’ champion with responsibility
investigated through HSBC Confidential
internal financial controls or auditing matters for ensuring and overseeing the integrity,
in 2022:
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). Concerns independence and effectiveness of the
41%
are investigated proportionately and organisation’s policies and procedures.
independently, with action taken where
appropriate. This can include disciplinary
(2021: 42%)
92 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Governance
A responsible approach to tax
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all a number of areas of differing interpretation Tax Compliance Act, the OECD Standard for
jurisdictions in which we operate and to minimise or disputes with tax authorities exist at Automatic Exchange of Financial Account
the likelihood of customers using our products any point in time. We cooperate with the Information (‘Common Reporting Standard’),
and services to evade or inappropriately avoid relevant local tax authorities to mutually and the UK legislation on the corporate
tax. We also abide by international protocols that agree and resolve these in a timely manner. criminal offence of failing to prevent the
affect our organisation. Our approach to tax and – We have applied the OECD/G20 Inclusive facilitation of tax evasion.
governance processes is designed to achieve Framework Pillar 2 guidance to identify those – We implement processes that aim to ensure
these goals. jurisdictions in which we operate that have nil that inappropriately tax-motivated products and
or low tax rates (15% or below). We have services are not provided to our customers.
Through adoption of the Group’s risk identified seven such jurisdictions in which
management framework, we seek to ensure we operated during 2022 that may be Our tax contributions
that we do not adopt inappropriately tax- impacted by adjustments required under the The effective tax rate for the year of 4.9%
motivated transactions or products, and that Pillar 2 Framework. We continually monitor was reduced by 14.3% by the recognition of
tax planning is scrutinised and supported by the number of active subsidiaries within each previously unrecognised deferred tax assets in
genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no jurisdiction as part of our ongoing entity the UK and France in light of improvements in
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. rationalisation programme. We seek to forecast profits in these jurisdictions. Further
ensure that our entities active in nil or low tax details are provided on page 357. The UK bank
With respect to our own taxes, we are guided jurisdictions have clear business rationale for levy charge for 2022 of $13m is lower than the
by the following principles: why they are based in these locations and charge of $116m for 2021 as it includes
appropriate transparency over their activities. adjustments made to prior period UK bank
– We are committed to applying both the levy charges recognised in the current year.
letter and spirit of the law. This includes With respect to our customers’ taxes, we are
adherence to a variety of measures arising guided by the following principles: As highlighted below, in addition to paying
from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit $5.5bn of our own tax liabilities during 2022,
Shifting initiative. – We have made considerable investments to we collected taxes of $10.2bn on behalf of
– We seek to have open and transparent support external tax transparency initiatives governments around the world. A more
relationships with all tax authorities. Given and reduce the risk of banking services being detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes
the size and complexity of our organisation, used to facilitate customer tax evasion. paid in 2022 is provided in the ESG Data Pack.
which operates across over 60 jurisdictions, Initiatives include the US Foreign Account
Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region
Tax on profits $2,429m (2021: $2,711m) Europe $2,745m (2021: $3,170m) Europe $4,197m (2021: $3,177m)
Withholding taxes $361m (2021: $366m) Asia-Pacific $1,894m (2021: $2,077m) Asia-Pacific $3,274m (2021: $3,584m)
Employer taxes $1,041m (2021: $1,125m) Middle East and North Africa $259m Middle East and North Africa $67m
Bank levy $314m (2021: $479m) (2021: $236m) (2021: $78m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,152m (2021: $1,315m) North America $207m (2021: $469m) North America $1,129m (2021: $1,081m)
Other duties and levies1 $232m (2021: $278m) Latin America $424m (2021: $322m) Latin America $1,493m (2021: $1,343m)
1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $94m (2021: $126m).
Acting with integrity
We aim to act with courageous integrity and customers and to society at large, but to our Further information regarding the measures
learn from past events to prevent their colleagues to ensure they can be rightly proud that we have taken to prevent the recurrence
recurrence. We recognise that restoration of of the organisation where they work. We aim to of past mistakes can be found at www.hsbc.
trust in our industry remains a significant make decisions based on doing the right thing com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
challenge, but it is a challenge we must for our customers and never compromising our business/esg-reporting-and-policies.
continue to pursue. We owe this not just to our ethical standards or integrity.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 93
ESG review | Governance
Conduct: Our product responsibilities
Our conduct approach guides us to do the Our approach includes: Financial promotion
right thing and to focus on the impact we have Our policies help to ensure that in the sale of
for our customers and the financial markets in – designing products to meet identified products and services, we use marketing and
which we operate. It is embedded into the way customer needs; product materials that support customer
we design, approve, market and manage – managing products through governance understanding and fair customer outcomes.
products and services, with a focus on five processes, helping to ensure they meet This includes providing information on
clear outcomes: customers’ needs and deliver a fair products and services that is clear, fair and not
exchange of value; misleading. We also have controls in place to
– We understand our customers’ needs. ensure our cross-border marketing complies
– periodically reviewing products to help
with relevant regulatory requirements.
– We provide products and services that ensure they remain relevant and perform
offer a fair exchange of value. in line with expectations we have set; and
– We service customers’ ongoing needs, – improving, or withdrawing from sale, Product governance
and put it right if we make a mistake. products which do not meet our customers’ Our product governance arrangements
– We act with integrity in the financial markets needs or no longer meet our high standards. cover the entire lifecycle of the product.
we operate in. This helps ensure that our products meet
– We operate resiliently and securely to avoid Meeting our customers’ needs our policy requirements before we sell
harm to customers and markets. Our policies and procedures set standards to them. It also allows continued risk-based
ensure that we consider and meet customer oversight of product performance against
We train all our staff on our approach to needs. These include: the intended customer outcomes.
conduct, helping to ensure our conduct
outcomes are part of everything we do. – enabling customers to understand the key When we decide to withdraw a product
features of products and services; from sale, we aim to consider the
implications for our existing customers,
Designing products and services – enabling customers to make informed
and agree actions to help them achieve a
Our approach to product development is set decisions before purchasing a product or
fair outcome where appropriate.
out in our policies, and provides a clear basis service; and
on which informed decisions can be made. – ensuring processes are in place for the
Our policies require that products must be provision of advice to customers.
fit-for-purpose throughout their existence,
meeting regulatory requirements and They help us provide the right outcomes for
associated conduct outcomes. customers, including those with enhanced
care needs. This helps us to support
customers who are more vulnerable to
external impacts, including the current cost of
living crisis (see ‘Supporting our customers
facing a rising cost of living’ on page 15).
Our approach with our suppliers
We maintain global standards and procedures Supplier code of conduct Managing environmental and social risk
for the onboarding and use of third-party We have a supplier code of conduct, revised in In 2022, we updated our ESG reputational risk
suppliers. We require suppliers to meet 2022, which sets out our commitments to the assessment tool to identify the environmental
our compliance and financial stability environment, diversity and human rights, and and social risks for suppliers that are
requirements, and to comply with our which outlines the minimum commitments considered to be in sectors with high ESG risk.
supplier code of conduct. we expect of our suppliers on these issues. Previously, the assessment was applied to
suppliers with higher value contracts only. The
Sustainable procurement We formalise commitment to the code with tool provides an ESG reputational risk score for
In October 2022, we introduced an internal clauses in our supplier contracts, which the supplier. A high-risk score results in a
sustainable procurement procedure to set out support the right to audit and act if a breach further review to establish whether we are
the minimum sustainability requirements for is discovered. able to mitigate the risk and onboard
procurement activity. This helps us to manage the supplier.
the risks related to sustainability in our supply At the end of 2022, 93% of approximately
chain, and balance the social, environmental 9,600 contracted suppliers had either For further details of the number of suppliers by
and economic considerations in procurement confirmed adherence to the supplier code of geographical region, see the ESG Data Pack at
www.hsbc.com/esg.
decisions. conduct or provided their own alternative that
was accepted by our Global Procurement
function.
94 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
ESG
review
Governance
Safeguarding data
Data privacy
We are committed to protecting and As part of our three lines of defence model,
respecting the data we hold and process, our Global Internal Audit function provides
in accordance with the laws and regulations independent assurance as to whether our
of the markets in which we operate. data privacy risk management approaches
and processes are designed and operating
Our approach rests on having the right effectively. In addition, we have established
talent, technology, systems, controls, policies data privacy governance structures, and
and processes to help ensure appropriate continue to embed accountability across
management of privacy risk. Our Group-wide all businesses and functions.
privacy policy and principles aim to provide a
consistent global approach to managing data We continue to implement industry practices
privacy risk, and must be applied by all of our for data privacy and security. Our privacy
global businesses and global functions. Our teams work closely with our data protection
Data Privacy Day
privacy principles are available at www.hsbc. officers, industry bodies and research
com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible- institutions to drive the design, implementation
business/managing-risk/operational-risk. and monitoring of privacy solutions. We In January 2022, we hosted an internal
conduct regular reviews and privacy risk global data privacy event for our
We conduct regular employee training and assessments, and continue to develop solutions colleagues to mark International Data
awareness sessions on data privacy and to strengthen our data privacy controls. Privacy Day. The event, which was
security issues throughout the year. This broadcast online, was hosted by our
includes global mandatory training for all our We continue to enhance our internal data Global Head of Data Privacy Legal and
colleagues, with additional training sessions, privacy tools to improve accountability for the Global Data Risk Steward. The
where needed, to keep up to date with new data privacy. We have procedures to articulate President and CEO of the International
developments in this space. the actions needed to deal with data privacy Association of Privacy Professionals
considerations. These include notifying was a guest speaker at the event.
We provide transparency to our customers regulators, customers or other data subjects,
and stakeholders on how we collect, use as required under applicable privacy laws and Key themes included an exploration of
and manage their personal data, and their regulations, in the event of a reportable developments in US state and federal
associated rights. Where relevant, we work incident occurring. data privacy legislation and regulations,
with third parties to help ensure adequate developments in the implementation and
protections are provided, in line with our data Intellectual property rights practices embedding of existing data privacy laws,
privacy policy and as required under data We have policies, controls and guidance key challenges to organisations such as
privacy law. We offer a broad range of to manage risk relating to intellectual cross-border data transfers and data
channels in the markets where we operate, property. This is to help ensure that localisation requirements, and the
through which customers and stakeholders intellectual property is identified, maintained evolving enforcement environment
can raise concerns on the privacy of their data. and protected appropriately, and to help within which we operate.
ensure we do not infringe third-party
Our dedicated privacy teams report to the intellectual property rights during the course
highest level of management on data privacy of business and/or operation.
risks and issues, and oversee our global data
privacy programmes. We review data privacy These policies and controls support our
regularly at multiple governance forums, management of intellectual property risk,
including at Board level, to help ensure and operate to help ensure that intellectual
appropriate challenge and visibility for senior property risk is controlled consistently and
executives. Data privacy laws and regulations effectively in line with our risk appetite.
continue to evolve globally. We continually
monitor the regulatory environment to ensure
we respond appropriately to any changes.
The ethical use of data and AI
Artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies give us the ability to process and
analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies offer
significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for the
financial services industry and society as a whole. We have developed a set of principles to
help us consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC’s Principles for the
Ethical Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/our-conduct.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 95
ESG review | Governance
Cybersecurity
The threat of cyber-attacks remains a concern Policy and governance Over 92% of our IT developers hold at least one
for our organisation, as it does across the We have a comprehensive range of of our enhanced security certifications to help
financial sector. As cyber-attacks continue cybersecurity policies and systems designed ensure we build secure systems and products.
to evolve, failure to protect our operations to help ensure that the organisation is well
may result in disruption for customers, managed, with oversight and control. We host an annual cyber awareness month
manipulation of data or financial loss. for all colleagues, covering topics such as
This could have a negative impact on We operate a three lines of defence model, online safety at home, social media safety,
our customers and our reputation. aligned to the operational risk management safe hybrid working and cyber incidents
framework, to help ensure oversight and and response. Our dedicated cybersecurity
We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical challenge of our cybersecurity capabilities training and awareness team provides regular
events and changes to the cyber threat and priorities. In the first line of defence, programmes to our colleagues and customers.
landscape, and take necessary proactive we have risk owners within global businesses We provide a wide range of education
measures with the aim to reduce any impact and functions who are accountable for and guidance to both customers and our
to our customers. identifying and managing the cyber risk. colleagues about how to spot and prevent
They work with control owners to apply the online fraud.
Prevent, detect and mitigate appropriate risk treatment in line with our risk
We invest in business and technical controls appetite. Our controls are executed in line with
to help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber policies produced by our Resilience Risk
threats. We apply a ’defence in depth’ teams, and are reviewed and challenged by Over 97%
approach to cyber controls, recognising the the second line of defence. They are overseen
complexity of our environment. Our ability by the Global Internal Audit function, the third
to detect and respond to attacks through line of defence. Employees completed mandatory
round-the-clock security operations centre cybersecurity training on time.
capabilities helps to reduce the impact We regularly report and review cyber risk and
of attacks. control effectiveness at relevant governance Over 92%
forums, including to the Board and across
We continually evaluate threat levels for the global businesses, functions and regions.
most prevalent attack types and their potential In addition, we work with our third parties IT developers who hold at least one of our
outcomes. We have a cyber intelligence and to help reduce the threat of cyber-attacks internal secure developer certifications.
threat analysis capability, which proactively impacting our business processes. We have
collects and analyses external cyber an assessment capability to review third Over 140
information. We input into the broader cyber parties’ compliance with our information
intelligence community through technical security policies and standards.
expertise in investigations and contributions Cybersecurity education events held globally.
to the cyber-sharing ecosystem in the financial Cyber training and awareness
services industry, alongside government We understand the important role our people Over 97%
agencies around the world. play in protecting against cybersecurity threats.
Our mission is to equip every colleague with
In 2022, we further strengthened our cyber the appropriate tools and behaviours they need Survey respondents to cybersecurity
defences and enhanced our cybersecurity to keep our organisation and customers’ data education events who said they have
capabilities to help reduce the likelihood and safe. We provide cybersecurity training and a better understanding of cybersecurity
impact of unauthorised access, security awareness to all our people, ranging from our following these events.
vulnerabilities being exploited, data leakage, top executives to IT developers to front-line
third-party security exposure and advanced relationship managers around the world.
malware. These defences build upon a
proactive data analytical approach to help
identify advanced targeted threats.
Educating customers online
Our Fraud and Cyber Awareness app, which launched in the UK in May 2021, has been
enhanced and extended to eight markets in the Middle East and North Africa as a pilot to
improve the financial education of our customers. The app is available free of charge for both
personal and business customers, and is designed to keep customers and non-customers up
to date with the latest trends concerning fraud, scams and cyber-attacks. It enables users to
subscribe to real-time notifications about emerging fraud and cybercrime trends. Since May
2021, the app has been downloaded approximately 28,000 times and has a 4.8 rating on
Google Play and iOS app store. We plan to roll out the app to further markets in 2023.
96 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Financial
review
Financial
review
The financial review gives detailed reporting
of our financial performance at Group level
as well as across our different global
businesses and geographical regions.
98 Financial summary
109 G lobal businesses and geographical regions
128 R econciliation of alternative performance measures
Pioneering a sustainable supply
chain finance programme
In June 2022, we worked closely with US-based fashion group
PVH Corp. to launch the first sustainable supply chain finance
programme tied to environmental and social objectives, and
based on suppliers’ sustainability ratings.
The programme provides the company’s global suppliers
with access to critical funding based on a set of science-based
environmental targets, as well as a series of social elements,
including a healthy and safe working environment,
compensation and benefits, and employment issues, such
as forced labour, child labour, and harassment and abuse.
Sustainable supply chain finance supports leading companies
and key sectors like the apparel industry to help ensure progress
is made towards their targets and commitments.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 97
Risk review
Our approach to risk
Our risk appetite The Board reviews and approves the Group’s risk appetite regularly to
make sure it remains fit for purpose. The Group’s risk appetite is
We recognise the importance of a strong culture, which refers to our considered, developed and enhanced through:
shared attitudes, beliefs, values and standards that shape behaviours • an alignment with our strategy, purpose, values and customer
including those related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk needs;
management. All our people are responsible for the management of
• trends highlighted in other Group risk reports;
risk, with the ultimate accountability residing with the Board.
• communication with risk stewards on the developing risk
We seek to build our business for the long term by balancing social,
landscape;
environmental and economic considerations in the decisions we
make. Our strategic priorities are underpinned by our endeavour to • strength of our capital, liquidity and balance sheet;
operate in a sustainable way. This helps us to carry out our social
• compliance with applicable laws and regulations;
responsibility and manage the risk profile of the business. We are
committed to managing and mitigating climate-related risks, both • effectiveness of the applicable control environment to mitigate
physical and transition risks, and continue to incorporate consideration risk, informed by risk ratings from risk control assessments;
of these into how we manage and oversee risks internally and with
• functionality, capacity and resilience of available systems to
our customers.
manage risk; and
The following principles guide the Group’s overarching appetite for
• the level of available staff with the required competencies to
risk and determine how our businesses and risks are managed.
manage risks.
Financial position
We formally articulate our risk appetite through our RAS. Setting out
our risk appetite ensures that we agree a suitable level of risk for our
• We aim to maintain a strong capital position, defined by regulatory
strategy. In this way, risk appetite informs our financial planning
and internal capital ratios.
process and helps senior management to allocate capital to business
• We carry out liquidity and funding management for each operating activities, services and products.
entity, on a stand-alone basis.
The RAS is applied to the development of business line strategies,
Operating model strategic and business planning and remuneration. At a Group level,
performance against the RAS is reported to the Group Risk
• We seek to generate returns in line with our risk appetite and Management Meeting alongside key risk indicators to support
strong risk management capability. targeted insight and discussion on breaches of risk appetite and any
associated mitigating actions. This reporting allows risks to be
• We aim to deliver sustainable and diversified earnings and
promptly identified and mitigated, and informs risk-adjusted
consistent returns for shareholders.
remuneration to drive a strong risk culture.
Business practice
Each global business, region and material operating entity is required
• We have no appetite for deliberately or knowingly causing to have its own RAS, which is monitored to help ensure it remains
detriment to consumers, or incurring a breach of the letter or spirit aligned with the Group’s RAS. Each RAS and business activity is
of regulatory requirements. guided and underpinned by qualitative principles and/or quantitative
metrics.
• We have no appetite for inappropriate market conduct by any
member of staff or by any Group business. Risk management
• We are committed to managing the climate risks that have an
We recognise that the primary role of risk management is to protect
impact on our financial position, and delivering on our net zero
our customers, business, colleagues, shareholders and the
ambition.
communities that we serve, while ensuring we are able to support
• We consider and, where appropriate, mitigate reputational risk that our strategy and provide sustainable growth. This is supported
may arise from our business activities and decisions. through our three lines of defence model described on page 134.
• We monitor non-financial risk exposure against risk appetite, The implementation of our business strategy remains a key focus. As
including exposure related to inadequate or failed internal we implement change initiatives, we actively manage the execution
processes, people and systems, or events that impact our risks. We also perform periodic risk assessments, including against
customers or can lead to sub-optimal returns to shareholders, strategies, to help ensure retention of key personnel for our continued
censure, or reputational damage. safe operation.
Enterprise-wide application We aim to use a comprehensive risk management approach across
the organisation and across all risk types, underpinned by our culture
Our risk appetite encapsulates the consideration of financial and non- and values. This is outlined in our risk management framework,
financial risks. We define financial risk as the risk of a financial loss as including the key principles and practices that we employ in managing
a result of business activities. We actively take these types of risks to material risks, both financial and non-financial. The framework fosters
maximise shareholder value and profits. Non-financial risk is the risk continual monitoring, promotes risk awareness and encourages a
to achieving our strategy or objectives as the result of failed internal sound operational and strategic decision-making and escalation
processes, people and systems, or from external events. process. It also supports a consistent approach to identifying,
Our risk appetite is expressed in both quantitative and qualitative assessing, managing and reporting the risks we accept and incur in
terms and applied at the global business level, at the regional level our activities, with clear accountabilities. We actively review and
and to material operating entities. Every three years, the Group Risk enhance our risk management framework and our approach to
and Compliance function commissions an external independent firm managing risk, through our activities with regard to: people and
to review the Group’s approach to risk appetite and to help ensure capabilities; governance; reporting and management information;
that it remains in line with market best practice and regulatory credit risk management models; and data.
expectations. This review was last carried out in 2021 and confirmed Group Risk and Compliance is independent from the global
the Group’s risk appetite statement (‘RAS’) remains aligned to best businesses, including our sales and trading functions, to provide
practices, regulatory expectations and strategic goals. Our risk challenge, oversight and appropriate balance in risk/return decisions.
appetite continues to evolve and expand its scope as part of our
regular review process.
132 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Our risk management framework
The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of the risk management framework, including governance, structure, risk
management tools and our culture, which together help align employee behaviour with risk appetite.
Key components of our risk management framework
HSBC Values and risk culture
The Board approves the Group’s risk appetite, plans and performance
Non-executive risk governance targets. It sets the ‘tone from the top’ and is advised by the Group Risk
Committee (see page 255).
Risk governance
Our executive risk governance structure is responsible for the
enterprise-wide management of all risks, including key policies and
Executive risk governance
frameworks for the management of risk within the Group (see pages
134 and 142).
Our ‘three lines of defence’ model defines roles and responsibilities for
Roles and risk management. An independent Group Risk and Compliance
Three lines of defence model
responsibilities function helps ensure the necessary balance in risk/return decisions
(see page 134).
Risk appetite
Enterprise-wide risk management tools
The Group has processes in place to identify/assess, monitor, manage
Processes and tools
and report risks to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite.
Active risk management: identification/assessment,
monitoring, management and reporting
Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the
Policies and procedures
controls required to manage our risks.
Operational and resilience risk management defines minimum
Control activities standards and processes for managing operational risks and internal Internal controls
controls.
The Group has systems and/or processes that support the
Systems and infrastructure identification, capture and exchange of information to support risk
management activities.
Risk governance risk to the Group or merit a Group-led decision to ensure a consistent
risk management approach across the regions, global businesses and
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effective management of global functions. Further details can be found under the ‘Reputational
risk and approves our risk appetite. risk’ section of www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility.
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, supported by the Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated to senior
Group Risk Management Meeting, holds executive accountability for managers with individual accountability for decision making. All our
the ongoing monitoring, assessment and management of the risk people have a role to play in risk management. These roles are
environment and the effectiveness of the risk management defined using the three lines of defence model, which takes into
framework. account our business and functional structures as described in the
following commentary, ‘Our responsibilities’.
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is also responsible for
the oversight of reputational risk, with the support of the Group We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help ensure
Reputational Risk Committee. The Group Reputational Risk there is appropriate oversight and accountability of risk, which
Committee considers matters arising from customers, transactions facilitates reporting and escalation to the Group Risk Management
and third parties that either present a serious potential reputational Meeting. This structure is summarised in the following table.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 133
Risk
review
Risk review
Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance
Authority Membership Responsibilities include:
Group Risk Management Group Chief Risk and Compliance • Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-
Meeting Officer delegated risk management authority
Group Chief Legal Officer • Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the risk management
Group Chief Executive framework
Group Chief Financial Officer • Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk
impacts and taking appropriate action
Group Head of Financial Crime and
Group Money Laundering Reporting • Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action
Officer • Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and
Group Head of Compliance conduct
All other Group Executive Committee
members
Group Risk and Group Chief Risk and Compliance • Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in providing strategic
Compliance Executive Officer direction for the Group Risk and Compliance function, setting priorities and
Committee Chief risk officers of HSBC’s providing oversight
global businesses and regions • Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk
Heads of Global Risk and Compliance and compliance across the Group
sub-functions
Global business/regional Global business/regional chief • Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-
risk management risk officer delegated risk management authority
meetings Global business/regional chief • Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment
executive officer • Implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
Global business/regional chief financial • Monitoring all categories of risk and overseeing appropriate mitigating actions
officer
• Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls
Global business/regional heads
of global functions
The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 258.
Treasury risks are the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee and the Group Risk Committee. Global Treasury actively manages these
risks, supported by the Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen by Treasury Risk
Management and the Group Risk Management Meeting. Further details on treasury risk management are set out on page 202.
Our responsibilities functions, to provide challenge, appropriate oversight and balance in
risk/return decisions.
All our people are responsible for identifying and managing risk within
Responsibility for minimising both financial and non-financial risk lies
the scope of their roles. Roles are defined using the three lines of
with our people. They are required to manage the risks of the
defence model, which takes into account our business and functional
business and operational activities for which they are responsible. We
structures as described below.
maintain adequate oversight of our risks through our various specialist
Three lines of defence risk stewards and the collective accountability held by our chief risk
officers.
To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use an
activity-based three lines of defence model. This model delineates We have continued to strengthen the control environment and our
management accountabilities and responsibilities for risk approach to the management of non-financial risk, as set out in our
management and the control environment. risk management framework. The management of non-financial risk
focuses on governance and risk appetite, and provides a single view
The model underpins our approach to risk management by clarifying
of the non-financial risks that matter the most as well as the
responsibility and encouraging collaboration, as well as enabling
associated controls. It incorporates a risk management system
efficient coordination of risk and control activities. The three lines of
designed to enable the active management of non-financial risk. Our
defence are summarised below:
ongoing focus is on simplifying our approach to non-financial risk
• The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible management, while driving more effective oversight and better end-
for identifying, recording, reporting and managing them in line with to-end identification and management of non-financial risks. This is
risk appetite, and ensuring that the right controls and assessments overseen by the Operational and Resilience Risk function, headed by
are in place to mitigate them. the Group Head of Operational and Resilience Risk.
• The second line of defence challenges the first line of defence on Stress testing and recovery planning
effective risk management, and provides advice and guidance in
We operate a wide-ranging stress testing programme that is a key
relation to the risk.
part of our risk management and capital and liquidity planning. Stress
• The third line of defence is our Global Internal Audit function, testing provides management with key insights into the impact of
which provides independent assurance as to whether our risk severely adverse events on the Group, and provides confidence to
management approach and processes are designed and operating regulators on the Group’s financial stability.
effectively.
Our stress testing programme assesses our capital and liquidity
Group Risk and Compliance function strength through a rigorous examination of our resilience to external
Our Group Risk and Compliance function is responsible for the shocks. As well as undertaking regulatory-driven stress tests, we
Group’s risk management framework. This responsibility includes conduct our own internal stress tests in order to understand the
establishing global policy, monitoring risk profiles, and identifying and nature and level of all material risks, quantify the impact of such risks
managing forward-looking risk. Group Risk and Compliance is made and develop plausible business-as-usual mitigating actions.
up of sub-functions covering all risks to our business. Forming part of
the second line of defence, the Group Risk and Compliance function
is independent from the global businesses, including sales and trading
134 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Internal stress tests • We continued to improve our risk governance decision making,
particularly with regard to the governance of treasury risk, to help
Our internal capital assessment uses a range of stress scenarios that
ensure senior executives have appropriate oversight and visibility
explore risks identified by management. They include potential
of macroeconomic trends around inflation and interest rates.
adverse macroeconomic, geopolitical and operational risk events, as
well as other potential events that are specific to HSBC. • We adapted our interest rate risk management strategy as market
and official interest rates increased in reaction to inflationary
The selection of stress scenarios is based upon the output of our
pressures. This included the Board approving in September a new
identified top and emerging risks and our risk appetite. Stress testing
interest rate risk in the banking book strategy, a managed
analysis helps management understand the nature and extent of
reduction in the duration risk of our hold-to-collect-and-sell asset
vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed. Using this information,
portfolio and an increase in net interest income stabilisation.
management decides whether risks can or should be mitigated
through management actions or, if they were to crystallise, be • We began a process of enhancement of our country credit risk
absorbed through capital and liquidity. This in turn informs decisions management framework to strengthen our control of risk tolerance
about preferred capital and liquidity levels and allocations. and appetite at a country level.
In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major • We continued to develop our approach to emerging risk
subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event-driven scenario identification and management, including the use of forward-
analysis specific to its region. They also participate, as required, in the looking indicators to support our analysis.
regulatory stress testing programmes of the jurisdictions in which • We enhanced our enterprise risk reporting processes to place a
they operate, such as stress tests required by the Bank of England greater focus on our emerging risks, including by capturing the
(‘BoE’) in the UK, the Federal Reserve Board (‘FRB’) in the US, and materiality, oversight and individual monitoring of these risks.
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) in Hong Kong. Global
• We sought to further strengthen our third-party risk policy and
functions and businesses also perform bespoke stress testing to
processes to improve control and oversight of our material third
inform their assessment of risks to potential scenarios.
parties to maintain our operational resilience, and to meet new and
We also conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group level and, evolving regulatory requirements.
where required, at subsidiary entity level to understand potential
• We made progress with our comprehensive regulatory reporting
extreme conditions that would make our business model non-viable.
programme to strengthen our global processes, improve
Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and vulnerabilities
consistency and enhance controls.
we might face, and helps inform early warning triggers, management
actions and contingency plans designed to mitigate risks. • We continued to embed the governance and oversight around
model adjustments and related processes for IFRS 9 models and
Recovery and resolution plans
Sarbanes-Oxley controls.
Recovery and resolution plans form part of the integral framework
• We commenced a programme to enhance our framework for
safeguarding the Group’s financial stability. The Group recovery plan,
managing the risks associated with machine learning and artificial
together with stress testing, help us understand the likely outcomes intelligence (‘AI’).
of adverse business or economic conditions and in the identification
of appropriate risk mitigating actions. The Group is committed to • Through our climate risk programme, we continued to embed
further developing its recovery and resolution capabilities in line with climate considerations throughout the organisation, including
the BoE’s Resolvability Assessment Framework requirements. updating the scope of our programme to cover all risk types,
expanding the scope of climate-related training, developing new
Key developments in 2022 climate risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and
developing our internal climate scenario exercise.
We actively managed the risks related to macroeconomic
• We sought to improve the effectiveness of our financial crime
uncertainties including inflation, fiscal and monetary policy, the
controls, deploying advanced analytics capabilities into new
Russia-Ukraine war, broader geopolitical uncertainties and continued
markets. We refreshed our financial crime policies to help ensure
risks resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as other key risks
they remain up to date and address changing and emerging risks.
described in this section. In addition, we sought to enhance our risk
We continue to monitor regulatory changes.
management in the following areas:
Top and emerging risks
persons, business people, Russian oil imports, energy products,
We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forward-looking
financial institutions and other major Russian companies. In addition,
view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution of our
there have been put in place more generally applicable investment,
strategy or operations over the medium to long term.
export, and import bans and restrictions. In response to such
We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment, as sanctions and trade restrictions, as well as asset flight, Russia has
well as review the themes identified across our regions and global implemented certain countermeasures.
businesses, for any risks that may require global escalation. We
Further sanctions, trade restrictions and Russian countermeasures
update our top and emerging risks as necessary.
may adversely impact the Group, its customers and the markets in
Our current top and emerging risks are as follows. which the Group operates by creating regulatory, reputational and
market risks. Our business in Russia principally serves multinational
Externally driven
corporate clients headquartered in other countries, is not accepting
new business or customers and is consequently on a declining trend.
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks
Following a strategic review, HSBC Europe BV (a wholly-owned
subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc) has entered into an agreement to sell its
The Russia-Ukraine war has had far-reaching geopolitical and
wholly-owned subsidiary HSBC Bank (RR) (Limited Liability Company),
economic implications. HSBC is monitoring the impacts of the war
subject to regulatory and governmental approvals.
and continues to respond to the further economic sanctions and trade
restrictions that have been imposed on Russia in response. In Global commodity markets have been significantly impacted by the
particular, significant sanctions and trade restrictions imposed against Russia-Ukraine war and localised Covid-19 outbreaks, leading to
Russia have been put in place by the UK, the US and the EU, as well continued supply chain disruptions. This has resulted in product
as other countries. Such sanctions and restrictions have specifically shortages appearing across several regions, and increased prices for
targeted certain Russian government officials, politically exposed both energy and non-energy commodities, such as food. We do not
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 135
Risk
review
• We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify implemented effectively and in a timely way. The competitive
sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with management landscape in which the Group operates may be impacted by future
actions being taken to rebalance exposures and manage risk regulatory changes and government intervention.
appetite where necessary.
Mitigating actions
• We regularly review key portfolios to help ensure that individual
• We monitor for regulatory developments to understand the
customer or portfolio risks are understood and that our ability to
evolving regulatory landscape and seek to respond with changes in
manage the level of facilities offered through any downturn is
a timely manner.
appropriate.
• We engage with governments and regulators, responding to
• We continue to manage sanctions and trade restrictions through consultations with a view to help shaping regulations that can be
the use of, and enhancements to, our existing controls. implemented effectively. We hold regular meetings with relevant
• We continue to monitor the UK’s relationship with the EU, and authorities to discuss strategic contingency plans, including those
assess the potential impact on our people, operations and arising from geopolitical issues.
portfolios. • Our simplified conduct approach aligns to our purpose and values,
• We have taken steps, where necessary, to enhance physical in particular the value ‘we take responsibility’.
security in geographical areas deemed to be at high risk from Financial crime risk
terrorism and military conflicts.
Technology and cybersecurity risk Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory scrutiny
regarding their ability to detect and prevent financial crime. These
Together with other organisations, we operate in an extensive and evolving challenges include managing conflicting laws and approaches
complex technology landscape, which needs to remain resilient in to legal and regulatory regimes, and implementing an unprecedented
order to support customers, our organisation and financial markets volume and diverse set of sanctions, notably as a result of the Russia-
globally. Risks arise where technology is not understood, maintained, Ukraine war.
or developed appropriately. We also continue to operate in an Amid rising inflation and increasing cost of living pressures, we face
increasingly hostile cyber threat environment globally. These threats increasing regulatory expectations with respect to managing internal
include potential unauthorised access to customer accounts, attacks and external fraud, and protecting vulnerable customers.
on our systems or those of our third-party suppliers, and require
ongoing investment in business and technical controls to defend The digitisation of financial services continues to have an impact on
against. the payments ecosystem, with an increasing number of new market
entrants and payment mechanisms, not all of which are subject to the
Mitigating actions same level of regulatory scrutiny or regulations as banks.
• We continue to invest in transforming how software solutions are Developments around digital assets and currencies have continued at
developed, delivered and maintained to improve system resilience. pace, with an increasing regulatory and enforcement focus on the
We continue to build security into our software development financial crimes linked to these types of assets.
lifecycle and improve our testing processes and tools. Expectations with respect to the intersection of ESG issues and
• We continue to upgrade many of our IT systems, simplify our financial crime, as our organisation, customers and suppliers transition
service provision and replace older IT infrastructure and to net zero, continue to increase. These are particularly focused on
applications. These enhancements supported global potential ‘greenwashing’, human rights issues and environmental
improvements in service availability during 2022 for both our crimes. In addition, climate change itself could heighten risks linked to
customers and colleagues. vulnerable migrant populations in countries where financial crime is
already more prevalent.
• We continually evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent cyber-
attack types and their potential outcomes. To further protect HSBC We also continue to face increasing challenges presented by national
and our customers and help ensure the safe expansion of our data privacy requirements, which may affect our ability to manage
global businesses, we continue to strengthen our controls to financial crime risks across markets.
reduce the likelihood and impact of advanced malware, data Mitigating actions
leakage, exposure through third parties and security vulnerabilities.
• We continue to manage sanctions and trade restrictions through
• We continue to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities, including the use of, and enhancements to, our existing controls.
Cloud security, identity and access management, metrics and data
analytics, and third-party security reviews. An important part of our • We continue to develop our fraud controls and invest in
capabilities to fight financial crime through the application of
defence strategy is ensuring our colleagues remain aware of
advanced analytics and artificial intelligence.
cybersecurity issues and know how to report incidents.
• We report and review cyber risk and control effectiveness at • We are looking at the impact of a rapidly changing payments
executive and non-executive Board level. We also report it across ecosystem, as well as risks associated with direct and indirect
our global businesses, functions and regions to help ensure there exposure to digital assets and currencies, in an effort to maintain
is appropriate visibility and governance of the risk and its mitigating appropriate financial crime controls.
actions. • We are assessing our existing policies and control framework so
• We participate globally in industry bodies and working groups to that developments relating to ESG are considered and the risks
collaborate on tactics employed by cyber-crime groups and to mitigated.
work together preventing, detecting and defending against cyber- • We engage with regulators, policymakers and relevant
attacks on financial organisations globally. international bodies, seeking to address data privacy challenges
through international standards, guidance and legislation.
Evolving regulatory environment risk
Ibor transition risk
We aim to keep abreast of the emerging regulatory compliance and
conduct agenda, which currently includes, but is not limited to: ESG Interbank offered rates (‘Ibors’) have previously been used extensively
matters; ensuring good customer outcomes; addressing customer to set interest rates on different types of financial transactions and for
vulnerabilities due to cost of living pressures; regulatory compliance; valuation purposes, risk measurement and performance
regulatory reporting; employee compliance, including the use of e- benchmarking.
communication channels; and the proposed reforms to the UK
Following the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) announcement
financial services sector, known as the Edinburgh Reforms. We
in July 2017 that it would no longer continue to persuade or require
monitor regulatory developments closely and engage with regulators,
panel banks to submit rates for the London interbank offered rate
as appropriate, to help ensure new regulatory requirements are
(‘Libor’) after 2021, we have been actively working to transition legacy
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 137
Risk
review
Risk review
contracts from Ibors to products linked to near risk-free replacement methodologies, and the transition of large volumes of Ibor
rates (‘RFRs’) or alternative reference rates. contracts may lead to operational issues;
The publication of sterling, Swiss franc, euro and Japanese yen Libor • legal risk, as issues arising from the use of legislative solutions and
interest rate benchmarks, as well as Euro Overnight Index Average from legacy contracts that the Group is unable to transition may
(‘Eonia’), ceased from the end of 2021. Our Ibor transition programme result in unintended or unfavourable outcomes for clients and
– which is tasked with the development of RFR products and the market participants, which could potentially increase the risk of
transition of legacy Ibor products – has continued to support the disputes;
transition of a limited number of remaining contracts in sterling and • model risk, as there is a risk that changes to our models to replace
Japanese yen Libor, which were published using a ‘synthetic’ interest Ibor-related data adversely affect the accuracy of model outputs;
rate methodology during 2022. The remaining ‘tough legacy’ sterling and
contracts have required protracted client discussions where contracts
• market risk, because as a result of differences in Libor and RFR
are complex or restructuring of facilities is required. The publication of
interest rates, we are exposed to basis risk resulting from the
‘synthetic’ Japanese yen Libor ceased after 31 December 2022. In
asymmetric adoption of rates across assets, liabilities and
addition the FCA announced, in September and November 2022, that
products. Additionally the current stage of the Term Secured
one month and six-month ‘synthetic’ sterling Libor rates will cease to
Overnight Financing Rate (‘SOFR’) market presents challenges for
be published from 31 March 2023, and three-month ‘synthetic’
certain hedge accounting strategies.
sterling Libor will cease to be published after 31 March 2024. We
have or are prepared to transition or remediate the remaining few While the level of risk is diminishing in line with our process
contracts relying on ‘synthetic’ sterling settings, outstanding as at implementation and continued transition of contracts, we will monitor
31 December 2022, in advance of those cessation dates. these risks through the remainder of the transition of legacy
contracts. Throughout 2023, we plan to continue to engage with our
For the cessation of the publication of US dollar Libor from 30 June
clients and investors to complete an orderly transition of contracts
2023, we have implemented the majority of required processes,
that reference the remaining demising Ibors.
technology and RFR product capabilities throughout the Group in
preparation for upcoming market events. We will continue to Mitigating actions
transition outstanding legacy contracts through the first half of 2023.
• Our global Ibor transition programme, which is overseen by the
We have completed the transition of the majority of our uncommitted
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, will continue to deliver
lending facilities, and continue to make steady progress with the
IT and operational processes to meet its objectives.
transition of the outstanding legacy committed lending facilities.
Transition of our derivatives portfolio is progressing well with most • We carry out extensive training, communication and client
clients reliant on industry mechanisms to transition to RFRs. For the engagement to facilitate appropriate selection of new rates and
limited number of bilateral derivatives trades where an alternative products.
transition path is required, client engagement is continuing. For • We have dedicated teams in place to support the transition.
certain products and contracts, including bonds and syndicated loans,
• We have actively transitioned legacy contracts and ceased
we remain reliant on the continued support of agents and third
entering into new contracts based on demised or demising Ibors,
parties, but we continue to progress those contracts requiring
other than those allowed under regulatory exemptions, and
transition. We continue to monitor contracts that may be potentially
implemented associated monitoring and controls.
more challenging to transition, and may need to rely upon legislative
solutions. Additionally, following the FCA’s consultation in November • We assess, monitor and dynamically manage risks arising from
2022 proposing that US dollar Libor is to be published using a Ibor transition, and implement specific mitigating controls when
‘synthetic’ methodology for a defined period, we will continue to work required.
with our clients to support them through the transition of their
• We continue to actively engage with regulatory and industry
products if transition is not completed by 30 June 2023.
bodies to mitigate risks relating to ‘tough legacy’ contracts.
For the Group’s own debt securities issuances, we continue to have
instruments in US dollars, sterling, Japanese yen and Singapore Financial instruments impacted by Ibor reform
dollars where the terms provide for an Ibor benchmark to be used to (Audited)
reset the coupon rate if HSBC chooses not to redeem them on their
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Phase 2, the amendments to IFRSs
call dates. We remain mindful of the various factors that have an
issued in August 2020, represents the second phase of the IASB’s
impact on the Ibor remediation strategy for our regulatory capital and
project on the effects of interest rate benchmark reform. The
MREL instruments, including – but not limited to – timescales for
amendments address issues affecting financial statements when
cessation of relevant Ibor rates, constraints relating to the governing
changes are made to contractual cash flows and hedging
law of outstanding instruments, the potential relevance of legislative
relationships.
solutions and industry best practice guidance. We remain committed
to seeking to remediate or mitigate relevant risks relating to Ibor- Under these amendments, changes made to a financial instrument
demise, as appropriate, on our outstanding regulatory capital and measured at other than fair value through profit or loss that are
MREL instruments before the relevant calculation dates, which may economically equivalent and required by interest rate benchmark
occur post-cessation of the relevant Ibor rate or rates. reform, do not result in the derecognition or a change in the carrying
amount of the financial instrument. Instead they require the effective
For US dollar Libor and other demising Ibors, we continue to be
interest rate to be updated to reflect the change in the interest rate
exposed to, and actively monitor, risks including:
benchmark. In addition, hedge accounting will not be discontinued
• regulatory compliance and conduct risks, as the transition of solely because of the replacement of the interest rate benchmark if
legacy contracts to RFRs or alternative rates, or sales of products the hedge meets other hedge accounting criteria.
referencing RFRs, may not deliver fair client outcomes;
• resilience and operational risks, as changes to manual and
automated processes, made in support of new RFR
138 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Financial instruments yet to transition to alternative
benchmarks, by main benchmark
USD Libor GBP Libor JPY Libor Others1
At 31 Dec 2022 $m $m $m $m
Non-derivative financial assets
Loans and advances to customers 49,632 262 — 7,912
Other financial assets 4,716 42 — 1,562
Total non-derivative financial assets2 54,348 304 — 9,474
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 17,224 1,804 1,179 —
Debt securities in issue 5,352 — — —
Other financial liabilities 2,988 — — 176
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 25,564 1,804 1,179 176
Derivative notional contract amount
Foreign exchange 140,223 — — 7,337
Interest rate 2,208,189 68 — 186,952
Total derivative notional contract amount 2,348,412 68 — 194,289
Financial instruments yet to transition to alternative
benchmarks, by main benchmark
USD Libor GBP Libor JPY Libor Others1
At 31 Dec 2021 $m $m $m $m
Non-derivative financial assets
Loans and advances to customers 70,932 18,307 370 8,259
Other financial assets 5,131 1,098 — 2
Total non-derivative financial assets2 76,063 19,405 370 8,261
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 20,219 4,019 1,399 1
Debt securities in issue 5,255 — — —
Other financial liabilities 2,998 78 — —
Total non-derivative financial liabilities 28,472 4,097 1,399 1
Derivative notional contract amount
Foreign exchange 137,188 5,157 31,470 9,652
Interest rate 2,318,613 284,898 72,229 133,667
Total derivative notional contract amount 2,455,801 290,055 103,699 143,319
1 Comprises financial instruments referencing other significant benchmark rates yet to transition to alternative benchmarks (euro Libor, Swiss franc
Libor, Eonia, SOR, THBFIX, MIFOR and Sibor). Announcements were made by regulators during 2022 on the cessation of the Canadian dollar offered
rate (‘CDOR’) and Mexican Interbank equilibrium interest rate (‘TIIE’), which will eventually transition to the Canadian overnight repo rate average
(‘CORRA’) and a new Mexican overnight fall-back rate, respectively. Therefore, CDOR and TIIE are also included in Others during the current period.
2 Gross carrying amount excluding allowances for expected credit losses.
The amounts in the above table relate to HSBC’s main operating regulatory expectations or requirements on climate risk management,
entities where HSBC has material exposures impacted by Ibor reform, this could have regulatory compliance and reputational impacts.
including in the UK, Hong Kong, France, the US, Mexico, Canada, We could face direct impacts, owing to the increase in frequency and
Singapore, the UAE, Bermuda, Australia, Qatar, Germany, Thailand, severity of weather events and chronic shifts in weather patterns,
India and Japan. The amounts provide an indication of the extent of which could affect our ability to conduct our day-to-day operations.
the Group’s exposure to the Ibor benchmarks that are due to be
replaced. Amounts are in respect of financial instruments that: Our customers may find that their business models fail to align to a
net zero economy or face disruption to their operations or
• contractually reference an interest rate benchmark that is planned deterioration to their assets as a result of extreme weather.
to transition to an alternative benchmark;
We face increased reputational, legal and regulatory risk as we make
• have a contractual maturity date beyond the date by which the progress towards our net zero ambition, with stakeholders likely to
reference interest rate benchmark is expected to cease; and
place greater focus on our actions such as the development of
• are recognised on HSBC’s consolidated balance sheet. climate-related policies, our disclosures and financing and investment
decisions relating to our ambition.
Environmental, social and governance
We will face additional risks if we are perceived to mislead
(’ESG’) risk stakeholders in respect of our climate strategy, the climate impact of
a product or service, or the commitments of our customers. Climate
We are subject to financial and non-financial risks associated with
risk may also impact on model risk, as the uncertain impacts of
ESG-related matters. Our current areas of focus include climate risk,
climate change and data and methodology limitations present
nature-related risks and human rights risks. These can impact us both
challenges to creating reliable and accurate model outputs.
directly and indirectly through our business activities and
relationships. For details of how we govern ESG, see page 86. We also face reporting risk in relation to our climate disclosures, as
any data, methodologies and standards we have used may evolve
Our assessment of climate risks covers three distinct time periods, over time in line with market practice, regulation or owing to
comprising: short term, which is up to 2025; medium term, which is developments in climate science. While emissions reporting has
between 2026 and 2035; and long term, which is between 2036 and improved over time, data remains of limited quality and consistency.
2050. Focus on climate-related risk continued to increase over 2022, The use of inconsistent or incomplete data and models could result in
owing to the pace and volume of policy and regulatory changes sub-optimal decision making. Any changes could result in revisions to
globally, particularly on climate risk management, stress testing and our internal frameworks and reported data, and could mean that
scenario analysis and disclosures. If we fail to meet evolving
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 139
Risk
review
Risk review
reported figures are not reconcilable or comparable year on year. We Digitalisation and technological advances
may also have to re-evaluate our progress towards our climate-related
targets in future and this could result in reputational, legal and
risk
regulatory risks.
Developments in technology and changes to regulations are enabling
There is increasing evidence that a number of nature-related risks new entrants to the industry, particularly with respect to payments.
beyond climate change, which include risks that can be represented This challenges us to continue innovating and taking advantage of
more broadly by impact and dependence on nature, can and will have new digital capabilities so that we improve how we serve our
significant economic impact. These risks arise when the provision of customers, drive efficiency and adapt our products to attract and
natural services – such as water availability, air quality and soil quality retain customers. As a result, we may need to increase our
– is compromised by overpopulation, urban development, natural investment in our business to adapt or develop products and services
habitat and ecosystem loss, ecosystem degradation arising from to respond to our customers’ evolving needs. We also need to ensure
economic activity and other environmental stresses beyond climate that new digital capabilities do not weaken our resilience or wider risk
change. They can show themselves in various ways, including management capabilities.
through macroeconomic, market, credit, reputational, legal and
New technologies such as blockchain and quantum computing offer
regulatory risks, for both HSBC and our customers. We continue to
both business opportunities and potential risks for HSBC. As with all
engage with investors, regulators and customers on nature-related
use of technologies, we aim to maximise their potential while seeking
risks to evolve our approach and understand best practice risk
to ensure a robust control environment is in place to help manage the
mitigation.
inherent risks, such as the impact on encryption algorithms.
Regulation and disclosure requirements in relation to human rights,
Mitigating actions:
and to modern slavery in particular, are increasing. Businesses are
expected to be transparent about their efforts to identify and respond • We continue to monitor this emerging risk, as well as the
to the risk of negative human rights impacts arising from their advances in technology, and changes in customer behaviours to
business activities and relationships. understand how these may impact our business.
Mitigating actions • We assess new technologies to help develop appropriate controls
• We aim to deepen our understanding of the drivers of climate risk. and maintain resilience.
A dedicated Climate Risk Oversight Forum is responsible for • We closely monitor and assess financial crime risk and the impact
shaping and overseeing our approach and providing support in on payment transparency and architecture.
managing climate risk. For further details of the Group’s ESG
governance structure, see page 86. Internally driven
• Our climate risk programme continues to support the development
Risks associated with workforce capability,
of our climate risk management capabilities across four key pillars:
governance and risk appetite, risk management, stress testing and capacity and environmental factors with
scenario analysis, and disclosures. We also aim to enhance our
potential impact on growth
approach to greenwashing risk management.
• In December 2022, we published our updated policy covering the Our global businesses and functions in all of our markets are exposed
broader energy system including upstream oil and gas, oil and gas to risks associated with workforce capacity challenges, including
power generation, coal, hydrogen, renewables and hydropower, challenges to retain, develop and attract high-performing employees
nuclear, biomass and energy from waste. We also expanded our in key labour markets, and compliance with employment laws and
thermal coal phase-out policy, in which we committed to not regulations. Changed working arrangements, and the residual impact
provide new finance or advisory services for the specific purposes of local Covid-19-related restrictions and health concerns during the
of the conversion of existing coal-to-gas fired power plants, or new pandemic, have also affected employee mental health and well-being.
metallurgical coal mines (see page 65).
Mitigating actions
• Climate stress tests and scenarios are being used to further
• We seek to promote a diverse and inclusive workforce and provide
improve our understanding of our risk exposures for use in risk
health and well-being support. We continue to build our speak-up
management and business decision making.
culture through active campaigns.
• In 2022, we reviewed our salient human rights issues following
• We monitor hiring activities and levels of employee attrition, with
the methodology set out in the UNGPs. These are the human
each business and function putting in place plans to help ensure
rights at risk of the most severe potential negative impact through
they have effective workforce forecasting to meet business
our business activities and relationships. This review built on an
demands.
earlier review that had identified modern slavery and discrimination
as priority human rights issues. For further details, see page 87 of • We monitor people risks that could arise due to organisational
the ESG review. restructuring, helping to ensure we manage redundancies
sensitively and support impacted employees. We encourage our
• In 2021, we joined several industry working groups dedicated to
people leaders to focus on talent retention at all levels, with an
helping us assess and manage nature-related risks, such as the
empathetic mindset and approach, while ensuring the whole
Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (‘TNFD’). In 2022
proposition of working at HSBC is well understood.
our asset management business published its biodiversity policy to
publicly explain how our analysts address nature-related issues. • Our Future Skills curriculum helps provides skills that will help to
enable employees and HSBC to be successful in the future.
• We continue to engage with our customers, investors and
regulators proactively on the management of ESG risks. We also • We develop succession plans for key management roles, with
engage with initiatives, including the Climate Financial Risk Forum, oversight from the Group Executive Committee.
Equator Principles, Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) to
help drive best practice for climate risk management.
For further details of our approach to climate risk management, see
‘Climate risk’ on page 221.
For further details of ESG risk management, see ‘Financial crime risk‘
on page 231 and ‘Regulatory compliance risk environment including
conduct’ on page 225.
Our ESG review can be found on page 44.
140 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Risks arising from the receipt of services • Model Risk Management works closely with businesses to ensure
that IRB/IMM/IMA models in development meet risk
from third parties
management, pricing and capital management needs. Global
Internal Audit provides assurance over the risk management
We use third parties to provide a range of goods and services. Risks
framework for models.
arising from the use of third-party providers and their supply chain
may be harder to identify. It is critical that we ensure we have • Additional assurance work is performed by the model risk
appropriate risk management policies, processes and practices over governance teams, which act as second lines of defence. The
the selection, governance and oversight of third parties and their teams test whether controls implemented by model users comply
supply chain, particularly for key activities that could affect our with model risk policy and if model risk standards are adequate.
operational resilience. Any deficiency in the management of risks
• Models using advanced machine learning techniques are validated
associated with our third parties could affect our ability to support our
and monitored to help ensure that risks that are determined by the
customers and meet regulatory expectations.
algorithms have adequate oversight and review. A framework to
Mitigating actions manage the range of risks that are generated by these advanced
techniques, and to recognise the multidisciplinary nature of these
• We continue to monitor the effectiveness of the controls operated
risks, is being developed.
by our third-party providers and request third-party control reports,
where required. We have made further enhancements to our Data risk
framework to help ensure risks associated with these
arrangements are understood and managed effectively by our We use multiple systems and growing quantities of data to support
global businesses, global functions and regions. our customers. Risk arises if data is incorrect, unavailable, misused, or
unprotected. Along with other banks and financial institutions, we
• We continue to enhance the effective management of our intra-
need to meet external regulatory obligations and laws that cover data,
Group arrangements using the same control standards as we have
such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s 239
for external third-party arrangements.
guidelines and the General Data Protection Regulation (‘GDPR’).
• We are implementing the changes required by new regulations as
Mitigating actions
set by our regulators.
• Through our global data management framework, we monitor the
Model risk
quality, availability and security of data that supports our
customers and internal processes. We work towards resolving any
Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes
identified data issues in a timely manner.
reliance on models. We use models in both financial and non-financial
contexts, as well as in a range of business applications such as • We have made improvements to our data policies. We are
customer selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction implementing an updated control framework (which includes
monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting. trusted sources, data flows and data quality) in order to enhance
Assessing model performance is a continuous undertaking. Models the end-to-end management of data risk.
can need redevelopment as market conditions change. Significant
• We have established a global data management utility, and
increases in global inflation and interest rates have impacted the
continue to simplify and unify data management activities across
reliability and accuracy of both credit and market risk models.
the Group.
We continued to prioritise the redevelopment of internal ratings-based
• We seek to protect customer data through our data privacy
(‘IRB’) and internal model methods (‘IMM’) models, in relation to
framework, which establishes practices, design principles and
counterparty credit, as part of the IRB repair and Basel III programmes
guidelines that enable us to demonstrate compliance with data
with a key focus on enhancing the quality of data used as model
privacy laws and regulations.
inputs. A number of these models have been submitted to the UK’s
Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) and other key regulators for • We continue to modernise our data and analytics infrastructure
feedback, and approval is in progress. Some IMM and internal model through investments in Cloud technology, data visualisation,
approach (‘IMA’) models have been approved for use, and feedback machine learning and artificial intelligence.
has been received for some IRB models. Climate risk modelling is a • We continue to educate our employees on data risk and data
key focus for the Group as HSBC’s commitment to ESG has become management. We have delivered regular mandatory training
a key part of the Group’s strategy. globally on how to protect and manage data appropriately.
Model risk remains a key area of focus given the regulatory scrutiny in
Change execution risk
this area, with local regulatory exams taking place in many
jurisdictions and further developments in policy expected from many
We have continued investment in strategic change to support the
regulators, including the PRA.
delivery of our strategic priorities and regulatory commitments. This
Mitigating actions requires change to be executed safely and efficiently.
• We have continued to embed the enhanced monitoring, review Mitigating actions
and challenge of expected credit loss model performance through
• In 2022, we added change execution risk to our risk taxonomy and
our Model Risk Management function as part of a broader
control library, so that it could be defined, assessed, managed,
quarterly process to determine loss levels. The Model Risk
reported and overseen in the same way as our other material risks.
Management team aims to provide effective review and challenge
of any future redevelopment of these models. • The Transformation Oversight Executive Committee oversees the
prioritisation, strategic alignment and management of execution
• Model Risk Governance committees at the Group, business and
risk for all change portfolios and initiatives.
functional levels continue to provide oversight of model risk.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 141
Risk
review
Description of risks – banking operations (continued)
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
Climate risk (see page 221)
Climate risk relates to the Climate risk can materialise Climate risk is:
financial and non-financial through: • measured using a variety of risk appetite metrics and key management
impacts that may arise as a • physical risk, which arises from indicators, which assess the impact of climate risk across the risk taxonomy;
result of climate change and the increased frequency and • monitored using stress testing; and
the move to a greener severity of weather events;
economy. • managed through adherence to risk appetite thresholds and via specific
• transition risk, which arises from policies.
the process of moving to a low-
carbon economy; and
• greenwashing risk, which arises
from the act of knowingly or
unknowingly misleading
stakeholders regarding our
strategy relating to climate, the
climate impact/benefits of a
product or service, or the climate
commitments or performance of
our customers.
Resilience risk (see page 230)
Resilience risk is the risk of Resilience risk arises from failures Resilience risk is:
sustained and significant or inadequacies in processes, • measured using a range of metrics with defined maximum acceptable impact
business disruption from people, systems or external events. tolerances, and against our agreed risk appetite;
execution, delivery, physical
• monitored through oversight of enterprise processes, risks, controls and
security or safety events,
strategic change programmes; and
causing the inability to provide
critical services to our • managed by continual monitoring and thematic reviews.
customers, affiliates, and
counterparties.
Regulatory compliance risk (see page 231)
Regulatory compliance risk is Regulatory compliance risk arises Regulatory compliance risk is:
the risk associated with from the failure to observe relevant • measured by reference to risk appetite, identified metrics, incident
breaching our duty to clients laws, codes, rules and regulations assessments, regulatory feedback and the judgement and assessment of our
and other counterparties, and can manifest itself in poor regulatory compliance teams;
inappropriate market conduct market or customer outcomes and
• monitored against the first line of defence risk and control assessments, the
and breaching related financial lead to fines, penalties and
results of the monitoring and control assurance activities of the second line of
services regulatory standards. reputational damage to our
defence functions, and the results of internal and external audits and
business.
regulatory inspections; and
• managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and
procedures, training employees in them and monitoring activity to help ensure
their observance. Proactive risk control and/or remediation work is undertaken
where required.
Financial crime risk (see page 231)
Financial crime risk is the risk Financial crime risk arises from day- Financial crime risk is:
that HSBC’s products and to-day banking operations involving • measured by reference to risk appetite, identified metrics, incident
services will be exploited for customers, third parties and assessments, regulatory feedback and the judgement of, and assessment by,
criminal activity. This includes employees. our compliance teams;
fraud, bribery and corruption,
• monitored against the first line of defence risk and control assessments, the
tax evasion, sanctions and
results of the monitoring and control assurance activities of the second line of
export control violations,
defence functions, and the results of internal and external audits and
money laundering, terrorist
regulatory inspections; and
financing and proliferation
financing. • managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and
procedures, training employees in them and monitoring activity to help ensure
their observance. Proactive risk control and/or remediation work is undertaken
where required.
Model risk (see page 232)
Model risk is the risk of Model risk arises in both financial Model risk is:
inappropriate or incorrect and non-financial contexts • measured by reference to model performance tracking and the output of
business decisions arising from whenever business decision detailed technical reviews, with key metrics including model review statuses
the use of models that have making includes reliance on and findings;
been inadequately designed, models.
• monitored against model risk appetite statements, insight from the
implemented or used, or from
independent review function, feedback from internal and external audits, and
models that do not perform in
regulatory reviews; and
line with expectations and
predictions. • managed by creating and communicating appropriate policies, procedures and
guidance, training colleagues in their application, and supervising their
adoption to ensure operational effectiveness.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 143
Risk
review
Credit risk
Contents independent reviews and objective assessment of credit risk, and
monitoring performance and management of portfolios.
145 Overview The principal objectives of our credit risk management are:
145 Credit risk management • to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending,
147 Credit risk in 2022 and robust risk policies and control frameworks;
148 Summary of credit risk • to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining,
151 Stage 2 decomposition as at December 2022 implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under
152 Credit exposure actual and scenario conditions; and
153 Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL • to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their
162 Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and costs and their mitigation.
allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers
Key risk management processes
including loan commitments and financial guarantees
165 Credit quality IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ process
170 Wholesale lending
The IFRS 9 process comprises three main areas: modelling and data;
187 Personal lending
implementation; and governance.
196 Supplementary information
Modelling, data and forward economic guidance
201 HSBC Holdings
We have established IFRS 9 modelling and data processes in various
Overview geographies, which are subject to internal model risk governance
including independent review of significant model developments.
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty
We have a centralised process for generating unbiased and
fails to meet an obligation under a contract. Credit risk arises
independent global economic scenarios. Scenarios are subject to a
principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but
process of review and challenge by a dedicated team, as well as
also from other products such as guarantees and derivatives.
regional groupings. Each quarter, the scenarios and probability
Credit risk management weights are reviewed and checked for consistency with the economic
conjuncture and current economic and financial risks. These are
Key developments in 2022 subject to final review and approval by senior management in a
Forward Economic Guidance Global Business Impairment Committee.
There were no material changes to the policies and practices for the
Implementation
management of credit risk in 2022. We continued to apply the
requirements of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ within the Credit Risk A centralised impairment engine performs the expected credit losses
sub-function. For certain retail portfolios, we enhanced the significant calculation using data, which is subject to a number of validation
increase in credit risk (‘SICR’) approach in relation to capturing relative checks and enhancements, from a variety of client, finance and risk
movements in probability of default (‘PD’) since origination. systems. Where possible, these checks and processes are performed
in a globally consistent and centralised manner.
For our retail portfolios, we adopted the EBA ‘Guidelines on the
application of definition of default’ during 2022 and, for our wholesale Governance
portfolios, these guidelines were adopted during 2021. Adoption of
Regional management review forums are established in key sites and
these guidelines did not have a material impact on our portfolios and
regions in order to review and approve the impairment results.
comparative disclosures have not been restated.
Regional management review forums have representatives from
We actively managed the risks related to macroeconomic Credit Risk and Finance. The key site and regional approvals are
uncertainties, including inflation, fiscal and monetary policy, the reported up to the relevant global business impairment committee for
Russia-Ukraine war, broader geopolitical uncertainties, and the final approval of the Group’s ECL for the period. Required members of
continued risks resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic. the committee are the Wholesale Global Chief Corporate Credit
Officer and Chief Risk Officer for Wealth and Personal Banking Risk,
For further details, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 135.
as well as the relevant global business Chief Financial Officer and the
Governance and structure Global Financial Controller.
Concentration of exposure
We have established Group-wide credit risk management and related
IFRS 9 processes. We continue to assess the impact of economic (Audited)
developments in key markets on specific customers, customer
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or
segments or portfolios. As credit conditions change, we take
exposures have comparable economic characteristics, or such
mitigating actions, including the revision of risk appetites or limits and
counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same
tenors, as appropriate. In addition, we continue to evaluate the terms
geographical areas or industry sectors so that their collective ability to
under which we provide credit facilities within the context of
meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in
individual customer requirements, the quality of the relationship, local
economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls
regulatory requirements, market practices and our local market
and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our
position.
portfolios across industries, countries and global businesses. These
Credit Risk sub-function include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls,
and stress testing.
(Audited)
Credit quality of financial instruments
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the Group
Chief Executive together with the authority to sub-delegate them. The (Audited)
Credit Risk sub-function in Group Risk and Compliance is responsible
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based approach
for the key policies and processes for managing credit risk, which
under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support the
include formulating Group credit policies and risk rating frameworks,
calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. The
guiding the Group’s appetite for credit risk exposures, undertaking
five credit quality classifications encompass a range of granular
internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 145
Risk
review
Governance and structure These requirements are assessed through our internal liquidity
adequacy assessment process (‘ILAAP’), which ensures that
The Global Head of Traded and Treasury Risk Management and Risk operating entities have robust strategies, policies, processes and
Analytics is the accountable risk steward for all treasury risks. The systems for the identification, measurement, management and
Group Treasurer is the risk owner for all treasury risks, with the monitoring of liquidity risk over an appropriate set of time horizons,
exception of pension risk and insurance risk. The Group Treasurer co- including intra-day. The ILAAP informs the validation of risk tolerance
owns pension risk with the Group Head of Performance, Reward and and the setting of risk appetite. It also assesses the capability to
Employee Relations. Insurance risk is owned by the Chief Executive manage liquidity and funding effectively in each major entity. These
Officer for Global Insurance. metrics are set and managed locally but are subject to robust global
review and challenge to ensure consistency of approach and
Capital risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk in the banking book,
application of the Group’s policies and controls.
structural foreign exchange risk and transactional foreign exchange
risk are the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee and the Planning and performance
Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’). Global Treasury actively manages
Capital and RWA plans form part of the annual financial resource plan
these risks on an ongoing basis, supported by the Holdings Asset and
that is approved by the Board. Capital and RWA forecasts are
Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen
submitted to the Group Executive Committee on a monthly basis, and
by Treasury Risk Management and Risk Management Meetings.
capital and RWAs are monitored and managed against the plan. The
Pension risk is overseen by a network of local and regional pension responsibility for global capital allocation principles rests with the
risk management meetings. The Global Pensions Risk Management Group Chief Financial Officer, supported by the Group Capital
Meeting provides oversight of all pension plans sponsored by HSBC Management Meeting. This is a specialist forum addressing capital
globally, and is chaired by the accountable risk steward. Insurance risk management, reporting into Holdings ALCO.
is overseen by the Global Insurance Risk Management Meeting,
Through our internal governance processes, we seek to strengthen
chaired by the Chief Risk Officer for Global Insurance.
discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions, and to
Capital, liquidity and funding risk ensure that returns on investment meet management’s objectives.
Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities to
management processes
support growth objectives where returns above internal hurdle levels
Assessment and risk appetite have been identified and in order to meet their regulatory and
economic capital needs. We evaluate and manage business returns
Our capital management policy is supported by a global capital by using a return on average tangible equity measure.
management framework. The framework sets out our approach to
Funding and liquidity plans also form part of the financial resource
determining key capital risk appetites including CET1, total capital,
plan that is approved by the Board. The Board-level appetite measures
minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (‘MREL’),
are the liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’) and net stable funding ratio the leverage ratio and double leverage. Our internal capital adequacy
(‘NSFR’), together with an internal liquidity metric. In addition, we use
assessment process (‘ICAAP’) is an assessment of the Group’s
a wider set of measures to manage an appropriate funding and capital position, outlining both regulatory and internal capital resources
liquidity profile, including legal entity depositor concentration limits,
and requirements resulting from HSBC’s business model, strategy,
intra-day liquidity, forward-looking funding assessments and other key
risk profile and management, performance and planning, risks to
measures.
capital, and the implications of stress testing. Our assessment of
capital adequacy is driven by an assessment of risks. These risks Risks to capital and liquidity
include credit, market, operational, pensions, insurance, structural
Outside the stress testing framework, other risks may be identified
foreign exchange, interest rate risk in the banking book and Group
that have the potential to affect our RWAs, capital and/or liquidity
risk. Climate risk is also considered as part of the ICAAP, and we are
position. Downside and Upside scenarios are assessed against our
continuing to develop our approach. The Group’s ICAAP supports the
management objectives, and mitigating actions are assigned as
determination of the consolidated capital risk appetite and target
necessary. We closely monitor future regulatory changes and
ratios, as well as enables the assessment and determination of capital
continue to evaluate the impact of these upon our capital and liquidity
requirements by regulators. Subsidiaries prepare ICAAPs in line with
requirements, particularly those related to the UK’s implementation of
global guidance, while considering their local regulatory regimes to
the outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel III
determine their own risk appetites and ratios.
reforms (‘Basel 3.1‘).
HSBC Holdings is the provider of equity capital and MREL-eligible
Regulatory developments
debt to its subsidiaries, and also provides them with non-equity capital
where necessary. These investments are funded by HSBC Holdings’ Our capital adequacy ratios were affected by regulatory developments
own equity capital and MREL-eligible debt. MREL includes own funds in 2022, including changes to internal-ratings based (’IRB’) modelling
and liabilities that can be written down or converted into capital requirements and the UK’s implementation of the revisions to the
resources in order to absorb losses or recapitalise a bank in the event Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive (’CRR II’). The PRA’s
of its failure. In line with our existing structure and business model, final rules on NSFR were implemented and have been reflected in
HSBC has three resolution groups – the European resolution group, disclosures since the first quarter of 2022.
the Asian resolution group and the US resolution group. There are
Future changes to our ratios will occur with the implementation of
some smaller entities that fall outside these resolution groups.
Basel 3.1. The PRA has published its consultation paper on the UK’s
HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the implementation, with a proposed implementation date of 1 January
composition of its capital and its investments in subsidiaries. 2025. We currently do not foresee a material net impact on our ratios
from the initial implementation. The RWA output floor under Basel 3.1
As a matter of long-standing policy, the holding company retains a
is proposed to be subject to a five-year transitional provision. Any
substantial holdings capital buffer comprising high-quality liquid assets
impact from the output floor would be towards the end of the
(‘HQLA’), which at 31 December 2022 was in excess of $24bn.
transition period.
We aim to ensure that management has oversight of our liquidity and
Regulatory reporting processes and controls
funding risks at Group and entity level through robust governance, in
line with our risk management framework. We manage liquidity and The quality of regulatory reporting remains a key priority for
funding risk at an operating entity level in accordance with globally management and regulators. We are progressing with a
consistent policies, procedures and reporting standards. This ensures comprehensive programme to strengthen our processes, improve
that obligations can be met in a timely manner, in the jurisdiction consistency and enhance controls across our prudential regulatory
where they fall due. reporting, focusing on PRA requirements initially. We commissioned a
Operating entities are required to meet internal minimum number of independent external reviews, some at the request of our
requirements and any applicable regulatory requirements at all times. regulators, including one on our credit risk RWA reporting process,
which concluded in December 2022. These reviews have so far
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 203
Risk
review
Risk review
GBM RWAs fell by $3.5bn due to a reduction in counterparty credit the introduction of a counterparty credit risk equity model in Europe.
risk of $2.8bn, driven by mark-to-market movements and This was mostly offset by a $2.1bn increase in RWAs in GBM and
management initiatives. Lower lending in Europe further reduced CMB due to a commercial property loan model in Asia.
RWAs, which was partly offset by growth in Asia and Latin America.
Methodology and policy
WPB RWAs increased by $6.5bn, primarily due to lending growth in
The $24.2bn increase in RWAs was driven by the regulatory changes
Asia and Latin America, largely in term lending and the mortgage
of $27.1bn for revised IRB modelling requirements and the UK‘s
portfolio.
implementation of the CRR II rules.
Asset quality
These increases were partly offset by reductions predominantly due
The increase of $3.1bn RWAs was mostly driven by credit migration, to data enhancements driven by internal and external reviews of our
primarily in Europe and Asia and partly offset against portfolio mix regulatory reporting processes, and the reversal of the beneficial
changes. changes to the treatment of software assets in Corporate Centre.
Model updates Acquisitions and disposals
The $3.1bn RWA decrease in WPB was mostly due to the The $2.0bn RWA decrease was mainly due to the $1.8bn sale of WPB
implementation of a credit card model in Hong Kong and a retail retail branches in US.
model in France. A reduction of $1.6bn RWAs in GBM was driven by
1
Leverage ratio
At
31 Dec 31 Dec
2022 2021
$bn $bn
Tier 1 capital 139.1 155.0
Total leverage ratio exposure 2,417.2 2,962.7
% %
Leverage ratio 5.8 5.2
1 The CRR II regulatory transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 are applied in the leverage ratio calculation. This calculation is in line with the UK leverage
rules that were implemented on 1 January 2022, and excludes central bank claims. Comparatives for 2021 are reported based on the disclosure rules
in force at that time, and include claims on central banks.
Our leverage ratio was 5.8% at 31 December 2022, up from 5.2% at Any add-back must be tax affected and accompanied by a
31 December 2021. The improvement was mainly due to the recalculation of deferred tax, exposure and RWAs. The impact is
exclusion of central bank claims following the implementation of the calculated separately for portfolios using the standardised (‘STD’) and
UK leverage ratio framework from 1 January 2022, and foreign internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) approaches. For IRB portfolios, there is
exchange translation movement. This was partly offset by a decline in no add-back to capital unless loan loss allowances exceed regulatory
tier 1 capital. 12-month expected losses.
At 31 December 2022, our UK minimum leverage ratio requirement of The EU’s CRR ‘Quick Fix’ relief package increased the 2022 scalar
3.25% was supplemented by a leverage ratio buffer of 0.8%, which from 25% to 75% the relief that banks may take for loan loss
consists of an additional leverage ratio buffer of 0.7% and a allowances recognised since 1 January 2020 on the
countercyclical leverage ratio buffer of 0.1%. These buffers translated non-credit-impaired book.
into capital values of $16.9bn and $2.4bn respectively. We exceeded
In the current period, the add-back to CET1 capital amounted to
these leverage requirements.
$0.4bn under the STD approach with a tax impact of $0.1bn. At
Regulatory transitional arrangements for 31 December 2021, the add-back to the capital base under the STD
approach was $1.0bn with a tax impact of $0.2bn.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements
We have adopted the regulatory transitional arrangements in CRR II
for IFRS 9, including paragraph four of article 473a. Our capital and Pillar 3 of the Basel regulatory framework is related to market
ratios are presented under these arrangements throughout the tables discipline and aims to make financial services firms more transparent
in this section, including in the end point figures. Without their by requiring publication of wide-ranging information on their risks,
application, our CET1 ratio would be 14.2%. capital and management. Our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December
2022 is published on our website at www.hsbc.com/investors.
The IFRS 9 regulatory transitional arrangements allow banks to add
back to their capital base a proportion of the impact that IFRS 9 has
upon their loan loss allowances. The impact is defined as:
• the increase in loan loss allowances on day one of IFRS 9
adoption; and
• any subsequent increase in ECL in the non-credit-impaired book
thereafter.
208 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Risk review
Market risk
Contents Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market factor
218 Overview movements on specific instruments or portfolios, including interest
218 Market risk management rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. We use sensitivity
219 Market risk in 2022 measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type.
Granular sensitivity limits are set for trading desks with consideration
219 Trading portfolios
of market liquidity, customer demand and capital constraints, among
220 Market risk balance sheet linkages
other factors.
Overview Value at risk
(Audited)
Market risk is the risk of an adverse financial impact on trading
activities arising from changes in market parameters such as interest VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions as
rates, foreign exchange rates, asset prices, volatilities, correlations a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified
and credit spreads. Exposure to market risk is separated into two time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use of VaR is
portfolios: trading portfolios and non-trading portfolios. integrated into market risk management and calculated for all trading
positions regardless of how we capitalise them. Where we do not
For further details of market risk in non-trading portfolios, page 214, of
calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarised in the
the Annual Report and Accounts 2022.
‘Stress testing’ section below.
Market risk management
Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that
incorporates the following features:
Key developments in 2022
• historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with
There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest
management of market risk in 2022. rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;
Governance and structure • potential market movements that are calculated with reference to
data from the past two years; and
The following diagram summarises the main business areas where • calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a one-day holding
trading market risks reside and the market risk measures used to period.
monitor and limit exposures.
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the
Trading risk underlying exposures. The nature of the VaR models means that an
increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VaR
• Foreign exchange and commodities
without any changes in the underlying positions.
Risk types • Interest rates
VaR model limitations
• Credit spreads
• Equities Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used with awareness of its
Global business GBM limitations. For example:
Risk measure Value at risk | Sensitivity | Stress testing • The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future market
moves may not encompass all potential market events, particularly
The objective of our risk management policies and measurement those that are extreme in nature. As the model is calibrated on the
techniques is to manage and control market risk exposures to last 500 business days, it does not adjust instantaneously to a
optimise return on risk while maintaining a market profile consistent change in the market regime.
with our established risk appetite.
• The use of a one-day holding period for risk management purposes
Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the of trading books assumes that this short period is sufficient to
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for HSBC Holdings. These hedge or liquidate all positions.
limits are allocated across business lines and to the Group’s legal
• The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take into
entities. Each major operating entity has an independent market risk
account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence.
management and control sub-function, which is responsible for
measuring, monitoring and reporting market risk exposures against • VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the
limits on a daily basis. Each operating entity is required to assess the close of business and therefore does not reflect intra-day
market risks arising in its business and to transfer them either to its exposures.
local Markets and Securities Services or Markets Treasury unit for Risk not in VaR framework
management, or to separate books managed under the supervision of
the local ALCO. The Traded Risk function enforces the controls The risks not in VaR (‘RNIV’) framework captures and capitalises
around trading in permissible instruments approved for each site as material market risks that are not adequately covered in the VaR
well as changes that follow completion of the new product approval model.
process. Traded Risk also restricts trading in the more complex
Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and are either
derivative products to offices with appropriate levels of product
incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or quantified
expertise and robust control systems.
through either the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test approach
Key risk management processes within the RNIV framework. While VaR-based RNIVs are calculated by
using historical scenarios, stress-type RNIVs are estimated on the
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures basis of stress scenarios whose severity is calibrated to be in line
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while with the capital adequacy requirements. The outcome of the VaR-
maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk appetite. based RNIV approach is included in the overall VaR calculation but
excluded from the VaR measure used for regulatory back-testing. In
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures
addition, the stressed VaR measure also includes risk factors
including sensitivity analysis, VaR and stress testing.
considered in the VaR-based RNIV approach.
218 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Climate risk
TCFD
Contents
221 Overview 225 Resilience risk
222 Climate risk management 225 Regulatory compliance risk
223 Wholesale credit risk 225 Reputational risk
224 Retail credit risk 226 Insights from climate scenario analysis
Overview
Climate risk relates to the financial and non-financial impacts that may details of our three lines of defence framework, see page 134). This
arise as a result of climate change and the move to a greener approach provides the Board and senior management with visibility
economy. Climate risk can materialise through: and oversight of our key climate risks.
• physical risk, which arises from the increased frequency and Our initial approach to managing climate risk was focused on
severity of weather events, such as hurricanes and floods, or understanding physical and transition impacts across five priority risk
chronic shifts in weather patterns; types: wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk, reputational risk,
resilience risk and regulatory compliance risk. In 2022, we expanded
• transition risk, which arises from the process of moving to a low-
our scope to consider climate risk impacts on our other risk types in
carbon economy, including changes in government or public
our risk taxonomy.
policy, technology and end-demand; and
We consider greenwashing to be an important emerging risk that is
• greenwashing risk, which arises from the act of knowingly or
likely to increase over time as we look to develop capabilities and
unknowingly misleading stakeholders regarding our strategy
products to achieve our net zero commitments, and work with our
relating to climate, the climate impact/benefit of a product or
clients to help them transition to a low-carbon economy. To reflect
service, or the climate commitments or performance of our
this, our climate risk approach has been updated to include
customers.
greenwashing risk, and guidance has been provided to the first and
Approach and policy second lines of defence on the key risk factors, and how it should be
managed.
We are affected by climate risks either directly or indirectly through
Our ambition to achieve net zero in our financed emissions also
our relationships with our customers, resulting in both financial and
exposes us to potential reputational, compliance and legal risks if we
non-financial impacts.
fail to effectively deliver on our ambition. Achieving this ambition is
We may face direct exposure to the physical impacts of climate dependent on a number of known and unknown factors including the
change, which could negatively affect our day-to-day operations. Any accuracy and reliability of data, emerging methodologies and the need
detrimental impact to our customers from climate risk could to develop new tools to accurately assess emissions reductions. We
negatively impact us either through credit losses on our loan book or have taken initial steps to develop our capabilities to monitor our
losses on trading assets. We may also be impacted by reputational exposures and set risk appetites, although, operationalising our
concerns related to the climate action or inaction of our customers. In ambition is dependent on data and methodologies maturing over
addition, if we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on our business time, and requires us to continue developing our internal processes
activities or if we fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we and tools to help achieve our ambition.
could face greenwashing risk resulting in significant reputational
The tables below provide an overview of the climate risk drivers
damage and potential regulatory fines, impacting our revenue
considered within HSBC’s climate risk framework. Primary risk drivers
generating ability.
refer to risk drivers aligned to the Financial Stability Board’s Task
We have integrated climate risk into our existing risk taxonomy, and Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’), which sets a
incorporated it within the risk management framework through the framework to help public companies and other organisations disclose
policies and controls for the existing risks where appropriate. climate-related risks and opportunities. Thematic risk drivers are
Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk bespoke to our internal climate risk framework.
management framework and three lines of defence model, which
sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks (for further
The following table provides an overview of the physical and transition climate risk drivers.
Climate risk – primary risk drivers
Details Potential Impacts
Physical Acute Increased frequency and severity of weather events causing • Decreased real estate values or stranded
disruption to business operations assets
Chronic Longer-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g. sustained higher • Decreased household income and wealth
temperatures, sea level rise, shifting monsoons or chronic heat • Increased costs of legal and compliance
waves) • Increased public scrutiny
Transition Policy and legal Mandates on, and regulation of products and services and/or • Decreased profitability
policy support for low carbon alternatives. Litigation from parties • Lower asset performance
who have suffered loss and damage from climate impacts
Technology Replacement of existing products with lower emissions options
End-demand Changing consumer demand from individuals and corporates
(market)
Reputational Increased scrutiny following a change in stakeholder perceptions
of climate-related action or inaction
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 221
Risk
review
Risk review
The table below provides an overview of the drivers of greenwashing risk, which is considered to be a thematic risk driver within HSBC’s
framework.
Climate risk – thematic risk drivers Details
Greenwashing Firm Failure to be accurate and transparent in communicating our progress against our net zero ambition
Product Not taking steps to ensure our ‘green’ and ‘sustainable’ products are developed and marketed appropriately
Client Failing to check our products are being used for ‘green’ and ‘sustainable’ business activity and assessing the
credibility of our customers’ climate commitments and/or progress against key performance indicators
In February 2022, we refreshed a high-level assessment of how December 2022. The assessments will be refreshed annually, and,
climate risk may impact HSBC taxonomy risk types over a 12-month results may change as our understanding of climate risk and how it
horizon, and we conducted an assessment to understand which parts impacts HSBC evolves (for further details, see ‘Impact on reporting
of our risk taxonomy could be impacted by greenwashing risk. The and financial statements’ on page 46). In addition to these
table below summarises the results of these exercises. Assessments assessments, we also consider climate risk in our emerging risk
were completed prior to year-end 2022 and do not take into account process, which considers potential impacts across longer time
all of the factors that were considered in our assessment of climate horizons (for further details, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on
risk impacts on the financial statements for the year ended 31 page 135).
Relevant risk drivers
Primary risk drivers Thematic risk drivers
Risk type Physical Transition Greenwashing
Wholesale credit risk ● ●
Retail credit risk ● ●
Treasury risk – insurance risk ● ●
Financial risk Treasury risk – pension risk ● ●
Traded risk ● ●
Strategic business risk ●
Reputational risk ● ●
Regulatory compliance risk ● ●
Resilience risk ● ● ●
Model risk ● ● ●
Non-financial risk
Financial crime risk ● ● ●
Financial reporting risk ● ●
Legal risk ● ●
l Relevant risk driver
Climate risk management data and systems in order to achieve these aims, which continue to
be enhanced.
Key developments in 2022 Governance and structure
Our climate risk programme continues to support the development of The Board takes overall responsibility for our ESG strategy,
our climate risk management capabilities. The following outlines key overseeing executive management in developing the approach,
developments in 2022. execution and associated reporting.
• We updated our climate risk management approach to cover all The Group ESG Committee supports the development and delivery of
risk types in our risk taxonomy. our ESG strategy, key policies and material commitments by providing
• We expanded the scope of climate-related training for employees oversight, coordination and management of ESG commitments and
to cover additional topics, such as greenwashing risk, and initiatives. It is co-chaired by the Group Company Secretary and Chief
increased the availability of training to the broader workforce. Governance Officer, and Group Chief Sustainability Officer.
• We developed new metrics to monitor physical climate risk The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is responsible for the
exposure in our mortgage portfolio in all our markets, based on management of climate-related financial risks under the UK Senior
locally available data. Managers Regime, which involves holding overall accountability for
• We enhanced our transition and physical risk questionnaire and the Group’s climate risk programme. The Climate Risk Oversight
scoring tool, which will help us improve our understanding of the Forum oversees risk activities relating to climate risk management
impact of transition and physical risk on corporate clients in high and the escalation of climate risks. It is supported by equivalent
climate transition risk sectors. forums at regional level.
• We assessed transition plans for EU and OECD managed clients in The Group Reputational Risk Committee considers matters arising
scope of our thermal coal phase-out policy. from customers, transactions and third parties that either present a
• We developed our first internal climate scenario exercise, where serious potential reputational risk to the Group or merit a Group-led
we used four scenarios that were designed to articulate our view decision to ensure a consistent risk management approach across the
of the range of potential outcomes for global climate change. For regions, global businesses and global functions.
further details of our internal climate scenario analysis, see
The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee
page 226.
receive regular updates on our climate risk profile and progress of our
While we have made progress in developing our climate risk climate risk programme.
framework, there remains significant work to fully integrate climate
For further details on the Group’s ESG governance structure, see
risk, including the need to provide additional skills for our colleagues
page 86.
and clients on climate risk topics, and develop further metrics to
understand how climate risk can impact our risk taxonomy. We also
need to continue to enhance our stress testing capabilities and
expand our greenwashing risk framework. We have a dependency on
222 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Risk appetite Management
Our climate risk appetite supports the oversight and management of
In 2022, we updated our credit risk policy to require that relationship
the financial and non-financial risks from climate change, and supports
managers comment on climate risk factors in credit applications for
the business to deliver our climate ambition in a safe and sustainable
new money requests. We continued using a climate risk scoring tool,
way. Our initial risk appetite focused on the oversight and
which provides a climate risk score for each customer based on
management of climate risks in five priority areas, including exposure
questionnaire responses. The climate risk score is used to inform
to high transition risk sectors in our wholesale portfolio and physical
portfolio level management discussions, and are made available to
risk exposures in our retail portfolio. We have created metrics both at
relationship management teams and credit risk management teams.
global and regional levels, where appropriate, to help manage our risk
The scoring tool will be enhanced and refined over time as more data
appetite. We continue to review our risk appetite regularly to capture
becomes available.
the most material climate risks and will enhance our metrics over
In 2023, we aim to further embed climate risk considerations in our
time, including to monitor risk exposures associated with our financed
credit risk management processes.
emissions reduction targets.
Aggregation and reporting
Policies, processes and controls
We report our exposure to the six high transition risk sectors in the
We are integrating climate risk into the policies, processes and
wholesale portfolio, as well as our related RWAs internally.
controls across many areas of our organisation, and we will continue
to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature We also report the proportion of questionnaire responses that have a
over time. In 2022, we incorporated climate considerations into our board policy or management plan for transition risk. Our key
UK mortgage origination process for our retail business, and new wholesale credit exposures are included as part of our broader ESG
money request process for our key wholesale businesses. We also management information dashboard, which is presented to the Group
continued to enhance our climate risk scoring tool, which will enable Executive Committee each quarter. In addition, a representative from
us to assess our customers’ exposures to climate risk. We also the Wholesale Credit Risk Management function attends the Global
published our updated energy policy, covering the broader energy Climate Risk Oversight Forum to ensure there is consideration of this
system, including upstream oil and gas, oil and gas power generation, risk type, and we report our exposure through the climate risk
coal, hydrogen, renewables and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and management information dashboard at this meeting.
energy from waste, and we updated our thermal coal phase-out policy
Since 2019, we have received responses from customers within the
after its initial publication in 2021. For further details of how we
six high transition risk sectors, which represent 59% of our exposure,
manage climate risk across our global businesses, see page 64.
an increase in coverage of 7% since last year. The table below
Wholesale credit risk presents a breakdown of our customer responses by sector.
The table below also captures our lending activity, including
Identification and assessment environmentally responsible and sustainable finance activities, to
customers within the six high risk sectors. Green financing for large
In 2019, we initially identified six key sectors where our wholesale
companies that work in high transition sectors is also included. The
credit customers had the highest exposure to climate transition risk,
overall exposure has decreased to 17.7% (2021: 18.2%). We have
based on their carbon emissions, which were: automotive; chemicals;
restated the 2021 comparatives to reflect the new 2022 sector
construction and building materials; metals and mining; oil and gas;
allocations and to remove certain off-balance sheet exposures that
and power and utilities. For a majority of customers in these sectors,
were previously included following improvements in our data and
we use a transition and physical risk questionnaire to help assess and
processes. For further details of how we designate counterparties as
improve our understanding of the impact of climate change on our
high transition risk, see footnote 2.
customers’ business models and any related transition strategies.
Relationship managers work with these customers to record
questionnaire responses and also help identify potential business
opportunities to support the transition. Since 2020, we have rolled out
the questionnaire so that it includes the majority of our largest
customers in the next highest climate transition risk sectors:
agriculture; industrials; real estate; and transportation. In 2022, we
continued to roll out the physical and transition risk questionnaire in
these sectors by adding new countries to the scope of the
questionnaire. Due to ongoing data and methodology challenges
across the industry, our risk appetite metrics remained limited in their
ability to monitor our risk profile.
In 2023, we intend to roll out the questionnaire to additional
customers and enhance our scoring model. We will also continue
engaging with peers and regulators to explore approaches for further
integration of climate in credit risk models. We continue to develop
processes and training to improve the quality and accuracy of the
questionnaire responses.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 223
Risk
review
Risk review
Wholesale loan exposure to transition risk sectors and customer questionnaire responses at 31 December 20221
Construction Metals Power
and building and Oil and and
Automotive Chemicals materials mining gas utilities Total
% % % % % % %
Wholesale loan exposure as % of total wholesale loans and
advances to customers and banks2,3,4 ≤ 3.0 ≤ 3.3 ≤ 3.2 ≤ 2.1 ≤ 2.6 ≤ 3.5 ≤ 17.7
Proportion of sector for which questionnaires were completed5 63 49 55 56 67 66 59
Proportion of questionnaire responses that reported either having
a board policy or a management plan5 69 81 74 71 77 94 79
Sector weight as proportion of high transition risk sector5 16 19 18 12 15 20 100
1 The 2022 numbers reflect the new 2022 sector allocations and remove certain off-balance sheet exposures that were previously included following
improvements in our data and processes. See the ESG Data Pack for comparative 2020 and 2021 data.
2 Amounts shown in the table also include green and other sustainable finance loans, which support the transition to the net zero economy. The
methodology for quantifying our exposure to high transition risk sectors and the transition risk metrics will evolve over time as more data becomes
available and is incorporated in our risk management systems and processes.
3 Counterparties are allocated to the high transition risk sectors via a two-step approach. Firstly, where the main business of a group of connected
counterparties is in a high transition risk sector, all lending to the group is included in one high transition risk sector irrespective of the sector of each
individual obligor within the group. Secondly, where the main business of a group of connected counterparties is not in a high transition risk sector,
only lending to individual obligors in the high transition risk sectors is included. From 2022, for Global Banking and Markets clients and Commercial
Banking clients, the main business of a group of connected counterparties is identified by the industry that generates the majority of revenue within a
group. Customer revenue data utilised during this allocation process is the most recent readily available and will not align to our own reporting period.
In prior periods for Global Banking and Markets clients, the main business of a group of connected counterparties was identified by the relationship
manager for the group. For Commercial Banking clients, the main business of a group of connected counterparties was identified based on the largest
industry of HSBC’s total lending limits to the group.
4 Total wholesale loans and advances to customers and banks amount to $658bn (2021: $662bn). Amounts include loans and advances that are held for
sale.
5 All percentages are weighted by exposure.
Retail credit risk Aggregation and reporting
Identification and assessment We manage and monitor the integration of climate risk in Wealth and
Personal Banking through the WPB Risk Management Meeting and
We continued to improve our identification and assessment of climate other senior leadership forums.
risk within our retail mortgage portfolio. We increased our We assess the progress of the implementation of our strategic
investments in centrally available physical risk data and enhanced our climate risk plans, and ensure that we update operational processes
internal risk assessment capabilities and models, in order to and risk management frameworks as our data and understanding of
understand our physical risk exposure across a larger proportion of climate risk evolves. A senior representative from WPB Risk attends
our global portfolio. We have also started to identify and monitor the Group Climate Risk Oversight Forum to ensure we maintain
potential physical risk in the remainder of our global mortgage alignment with the Group strategy.
markets, using locally available data.
Monitoring climate risk
In 2022, we undertook an internal climate scenario analysis exercise
to further our understanding and assessment of the potential impacts In 2022, each of our retail mortgage businesses defined metrics and
that physical risk could have on our mortgage portfolios. We began reporting on their potential balance sheet exposure to physical
completed detailed analysis for the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore and climate risk. Locally relevant data sources were used to identify
Australia, which together represent 73.8% of balances of the global properties or areas with potentially heightened climate risk. These
mortgage portfolio. We also undertook a stress test for our portfolio in climate risk exposure metrics are in the early stages of development
Singapore at the behest of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, and and the underlying data and methodologies may require refinement in
participated in the second round of the Bank of England’s climate the future, although they provide an indicative view.
biennial exploratory scenario exercise, focusing on management
We continue to measure climate risk using third-party data in our
actions. For further details of our approach and results of our scenario
most material mortgage market, which is the UK, where the primary
analysis, see the ‘Insights on climate scenario analysis’ section on
physical risk facing properties is flooding. Using a risk methodology
page 226.
that considers a combination of the likelihood and severity of flood
Management hazard affecting individual properties, we estimate that on a total
value basis, and at present day risk levels, 3.5% of the UK retail
We continued to review and update our retail credit risk management mortgage portfolio is at high risk of flooding, and 0.2% is at a very
policies and processes to further embed climate risk, while high risk. This is based on approximately 93% coverage by value of
monitoring local regulatory developments to ensure compliance. our portfolio at the end of September 2022, and is reliant on flood
In the UK, which has our largest retail mortgage portfolio, we data provided by Ambiental Risk Analytics.
integrated climate risk data into our decision-making framework as In line with the UK government ambition to improve the energy
part of the mortgage origination process. We are actively managing performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of housing stock, we continue
our UK mortgage portfolio with a climate risk perspective, and in line to identify the current and potential EPC ratings for individual
with our risk appetite, taking conduct considerations into account in properties within the UK mortgage portfolio.
the lending decision-making process.
At the end of September, we had approximately 62% of properties by
Our UK team is also proactively supporting customers by providing value in our UK residential mortgage portfolio with a valid EPC
information on our public website relating to how physical risk and certificate dated within the last 10 years. While 37.7% of these, with
home energy efficiency ratings may impact their mortgage balances of $31.5bn, had a ‘current’ rating of A to C, 96.8% of them,
applications. This gives customers more insight when considering with balances of $81.1bn, had the potential to improve to that level.
purchasing a property that may be susceptible to physical climate risk We are working on improving the EPC data coverage, we currently do
or which may not be energy efficient. not have EPC data for properties in Northern Ireland.
224 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
For both flood risk and EPC data, we disclose the end of September Management
position. This is due to the time required for the data to be processed
by a third party and our reliance on the government’s public EPC data. Our policies continue to set the Group-wide standards that are
required to manage the risk of breaches of our regulatory duty to
Beyond the UK, we have strengthened our focus on the development
customers, including those related to climate risk, ensuring fair
of initiatives to support customers with their transition to more energy
customer outcomes are achieved. Our product and customer lifecycle
efficient homes.
policies have been enhanced to ensure they take climate into
The table below shows the maturity level of the UK retail mortgage consideration. They are reviewed on a periodic basis to ensure they
portfolio at the end of December 2022, split by tenor. remain relevant and up to date.
The Compliance function continues to focus on improving the
Tenor Loan by residual maturity ($bn)
<1 years 0.45 capability of colleagues through training, communications and
dedicated guidance, with a particular focus on ensuring colleagues
1–5 years 3.38
remain up to date with changes in the evolving regulatory landscape.
>5 years 143.90
Aggregation and reporting
For further details of flood risk and the EPC breakdown of our UK
retail mortgage portfolio, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/ The Compliance function continues to operate an ESG and Climate
esg. Risk Working Group to track and monitor the integration and
Resilience risk embedding of climate risk within the management of regulatory
compliance risks. The working group also continues to monitor
ongoing regulatory and legislative changes across the ESG and
Identification and assessment
climate risk agenda.
Our Operational and Resilience Risk function is responsible for We have continued to develop our key climate risk-related metrics
overseeing the identification and assessment of physical and and indicators, aligned to the broader focus on regulatory compliance
transition climate risks that may impact on the organisation’s risks, to continually improve our risk monitoring capability. This has
operational and resilience capabilities. included the development of a climate-specific risk profile, alongside
We are developing a deeper understanding of the risks to which our the introduction and improvement of existing metrics and indicators.
properties are subject, and assess the mitigants to ensure ongoing The Compliance function continues to be represented at the Group’s
operational resilience. Climate Risk Oversight Forums.
Management
Reputational risk
Operational and Resilience Risk policies are reviewed and enhanced
Identification and assessment
periodically so they remain relevant to evolving risks, including those
linked to climate change. The capability of our colleagues is enhanced
We implement sustainability risk policies, including the Equator
through training, periodic communications and dedicated guidance.
Principles, as part of our broader reputational risk framework. We
Aggregation and reporting focus on sensitive sectors that may have a high adverse impact on
people or the environment, and in which we have a significant
With our ambition to achieve net zero in our own operations, we are number of customers. A key area of focus is high-carbon sectors,
particularly focused on developing measures to facilitate proactive risk which include oil and gas, power generation, mining, agricultural
management and assess progress against this strategic target. commodities and forestry. In 2022, we published our updated energy
Operational and Resilience Risk is represented at the Group’s Climate policy, covering the broader energy system, including upstream oil
Risk Oversight Forum. and gas, oil and gas power generation, hydrogen, renewables and
hydropower, nuclear, biomass and energy from waste. We also
Regulatory compliance risk updated our thermal coal phase-out policy after its initial publication in
2021.
Identification and assessment
Management
Compliance continues to prioritise the identification and assessment
As the primary point of contact for our customers, our relationship
of compliance risks that may arise from climate risk.
managers are responsible for checking that our customers meet
Throughout 2022, our focus remained on greenwashing risk, policies aimed at reducing carbon impacts. Our global network of
particularly with regard to the development and ongoing governance more than 75 sustainability risk managers provides local policy
of new, changed or withdrawn climate and ESG products and support and expertise to relationship managers. Risk Strategy
services, and ensuring sales practices and marketing materials were includes a team of reputational and sustainability risk specialists
clear, fair and not misleading. that provides a higher level of guidance and is responsible for the
oversight of policy compliance and implementation over wholesale
To support the ongoing management and mitigation of greenwashing
banking activities.
risk, Regulatory Compliance worked across all business lines to
enhance our product controls. This improved our ability to identify, For further details on our sustainability risk policies, see our ESG
assess and manage product-related greenwashing risks throughout review on page 65.
the product governance lifecycle. Examples of ongoing
Aggregation and reporting
enhancements include:
• integrating the consideration and mitigation of climate and ESG Our Sustainability Risk Oversight Forum provides a Group-wide forum
risks within our existing product governance framework; for senior members of our Group Risk and Compliance team and
global businesses. It also oversees the development and
• enhancing our product templates and forms to ensure climate risk
implementation of sustainability risk policies. Cases involving complex
is actively considered and documented by the business within
sustainability risk issues related to customers, transactions or third
product review and creation; and
parties are managed through the reputational risk and client selection
• clarifying and improving product governance policies, associated governance process. We report annually on our implementation of the
guidance and key governance terms of reference to ensure new Equator Principles and the corporate loans, project-related bridge
climate and ESG products, as well as climate- and ESG-related loans and advisory mandates completed under the principles. For the
amendments to existing products, comply with both internal and latest report, see: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
external standards, and are subject to robust governance. business/esg-reporting-centre. A representative from Reputational
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 225
Risk
review
Risk review
Risk attends the Group Climate Risk Forum to ensure consideration of Network for Greening the Financial System (‘NGFS’), the
this risk type. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International
Energy Agency. Using these external scenarios as a template, we
Other risks
adapted them by incorporating our unique climate risks and
vulnerabilities to which our organisation and customers across
The following section outlines key developments that we made to
different business sectors and regions are exposed. This helped us
embed climate considerations within other risk types in our risk
produce the scenarios, which varied by severity and probability, to
taxonomy. All risk functions, including those not referenced below,
analyse how climate risks will impact our portfolios. Our scenarios
performed a materiality assessment to determine the impact of
were:
climate risk on their risk framework.
• the Net Zero scenario, which aligns with our net zero strategy and
Treasury risk
is consistent with the Paris Agreement, and which assumes that
there will be rapid and considerable climate action, limiting global
We established a treasury risk-specific climate risk governance forum
warming to no more than 1.5°C by 2100, when compared with
to provide oversight over climate-related topics that may impact
pre-industrial levels;
Global Treasury. We updated relevant treasury risk policies to
strengthen our climate risk guidance and requirements pertaining to • the Current Commitments scenario, which assumes that climate
treasury risk. We undertook an initial assessment to understand the action is limited to the current governmental commitments and
exposure of high transition risk sectors within our pension plans. pledges, leading to global temperature rises of 2.4°C by 2100;
Traded risk • the Downside Transition Risk scenario, which assumes that
climate action is delayed until 2030, but will be rapid enough to
We established a climate stress testing-focused working group to limit global temperature rises to 1.5°C by 2100; and
coordinate the implementation of climate stress testing, and support
• the Downside Physical Risk scenario, which assumes climate
the delivery of internal climate scenario analysis. As part of the annual
action is limited to current governmental policies, leading to
limit review in 2022, we developed a set of climate metrics for
extreme global warming with global temperatures increasing by
Markets and Securities Services, which we plan to implement in
3.1°C by 2100.
2023.
We have chosen these scenarios as they are designed to identify,
Insights from climate scenario measure and assess our most material climate vulnerabilities through
considering our global presence, business activities and exposures.
analysis
Our scenarios reflect inputs from our businesses and experts, and
have been reviewed and approved through internal governance.
Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our position
under a range of climate scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of Our four scenarios reflect different levels of physical and transition
climate change, plan for the future and meet our growing regulatory risks. The scenario assumptions include varying levels of
requirements. governmental climate policy changes, macroeconomic factors and
technological developments. However, these scenarios rely on the
Having run our first Group-wide climate change scenario analysis development of technologies that are still unproven, such as global
exercise in 2021, we produced several climate stress tests for global hydrogen production to decarbonise aviation and shipping.
regulators in 2022, including the Monetary Authority of Singapore and
the European Central Bank. We also conducted our first internal The nature of the scenarios, our developing capabilities, and
climate scenario analysis. limitations of the analysis lead to outcomes that are indicative of
climate change headwinds, although they are not a direct forecast.
We continue to develop how we produce our climate scenario
analysis exercises so that we can have a more comprehensive Developments in climate science, data, methodology and scenario
understanding of climate headwinds, risks and opportunities that will analysis techniques will help us shape our approach further. We
support our strategic planning and actions. therefore expect this view to change over time.
In climate scenario analysis, we consider, jointly: For further details of our four internal climate scenarios, including a
table including their key underlying assumptions, see our ESG Data
• transition risk arising from the process of moving to a net zero Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
economy, including changes in policy, technology, consumer
behaviour and stakeholder perception, which could each impact Our modelling approach
borrowers’ operating income, financing requirements and asset
For our scenario analysis, we used models to assess how transition
values; and
and physical risks may impact our portfolios under different scenarios.
• physical risk arising from the increased frequency and severity of Our models incorporate a range of climate-specific metrics that will
weather events, such as hurricanes and floods, or chronic shifts in have an impact on our customers, including expected production
weather patterns, which could each impact property values, repair volumes, revenue, unit costs and capital expenditure.
costs and lead to business interruptions.
We also assess how these metrics interplay with economic factors
We also analyse how these climate risks impact how we manage such as carbon prices, which represent the cost effect of climate-
other risks within our organisation, including credit and market risks, related policies that aim to discourage carbon-emitting activities and
and on an exploratory basis, operational, liquidity, insurance and encourage low-carbon solutions. The expected result of higher carbon
pension risks. prices is a reduction in emissions as high-emission activities become
Our climate scenarios uneconomical. We also assume carbon prices will vary from country
to country.
In our 2022 internal climate scenario analysis exercise, we used four The models for our wholesale corporate lending portfolio consider
scenarios that were designed to articulate our view of the range of metrics across each climate scenario, and from 2022 also
potential outcomes for global climate change. The analysis considered incorporated our customers’ individual climate transition plans as part
the key regions in which we operate, and assessed the impact on our of our climate scenario analysis. These results in turn feed into the
balance sheet between the 2022 and 2050 time period. In the calculation of our risk-weighted assets and expected credit loss
following sections, the time horizons are considered to cover three projections. For our residential real estate portfolio models, we focus
distinct time periods: short term is up to 2025; medium term is 2026 on physical risk factors, including property locations, perils and
to 2035; and long term is 2036 to 2050. The timeframes chosen are insurance coverage when assessing the overall credit risk impact to
aligned to the Climate Action 100+ disclosure framework. the portfolio. The results were reviewed by our sector specialists
These internal scenarios were formed with reference to external who, subject to our governance procedures, make bespoke
publicly available climate scenarios, including those produced by the adjustments to our results based on their expert judgement when
relevant.
226 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
We continue to enhance our capabilities by incorporating lessons For each sector in each scenario, we calculated a peak ECL increase,
learnt from previous exercises and feedback from key stakeholders, a metric showing the highest level of ECL modelled to be
including regulators. experienced during the 2022 to 2050 period. The peak ECL increase
metric compares the multiplied levels of exposure in the scenario
For a broad overview of the models that we use for our climate
against a counterfactual scenario that incorporates no climate change.
scenario analysis, as well as graphs that show how global carbon
prices and carbon emissions will differ under our climate scenarios, We use the sector’s exposure at default (‘EAD’), which represents
see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg. the relative size of our exposure to potential losses from customer
defaults. This helps to demonstrate which sectors are the most
Analysing the outputs of the climate
material to us in terms of the impact of climate change.
scenario analysis
Due to current limitations, we are unable to fully model the impact of
physical risks on our corporate customers’ supply chain. As a result,
Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential
we have not included the Downside Physical Risk scenario in the
climate pathways may affect our customers and portfolios, particularly
following analysis, although we continue to develop our modelling
in respect of credit losses. As the chart below shows, losses are
capabilities.
influenced by their exposure to a variety of climate risks under
different climate scenarios. Under the Current Commitments Impact of climate risk on wholesale lending portfolios under modelled
scenario, we expect moderate levels of losses relating to transition climate solutions
risks. However, the rise in global warming will lead to increasing
Relative size of exposures at default and increase in peak ECL under
levels of physical risk losses in later years.
each scenario compared with the counterfactual scenario (expressed
as a multiple).
Modelled climate losses
Downside
How credit losses from climate risks have Exposure Net Transition Current
been modelled under different scenarios. Sector level at default Zero Risk Commitments
Conglomerates <5x >5x <1.5x
♦
and industrials
n) <1.5x
b
nt s
( $ P
ut
o
il
w
iti
e
e
r
s
and ♦ <3x <3x <1.5x
e
m >1.5x
p
ria C
an
o
d
n s
b
t
u
ru
ild
ct
in
io
g
n
♦
<3x <3x <1.25x
m
e
i materials
v
ati Oil and gas ♦ <1.5x <1.5x <1.25x
ul
m
C u Chemicals ♦ <4x <4x <1.5x
Automotive ♦ <3x <3x <1.25x
Land transport <5x >5x <1.5x
2021 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 ♦
and logistics
Net Zero Counterfactual
Current Commitments Net Zero2 Aviation ♦ <2x <3x <1.25x
Downside Transition Risk Downside Transition Risk2 Agriculture and <5x <4x <1.5x
soft ♦
1 The counterfactual scenario is modelled on a scenario where there will commodities
be no losses due to climate change. Marine <2x <3x <1.25x
2 The dotted lines in the chart show the impact of modelled expected ♦
credit losses following our strategic responses to reduce the effect of Metals and <5x >5x <1.5x
climate risks under the Net Zero and Downside Transition Risk mining ♦
scenarios.
As the table above illustrates, we expect our ECL to rise most under
A gradual transition towards net zero, as shown in the Net Zero the Net Zero or Downside Transition Risk scenarios. This is reflective
scenario, still requires fundamental shifts in our customers’ business of the high transition risks to which these sectors are exposed, and
models, and significant investments. This will have an impact on the potential impact of not having clear transition plans to mitigate
profitability, leading to higher credit risk in the transition period. A these risks.
delayed transition will be even more disruptive due to lower levels of
For many sectors, the impact of rising carbon prices will lead to
innovation that limits the ability to decarbonise effectively, and rising
increased credit losses. However, this will depend on individual
carbon prices that squeeze profit margins.
companies to determine how much of the additional costs associated
Overall, our scenario analysis shows that the level of potential credit with carbon pricing will be absorbed by their suppliers or customers
losses can be mitigated if we support our customers in enhancing and demand for more economically viable substitute products that
their climate transition plans. emerge.
In the following sections, we assess the impacts to our banking The conglomerates and industrials sector, which includes large
portfolios under different climate scenarios. companies with business activities in multiple business segments, is
How climate change is impacting our the most impacted by climate change in each scenario. It also
represents our largest climate-related exposure, and would potentially
wholesale lending portfolio experience the highest increases in credit losses, largely due to the
transition risks predominantly within the high-emitting and lower-
In our scenario analysis, we assessed the impact of climate-related
profitability manufacturing segments.
risks on our corporate counterparties under different climate
scenarios, which we measured by reviewing the modelled effect on Of our other largest and most impacted sectors, the power and
our expected credit losses (‘ECL’). utilities, construction and building materials, and chemicals sectors
are subject to increased levels of transition risks due to their ongoing
We focused our analysis on the 11 wholesale sectors that we expect
exposure to higher carbon emitting activities.
to be most impacted by climate risks. As at December 2021, these
portfolios represented 27% of our wholesale lending portfolio.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 227
Risk
review
Risk review
Within the analysis, there is a range of geographical outcomes, Losses as a proportion of global retail
dictated by the varied pace of change in the transition to net zero, mortgage book under tested scenarios1
such as in Asia, where the quality of our customers’ climate transition
plans within our high-risk sectors lags behind other regions.
We use the results of our climate scenario analysis, including how
different scenarios will impact on different sectors, to assess the
impact of climate change risk mitigation on our clients, including our
customers’ creditworthiness. It informs us about climate risks in our
5x
wholesale portfolio, allowing us to identify and prioritise the sectors
and sub-sectors that require the greatest support to transition. This
also allow us to test the impact of actions that can support our
customers’ transition and our net zero ambition.
Our net zero ambition represents one of our four strategic pillars. For
further details of our net zero ambition, see the ‘Transition to net zero’
section of the ESG review on page 47, including how we are
supporting our customers transition to net zero on page 57.
2020 2030 2040 2050
How climate change is impacting our retail
RCP2.6 Net Zero (with insurance)
mortgage portfolio
RCP4.5 Current Commitments (with insurance)
As part of our internal climate scenario analysis, we carried out a RCP 8.5 Downside Physical Risk (with insurance)
detailed physical risk assessment of four of our retail mortgage
markets – the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia – which 1 Our internal climate scenarios are supported by the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change’s Representative Concentration Pathways
represent 73.8% of balances in our retail mortgage portfolio.
(‘RCP’) and are used as inputs into physical risk modelling. The Net
We modelled defaults and losses under three physical risk scenarios. Zero scenario is mostly aligned to the RCP 2.6 scenario; the Current
Under the Net Zero and Current Commitments scenarios, we project Commitments scenario is mostly aligned to the RCP 4.5 scenario; and
minimal losses over the modelled time horizon. However, under the the Downside Physical Risk scenario is mostly aligned to the RCP 8.5
Downside Physical Risk scenario, the mortgage book is expected to scenario.
experience a moderate increase in defaults and losses, as the severity
of perils is expected to worsen, although overall losses are still low. The modelled impact on our portfolio projects losses will remain
negligible under the Net Zero and Current Commitments scenarios by
The modelling, data and methodology in relation to climate scenario 2050. Under the Downside Physical Risk (with insurance) scenario,
analysis is still evolving, so the results are not expected to be stable although losses are five times larger than under the Net Zero and
or consistent in the short to medium term, and are meant to give an Current Commitments scenario, they remain at low levels. This
indicative, directional assessment for strategic awareness only. moderate increase is largely driven by the expected demise of Flood
In our analysis of our retail mortgage portfolio, we assessed several Re in the UK in 2039. Flood Re is a UK government-backed insurance
physical perils that could impact the value of properties, including scheme that ensures that properties at the highest risk of flooding
flooding, wildfire and windstorms. We also assessed the ability and can obtain buildings insurance. Under this scenario, properties ceded
willingness of borrowers to service their debts. to the scheme become uninsurable post-2039. The proportion of our
properties that were reinsured by Flood Re was less than 4% of the
In 2022, we enhanced the methodology to factor in the negative
UK portfolio at December 2021. While overall modelled losses were
impact on property valuations, as well as the impact of affordability
low, a large proportion of these were driven by such properties.
due to repair costs, following physical risk events. We also considered
the retail mortgage portfolio with and without insurance. The scenario One of the outcomes from the exercise was that the non-availability
assumptions reflected whether or not properties within the portfolio of insurance for impacted properties was a key contributor to losses.
had buildings insurance coverage to pay for damage incurred from It was assumed that properties that are insurable, or where insurance
physical events. In addition, we addressed geolocation data is affordable, will largely maintain their insurance. We also assessed
deficiencies, implemented new models and incorporated more data, the impact of enhanced EPC legislation, although it was deemed to
although the data and models used to estimate defaults and losses be immaterial.
are still evolving. In addition, we assessed the risk of tropical cyclones and related
storm surges as they were deemed material in Hong Kong. However,
defaults are expected to remain low through to 2050 due to buildings
being designed to withstand high wind speeds and investment into
sea defences. We also looked at wildfire in Australia, although the risk
and severity is limited given our mortgage portfolio is predominantly
located in metropolitan areas. Similarly, losses in Singapore were low
in all the scenarios due to its geographical location and strong sea
defences.
Projected peril risk
Flooding is usually localised to specific areas that are close to water
sources such as rivers or the coast, areas that are located in particular
valleys where surface water can ‘pool’, or urban areas with poor
drainage following flash floods.
As the ‘Exposure to flooding’ table below shows, the majority of
properties located in the four markets are predicted to experience
zero to low risk of flooding, with flood depths of less than 0.5 metres,
under a 1-in-100-year event in each of the scenarios, demonstrating
the resilience of our portfolio.
228 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Exposure to flooding Peak multiplier increase in ECL
Relative size of exposures at default (‘EAD’) and increase in peak ECL
Proportion of properties with projected flood depths in a 1-in-100-
year severity flood event (%)1 under each scenario compared with the counterfactual scenario
(expressed as a multiple)
Scenarios
Downside
Flood depth Baseline Downside Downside Physical
Markets (metres) flood risk Net Zero Physical Risk Exposure Current Downside Physical Risk
2022 2050 2050 at default Net Commit- Transition Risk (with (without
UK >1.5 0.2 0.2 0.4 in 2021 Zero ments Risk insurance) insurance
)
0.5–1.5 0.7 2.5 3.7 Hong ♦
Kong <1.25x <1.25x <1.25x <1.25x <1.25x
0–0.5 99.1 97.3 95.9
Hong Kong >1.5 0.7 0.8 1.2
0.5–1.5 1.2 1.3 30.4 UK ♦ <1.25x <1.25x <1.25x <1.5x <1.5x
0–0.5 98.1 97.9 68.4 US ♦ <1.25x <1.25x <1.25x <1.25x <1.5x
Singapore >1.5 0 0 0.1
The tables show that despite a varying degree of exposure to perils
0.5–1.5 2.8 2.9 7.4
across our most significant markets, our portfolio continues to
0–0.5 97.2 97.1 92.5
maintain a strong level of resilience to physical climate risks out to the
Australia >1.5 0.6 0.6 0.7 long term. In addition, the impact of insurance coverage mitigates
0.5–1.5 1.2 1.2 2.6 some of the risks under the most severe Downside Physical Risk
0–0.5 98.2 98.2 96.7 climate scenario.
Our largest credit exposure is in Hong Kong, where our portfolio has
1 Severe flood events include river and surface flooding and coastal
inundation. The table compares 2050 snapshots under the Net Zero material exposure to tropical cyclone winds. However, the resulting
and Downside Physical Risk scenarios with a baseline view in 2022. impact on prospective credit losses remains low in the medium to
long term due to high building standards.
The most impacted market is Hong Kong, where over 30% of the
In the UK, in line with our retail portfolio, the main perils that drive
locations would be susceptible to flood depths greater than
potential credit losses relate to coastal, river and surface water
0.5 metres under the Downside Physical Risk scenario in 2050. This is
flooding, although the impacts from these perils are not expected to
primarily driven by higher coastal and storm surges. However, this did
cause significant damages. Around 20% of our financed properties
not take into account building type and property floor level, which we
are in London, and most are protected by the Thames Barrier. Under
expect would reduce the impact of flooding for a large number of
the Net Zero scenario, transition risks materialise from 2025 due to
individual properties, given the majority of buildings in Hong Kong are
the costs of retrofitting requirements, and these are expected to lead
high-rise apartments.
to increased impairments.
For the remainder of the markets, more than 90% of mortgage
In the US, the major perils are from coastal flooding, largely in the
locations within each market are expected to experience flood depths
north-east of the country and in Florida, and from hurricane impact,
of less than 0.5 metres in all scenarios, which would not be material.
including gust damage, heavy rainfall and storm surges. The intensity
How climate change is impacting our of these events are expected to increase in the future with a greater
proportion of tropical cyclones falling within the highest categories.
commercial real estate portfolios
These will not only affect the regions that are currently exposed, but
also new areas due to the projected poleward shift of future tropical
We assessed the impact of various perils to which our commercial
cyclones. Building resilience and the future availability and affordability
real estate customers could be vulnerable, including flooding and
of insurance cover in these regions will be the key determinants of
windstorms. Our commercial real estate portfolio is globally
climate risks.
diversified with larger concentrations in Hong Kong, the UK and the
US. Understanding the resilience of our critical
The impact of exposures to these perils can lead to increased ECL, properties
largely due to the cost of repairs following damages caused by
physical risk events or property valuation impacts caused by the Climate change poses a physical risk to the buildings that we occupy
increasing frequency of physical risk events. as an organisation, including our offices, retail branches and data
centres, both in terms of loss and damage, and business interruption.
The ‘Exposure to peril’ table below shows exposure of our
We measure the impacts of climate and weather events to our
commercial real estate portfolio within our largest markets to specific
buildings on an ongoing basis, using historical, current and scenario
physical risk events. The ‘peak multiplier increase in ECL’ table shows
modelled forecast data. In 2022, there were 38 major storms that had
for our largest markets the peak ECL increase modelled to be
no impact on the availability of our buildings.
experienced during the 2022 to 2050 period. This is a metric which
compares the multiplied levels of exposure in the scenario against a We use stress testing to evaluate the potential for impact to our
counterfactual scenario that incorporates no climate change. We use owned or leased premises. Our scenario stress test, conducted in
the sector’s exposure at default, which represents the relative size of 2022, analysed how seven different climate change-related hazards –
our exposure to potential losses from customer defaults within each comprising coastal inundation, extreme heat, extreme winds,
jurisdiction. wildfires, riverine flooding, soil movement due to drought, and surface
water flooding – could impact 500 of our critical and important
Exposure to peril
buildings.
Proportion of our portfolio exposed to main perils in key markets.
The 2022 stress test covered all 500 buildings and modelled climate
Coastal Cyclone Surface water Riverine change with the NGFS’s Hot house scenario that projects that the rise
inundation wind flooding flooding in the temperature of the world will likely exceed 4°C by 2100. It also
% % % % modelled a less severe scenario that projects that global warming will
Hong likely be limited to 2°C, in line with the upper limit ambition of the
Kong 2 94 18 11 Paris Agreement.
UK 15 0 12 8
US 16 83 15 28
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 229
Risk
review
Risk review
Key findings from the 4°C or greater Hot house scenario included: A key finding from the 2°C, less severe scenario showed:
• By 2050, 62 of the 500 critical and important buildings will have a • The total number of buildings at risk reduces from 146 to 98, with
high potential for impact due to climate change, with insurance- the same 62 key facilities still at risk by 2050 from the same perils.
related losses estimated to be in excess of 10% of the insured
This forward-looking data will inform real estate planning. We will
value of our buildings.
continue to improve our understanding of how extreme weather
• These included 40 locations that face the risk of coastal flooding events impact our building portfolio as climate risk assessment tools
due to sea levels rising and storm surges associated with improve and evolve. Additionally, we buy insurance for property
typhoons and hurricanes. In addition, five locations face the risk of damage and business interruption, and consider insurance as a loss
fluvial flooding due to surface water run-off caused by heavy rain. mitigation strategy depending on its availability and price.
The remaining 17 locations are data centres where the
We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and
predominant risk emanate from a mixture of temperature
global engineering standards, and will continue to assess historical
extremes and water stress, which could impact the mechanical
claims data to help ensure our building selection and design standards
cooling equipment or drought for which the specific direct physical
reflect the potential impacts of climate change.
impacts could be soil movement.
• A further 84 locations have the potential to be impacted by climate
change, albeit to a lesser extent, with insurance-related losses
estimated at between 5% and 10% of the insured value of our
buildings. The principal risks are coastal flooding, drought,
temperature extremes, and water stress.
Resilience risk
Overview management oversight while operating effectively as part of a
simplified non-financial risk structure. We view resilience risk across
Resilience risk is the risk of sustained and significant business nine sub-risk types related to: failure to manage third parties;
disruption from execution, delivery, physical security or safety events, technology and cybersecurity; transaction processing; failure to
causing the inability to provide critical services to our customers, protect people and places from physical malevolent acts; business
affiliates, and counterparties. Resilience risk arises from failures or interruption and incident risk; data risk; change execution risk; building
inadequacies in processes, people, systems or external events. unavailability; and workplace safety.
Resilience risk management Risk appetite and key escalations for resilience risk are reported to the
Non-Financial Risk Management Board, chaired by the Group Chief
Key developments in 2022 Risk and Compliance Officer, with an escalation path to the Group
Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee.
The Operational and Resilience Risk sub-function provides robust risk
steward oversight of the management of resilience risk by the Group Key risk management processes
businesses, functions and legal entities. This includes effective and
Operational resilience is our ability to anticipate, prevent, adapt,
timely independent challenge and expert advice. During the year, we
respond to, recover and learn from operational disruption while
carried out a number of initiatives to keep pace with geopolitical,
minimising customer and market impact. Resilience is determined by
regulatory and technology changes and to strengthen the
assessing whether we are able to continue to provide our most
management of resilience risk:
important services, within an agreed level. This is achieved via day-to-
• We focused on enhancing our understanding of our risk and day oversight and periodic and ongoing assurance, such as deep dive
control environment, by updating our risk taxonomy and control reviews and controls testing, which may result in challenges being
libraries, and refreshing risk and control assessments. raised to the business by risk stewards. Further challenge is also
• We implemented heightened monitoring and reporting of cyber, raised in the form of quarterly risk steward opinion papers to formal
third-party, business continuity and payment/sanctions risks governance. We accept we will not be able to prevent all disruption
resulting from the Russia-Ukraine war, and enhanced controls and but we prioritise investment to continually improve the response and
key processes where needed. recovery strategies for our most important business services.
• We provided analysis and easy-to-access risk and control Business operations continuity
information and metrics to enable management to focus on non-
We continue to monitor the situation in Russia and Ukraine, and
financial risks in their decision making and appetite setting.
remain ready to take measures to help ensure business continuity,
• We further strengthened our non-financial risk governance and should the situation require. There has been no significant impact to
senior leadership, and improved our coverage and risk steward our services in nearby markets where the Group operates.
oversight for data privacy and change execution. Publications from the UK government, EU Commission and energy
We prioritise our efforts on material risks and areas undergoing company National Grid, among others, advised on potential plans for
strategic growth, aligning our location strategy to this need. We also power cuts and energy restrictions across the UK and continental
remotely provide oversight and stewardship, including support of Europe during the winter period. In light of potential disruption,
chief risk officers, in territories where we have no physical presence. businesses and functions in these markets are reviewing existing
plans and responses to minimise the impact.
Governance and structure
The Operational and Resilience Risk target operating model provides a
globally consistent view across resilience risks, strengthening our risk
230 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Regulatory compliance risk
Overview Crime capability both continue to work closely with the regional chief
compliance officers and their respective teams to help them identify
Regulatory compliance risk is the risk associated with breaching our and manage regulatory and financial crime compliance risks across
duty to clients and other counterparties, inappropriate market conduct the Group.
and breaching related financial services regulatory standards. They also work together and with all relevant stakeholders to achieve
Regulatory compliance risk arises from the failure to observe relevant good conduct outcomes and provide enterprise-wide support on the
laws, codes, rules and regulations and can manifest itself in poor compliance risk agenda in collaboration with the Group’s Risk
market or customer outcomes and lead to fines, penalties and function.
reputational damage to our business.
Key risk management processes
Regulatory compliance risk management
The Group Regulatory Conduct capability is responsible for setting
Key developments in 2022 global policies, standards and risk appetite to guide the Group’s
management of regulatory compliance risk. It also devises the
The dedicated programme to embed our updated purpose-led
required frameworks, support processes and tooling to protect
conduct approach has concluded. Work to map applicable regulations
against regulatory compliance risks. The Group capability provides
to our risks and controls continues in 2023 alongside the adoption of
oversight, review and challenge to the regional chief compliance
new tooling to support enterprise-wide horizon scanning for new
officers and their teams to help them identify, assess and mitigate
regulatory obligations and manage our regulatory reporting
regulatory compliance risks, where required. The Group’s regulatory
inventories. Climate risk has been integrated into regulatory
compliance risk policies are regularly reviewed. Global policies and
compliance policies and processes, with enhancements made to the
procedures require the identification and escalation of any actual or
product governance framework and controls in order to ensure the
potential regulatory breaches, and relevant reportable events are
effective consideration of climate – and in particular greenwashing –
escalated to the Group’s Non-Financial Risk Management Board, the
risks.
Group Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee, as
Governance and structure appropriate. The Group Head of Compliance reports to the Group
The structure of the Compliance function is substantively unchanged Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and attends the Risk and
and the Group Regulatory Conduct capability and Group Financial Compliance Executive Committee, the Group Risk Management
Meeting and the Group Risk Committee.
Financial crime risk
Overview Governance and structure
The structure of the Financial Crime function remained substantively
Financial crime risk is the risk that HSBC’s products and services will unchanged in 2022, although we continued to review the
be exploited for criminal activity. This includes fraud, bribery and effectiveness of our governance framework to manage financial crime
corruption, tax evasion, sanctions and export control violations, risk. The Group Head of Financial Crime and Group Money Laundering
money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation financing. Reporting Officer continues to report to the Group Chief Risk and
Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day banking operations Compliance Officer, while the Group Risk Committee retains
involving customers, third parties and employees. oversight of matters relating to fraud, bribery and corruption, tax
Financial crime risk management evasion, sanctions and export control breaches, money laundering,
terrorist financing and proliferation financing.
Key developments in 2022
Key risk management processes
We regularly review the effectiveness of our financial crime risk
We will not tolerate knowingly conducting business with individuals or
management framework, which includes consideration of the
entities believed to be engaged in criminal activity. We require
complex and dynamic nature of sanctions compliance risk. In 2022,
everybody in HSBC to play their role in maintaining effective systems
we adapted our policies, procedures and controls to respond to the
and controls to prevent and detect financial crime. Where we believe
unprecedented volume and diverse set of sanctions and trade
we have identified suspected criminal activity or vulnerabilities in our
restrictions imposed against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine.
control framework, we will take appropriate mitigating action.
We also continued to make progress with several key financial crime
We manage financial crime risk because it is the right thing to do to
risk management initiatives, including:
protect our customers, shareholders, staff, the communities in which
• We enhanced our screening and non-screening controls to aid the we operate, as well as the integrity of the financial system on which
identification of potential sanctions risk related to Russia, as well we all rely. We operate in a highly regulated industry in which these
as risk arising from export control restrictions. same policy goals are codified in law and regulation.
• We deployed a key component of our intelligence-led, dynamic We are committed to complying with the laws and regulations of all
risk assessment capability for customer account monitoring in the markets in which we operate and applying a consistently high
additional UK entities, Mexico and Singapore, and have expanded financial crime standard globally.
coverage to include monitoring of customer credit card activity in
We continue to assess the effectiveness of our end-to-end financial
the UK. Furthermore we have deployed a next generation
crime risk management framework, and invest in enhancing our
capability for the monitoring of correspondent banking activity in
operational control capabilities and technology solutions to deter and
Hong Kong and the UK.
detect criminal activity. We have simplified our framework by
• We reconfigured our transaction screening capability to be ready streamlining and de-duplicating policy requirements. We also
for the global change to payment systems formatting under strengthened our financial crime risk taxonomy and control libraries
ISO20022 requirements, and enhanced transaction screening and our investigative and monitoring capabilities through technology
capabilities by implementing automated alert discounting. deployments. We developed more targeted metrics, and have also
enhanced our governance and reporting.
• We strengthened the first-party lending fraud framework,
reviewed and published an updated fraud policy and associated We are committed to working in partnership with the wider industry
control library, and continued to develop fraud detection tools. and the public sector in managing financial crime risk and we
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 231
Risk
review
Risk review
participate in numerous public-private partnerships and information Independent Reviews
sharing initiatives around the world. In 2022, our focus remained on
In August 2022, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
measures to improve the overall effectiveness of the global financial
System terminated its 2012 cease-and-desist order, with immediate
crime framework, notably by providing input into legislative and
effect. This order was the final remaining regulatory enforcement
regulatory reform activities. We did this by contributing to the
action that HSBC had entered into in 2012. In June 2021, the UK
development of responses to consultation papers focused on how
Financial Conduct Authority had already determined that no further
financial crime risk management frameworks can deliver more
skilled person work was required under section 166 of the Financial
effective outcomes in detecting and deterring criminal activity,
Services and Markets Act. The Group Risk Committee retains
including tackling evolving criminal behaviours such as fraud. Through
oversight of matters relating to financial crime, including any
our work with the Wolfsberg Group and the Institute of International
remaining remedial activity not yet completed as part of previous
Finance, we supported the efforts of the global standard setter, the
recommendations.
Financial Action Task Force. In addition, we participated in a number
of public events related to tackling forestry crimes, wildlife trafficking
and human trafficking.
Model risk
Overview • We have completed independent validations of a suite of newly
developed models for the forthcoming IFRS17 accounting
Model risk is the risk of inappropriate or incorrect business decisions standards for insurance.
arising from the use of models that have been inadequately designed, • We have enhanced our model risk teams with specialist skills to
implemented or used, or from models that do not perform in line with manage the increased model risk in areas such as climate risk and
expectations and predictions. models using advanced analytics and machine learning, as they
Model risk arises in both financial and non-financial contexts become critical areas of focus that will grow in importance in 2023
whenever business decision making includes reliance on models. and beyond.
Key developments in 2022 Governance and structure
In 2022, we continued to make improvements in our model risk Model risk governance committees at the Group, business and
management processes amid regulatory changes in model functional levels provide oversight of model risk. The committees
requirements. include senior leaders from the three global businesses and the Group
Risk and Compliance function, and focus on model-related concerns
Initiatives during the year included:
and are supported by key model risk metrics. We also have Model
• In response to regulatory capital changes, we redeveloped, Risk Committees in our geographical regions focused on local delivery
independently validated and submitted to the PRA and other local and requirements. The Group-level Model Risk Committee is chaired
regulators our models for the internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) by the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and the heads of key
approach for credit risk, internal model method (‘IMM’) for businesses participate in these meetings.
counterparty credit risk and internal model approach (‘IMA’) for
Key risk management processes
market risk. These new models have been built to enhanced
standards using improved data as a result of investment in
We use a variety of modelling approaches, including regression,
processes and systems.
simulation, sampling, machine learning and judgemental scorecards
• We redeveloped and validated models impacted by the changes to for a range of business applications. These activities include customer
the alternative rate setting mechanisms due to the Ibor transition. selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction monitoring,
creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting. Global
• We embedded changes to address gaps in the control framework
responsibility for managing model risk is delegated from the Board to
that emerged as a result of increases in adjustments and overlays
the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, who authorises the
that were applied to compensate for the impact of the Covid-19
Group Model Risk Committee. This committee regularly reviews our
pandemic, and the subsequent volatility due to the effects of the
model risk management policies and procedures, and requires the
rise in global interest rates on the ECL models.
first line of defence to demonstrate comprehensive and effective
• We have increased the involvement of first line colleagues in controls based on a library of model risk controls provided by Model
businesses and functions in the development and management of Risk Management. Model Risk Management also reports on model
models. We also put an enhanced focus on key model risk drivers risk to senior management and the Group Risk Committee on a
such as data quality and model methodology. regular basis through the use of the risk map, risk appetite metrics
and top and emerging risks.
• We have sought to enhance the reporting that supports the model
risk appetite measures, to support our businesses and functions in We regularly review the effectiveness of these processes, including
managing model risk more effectively. the model oversight committee structure, to help ensure appropriate
understanding and ownership of model risk is embedded in the
• We continued the transformation of the Model Risk Management
businesses and functions.
team, with further enhancements to the independent model
validation processes, including new systems and working
practices. Key senior hires were made during the year to lead the
business areas and regions to strengthen oversight and expertise
within the function.
232 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Insurance manufacturing operations risk
Contents by geopolitical factors and wider inflationary concerns. One area of
key risk management focus was the implementation of the new
accounting standard, IFRS17 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Given the
233 Overview
fundamental nature of the impact of the accounting standard on
233 Insurance manufacturing operations risk management
insurance accounting, this presents additional financial reporting and
235 Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2022 model risks for the Group. Another area of focus was the acquisition
235 Measurement early in 2022 of an insurance business in Singapore and the
237 Key risk types subsequent integration of that business into the Group’s risk
237 – Market risk management framework.
238 – Credit risk Governance and structure
238 – Liquidity risk
(Audited)
238 – Insurance underwriting risk
Insurance manufacturing risks are managed to a defined risk appetite,
Overview which is aligned to the Group’s risk appetite and risk management
framework, including its three lines of defence model. For details of
The key risks for our insurance manufacturing operations are market the Group’s governance framework, see page 133. The Global
risk, in particular interest rate and equity, credit risk and insurance Insurance Risk Management Meeting oversees the control
underwriting risk. These have a direct impact on the financial results framework globally and is accountable to the WPB Risk Management
and capital positions of the insurance operations. Liquidity risk, while Meeting on risk matters relating to the insurance business.
significant in other parts of the Group, is relatively minor for our The monitoring of the risks within our insurance operations is carried
insurance operations. out by Insurance Risk teams. The Group’s risk stewardship functions
support the Insurance Risk teams in their respective areas of
HSBC’s insurance business
expertise.
We sell insurance products through a range of channels including our Stress and scenario testing
branches, insurance salesforces, direct channels and third-party
distributors. The majority of sales are through an integrated (Audited)
bancassurance model that provides insurance products principally for
Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management framework for
customers with whom we have a banking relationship, although the the insurance business. We participate in local and Group-wide
proportion of sales through other sources such as independent
regulatory stress tests, as well as internally developed stress and
financial advisers, tied agents and digital is increasing.
scenario tests, including Group internal stress test exercises.
For the insurance products we manufacture, the majority of sales are
The results of these stress tests and the adequacy of management
savings, universal life and protection contracts.
action plans to mitigate these risks are considered in the Group’s
We choose to manufacture these insurance products in HSBC ICAAP and the entities’ regulatory Own Risk and Solvency
subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk Assessments (‘ORSAs’), which are produced by all material entities.
appetite. Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and
Key risk management processes
rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping part
of the underwriting profit and investment income within the Group. Market risk
We have life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in eight markets, (Audited)
which are Hong Kong, Singapore, mainland China, France, the UK, All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk
Malta, Mexico and Argentina. We also have a life insurance mandates and limits that specify the investment instruments in which
manufacturing associate in India. they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market
Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale to be an risk that they may retain. They manage market risk by using, among
effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a small number of others, some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the
leading external insurance companies in order to provide insurance nature of the contracts written:
products to our customers. These arrangements are generally • We are able to adjust bonus rates to manage the liabilities to
structured with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a policyholders for products with discretionary participating features
combination of commissions, fees and a share of profits. We (‘DPF’). The effect is that a significant proportion of the market risk
distribute insurance products in all of our geographical regions. is borne by the policyholder.
This section focuses only on the risks relating to the insurance • We use asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are
products we manufacture. structured to support projected liability cash flows. The Group
Insurance manufacturing operations manages its assets using an approach that considers asset quality,
diversification, cash flow matching, liquidity, volatility and target
risk management investment return. We use models to assess the effect of a range
of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated
Key developments in 2022 liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how
best to structure asset holdings to support liabilities.
The insurance manufacturing subsidiaries follow the Group’s risk • We use derivatives to protect against adverse market movements.
management framework. In addition, there are specific policies and
• We design new products to mitigate market risk, such as changing
practices relating to the risk management of insurance contracts,
the investment return sharing proportion between policyholders
which have not changed materially over 2022. During the year, there
and the shareholder.
was continued market volatility observed across interest rates, equity
markets and foreign exchange rates. This was predominantly driven
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 233
Risk
review
Corporate
governance
report
HSBC continues to enhance its corporate
governance practices and procedures to
support the Board's ambition of world-class
governance.
The corporate governance report gives
details of our Board of Directors, senior
management, and Board committees.
It outlines key aspects of our approach
to corporate governance, including
internal control.
It also includes the Directors’ remuneration
report, which explains our policies on
remuneration and their application.
240 The Board
244 Senior management
248 How we are governed
255 Board activities during 2022
257 Board and committee effectiveness,
performance and accountability
259 Board committees
276 Directors' remuneration report
301 Share capital and other related disclosures
306 Internal control
308 Employees
310 Statement of compliance
311 Directors' responsibility statement
We have a comprehensive range of policies and systems
in place designed to help ensure that the Group is well
managed, with effective oversight and control.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 239
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
The Board
The Board, which seeks to promote the Group’s long-term
success, deliver sustainable value to shareholders and
promote a culture of openness and debate, comprises
diverse, high-calibre members who have experience in
our global markets.
Chairman and executive Directors
Mark E Tucker (65) Noel Quinn (61) Georges Elhedery (48)
Group Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board: September 2017 Appointed to the Board: August 2019 Appointed to the Board: January 2023
Group Chairman since: October 2017 Group Chief Executive since: March 2020
Skills and experience: Georges has 25 years of
Skills and experience: With over 35 years of Skills and experience: Having qualified as an experience in the banking industry across Europe,
experience in financial services in Asia, Africa, accountant in 1987, Noel has more than 30 years the Middle East and Asia, and has held a number of
the US, the EU and the UK, including 30 years of banking and financial services experience, executive roles at both a regional and global
living and working in Hong Kong, Mark has a both in the UK and Asia. business level.
deep understanding of the industry and markets
in which we operate. Career: Noel was appointed Group Chief Executive Career: Georges was appointed Group Chief
in March 2020, having held the role on an interim Financial Officer and executive Director with effect
Career: Mark was previously Chairman, Group basis since August 2019. Since joining HSBC and its from 1 January 2023. He is also responsible for the
Chief Executive and President of AIA Group Limited constituent companies in 1987, Noel has held a oversight of the Group’s transformation programme
(‘AIA’), and prior to AIA he was Group Chief variety of roles including Chief Executive Officer, and corporate development activities. Georges was
Executive of Prudential plc. Global Commercial Banking; Regional Head of previously co-Chief Executive Officer, Global
Commercial Banking for Asia-Pacific; Head of Banking and Markets and also Head of the Markets
Mark previously served as a non-executive Director Commercial Banking UK; and Head of Commercial and Securities Services division of the business.
of the Court of the Bank of England and as an Finance Europe. Georges joined HSBC in 2005 with extensive trading
independent non-executive Director of Goldman experience in London, Paris and Tokyo. He has since
Sachs Group. Other appointments: held a number of senior leadership roles, including
– Chair of the Financial Services Task Force of the Head of Global Banking and Markets, Middle East
Other appointments: Sustainable Markets Initiative and North Africa; Chief Executive Officer for HSBC,
– Non-executive Chairman of Discovery Limited – Member of the Advisory Council of the Sustainable Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye; and Global
– Supporting Chair of Chapter Zero Markets Initiative Head of Markets based in London.
– Member of the UK Investment Council – Founding member of CNBC ESG Council
– Member of the Advisory Group on Trade Finance – Member of the Advisory Board of the China
to the International Chamber of Commerce Children Development Fund
– Member of the Trade Advisory Group on Financial – Principal member of the Glasgow Financial
Services to the UK Government’s Department for Alliance for Net Zero
International Trade – Member of the World Economic Forum’s
– Member of the Asia Business Council International Business Council
– Chairman of the Multinational Chairman’s Group
– Co-Chair of the Indian B20 Taskforce on Financial
Inclusion for Economic Empowerment
– Director, Peterson Institute for International
Economics
– Director, Institute of International Finance
– Asia Society Board of Trustees
Board committee membership key
Committee Chair
Group Audit Committee
Group Risk Committee
Group Remuneration Committee
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
For full biographical details of our Board
members, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance.
240 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Independent non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham (45) Rachel Duan (52) Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (62)
Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive
Director Director Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2022 Appointed to the Board: Appointed to the Board:
September 2021 September 2021
Skills and experience: Geraldine is
an experienced executive within the Skills and experience: Rachel is Skills and experience: Carolyn has
global financial services industry, an experienced business leader with significant experience across the
with significant leadership experience exceptional international experience in media, government and finance
in Asia. the US, Japan, mainland China and sectors, and a deep understanding
Hong Kong. of the macroeconomic, regulatory,
Career: Geraldine is the former Chair and political environment.
and Head of Asia-Pacific at BlackRock, Career: Rachel spent 24 years at
where she was responsible for all General Electric (‘GE’), where she Career: An economist by training,
business activities across Hong Kong, held positions including Senior Vice Carolyn has served as a partner at
mainland China, Japan, Australia, President of GE, and President and McKinsey & Company, Director-
Singapore, India and Korea. After Chief Executive Officer of GE’s Global General of the Confederation of British
stepping down from this role, she Markets where she was responsible Industry, and held senior executive
acted as senior adviser to the for driving GE’s growth in Asia-Pacific, positions at BBC and ITV plc. She has
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, extensive board experience, having
of BlackRock. She earlier served as Russia and the Commonwealth previously served as non-executive
BlackRock’s Global Head of Corporate of Independent States. She also Director of Lloyds Banking Group plc,
Strategy, and previously was a partner previously served as President The Vitec Group plc, Capita plc and
within McKinsey & Company’s and Chief Executive Officer of GE BAE Systems plc. She has also served
financial services practice. Advanced Materials China and then as a non-executive Director of the UK
of the Asia-Pacific; President and Competition and Markets Authority
Other appointments: CEO of GE Healthcare China; and and the Financial Services Authority.
– Independent non-executive Director President and CEO of GE China.
of Brunswick Group Partnership Ltd Other appointments:
– Member of the Advisory Board of Other appointments: – Honorary Fellow of Gonville and
ClimateWorks Centre Australia – Independent non-executive Director Caius College, Cambridge
of Sanofi S.A. – Honorary Fellow of Nuffield
– Independent non-executive Director College, Oxford
of AXA S.A. – Chair of Trustees at Royal Mencap
– Independent non-executive Director Society
of the Adecco Group AG
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 241
Corporate
governance
Eileen Murray (64) David Nish (62) Jackson Tai (72) Aileen Taylor (50)
Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Group Company Secretary and
Appointed to the Board: July 2020 Appointed to the Board: May 2016 Appointed to the Board: September 2016 Chief Governance Officer
Senior Independent non-executive Appointed: November 2019
Skills and experience: Eileen has Skills and experience: Jackson has
Director since: February 2020
extensive knowledge in financial held senior operating and governance Skills and experience: Aileen
services, technology and corporate Skills and experience: David has roles across Asia, North America is a solicitor with significant
strategy from a career spanning international experience in financial and Europe. governance and regulatory
more than 40 years. services, corporate governance, experience across various roles
strategy, financial reporting, and Career: Jackson was Vice Chairman in the banking industry. She is a
Career: Eileen previously served operational transformation. and Chief Executive Officer of DBS member of the European Corporate
as co-Chief Executive Officer of Group and DBS Bank Ltd, having Governance Council, the GC100
Bridgewater Associates, LP. Before Career: David served as Group Chief previously served as Chief Financial and the Financial Conduct
this, she was Chief Executive Officer Executive Officer of Standard Life plc Officer and President and Chief Authority’s Listing Authority
for Investment Risk Management LLC, between 2010 and 2015, having joined Operating Officer. He worked for Advisory Panel.
and President and co-Chief Executive the company in 2006 as Group 25 years in the investment banking
Officer of Duff Capital Advisors. Finance Director. He is also a former division of J.P. Morgan & Co. Career: Prior to joining HSBC,
Eileen started her professional career Group Finance Director of Scottish Incorporated, holding roles as Aileen spent 19 years at the Royal
at Morgan Stanley, where she held Power plc and was a partner at Price Chairman of the Asia-Pacific Bank of Scotland Group, holding
positions including Controller, Waterhouse. David has also previously Management Committee and Head various legal, risk and compliance
Treasurer, and Global Head of served as a non-executive Director of of Japan Capital Markets. Former roles. She was appointed Group
Technology and Operations, as HDFC Life (India), Northern Foods plc, non-executive Director appointments Secretary in 2010 and subsequently
well as Chief Operating Officer for Thus plc, London Stock Exchange included Canada Pension Plan Chief Governance Officer and
its Institutional Securities Group. She Group plc, the UK Green Investment Investment Board, Royal Philips N.V., Board Counsel.
was also Head of Global Technology, Bank plc and Zurich Insurance Group. Bank of China Limited, Singapore
Operations and Product Control at Airlines, NYSE Euronext, ING Groep
Credit Suisse. Other appointments: N.V., CapitaLand Ltd, SingTel Ltd.
– Independent non-executive Director and Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. He also
Other appointments: of Vodafone Group plc served as Vice Chairman of Islamic
– Independent non-executive Director – Honorary Professor of University Bank of Asia.
of Guardian Life Insurance Company of Dundee Business School
of America Other appointments:
– Independent non-executive Director – Independent non-executive Director
of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc of Eli Lilly and Company
– Independent non-executive Director – Independent non-executive Director
and Chair of Carbon Arc of MasterCard Incorporated
– Strategic Adviser of Invisible Urban – Member of the Advisory Panel of the
Charging Russell Reynolds Associates Board
– Adviser of ConsenSys and CEO Advisory Group
– Member of the Board of Trustees of
the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
– Member of the Association of the
Metropolitan Opera Board
Former Directors who served during the year
Irene Lee
Irene Lee retired from the Board on 29 April 2022
Pauline van der Meer Mohr
Pauline van der Meer Mohr retired from the Board
on 29 April 2022
Ewen Stevenson For full biographical details of our Board members,
Ewen Stevenson resigned from the Board on see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance.
31 December 2022
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 243
Corporate
governance
Dr Celine Herweijer (45) John Hinshaw (52) Bob Hoyt (58)
Group Chief Sustainability Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Group Chief Legal Officer
Celine joined HSBC as Group Chief John became Group Chief Operating Bob joined HSBC as Group Chief
Sustainability Officer in July 2021, and Officer in February 2020, having joined Legal Officer in January 2021. He was
is responsible for the Group’s execution HSBC in December 2019. He has previously Group General Counsel at
of its sustainability strategy. She is also extensive background in transforming Barclays from 2013 to 2020. Prior to
co-chair of the Group’s ESG Committee. and digitising organisations across a that, he was General Counsel and
She was previously a partner at PwC for range of industries. John was previously Chief Regulatory Affairs Officer for
over a decade, where she held global Executive Vice President of Technology PNC Financial Services Group. Bob
leadership roles including acting as its and Operations and Chief Customer has served as General Counsel and
global innovation and sustainability Officer at Hewlett Packard and Hewlett Senior Policy Adviser to the US
leader. Before joining PwC in 2009, Packard Enterprise, and has held senior Department of the Treasury under
Celine worked as Director of Climate executive positions at Verizon and Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr, and
Change and Consulting for Risk Boeing. John serves on the boards of as Special Assistant and Associate
Management Solutions. She is a World Sysco Corporation and Illumio, Inc., and Counsel to the White House under
Economic Forum Young Global Leader, has previously served on the boards of President George W. Bush.
a co-chair of the We Mean Business BNY Mellon, DocuSign and the National
Coalition, a PhD climate scientist and Academy Foundation.
NASA Fellow.
Steve John (49) Pam Kaur (59) David Liao (50)
Group Chief Communications and Group Chief Risk and Co-Chief Executive Officer,
Brand Officer Compliance Officer Asia-Pacific – The Hongkong
and Shanghai Banking
Steve joined HSBC in December Pam was appointed Group Chief Risk Corporation Limited
2019 and was appointed to the and Compliance Officer in 2021,
Group Executive Committee in having held the position of Group David was appointed co-Chief
April 2021. He has a wealth of senior Chief Risk Officer since 2020. Since Executive Officer of the Asia-Pacific
communications, public policy joining HSBC in 2013, her roles region in 2021. He is a Director of the
and leadership experience acquired included Group Head of Internal Audit Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
across a number of multinational and and Head of Wholesale Market and Corporation Limited, Bank of
charitable organisations. Steve was Credit Risk. Pam has also held a Communications Co., Limited, and
previously a partner and Global variety of audit, compliance, finance Hang Seng Bank Limited. David joined
Director of Communications at and operations roles in the banking HSBC in 1997, with previous roles
McKinsey & Company from 2014 to industry, including with Deutsche including: Head of Global Banking
2019. He has also held roles with Bupa Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland Group, Coverage for Asia-Pacific; President
as Global Director of Corporate Affairs Lloyds TSB and Citigroup. She serves and Chief Executive of HSBC China;
and PepsiCo as Director of Corporate as a non-executive Director of abrdn Head of Global Banking and Markets,
Affairs for their UK and Ireland plc, and was previously a non- HSBC China; and Treasurer and Head
franchises. executive Director of Centrica plc. of Global Markets, HSBC China.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 245
Corporate
governance
Board and senior management diversity
We value difference
Diversity and inclusion are embedded within the culture of HSBC. The Board remains
committed to having an inclusive culture that recognises the importance of
gender, social and ethnic diversity, and the benefits gained from different perspectives.
This section outlines the key diversity and inclusion metrics for Board members and executive management as at 31 December 2022.
This includes tenure, age, skills and experience, gender and ethnic representation.
Gender and ethnic diversity Board composition,
Board Board
tenure and age
The Financial Conduct Authority, in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority, introduced new rules
Male White British or other
during 2022 that require listed companies to publish information on female and ethnic heritage
Female Wh2ite (i ncluding 10
representation on the Board and in senior management within the Annual Report and Accounts
minority-White groups)
2023. The tables below outline the current gender and ethnic diversity of the HSBC Holdings
Asian/Asian British
Board and executive management in advance of these requirements becoming applicable. Executive Non-executive
Other ethnic groups,
Directors Directors
including Arab
Gender
Board Board ExecBuatliavnec me aonf aegxeemcuetnivte DEixreecctuotrivse managemenTtenure Age
and non executive Directors
Male White British or otMhearl e White British or other White 0–2 years 45–49
Female White (including Female Non executive (including minority-White groups) 2–4 years 50–54
minority-White groups) Directors 10 Mixed/multiple ethnic groups 5–7 years 55–59
Asian/Asian British Executive Asian/Asian British 60–64
Other ethnic groups, Directors 2 Other ethnic group, including Arab Over 65
including Arab Not specified/prefer not to say
Board members Executive management2
E B xe a c la u n ti c v e e o m f a e n x a e g cu em tiv e e n D t ire E c x t e o c r u s tive managem T e e n n t ure Number of Age
Board Number Board% senior positions1 Number %
and non executive Directors
Male White British or other White
Male Female Male 8 (inc 6 l 7 uding minority-WWhihte 4it eg rBoruitpiss)h or10 7o –2 th y e e r ars 81 45–49
Female Non exFeecmutaivlee 4 Mi3x3ed/multiple ethnWich g0itreo u(inpcsludin 2 g4 – 4 years 19 50–54
Directors 10 Asian/Asian Britishminority-White 5 g – r 7 o u y p e s a ) rs 55–59
Other Executive – Othe – r ethnic group, inAcsluiad – nin/gA sAiraanb Briti – sh – 60–64
Not specified/prefer not to say Directors 2 – Not –specified/preferO ntho–et rt oe tshanyic gro–ups, – Over 65
including Arab
Ethnic diversity
Board Board Executive management Executive management
Skills and experience
Male White British or otMhearl e White British or other White
Female White (including Female (including minority-White groups) The Board, through its Nomination &
minority-White groups) Mixed/multiple ethnic groups Corporate Governance Committee, regularly
Asian/Asian British Asian/Asian British reviews the skills and experience it requires
Other ethnic groups, Other ethnic group, including Arab to effectively discharge its responsibilities.
including Arab Not specified/prefer not to say A skills matrix, which is a key tool used by
the Board to inform its succession planning
discussions, is reviewed at least annually
Executive management Executive management
Board members Executive management2 by the Board. An extract of the skills matrix,
Number of showing a selection of the current skills and
Male White British or othNeurm Wbheitre % senior positions1 Number %
experience of the non-executive Directors,
Female (including minority-White groups)
White British or other White 9 75 4 14 66 is shown below.
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups
(including minority-White groups)
Asian/Asian British
Mixed/multiple ethnicO gthroeru epthsnic group, includi–ng Arab – – 1 5 Banking 9
Asian/Asian British Not specified/prefer not 2to say 17 – 4 19 Finance 7
Black/African/Caribbean/ – – – – Risk 8
Black British
Customer 5
Other ethnic group, 1 8 – 1 5
Technology/digital 4
including Arab
Corporate social responsibility/ESG 3
Not specified/prefer not to say – – 1 5
Direct Asia market experience 4
1 Senior positions on the Board comprise the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial
Male
Officer and Senior Independent non-executive Director. Global business experience 7
2 Executive management comprises the Group Chief Executive, his direct reports, and the Group Company
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 247
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
How we are governed
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Operation of the Board
Group has a comprehensive range of policies and procedures in place
designed to help ensure that it is well managed, with effective The Board is ordinarily scheduled to meet at least seven times a year.
oversight and controls. We comply with the UK Corporate In 2022, the Board held 15 meetings. For further details on
Governance Code and the applicable requirements of the Hong Kong attendance at those meetings, see page 250. The Board agenda is
Corporate Governance Code. agreed by the Group Chairman, working with both the Group Chief
Executive and the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance
Board’s role, Directors’
Officer. For further information, see ’Board activities during 2022’ on
responsibilities and meeting page 255.
The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, the
attendance
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the Group Chief Legal
Officer and the non-executive Chairman of The Hongkong and
The Board, led by the Group Chairman, is responsible among other Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited are all regular attendees at
matters for: Board meetings. Other senior executives attend Board meetings for
• promoting the Group’s long-term success and delivering specific items as required.
sustainable value to shareholders; In addition to formal Board meetings, the Board Oversight Sub-Group
• establishing and approving the Group’s strategy and objectives, met in advance of each Board meeting during 2022. Such meetings
and monitoring the alignment of the Group’s purpose, strategy and were established following the appointment of Noel Quinn as Group
values with the desired culture; Chief Executive and changes to the senior management team as an
informal mechanism for a smaller group of Board members and
• setting the Group’s risk appetite and monitoring the Group’s risk
management to discuss emerging issues and upcoming Board
profile;
matters. Standing attendees comprise the Group Chairman, the Chair
• approving and monitoring capital and financial resource plans for of the Group Audit Committee (who is also the Senior Independent
achieving strategic objectives, including material transactions; Director), the Chair of the Group Risk Committee, the Chair of the
Group Remuneration Committee, the Group Chief Executive, the
• considering and approving the Group’s technology and
Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group Chief Risk and Compliance
environmental, social and governance strategies;
Officer, and the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance
• approving the appointment and remuneration of Directors, Officer. Other non-executive Directors and senior management are
including Board roles; and invited on an ad hoc basis, depending on the subject matter to be
• reviewing the Group’s overall corporate governance arrangements. discussed. The forum is not decision making but provides regular
opportunities for Board members to communicate with senior
The Board’s responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters management to deepen their understanding of, and provide input into,
reserved within its terms of reference, which are available on our key issues facing the Group. Following a review by the Group
website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/ Chairman and Group Chief Executive of the role of the Board
board-responsibilities. The Board’s powers are subject to relevant Oversight Sub-Group, it was agreed that it would only be used on an
laws, regulations and HSBC’s articles of association. ad hoc basis where necessary going forward.
The role of the independent non-executive Directors is to support the Relationship between the Board and senior
development of strategy, oversee risk, hold management to account
and ensure the executive Directors are discharging their management
responsibilities properly, while creating the right culture to encourage
The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and
constructive challenge. Further details on the independence of the
implementation of strategy to the Group Chief Executive. The Group
Board can be found in the Nomination & Corporate Governance
Chief Executive is supported in his management of the Group by
Committee report on page 259. Non-executive Directors also review
recommendations and advice from the Group Executive Committee
the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and
(’GEC’), an executive forum comprising members of senior
objectives. The Group Chairman meets with the non-executive
management that include chief executive officers of the global
Directors without the executive Directors in attendance after Board
businesses, regional chief executive officers and functional heads. For
meetings and otherwise, as necessary.
further details of the senior management team, see page 244.
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate.
The Directors are encouraged to have contact with management at all
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the leadership of
levels, and have full access to all relevant information. Non-executive
the Board by the Group Chairman, and the executive responsibility for
Directors are encouraged to visit local business operations and meet
day-to-day management of HSBC’s business, which is undertaken by
local management when they attend Board meetings in different
the Group Chief Executive.
locations, and when travelling for other reasons. Board and senior
The majority of Board members are independent non-executive management travel resumed in 2022, which allowed for more
Directors. At 31 December 2022, the Board comprised the Group opportunities for Board members to meet together in person and with
Chairman, nine non-executive Directors, and two executive Directors key stakeholders. As Covid-19 restrictions remained in place for some
who are the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial markets, and with the safety of colleagues and customers a priority,
Officer. One non-executive Director will not stand for re-election at several virtual meetings with senior executives continued to take
the AGM in May 2023. place, which included business meetings, induction meetings and
For further details of Board members' career backgrounds, skills, subject matter ’deep dives’.
experience and external appointments, see their biographies on
page 240, and for a breakdown of the diversity and skills of the Board
and senior management, see page 247.
248 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Executive governance framework, refreshed by the Board in 2021, aims to provide
subsidiaries with a shared understanding and a consistent approach
The Group’s executive governance is underpinned by the Group
towards the Group’s strategic objectives, culture and values, and
operating rhythm, which helps facilitate end-to-end governance
ensure that corporate governance best practice is applied throughout.
between senior leadership and the Board, and sets out the Board and
The framework sets clear overarching principles for subsidiaries to
executive engagement schedule.
follow to improve communications and connectivity within the Group.
The Group operating rhythm has the following three pillars:
It also focuses on ensuring that each subsidiary is led by an effective
• The GEC normally meets every week to discuss current and board with an appropriate balance of skills, diversity, experience and
emerging issues. knowledge, having regard to the nature of the subsidiary's business
• On a monthly basis, the GEC reviews the performance of each of and any local legal and regulatory requirements. Board composition of
the global businesses in principal geographical areas and legal the Group's subsidiaries is kept under review as part of succession
entities. These performance reviews are supplemented by planning.
operating unit performance review meetings between the Group The framework is subject to periodic review by the Board and/or its
Chief Financial Officer and each of the chief executive officers of Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and is updated to
the respective global businesses, regions and principal ensure that there is clarity for the directors and officers of their
subsidiaries. The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer usually respective roles and responsibilities.
attends these meetings.
Since the revised framework was implemented in 2021, there has
• The GEC holds a strategy and governance meeting two weeks in been a notable improvement in the diversity of subsidiary board
advance of each Board meeting. composition.
In addition, during the year, the Group Chief Executive independently To continue this progress, HSBC in 2022 launched a Bank Director
conducts several business reviews on focus areas such as costs and Programme to develop and equip internal talent to undertake non-
the financial reporting plan. executive employee director roles on subsidiary boards. This
Separate committees have been established to provide specialist programme is delivered in partnership with an external business
oversight for matters delegated to the Group Chief Executive and school, and provides certified qualifications to its participants in
senior management. For further details of these committees, see becoming highly skilled and knowledgeable subsidiary director
page 251. candidates.
To further support our senior management, we have dedicated The Group Chairman interacts regularly with the chairs of the principal
corporate governance officers supporting our global businesses and subsidiaries, including through the Chairman’s Forum, which brings
global functions to assist in effective end-to-end governance, together the chairs of the principal subsidiaries and the chairs of the
consistency and connectivity. Group’s audit, risk and remuneration committees, and depending on
the topic for discussion, also the Group Chief Executive, non-
Subsidiary governance executive Directors and relevant executive management, advisers
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate and/or external experts. In 2022, the Chairman’s Forum covered
governance throughout the Group. All subsidiary boards and their strategic business considerations, geopolitics, global public health,
respective businesses are required to have in place effective liability pricing, shareholder engagements, ESG insights, delegations
governance arrangements with regard to the businesses’ nature, size, of authority, employee engagement and financial performance. The
locations and the sectors in which they operate. Non-Executive Director Summits, hosted by the Group Chairman, are
also effective subsidiary directors’ engagement events.
Certain subsidiaries are designated formally as principal subsidiaries
by approval of the Board. In addition to their obligations under their During 2022, the Group Chairman hosted two virtual Non-Executive
respective local laws and regulation, principal subsidiaries, supported Director Summits in March and September, where approximately 180
by regional company secretaries, perform an important role in independent non-executive directors from the Group’s subsidiaries
supporting effective and high standards of governance across the attended along with HSBC Holdings Board Directors. The summits
Group. provide a platform for sharing key messages across subsidiaries, as
well as facilitating greater connectivity and helping to build a sense of
The designated principal subsidiaries are:
community among our subsidiaries’ non-executive directors. In 2022,
the non-executive directors received updates on Group-wide matters
Principal subsidiary Oversight responsibility
including strategy, ESG issues, technology and governance.
The Hongkong and Shanghai
The annual Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum took place in
Banking Corporation Limited Asia-Pacific
November, and provided the principal subsidiary chairs with an
HSBC Bank plc Europe, Bermuda (excluding
opportunity to discuss the Group’s performance and the Group
Switzerland and UK ring-fenced
Remuneration Committee’s priorities. A follow-up forum was held in
activities)
late November to provide transparency around pay outcomes and
HSBC UK Bank plc UK ring-fenced bank and its allocation, with feedback from the discussion used to shape the final
subsidiaries
pay proposals, which were considered and approved by the Group
HSBC Middle East Holdings BV Middle East, North Africa and Remuneration Committee.
Türkiye
Board members attend principal subsidiary meetings as guests from
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. US time to time. Similarly, principal subsidiary directors are invited to
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) attend committee meetings at Group level, where relevant. The chairs
Limited Mexico and Latin America of the principal subsidiary risk committees are regular attendees at
HSBC Bank Canada1 Canada the Group Risk Committee. Similarly, the Group Audit Committee
Chair meets regularly with the principal subsidiary audit committee
1 On 29 November 2022 HSBC announced it had entered into an chairs to promote the sharing of information and best practices.
agreement to sell HSBC Bank Canada, subject to regulatory and These Group Board committees received escalated reports and
governmental approvals. The sale is expected to complete in late 2023. certifications from the principal subsidiary risk and audit committees
through the year.
Principal subsidiaries play a critical role in overseeing the
implementation of the subsidiary accountability framework in the
regions for which they are responsible. The subsidiary accountability
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 249
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board roles, responsibilities and meeting attendance
The table below sets out the Board members’ respective roles, responsibilities and attendance at Board meetings and the AGM in 2022. For a
full description of key Board members’ responsibilities, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-responsibilities.
Board
attendance in
Roles 2022 Responsibilities
Group Chairman 15/15 • Provides effective leadership of the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance
Mark E Tucker1,2 practices.
• Leads the Board in providing strong strategic oversight and setting the Board’s agenda, culture and values.
• Leads the Board in challenging management’s thinking and proposals, and fosters open and constructive
debate among Directors.
• Maintains internal and external relationships with key stakeholders, and communicates investors’ views to the
Board.
• Organises periodic monitoring and evaluation, including externally facilitated evaluation, of the performance of
the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
• Leads on succession planning for the Board and its committees, ensuring appointments reflect diverse
cultures, skills and experiences.
Executive Director 15/15 • Leads and directs the implementation of the Group’s business strategy, embedding the organisation’s culture
Group Chief Executive and values.
Noel Quinn2 • Leads the Group Executive Committee with responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Group, under
authority delegated to him from the Board.
• Maintains relationships with key internal and external stakeholders including the Group Chairman, the Board,
customers, regulators, governments and investors.
• Maintains responsibility and accountability for the Group’s and its employees’ compliance with applicable
laws, codes, rules and regulations, good market practice and HSBC’s own standards.
Executive Director 14/15 • Supports the Group Chief Executive in developing and implementing the Group strategy and recommends the
Group Chief Financial Officer annual budget and long-term strategic and financial resource plan.
Ewen Stevenson2,4,6 • Leads the Finance function and is responsible for effective financial reporting, including the effectiveness of
the processes and controls, to ensure the financial control framework is robust and fit for purpose.
• Maintains relationships with key stakeholders including shareholders.
Non-executive Director 15/15 • Supports the Group Chairman, acting as intermediary for non-executive Directors when necessary.
Senior Independent Director • Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman, supporting the clear division of
David Nish2,3 responsibility between the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
• Listens to shareholders’ views if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels.
Non-executive Directors • Develop and approve the Group strategy.
Geraldine Buckingham3,5 9/9 • Challenge and oversee the performance of management.
Rachel Duan2,3 15/15 • Approve the Group’s risk appetite and review risk profile and performance.
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn2,3 15/15 • Contribute to the assessment and monitoring of culture.
James Forese2,3,6 14/15 • Maintain internal and external relationships with the Group’s key stakeholders.
Steven Guggenheimer2,3 14/15
Irene Lee2,4 6/6
Dr José Antonio Meade 15/15
Kuribreña2,3
Eileen Murray2,3,6 14/15
Jackson Tai2,3 15/15
Pauline van der Meer 4/6
Mohr2,3,4,6
Group Company Secretary • Maintains strong and consistent governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
and Chief Governance • Supports the Group Chairman in ensuring effective functioning of the Board and its committees, and
Officer transparent engagement between senior management and non-executive Directors.
Aileen Taylor • Facilitates induction and professional development of non-executive Directors.
• Advises and supports the Board and management in ensuring effective end-to-end governance and decision
making across the Group.
1 The non-executive Group Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
2 Attended the AGM on 29 April 2022.
3 Independent non-executive Director. All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of HSBC. There are no relationships or
circumstances that are likely to affect any individual non-executive Director’s judgement. All non-executive Directors have confirmed their
independence during the year.
4 Irene Lee and Pauline van der Meer Mohr retired from the Board on 29 April 2022. Ewen Stevenson retired from the Board on 31 December 2022.
5 Geraldine Buckingham joined the Board effective 1 May 2022.
6 Due to prior commitments Eileen Murray and Pauline van der Meer Mohr were not able to attend on 28 March 2022 and Steven Guggenheimer on
2 November 2022. Meetings held on 10 February 2022 and 25 November 2022 were ad hoc meetings called at short notice, and due to prior
commitments, James Forese and Pauline van der Meer Mohr were unable to attend on 10 February 2022 and Ewen Stevenson was unable to attend
on 25 November 2022.
250 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Board committees and working groups In addition to Board committees, working groups have been
established to enhance Board governance, when appropriate,
The Board delegates oversight of certain audit, risk, remuneration, including the Board Oversight Sub-Group and the Technology
nomination and governance matters to its committees. Each standing Governance Working Group, which were first convened in 2019 and
Board committee is chaired by a non-executive Board member and 2021, respectively. For further details of these committees, see
has a remit to cover specific topics in accordance with their page 248 and the box below.
respective terms of reference. Only the Group Chairman and the
The Group Executive Committee has established a number of
independent non-executive Directors are members of Board
committees to provide specialist oversight for matters delegated to
committees. Details of the work carried out by each of the Board
the Group Chief Executive and senior management, which help fulfil
committees can be found in the respective committee reports from
their responsibilities under the Senior Managers and Certification
page 259.
Regime.
The Chairman’s Committee provides the Board with the opportunity
These committees support the Group Chief Executive and senior
to consider ad hoc and routine matters between scheduled Board
management in areas such as capital and liquidity, risk management,
meetings. All Board members are invited to attend Chairman’s
disclosure and financial reporting, restructuring and investment
Committee meetings.
considerations, transformation oversight, ESG matters and talent and
development.
Board
Chair: Mark Tucker
Chairman’s Nomination & Group Audit Group Risk Group Informal governance
Committee Corporate Committee Committee Remuneration
Governance Committee Board Oversight Sub-
Committee Group
Chair: Mark Tucker Chair: Mark Tucker Chair: David Nish Chair: Jackson Tai Chair: Dame Carolyn Chair: Mark Tucker
Fairbairn
See page 259 See page 262 See page 271 See page 276 Technology
Governance Working
Group
Co-Chairs:
Eileen Murray and
Steven Guggenheimer
Group Executive Committee
Chair: Noel Quinn
Acquisitions and Disclosure and Environmental, Group People Group Risk Holdings Asset Transformation
Disposals Controls Social and Committee Management and Liability Oversight
Committee Committee Governance Meeting Committee Executive
Committee Committee
Chair: Noel Chair: Ewen Co-Chairs: Chair: Elaine Arden Chair: Pam Kaur Chair: Ewen Chair: Ewen
Quinn Stevenson1 Celine Herweijer Stevenson1 Stevenson1
and Aileen Taylor
1 Georges Elhedery took over as chair from 1 January 2023.
ESG governance Technology governance
With ESG issues rising up the global agenda, including with the The Technology Governance Working Group was established by the
transition to a sustainable economy, we understood the need to Board in early 2021 to enhance its oversight of technology strategy,
embed ESG considerations more deeply into our governance governance and emerging risks, as well as to strengthen
processes. In February 2021, the Board approved the establishment connectivity with the principal subsidiaries. The role of the working
of an executive level ESG committee to support senior management group is regularly reviewed by the Board. It was agreed in January
in the delivery of the Group’s ESG strategy and development of key 2022 that it should continue as an informal committee of the Board
policies. The ESG Committee also aims to track the Group's for the duration of 2022, and it was extended for a further 12
progress against material commitments by providing holistic months in January 2023. The working group continues to be jointly
oversight, coordination and management of ESG activities. The ESG chaired by two of the Board’s non-executive Directors, Eileen
Committee is jointly chaired by the Group Chief Sustainability Officer Murray and Steven Guggenheimer, and members include the Group
and the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Risk Committee chair and other non-executive Directors
The committee oversees all areas of environmental, social and representing our US, UK, European and Asian principal subsidiaries.
governance issues, with support from accountable senior The working group met formally six times in 2022. These meetings
management in relation to their particular areas of responsibilities. included deep dives on key strategic business initiatives, as well as
Key representatives from the functions and global businesses updates on technology strategy implementation and cybersecurity
attend to provide insights on the implementation of the ESG matters, with attendance from key technology and business
strategy across the Group, allowing the ESG Committee to make stakeholders. There were a number of joint sessions between the
recommendations to the Board in respect of ESG matters. working group, the Group Audit Committee and the Group Risk
Committee. For further details of these sessions, see pages 262
and 271.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 251
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board induction and training For illustrations of typical induction modules, see the ’Directors’
induction and ongoing development in 2022’ table below.
The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer works
Directors undertook routine training during 2022 in subject matters
with the Group Chairman to ensure that all Board members receive
that included: the risk management framework; financial crime; and
appropriate training, both individually and collectively, throughout their
health, safety and well-being. They were provided training by external
time on the Board. On appointment, new Directors are provided with
counsel on their obligations when handling confidential and sensitive
tailored and comprehensive induction programmes to fit with their
information. The Directors also participated in ’deep dive’ sessions
individual experiences and needs, including the process for managing
into specific areas of the Group’s strategic priorities, risk appetite,
conflicts.
approach to managing certain risks, climate-aligned finance and
During 2022, we welcomed one new non-executive Director, market abuse regulations. These training sessions included external
Geraldine Buckingham, to our Board. In October, we also announced consultants who provided insights into geopolitical matters,
that Ewen Stevenson would be stepping down as Group Chief macroeconomics and investor sentiments. Other topics of focus
Financial Officer on 31 December 2022 and be replaced by Georges included: operations and technology strategy; the resolvability
Elhedery. Georges Elhedery’s induction programme commenced assessment framework; and climate change and sustainability.
upon announcement of his proposed appointment, which included a
Non-executive Directors also discussed individual development areas
detailed handover prepared by the Group Chief Financial Officer prior
with the Group Chairman during performance reviews and in
to Georges commencing the role from 1 January 2023.
conversations with the Group Company Secretary and Chief
The induction programme is delivered through formal briefings and Governance Officer. The Group Company Secretary and Chief
introductory sessions with other Board members, senior Governance Officer makes appropriate arrangements for any
management, legal counsel, auditors, tax advisers and regulators, as additional training needs identified using internal resources, or
appropriate. Topics covered in the induction programme include, but otherwise, at HSBC’s expense.
are not limited to: purpose and values; culture and leadership;
Members of Board committees receive relevant training as
governance and stakeholder management; Directors’ legal and
appropriate. Directors may take independent professional advice at
regulatory duties; recovery and resolution planning; anti-money
HSBC’s expense.
laundering and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings; and
strategy. Board Directors who serve on principal subsidiary boards receive
training that is pertinent to circumstances and context relevant to
Where possible, the induction process is initiated before appointment
those boards. Opportunities exist for the principal subsidiary
to allow each new Board member to contribute meaningfully from
committee chairs to share their understanding in specific areas with
appointment. The structure of the induction supports good
the Board Directors as part of the Chairman’s Forum.
information flows within the Board and its committees, as well as
between senior management and non-executive Directors, providing
a clear understanding of our culture and way of operating.
Directors’ induction and ongoing development in 2022
Corporate Chair and
governance, subsidiary non-
Strategy and ESG and other Board global executive
business Risk and reporting mandatory Director
Director Induction1 briefings2 control3 matters4 training5 forums6
Geraldine Buckingham l l l l l l
Rachel Duan ô l l l l l
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn ô l l l l l
James Forese ô l l l l l
Steven Guggenheimer ô l l l l l
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña ô l l l l l
Eileen Murray ô l l l l l
David Nish ô l l l l l
Noel Quinn ô l l l l l
Ewen Stevenson ô l l l l l
Jackson Tai ô l l l l l
Mark Tucker ô l l l l l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
1 The induction programme was delivered through formal briefings and introductory sessions with Board members, senior management, legal counsel,
auditors, tax advisers and regulators, as appropriate. Topics covered included, but were not limited to: purpose and values; culture and leadership;
governance and stakeholder management; Directors’ legal and regulatory duties; recovery and resolution risk; anti-money laundering and anti-bribery;
technical and business briefings; and strategy.
2 Directors participated in business strategy, market development and business briefings, which are global, regional and/or market-specific. Examples of
specific sessions held in 2022 included: ’Sustainability operating model’, ’Implications from the Russia-Ukraine conflict’ and ’Strategy execution of Asia
wealth’.
3 Directors received risk and control training and briefings. Examples of specific sessions held in 2022 included: ’Interest rate risk of the banking book
strategy’ and ’ICAAP/ILAAP’.
4 All Directors received training on topics such as: ’Resolvability assessment framework’, ’Climate-aligned finance’, ’Data literacy’ and ’Cyber
ransomware’.
5 Global mandatory training, issued to all Directors, mirrored training undertaken by all employees, including senior management. This included:
management of risk under the risk management framework; cybersecurity risk; health, safety and well-being; sustainability; financial crime, including
understanding money laundering, terrorist financing, tax, sanctions, fraud and bribery and corruption risks; our values, including workplace harassment;
and data privacy and the protection of data of our customers and colleagues.
6 These included the Chairman’s Forum, Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum and the Non-Executive Director Summits.
252 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Board stakeholder engagement Workforce engagement non-executive
during 2022 Director
The Board is committed to engaging with key stakeholders, including
colleagues, and welcomed the increased focus on bringing the
employee voice into the boardroom, as envisaged by the revisions
made to the UK Corporate Governance Code in 2018.
The Board had previously decided that, given HSBC’s size, scale and
geographical spread, the ’alternative arrangements’ approach for
workforce engagement under the UK Corporate Governance Code
was the suitable option. The Board reviews this annually, and in light
of the challenges facing the organisation and colleagues from factors
outside of HSBC’s control, including the Covid-19 pandemic, decided
to strengthen its practices through the introduction of a non-executive
Director with designated responsibility for workforce engagement. It
was agreed by the Board’s Nomination & Corporate Governance “I was pleased when the Board took the decision to create
Committee in May 2022 to appoint José Meade to the new role of this role and asked me to assume the position of workforce
dedicated workforce engagement non-executive Director. This engagement non-executive Director. Our colleagues, and the
approach assists with the employee voice being heard in Board culture we promote, are key to our success in achieving our
discussions and helps inform decision making.
purpose of opening up a world of opportunity.
The appointment of a designated workforce engagement non-
My role and responsibilities, summarised in the chart below,
executive Director does not restrict other Board members from
are clear, but I appreciate that given the scale of our
engaging with the workforce, particularly as it is not possible for one
person to represent the diversity of views across the entirety of the organisation, and the newness of this responsibility, it is
Group. It remains the responsibility of all Directors to consider critical that I execute this role with focus and intent to
stakeholder views, including employees. understand the employee voice, and communicate this to the
The programme of workforce engagement for 2022 continued to be Board. Notwithstanding the challenges, I am dedicated to do
delivered through a variety of interaction styles, both in person and what I can to meet and speak with a broad spectrum of our
virtually, to accommodate the breadth of experience, geographical people, across global businesses, regions and functions.
spread and range of seniority of our employees. Such activities
With the easing of Covid-19 restrictions in 2022, and as the
included bespoke sessions with smaller groups, formal presentations
Board resumed travel for meetings, I used these opportunities
and Q&A opportunities. These engagements were designed to
promote and deliver open dialogue and two-way discussions between to connect with employees on a number of topics. Each
Directors and colleagues, allowing the Board to gain valuable insight experience has been enlightening and I am encouraged to see
on employee perspectives. This in turn informed Directors’ how common themes and reflections are being addressed.
deliberations and decision making in Board and committee meetings.
While I cannot represent and hear every employee voice, I will
To help inform the Board of employee initiatives and sentiment and endeavour to listen to what our colleagues are saying around
allow the Board to plan for future engagement activities, Directors
the world. With a dedicated plan of action for 2023, I see this
received regular workforce engagement papers at Board meetings.
role evolving such that I will be able to add value to – and help
The Board’s agenda also regularly included non-executive Director
drive more in-depth Board discussions on – topics that affect
workforce and other stakeholder engagement updates. These
updates were addressed in the Group Chief Executive’s Board report our people.
and the Group Chief Human Resources Officer's report on employee I look forward to reporting in the future on the progress
views and sentiment, particularly around employee Snapshot surveys.
made.”
The Chairman’s Forum meetings also discussed employee feedback
from the Group's subsidiaries and received workforce engagement
updates from each of the principal subsidiary chairs.
Dr José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
Engagement activity between the Board and the wider workforce
Workforce engagement non-executive Director
included meetings and events between representatives of the eight
employee resource groups and the non-executive Directors who have
been designated to support them. These included:
• a virtual Nurture event with working parents and carers, which
reflected on the HSBC colleague survey and how more relevant
data could be captured and actioned;
• two Pride events with our LGBTQ+ colleagues, during which
participants shared their thoughts, explored what Pride had
achieved, discussed future opportunities and considered how
Directors could advocate and support the work of Pride; and
• an in-person event with employee resource group leaders based in
Hong Kong to discuss what motivates them to be employee
resource group leaders, share achievements and discuss
opportunities to align outcomes across the Group. Lunch with graduates
For more examples of how the Board has engaged with the Mexico City, HSBC Tower
workforce and other stakeholders see ‘Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20. July 2022
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 253
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Role of the workforce engagement non-executive Director at a glance
Headline responsibilities:
• Engages, understands, represents colleagues globally.
• Receives employee perspectives through formal and informal engagement.
• Represents the employee voice at Board meetings for consideration during decision making.
Holdings Board
Feedback given ↑
and considered
Workforce engagement
non-executive Director
↑
Data Direct engagement
Chairs of
Means of Surveys/ Employee Geographical
Audits principal Virtual 'field' trips
engagement Snapshot jams visits
subsidiaries
Direct
Reach Global Global Sample Regional Specific interest groups
engagement
↑ ↑ ↑ ↑ ↑ ↑ ↑ ↑
Working
Likely issues/ Purpose, Strategy and Performance Diversity and Change and
Pay conditions/ Climate/ESG
topics culture values growth management inclusion transformation
future of work
Activities during 2022
José Meade’s appointment was announced to the workforce jointly
by the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2022.
This was positively received by colleagues, several of whom reached
out directly to José with engagement ideas.
Since his appointment, José has undertaken a variety of
engagements in his role including:
Employee views – Mexico, US, India, UK, Hong Kong,
Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Uruguay
In the weeks immediately following his appointment, José had 25
meetings with colleagues in nine countries, in person and virtually, Visit to Global Service Centre, Mexico City, Tecnoparque
across most areas of the Group. Topics discussed included: the
October 2022
need for continued focus on areas such as well-being, and diversity
and inclusion; and enhancement of technology. Following such Engagement highlights
discussions, several suggestions were made, including
strengthening employee retention strategies, increasing career 65 1,500+
ownership within teams and improving information gathering
analysis and dissemination following exit interviews to relevant
colleagues in the Group.
Sessions attended by executive Number of employees engaged
Graduates – Mexico, US
and/or non-executive Directors
During the year, José met with Mexican graduates in person and US
graduates virtually to share experiences of HSBC’s graduate
38 600+
programme.
GBM – UK
José participated in an in-person meeting with a diverse group of
Global Banking colleagues in London to share experiences and Sessions attended by workforce Number of employees engaged
views on people matters, women in finance, diversity and inclusion, engagement non-executive by workforce engagement non-
and career development. Director executive Director
Global Service Centre – Mexico
12+ 73%
José joined colleagues for a meeting with Global Service Centre
employees to understand their perspective on working life.
Employee resource groups – Global Countries of engagement Highest employee engagement
survey response
José participated in the virtual annual employee resource group
summit and heard about the groups' leaders' successes and Priorities for 2023
challenges. He connected with representatives in the UK, Mexico,
India, Dubai, Hong Kong, Singapore and the US. • Review opportunities with Human Resources to ensure the right
Employee resource groups – Dubai insight is being gained from employees to support and better
inform the Board when taking decisions.
José joined an in-person meeting with the chapter leads of the five
employee resource groups active in MENA (Ability, Balance, • Attend six larger-scale employee engagement events aligned to
Embrace, Generations and Nurture). Board meeting agenda items to foster debate and discussion.
• Plan further international employee engagement opportunities in
addition to the Board travel plans.
254 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Board activities during 2022
During 2022, the Board remained focused on HSBC’s strategic dividend payout ratio within our 2022 target range of between 40%
direction, overseeing performance, and risk. It considered and 55% of reported earnings per ordinary share (’EPS’). As
performance against financial and other strategic objectives, key previously communicated, given our current returns trajectory, we are
business challenges, emerging risks, business development, investor establishing a dividend payout ratio of 50% of reported earnings per
relations and the Group’s relationships with its stakeholders. The end- share for 2023 and 2024, excluding material significant items
to-end governance framework facilitated discussion on strategy and (including the planned sale of our retail banking operations in France
performance by each of the global businesses and across the principal and the planned sale of our banking business in Canada).
geographical areas, which enabled the Board to support executive
On 22 February 2022, we announced an interim dividend of $0.18 per
management with its delivery of the Group’s strategy.
share for the 2021 full-year, and on 1 August 2022 we announced an
The Board’s key areas of focus in 2022 are set out by theme below. interim dividend of $0.09 per share for the 2022 half-year. For further
details of dividend payments, see page 418.
Strategy and business performance
Risk, regulatory and legal
The Group’s strategy remains focused on increasing returns for
considerations
investors, creating capacity for future investment and building a
sustainable platform for growth. In 2022, each Board meeting
featured the Group's strategic performance on its agenda, facilitating The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, promotes a strong
opportunities to track its delivery throughout the year, and providing risk governance culture that shapes the Group’s risk appetite and
opportunity to shape how it was developed. The Board reviewed supports the maintenance of a strong risk management framework,
progress within the Group’s global businesses and regions, as well as giving consideration to the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and
against its four strategic pillars of: focus on our strengths, digitise at management of risks, including emerging risks.
scale, energise for growth and transition to net zero. The Board considered the Group’s approach to risk including its
The Group’s strategic transformation programme came to a formal regulatory obligations. A number of key frameworks, control
conclusion in December 2022, having delivered against its objectives documents, core processes and legal responsibilities were also
to reshape underperforming businesses, simplify the organisation, reviewed and approved as required by the Board and/or its relevant
reduce costs and reallocate risk-weighted assets. Transformation committees. These included:
remains a key business focus as it is embedded throughout the • the Group’s risk appetite framework and risk appetite statement;
organisation and its operations.
• the individual liquidity adequacy assessment process;
Environmental, social and governance
• the individual capital adequacy assessment process;
In 2020, the Group announced a climate ambition to align its financed • the Group’s obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and
emissions to net zero by 2050, and to become net zero in its own approval of the Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement;
operations and supply chain by 2030. The Group aims to achieve this • stress testing and capabilities required to meet the PRA’s
by supporting clients’ transition to a net zero carbon economy and resolvability assessment framework;
focusing on sustainable finance opportunities, as well as by reducing
• the revised terms of reference for the Board and Board
the carbon emissions in its own operations.
committees; and
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing
• the Group's revised delegation of authority policy.
executive management in developing the approach, execution and
associated reporting. The Board considered whether to establish a The Board also reviewed and monitored the implications of
Board committee dedicated to ESG issues, but instead decided that geopolitical and macroeconomic developments during the year.
the best way to support the oversight and delivery of the Group’s
Technology
climate ambition and ESG strategy was to retain governance at Board
level. The Group Executive Committee enhanced its governance
Throughout the year, the Board received regular updates on
model of ESG matters with the introduction of a dedicated ESG
technology from the Group Chief Operating Officer, including on the
Committee and supporting forums. These support senior
implementation of the technology strategy and key strategic business
management in the delivery of the Group’s ESG strategy, key policies
initiatives. As technology is crucial to help deliver the Group’s
and material commitments by providing oversight over – and
strategic objectives, including the strategic pillar ’Digitise at scale’,
management and coordination of – ESG commitments and initiatives.
strategy papers covered technology issues throughout the year. In
In 2022, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy December, the Board discussed a digital technology map, a new tool
through regular dashboard reports and detailed updates including: that could help simplify, prioritise and drive change in the Group’s
reviews of net zero policies, financed emissions target setting and technology estate. For further details, see ’Principal decisions’ on
climate-aligned financing initiatives. page 22.
Financial decisions The Technology Governance Working Group continued to oversee
and enhance the Group's governance of technology. For further
The Board and its dedicated committees approved key financial details of this working group, see page 251.
decisions throughout the year, including the Annual Report and
People and culture
Accounts 2021, the Interim Report 2022 and the first quarter and the
third quarter Earnings Releases.
The Board continued to dedicate time in its meetings to discuss
At the end of 2021, the Board approved the 2022 financial resourcing
people-related and culture-related topics, to help raise its awareness
plan. The Board monitored the Group’s performance against the
of employee and other stakeholder perspectives. The Board is
approved plan, as well as the plans of each of the global businesses.
committed to setting the right cultural tone, with each Board meeting
The Board also approved the renewal of the debt issuance
beginning with a ’culture moment’, which includes observations of
programme. In December 2022, the Board approved the financial
behaviours within the Group aligned to its purpose and values.
resourcing plan for 2023.
Group subsidiary directors’ approaches to workforce engagement
The Board adopted a dividend policy designed to provide sustainable
were presented by each of the chairs from the principal subsidiaries
cash dividends, while retaining the flexibility to invest and grow the
to the Chairman's Forum, where they discussed their respective
business in the future, supplemented by additional shareholder
board engagement activities with the workforce, as well as what they
distributions, if appropriate. For the financial year 2022, we achieved a
learned as part of such engagements and other cultural insights. The
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 255
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board also receives insights from the all-employee Snapshot survey, competencies to discharge their responsibilities effectively. For
which measures employee sentiment. A culture insights report, further details of the review and changes to the Board, see the
developed in 2021, provides the Board with key data indicators, such Nomination & Corporate Governance report on page 259. For further
as behaviours, sentiment, business outcomes and people to allow it details of diversity of the Board, see page 247.
to monitor culture across the Group.
The Board monitored its compliance with the UK Corporate
Board engagement with management and the wider workforce Governance Code, the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code and
continued to remain a strong area of attention, particularly with the the Companies Act 2006 throughout the year.
appointment of a dedicated workforce engagement non-executive
Board engagements with
Director. For further details of the work of the workforce engagement
non-executive Director, see page 253. shareholders
Governance
In 2022, Board members remained responsive to shareholder
The Board continued to oversee the governance, smooth operation requests to engage, and certain of the Board met with key investors
and oversight of the Group and its principal and material subsidiaries. including Ping An Asset Management Co. Ltd. The Group Chairman
and the Senior Independent Director, often with the Group Company
The Board and senior management supported improvements to
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, engaged with a number of
governance initiatives to encourage simplification and promote
our large institutional investors in 19 meetings. The Group Chief
effective decision making in the business. Such improvements
Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer, together and
included making refinements to Board and committee paper
separately, attended over 100 meetings with investors. Key topics
templates, and reducing unnecessary committee meetings to free
included our financial performance, updates on strategy and market
management time and encourage individual accountability and
presence, geopolitical risks and the macroeconomic outlook in key
decision taking.
geographies.
During the year, Pauline van der Meer Mohr and Irene Lee retired as
The Group Remuneration Committee Chair also met with key
independent non-executive Directors, and Ewen Stevenson resigned
investors and proxy advisory firms during the fourth quarter of 2022.
as Group Chief Financial Officer. The Board appointed Geraldine
These sessions provided useful insight into investor views on key
Buckingham as an independent non-executive Director in May 2022,
areas of decision making for the Group Remuneration Committee,
and Georges Elhedery as Group Chief Financial Officer from 1 January
including our approach to the 2022 pay review for executive Directors
2023. The Board, supported by the Nomination & Corporate
and the wider workforce. For further details of the Group
Governance Committee, reviews the skills and experience of the
Remuneration Committee report, see page 276.
Board on an ongoing basis. This ensures that the Board and its
committees comprise the necessary skills, diversity, experience and
Board activities in 2022
Main topic Sub-topic Meetings at which topics were discussed1
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Sep Nov Dec
Strategy Group strategy ô ô l ô l l l l ô l
Regional strategy/global business strategy l l l l l ô l l l l
Environmental, social, governance l l ô l l ô l l ô l
Business and Region/global business l l ô l l ô l l ô l
financial
performance Financial performance l l ô l l ô l l ô l
Financial Results and accounts l l ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô
Dividends l l ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô
Group financial resource planning l l ô l l ô l l ô l
Risk Risk function l l ô l l ô l l ô l
Risk appetite ô ô l ô ô ô l ô ô l
Capital and liquidity adequacy ô ô l l ô ô ô l ô ô
Regulatory Regulatory and legal matters2 l l l l l l l l ô l
Regulatory matters with regulators in attendance3 ô ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô ô
External External insights ô ô ô l ô ô ô l ô ô
Technology Strategic and operational l l ô l l l l l ô l
People and
Purpose, values and engagement ô l ô ô ô ô ô l ô ô
culture
Governance Subsidiary governance framework ô l ô ô ô ô ô ô ô ô
Policies and terms of reference l ô ô l l ô l l ô l
Board/committee effectiveness l l ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô
Appointment and succession ô l ô ô ô ô l l ô l
AGM and resolutions l l ô l ô ô ô ô ô ô
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
1 No Board meetings were held during August and October 2022.
2 Includes resolvability assessment framework, modern slavery and human trafficking, statement of business principles and code of conduct, regional
updates and listing renewals.
3 Meeting attended by members of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
256 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Board and committee effectiveness, performance and
accountability
The Board and its committees are committed to regular, independent • a need for continued focus on the quality of meeting materials to
evaluation of their effectiveness at least once every three years. The ensure that content remains focused, clear and precise; and
Board intends to conduct an independent evaluation in 2023.
• continued collaboration between the Board committees.
For 2022, the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
At its January 2023 meeting, the Group Chairman led a discussion
agreed that the evaluation of the Board and its committees would
with the Board and considered the findings. The following areas of
again be conducted internally. The process included the completion of
focus were discussed and actions agreed: a revised approach to
a questionnaire, issued by Lintstock, an independent service provider
tracking strategy execution; continued development of the timeline of
with no other connection to the Group or any individual Director. The
sustainability and technology deliverables; simplification and
questions were designed by the Group Company Secretary and Chief
prioritisation of deliverables and interdependencies; and enhanced
Governance Officer, some based on themes from the 2021 evaluation
focus on customer stakeholder engagement.
findings. A summary of the effectiveness reviews of the Board and
the Board committees can be found on page 258 and in the Actions will be monitored and addressed on an ongoing basis. Similar
respective committee reports from page 259. discussions were led by each of the committee chairs in their
respective January meetings. Progress against these actions will be
To gather qualitative feedback, the Group Company Secretary and
included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2023.
Chief Governance Officer, together with the Deputy Group Secretary,
conducted interviews with each questionnaire respondent, including During 2022, a review of the Group Chairman’s performance was led
all the Board Directors, regular attendees of the relevant meetings by the Senior Independent Director in consultation with the other
and key advisers. The Group Chairman and committee chairs also independent non-executive Directors, management and key
participated in additional discussions following the consolidation of stakeholders. Non-executive Directors also undergo regular individual
feedback in respect of the individual committees. reviews with the Group Chairman. These reviews confirmed that the
performance of the Group Chairman and each Director was effective
Overall, the work of the Board was rated highly and it was viewed as
and that each had met their time commitments during the year.
operating effectively. In general, there were consistent findings
across the Board and committee reviews. These included: The review of executive Directors’ performance, which helps
determine their pay outcomes each year, is contained in the
• a positive view of the effectiveness of the Chairs of the Board and
Directors’ remuneration report on page 276.
committees and the participation of its members;
• a greater desire to be even more forward looking;
Board and Committee evaluation process
Agree Complete Conduct Evaluate
approach questionnaires interviews findings
Agree actionplan for Report Share findings
2023anddisclosures findingsto the with
in the ARA Board Committee
Chairs
The Board made good progress against all of the action points • devoted time to the consideration of key areas of focus, including
identified during the 2021 evaluation. In particular, the Board: digital opportunities and threats, ESG and strategic risk;
• enhanced its composition with the appointment of Geraldine • continued to monitor compliance with the subsidiary accountability
Buckingham, which brought significant Asia leadership experience; framework; and
• maintained a focus on succession planning, with a view to • enhanced coordination and collaboration between its committees,
strengthening its expertise in banking and improving its with combined meetings of the Group Audit Committee, Group
representation from Asia; Risk Committee and Technology Governance Working Group held
during the year.
• strengthened workforce engagement, with the appointment of
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña as designated non-executive
Director for workforce engagement;
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 257
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Summary of 2022 Board effectiveness findings and recommendations for action:
Findings from the evaluation Recommendations for action
Strategy, • The Board’s strategic oversight was rated positively • The Group Chief Executive should develop a revised set of
execution and overall, although the consistency of management’s metrics related to performance, execution and risk management,
deliverables articulation, tracking and execution of progress against as well as other key value drivers, as appropriate.
the Group’s strategy could be strengthened. It was • The Group Chief Executive and relevant accountable executives
recommended to increase the use of metrics to show should develop a timeline of ESG and technology deliverables and
comparable progress against key deliverables. milestones.
• The Board’s approach to the oversight of the Group’s
sustainability strategy was rated positively, although the
monitoring of sustainability-related key targets required
greater clarity.
• The Board’s oversight of technology strategy was
considered strong and it was suggested that the Board
required a more detailed plan of digital deliverables to
enable continuous monitoring and performance tracking.
Simplification and • The importance of devoting sufficient time to • A Board session should be held annually on organisational
prioritisation challenging management’s progress on simplification simplification and prioritisation of deliverables and
and prioritisation was highlighted. It was suggested that interdependencies.
the Board provide greater oversight of management
prioritisation of key projects and strategic deliverables.
Stakeholder • Engagement with stakeholders was strong, including • The Board’s stakeholder engagement plan should be reviewed to
engagement the focus on the employees, in the year. The Board ensure that all members of the Board have sufficient opportunity
asked that further enhancements be considered, in to engage with, and understand the views, of the Group’s key
particular customers given the current macroeconomic stakeholders.
headwinds.
Meeting materials • It was recognised that meeting materials had improved • Training and/or guidance should be provided to all paper authors in
considerably over recent years, but it was emphasised 2023.
there was opportunity for further improvement around
consistency, comparability and ownership. Stakeholder
considerations could be better incorporated in Board
papers to support decision making.
258 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
Membership
Meeting
Member since attendance in 2022
Mark Tucker (Chair) Oct 2017 7/7
Geraldine Buckingham1 May 2022 4/4
Rachel Duan2 Sep 2021 6/7
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn Sep 2021 7/7
James Forese May 2020 7/7
Steven Guggenheimer May 2020 7/7
Irene Lee3 Apr 2018 3/3
José Antonio Meade Apr 2019 7/7
Kuribreña
"Developing our skills and experience, and diversity
Eileen Murray2 Jul 2020 5/7
and inclusion ambitions remains a priority and the
David Nish Apr 2018 7/7
Committee will continue to oversee and enhance the
Jackson Tai Apr 2018 7/7
succession pipeline at Board and senior leadership Pauline van der Meer Mohr3 Apr 2016 3/3
level.”
1 Geraldine Buckingham was appointed to the Board and joined the
Dear Shareholder Committee on 1 May 2022.
2 Rachel Duan was unable to attend the July committee meeting due to
I am pleased to present the Nomination & Corporate Governance a pre-existing engagement. Eileen Murray was unable to attend the
Committee report, which provides an overview of the work of the April and September meetings for personal health reasons.
Committee and its activities during the year. 3 Irene Lee and Pauline van der Meer Mohr stepped down from the
Board and the Committee following the conclusion of the AGM on
During 2022, the Committee continued to review the Board’s
29 April 2022.
composition, succession planning, skills, experience and diversity, to
ensure that the Group operated in line with its ambition of world class The Committee’s role in overseeing these changes is outlined on the
governance. following pages.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee oversaw a number of changes As we look ahead to 2023, the Committee will consider the changes
to Board composition, including the retirements of Pauline van der to the UK audit, governance and regulatory regimes, including
Meer Mohr and Irene Lee, and the appointment of Geraldine updates to the UK Corporate Governance Code, and the steps needed
Buckingham. The Committee also closely monitored executive to ensure the Group continues to operate in line with best practice.
succession planning, in particular the transition of the Group Chief
Financial Officer, with Georges Elhedery succeeding Ewen Stevenson
from 1 January 2023. Ewen leaves with our sincere thanks for the
significant contribution that he has made to the Board and to the
Mark E Tucker
broader Group over the past four years.
Chair
Jackson Tai will retire from the Board at the conclusion of our 2023
AGM in May and will be succeeded as Chair of the Group Risk Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
Committee by James Forese. On behalf of the Board, I wish to thank
21 February 2023
Jackson for his outstanding dedication and the significant contribution
he has made to the success of the Group, in particular the
improvement in our oversight and governance of risk and conduct.
Key responsibilities
James' significant banking and risk experience will be invaluable in
the leadership of the Group Risk Committee as the Group continues
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
to deliver on its transformation and growth strategy, in a safe and
sustainable manner. • leading the process for identifying and nominating candidates for
appointment to the Board and its committees;
On 1 March 2023, Kalpana Morparia will join the Board, strengthening
both its collective Asia business and banking knowledge and • overseeing succession planning and development for the Group
experience, and diversity. Executive Committee and other senior executives; and
Developing our skills and experience, and diversity and inclusion • overseeing and monitoring the corporate governance framework
ambitions of the Board and senior management, remains a priority of the Group and ensuring that this is consistent with best
and the Committee will continue to oversee and enhance the practice.
succession pipeline at Board and senior leadership level through
Committee governance
2023. This will build on the revised gender and ethnic representation
targets introduced within the diversity and inclusion policy, and the The Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Human Resources
work led by management on developing successors for senior Officer, and the Group Head of Talent routinely and selectively
leadership roles and under the Asia Talent programme. Our Board attended Committee meetings. The Group Company Secretary and
diversity and inclusion policy, which contains our revised targets, can Chief Governance Officer attends all Committee meetings and
be found on hsbc.com. supports the Group Chairman in ensuring that the Committee has
During 2022, we also took the decision to establish a new Board role fulfilled its governance responsibilities.
designated with responsibility for ensuring that the employee voice is Russell Reynolds Associates, which supported the Committee and
strengthened within the Board’s deliberations. The creation of the role the management team in relation to Board and senior management
was a natural evolution of the work already undertaken to enhance succession planning, regularly and selectively attended meetings
stakeholder engagement within Board decision making. In this role, during the year. It has no other connection with the Group or
José Meade will lead our workforce engagement on behalf of the members of the Board.
Board, supported by the Corporate Governance and Secretariat and
Human Resource functions. Further details on the role and initial
areas of focus can be found on page 253.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 259
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Board composition and succession The Committee will continue to monitor the market for potential
candidates for appointment to the Board in both the short and
The Committee continued its focus on ensuring that the Board and its medium term, to ensure that the Board has a pipeline of credible
members, both collectively and individually, possess the skills, successors and continues to be equipped to effectively discharge its
knowledge and experience necessary to oversee, challenge and responsibilities.
support management in the achievement of the Group’s strategic and
Board diversity
business objectives.
In addition to the retirements of Irene Lee and Pauline van der Meer The Board recognises the importance of gender, social and ethnic
Mohr, the Board welcomed Geraldine Buckingham, who most diversity, and the strengths diversity brings to Board effectiveness.
recently held the position of Head of Asia-Pacific at BlackRock. She Diversity is taken into account in its broadest sense when considering
was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 May 2022. succession plans and appointments at both Board and senior
management level, as well as more broadly across the Group.
In October, the Group announced the appointment of Georges
Elhedery as an executive Director and Group Chief Financial Officer Over the past 12 months, there has been significant focus on
with effect from 1 January 2023. This decision followed a review by diversity at Board level, including as a result of the updated guidance
the Committee of the composition of the Group Executive Committee and targets issued by the FTSE Women Leaders Review (formerly the
with a particular focus on long-term succession planning. It was Hampton-Alexander review) and the UK Listing Authority. The Board
concluded, based on the recommendation of the Group Chief is supportive of the proposals and, in line with the Board diversity and
Executive, that Georges, who was previously co-Chief Executive inclusion policy, remains committed to increasing diversity at Board
Officer of Global Banking and Markets, should replace Ewen, who and senior levels to ensure we reflect the markets and societies we
stepped down from the Board at the end of 2022. Georges, who has serve. This policy, which was updated in 2022 to incorporate new
a track record of driving growth and managing change and who brings targets on female representation, details our approach to achieving
a strong focus on execution, will help the Group to accelerate delivery our diversity ambitions, and ensures that diversity and inclusion
of improved financial performance and shareholder returns. factors are considered in succession planning. The revised Board
diversity and inclusion policy is available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-
In advance of taking up the role, Georges spent significant time with
are/leadership-and-governance/board-responsibilities.
Ewen to ensure an orderly handover of responsibilities. The Board has
put in place a tailored development and support plan for Georges as At the end of 2022, the Board had 33% female representation, with
he transitions to his new role, which will be overseen by the four female Board members out of 12. Following our recent
Committee. announcement in relation to Kalpana Morparia and Jackson Tai, this
leaves us on track to meet our aspirational target of at least 40%
The Committee expects that non-executive Directors serve two three-
female representation on the Board by the end of 2023, ahead of the
year terms, with any appointments beyond this to be determined on
end of 2025 expectations set by the FTSE Women Leaders Review
an annual basis with reference to the needs of the Board and the
for gender representation on Boards.
performance and contribution of the individual. In view of the
importance of continuity for key roles on the Board, particularly given The FTSE Women Leaders Review also published revised gender
the current economic and geopolitical environment, the Committee representation targets, specifically the expectation that a woman
agreed that David Nish’s appointment should be extended for a holds at least one of the senior Board positions of Chair, Chief
further year to the 2024 AGM, subject to his re-election by Executive Officer, Senior Independent Director or Chief Financial
shareholders. In taking this decision, the Committee considered the Officer by the end of 2025. The Committee considers succession for
need for an effective transition in relation to the Senior Independent these key Board roles on an ongoing basis and will take into account
Director and Chair of the Group Audit Committee roles, both of which the need for greater diversity when considering candidates for
David currently holds. It is the Board’s strong belief that this appointment to these roles in future. At the end of 2022, all those
extension of David’s appointment, given his performance and holding these senior Board positions at the Group were male. The
contribution to the Board during 2022, is in the best interests of the Board is committed to achieving this target by the review’s end of
Group and all of its stakeholders. 2025 deadline.
As referenced in our 2021 report, the Committee agreed to prioritise The Board continued to exceed the Parker Review target of having at
in future appointments significant previous executive experience in least one Director of diverse ethnic heritage, with three members of
banking, as well as with deep business and cultural expertise across our Board self-identifying in line with the ethnicity/ethnic definition set
Hong Kong and mainland China, and south-east Asia. A number of by the Parker Review. Given the global and international nature of our
potential candidates meeting the desired skills and experiences were business, including our strong presence and heritage in Asia, the
identified, a shortlist of which were considered and discussed by the Committee considers that the Board should comprise a greater
Committee. Following meetings between various members of the proportion of diverse ethnic heritage Directors than anticipated by the
Committee and priority candidates to understand their respective Parker Review. The Board’s targets were revised to reflect this
interests and capacities, the Board accepted the Committee’s commitment and therefore to maintain or improve the current
recommendations and approved the appointments of Geraldine representation of directors from a diverse ethnic heritage.
Buckingham with effect from 1 May 2022 and Kalpana Morparia with
Further details on activities to improve diversity across senior
effect from 1 March 2023.
management and the wider workforce, together with representation
Strengthening the Board’s collective experience in these areas statistics, can be found on page 308.
remains a priority, and the Committee will continue to discuss broader
Diversity of our principal subsidiary boards has also improved as a
succession planning for key roles on the Board and committees
result of the Committee’s focus on succession planning and regular
through 2023, and beyond. In addition, succession planning will have
refreshment of subsidiary boards, with gender representation
regard to diversity and inclusion targets and expectations. The
improving across all seven of our principal subsidiaries. The HSBC
Committee is focused on identifying candidates with the following
Bank Director Programme, delivered in partnership with IMD
skills and experience for future appointments to the Board:
Business School during the first half of 2022, has also helped to
• significant executive experience in banking; prepare senior talent for roles on our subsidiary boards. A number of
the graduates who participated in the programme have been provided
• deep business and cultural expertise across Asia, in particular
with opportunities on subsidiary boards, enhancing the skills,
Hong Kong and mainland China, and the Middle East, given the
experience and diversity of our subsidiary boards. This programme
geographical mix of the Group’s business and the importance of
will operate regularly with the next cohort scheduled to take place in
these regions to the strategy and future growth; and
2024.
• previous public company leadership experience.
260 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Independence Since its launch in 2020, significant progress has been made towards
ensuring that we have a deeper and more diverse leadership bench-
Independence is a critical component of good corporate governance, strength. Succession plans are more robust, with greater diversity and
and is a principle that is applied consistently at both Holdings and good succession fulfilment outcomes.
subsidiary level. The Committee has delegated authority from the
Committee evaluation
Board in relation to the assessment of the independence of non-
executive Directors. In accordance with the UK and Hong Kong
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was
Corporate Governance Codes, the Committee has reviewed and
internally facilitated in 2022. The review concluded that, overall, the
confirmed that all non-executive Directors who have submitted
Committee continued to operate effectively and in line with regulatory
themselves for election and re-election at the AGM are considered to
requirements. However, a number of areas for enhancement were
be independent. This conclusion was reached after consideration of
identified, including the need for a continued focus on succession
all relevant circumstances that are likely to impair, or could appear to
planning for the Group Chief Executive, the Committee Chair, the
impair, independence.
Senior Independent Director and future non-executive Directors,
In line with the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate ensuring plans supporting the Board’s objectives in relation to
Governance Code, the Committee also reviewed and considered the diversity and stakeholder needs. Other areas of focus included the
mechanisms in place to ensure independent views and input are continued identification of both internal and external talent, training
available to the Board. These mechanisms include: requirements and the retention strategy for high performing
individuals. Certain priority areas of focus for the Committee across
• having the appropriate Board and Committee structure in place,
2023 were suggested, including the continued monitoring of progress
including rules on the appointment and tenure of non-executive
of governance within material and principal subsidiaries (as defined in
Directors;
the subsidiary accountability framework), and the need to review the
• facilitating the option of having brokers and external industry external advisers supporting the Committee. The outcomes of the
experts in attendance at Board meetings during 2022, as well as evaluation have been reported to the Board, and the Committee will
having representatives from the Group’s key regulators attend track the progress in implementing recommendations during 2023. In
Board meetings in relation to specific regulatory items; line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 2023 Board and
• ensuring non-executive Directors are entitled to obtain Committee performance review will be externally facilitated.
independent professional advice relating to their personal The Committee has initiated the process for the selection of the
responsibilities as a Director at the Group’s expense; independent board evaluator, with a decision on the evaluator to be
• having terms of reference for each Committee and the Board taken within the first half of the year to allow the review to
provide authority to engage independent professional advisers; commence in the second half of 2023. A report on the process,
and findings and recommendations will be disclosed in the Annual Report
and Accounts 2023.
• holding annual Board and Committee effectiveness reviews, with
feedback sought from members on the quality of, and access to, The Committee was kept updated on progress on actions agreed
independent external advice. following its 2021 evaluation, which were all completed.
Senior executive succession and Subsidiary governance
development In line with the subsidiary accountability framework introduced in
2021, the Committee continued to oversee the corporate governance
The outputs from the annual capability review, including updated and succession arrangements across the principal and material
succession plans for the Group Executive Committee members, were subsidiary portfolio. Where appropriate and subject to strong
considered and approved by the Committee in December 2022. rationale, the Committee approved exceptions from strict compliance
These reflected continued efforts to support the development and with the framework, including to reflect local law and regulation, as
progression of diverse talent and promote the long-term success of well as market practice. The Committee has reinforced its
the Group, with the gender diversity and proportion of Asian heritage expectations that subsidiaries take steps to achieve full compliance
successors improving year on year. This included future internal and with the framework, with any exception requests subject to thorough
external succession options for the Group Chief Executive, to ensure review and consideration by the Group Company Secretary and Chief
that the Committee has a robust and actionable succession plan Governance Officer in advance of consideration by the Committee.
when required.
The Committee also continued to receive updates on the
development of our talent programme within the Asia-Pacific region.
Matters considered during 2022
Jan Feb Apr May Jul Sep Dec
Board composition and succession
Board composition, including succession planning and skills
l l l l ô l ô
matrices
Approval of diversity and inclusion policy ô ô ô ô l ô ô
Executive talent and development
Senior executive succession ô l l l l l l
Approval of executive succession plans ô ô ô ô ô ô l
Talent programmes ô l ô ô ô ô l
Governance
Board and committee evaluation l ô ô ô l ô ô
Subsidiary governance l ô ô ô l l l
Subsidiary and executive appointments l ô l ô l l l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 261
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Group Audit Committee
Membership
Meeting
attendance
Member since in 20221
David Nish (Chair) May 2016 13/13
Rachel Duan2 Apr 2022 6/8
James Forese3 May 2020 5/5
Eileen Murray4 Jun 2022 6/8
Jackson Tai Dec 2018 13/13
Pauline van der Meer Mohr5 Apr 2020 5/5
1 These included four joint meetings with the Group Risk Committee
(‘GRC’) and the Technology Governance Working Group.
"The Committee reviewed management's
2 Rachel Duan was unable to join two meetings due to prior
arrangements for compliance and assurance over commitments made before becoming a GAC member.
regulatory reporting processes, and progress of 3 James Forese stepped down from the GAC on 1 June 2022.
HSBC-specific reviews of regulatory reporting." 4 Eileen Murray rejoined the GAC on 1 June 2022, and was unable to
attend two meetings due to personal circumstances.
Dear Shareholder 5 Pauline van der Meer Mohr retired from the Board on 29 April 2022.
I am pleased to introduce the Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) report
Key responsibilities
setting out the key matters and issues considered in 2022.
We welcomed Eileen Murray, who rejoined the GAC in 2022, and The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
Rachel Duan, who was appointed to the Committee in April 2022.
• monitoring and assessing the integrity of the financial statements,
Pauline van der Meer Mohr stepped down from the Board and James
formal announcements and regulatory information in relation to the
Forese stepped down from the GAC to assume new Board
Group’s financial performance, as well as significant accounting
responsibilities. I would like to thank them both for their support and
judgements;
insightful contributions to the work of the GAC.
• reviewing the effectiveness of, and ensuring that management
The GAC continued to provide oversight of change and transformation
has appropriate internal controls over, financial reporting;
programmes to enhance the Group’s internal controls over financial
reporting. We challenged management on its forecasts and • reviewing management’s arrangements for compliance with
confidence in the delivery of externally communicated targets in an prudential regulatory financial reporting;
uncertain external environment. The Committee also reviewed
• reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external auditor
management's arrangements for compliance and assurance over
and overseeing its appointment, tenure, rotation, remuneration,
regulatory reporting processes, and progress of HSBC-specific
independence and engagement for non-audit services;
reviews of regulatory reporting.
• overseeing the Group’s policies, procedures and arrangements for
We continued to strengthen our relationships and understanding of
capturing and responding to whistleblower concerns and ensuring
issues at the local level through regular information sharing with the
they are operating effectively; and
principal subsidiary audit committee chairs. This was supplemented
with regular meetings with the principal subsidiary audit committee • overseeing the work of Global Internal Audit and monitoring and
chairs to discuss key issues, and through their attendance at GAC assessing the effectiveness, performance, resourcing,
meetings. I also joined a number of principal subsidiary audit independence and standing of the function.
committee meetings throughout the Group. Committee governance
The Group’s whistleblowing arrangements continue to satisfy
regulatory obligations and I regularly met the whistleblowing team to The Committee keeps the Board informed and advises on matters
discuss material whistleblowing cases. Efforts were made in 2022 to concerning the Group’s financial reporting requirements to ensure
drive continuous operational improvements and to provide deeper that the Board has exercised oversight of the work carried out by
insights to support our purpose, values and conduct approach. management, Global Internal Audit and the external auditor.
Actions were also taken to make use of best practices across Committee meetings usually take place a couple of days before Board
investigative functions and to enhance the experiences of colleagues meetings to allow the Committee to report its findings and
when they report concerns at HSBC. recommendations in a timely and orderly manner. The Board also
The Committee oversaw the retendering for statutory audit services receives copies of the Committee agendas and minutes of meetings.
for the 2025 year-end. This process included detailed qualification The Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Head
activities, thorough evaluation of firms, consideration of evolving UK of Finance, Global Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit,
legislation and guidelines, and engagement with regulators. The GAC Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Company Secretary
recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed for a further and Chief Governance Officer and other members of senior
term of 10 years commencing 1 January 2025. management routinely attended meetings of the GAC. The external
The Committee implemented all the actions from the 2022 evaluation auditor attended all meetings.
and the 2023 review determined that the GAC continued to operate The Chair held regular meetings with management, Global Internal
effectively. Audit and the external auditor to discuss agenda planning and specific
issues as they arose during the year outside the formal Committee
process. The Committee also regularly met separately with the
David Nish internal and external auditors and other senior management to
Chair discuss matters in private.
Group Audit Committee The Committee Secretary regularly met with the Chair to ensure the
Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities, and to consider
21 February 2023
input from stakeholders when finalising meeting agendas, tracking
progress on actions and Committee priorities.
262 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Matters considered during 2022
Jan Feb Apr Jun Jul Sep Oct Dec
Reporting
Financial reporting matters including:
– review of financial statements, ensuring that disclosures are fair, balanced and understandable
– significant accounting judgements l l l l l l l l
– going concern assumptions and viability statement
– supplementary regulatory information
ESG and climate reporting l l ô ô l ô l l
Regulatory reporting-related matters l l l l l l l l
Certificates from principal subsidiary audit committees ô l ô ô l ô ô ô
Control environment
Control enhancement programmes l l l l l l l l
Group transformation ô ô ô ô l ô ô l
Review of deficiencies and effectiveness of internal financial controls l l l l l l l l
Internal audit
Reports from Global Internal Audit l l l ô l ô l l
Audit plan updates, independence and effectiveness l ô l ô l ô ô l
External audit
Reports from external audit, including external audit plan l l l l l l l l
Appointment, remuneration, non-audit services and effectiveness l l l l l l ô l
Audit tender l ô l l l l ô l
Compliance
Accounting standards and critical accounting policies ô l ô l l ô l l
Corporate governance codes and listing rules ô l ô l l ô ô ô
Whistleblowing
Whistleblowing arrangements and effectiveness ô l ô ô ô l ô l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
Compliance with regulatory requirements assurance activities undertaken by principal subsidiary audit
committees in relation to prudential regulatory reporting.
The Board has confirmed that each member of the Committee is
independent according to the criteria from the US Securities and Internal controls
Exchange Commission, and the Committee continues to have
The Committee devoted significant time in understanding the effect
competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates. The
on financial reporting risk from high-impact programmes aimed at
Board has determined that David Nish, Jackson Tai and Eileen Murray
enhancing and enabling the transformation of the control environment
are ‘financial experts’ for the purposes of section 407 of the
to support financial, prudential regulatory and other regulatory
Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant financial experience
reporting. The GAC provided detailed feedback and challenge to
for the purposes of the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance
management on a number of aspects, including requesting external
Codes.
assurance, replanning and mobilisation of programme workstreams,
The GAC Chair continued to engage with regulators, including the resourcing and engagement throughout the Group and with
UK’s PRA and the Financial Reporting Council. These included regulators. Common themes from these discussions included the
trilateral meetings involving the Group’s external auditor, PwC. need to improve understanding and accountability for data capture,
improve data quality from the implementation and embedding of data
The Committee assessed the adequacy of resources of the
policies while ensuring there was a stronger appreciation throughout
accounting, internal audit, financial reporting and ESG performance
the Group of the downstream impact on financial and regulatory
and reporting functions. It also monitored the legal and regulatory
reporting. The oversight and implementation of these programmes
environment relevant to its responsibilities.
and their component parts will remain a key focus for the Committee
How the Committee discharged its in 2023.
responsibilities The GAC received regular updates and confirmations that
management had taken, or was taking, the necessary actions to
Connectivity with principal subsidiary audit committees remediate any failings or weaknesses identified through the operation
The GAC strengthened its working relationship with the principal of the Group’s framework of internal financial controls. These updates
subsidiary audit committees through formal and informal channels. included the Group’s work on compliance with section 404 of the
The GAC Chair regularly met the chairs of the principal subsidiary Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Based on this work, the GAC recommended that
audit committees to enable close links and deeper understanding on the Board support its assessment of the internal controls over
judgements around key issues. The GAC Chair attended a number of financial reporting.
the principal subsidiary audit committee meetings and certain chairs For further details on how the Board reviewed the effectiveness of
of the principal subsidiary audit committees also joined meetings of key aspects of internal control, see page 306.
the GAC during the year.
Financial reporting
This continuous engagement supported effective information sharing
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s financial
and targeted collaboration between audit committee chairs and
reporting during the year, including the Annual Report and Accounts,
management to ensure there was appropriate focus on the local
Interim Report, quarterly earnings releases, analyst presentations and,
implementation of programmes. Subsidiary audit committee chairs
where material, Pillar 3 disclosures and other items arising from the
were also able to directly share local challenges, including regulatory
review of the Group Disclosure and Controls Committee. As part of
expectations with Group management and the GAC Chair.
its review, the GAC:
On a half-year basis, principal subsidiary audit committees provided
• evaluated management’s application of critical accounting policies
certifications to the GAC that regarded the preparation of their
and material areas in which significant accounting judgements
financial statements, adherence to Group policies and escalation of
were applied;
any issues that required the attention of the GAC. These certifications
also included information regarding the governance, review and
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 263
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
• gave particular regard to the analysis and measurement of IFRS 9 details on the pipeline of mandatory regulatory and externally
expected credit losses (‘ECL’), including the key judgements and committed ESG and climate-related disclosures over the next 12 to 24
management adjustments made in relation to the forward months, including the delivery status. This allowed the Committee to
economic guidance, underlying economic scenarios and consider management’s development of methodologies, tools and
reasonableness of the weightings; data solutions holistically to fulfil external disclosure requirements and
commitments.
• focused on compliance with disclosure requirements to ensure
these were consistent, appropriate and acceptable under the ESG reporting is fast evolving with few globally consistent reporting
relevant financial and governance reporting requirements; standards and a high reliance on external data. The Committee
focused on internal and external assurance in this area in line with
• provided advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the
wider market developments. Management updated the Committee
long-term viability statement; and
on the verification and assurance framework to ensure that ESG and
• gave careful consideration to the key performance metrics related climate disclosures were materially accurate, consistent, fair and
to strategic priorities and ensured that the performance and balanced. The GAC discussed the roles and work of the three lines of
outlook statements were fair, balanced and reflected the risks and defence as part of this framework, discussed the nature and root
uncertainties appropriately. cause of issues identified through the increased assurance work, as
In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’), the GAC well as proposals for further limited third-party assurance to be
considered the current position of the Group, along with the emerging performed over specific ESG-related metrics.
and principal risks, and carried out a robust assessment of the Regulatory reporting
Group’s prospects, before making a recommendation to the Board on
The Committee continued to focus heavily on the quality and reliability
the Group’s long-term viability. The GAC also undertook a detailed
of regulatory reporting and oversight of key programmes to
review before recommending to the Board that the Group continues
strengthen the end-to-end processes to meet regulatory expectations.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual and interim
financial statements. Further details can be found on page 42. Management provided updates on the status of ongoing HSBC-
specific external reviews, and discussed the issues and themes
Fair, balanced and understandable
identified from the increased assurance work and focus on regulatory
Following review and challenge of the disclosures, the Committee reporting. They also discussed root cause themes, remediation of
recommended to the Board that the financial statements, taken as a known issues and new issues identified through the increased
whole, were fair, balanced and understandable. The financial assurance work and focus on regulatory reporting. The GAC was
statements provided the shareholders with the necessary information instrumental in the initiation of a global programme designed to
to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model, deliver consistent control frameworks for our regulatory reporting
strategy and risks facing the business, including in relation to the globally over the next few years. The Committee challenged
increasingly important ESG considerations. management on remediation plans, to ensure there was a sustainable
The Committee reviewed the draft Annual Report and Accounts 2022 reduction in issues and that dependencies with other key
and results announcements to enable input and comment. It was programmes were well understood. The Committee Chair invited
supported by the work of the Group Disclosure and Controls certain principal subsidiary audit committee chairs to GAC meetings
Committee, which also reviewed and assessed the Annual Report to participate in discussions to ensure alignment and understanding of
and Accounts 2022 and investor communications. key issues and ongoing regulatory engagement.
This work enabled the GAC to provide positive assurance to the Board UK audit reform
to assist them in making the statement required in compliance with In May 2022, the UK government published its response to the
the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes. consultation paper, ‘Restoring Trust in Audit and Corporate
Key financial metrics and strategic priorities Governance’, on strengthening the UK’s audit, corporate reporting
and corporate governance systems. This summarised the responses
The Committee assessed management’s assurance and preparation
received to the consultation and set out the next steps towards
over external financial reporting disclosures, in particular the
implementation.
monitoring and tracking of key financial metrics and strategic
priorities. In the second quarter of 2022, the Committee was involved One of the key changes proposed is for large public interest entities,
at all stages in overseeing and challenging management on the such as HSBC, to develop and publish an audit and assurance policy
revised financial targets. every three years, setting out the approach to assurance of
information beyond the financial statements. The government will
The GAC challenged management on the forecasting, analysis and
also introduce a new statutory resilience statement.
additional assurance work undertaken to support the revised financial
targets in light of geopolitical risks, deteriorating outlook, ongoing The Committee received updates on the outcome of the consultation
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in certain jurisdictions and a rising and reviewed management’s proposed actions to support the future
interest rate environment. requirement for disclosure of an audit and assurance policy. This
includes the work towards designing an integrated internal assurance
Further details can be found in the ‘Principal activities and significant
approach across the three lines of defence, with the development
issues considered during 2022‘ table on page 266.
during the year of an integrated assurance framework in support of
ESG and climate reporting the Group’s risk management framework.
The GAC, supported by the executive-level ESG Committee and While the legislation and expected guidance around the form and
Group Disclosure and Controls Committee, provided close oversight content of an audit and assurance policy is still being drafted, it is
of the disclosure risks in relation to ESG and climate reporting, amid expected that the areas below will be covered by any future
rising stakeholder expectations. disclosures. Current disclosures exist in respect of certain of these
areas, although these will need to be enhanced and expanded as
The GAC tracked and monitored developments from a number of
guidance develops. The areas highlighted below are in addition to
prominent consultations and considered them when reviewing the
disclosures on the statutory audit and assurance work required by
strategy and scope of ESG and climate disclosures in 2022. In
regulators.
particular, the Committee asked management to provide further
264 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Area Relevant current disclosure The GAC will continue to receive regular updates from PwC and
management on the progress of the external audit plan and PwC
Overview of risk and internal control Risk review, pages 131 to 238
performance across the audit quality indicators.
framework
Assurance over internal controls Risk review, pages 131 to 238, There were no breaches of the policy on hiring employees or former
’Global Internal Audit’, page 266, and employees of the external auditor during the year. The external
‘Internal controls’ page 306. auditor attended all Committee meetings and the GAC Chair
Specific information subject to Environmental, social and governance maintains regular contact with the senior audit partner and his team
assurance review, page 14 throughout the year.
Resilience statement Long-term viability and going concern Independence and objectivity
(currently viability statement) statement, page 42
External auditor engagement ’External auditor’, page 265 The Committee assessed any potential threats to independence that
Stakeholder engagement on audit No existing disclosure. were self-identified or reported by PwC. The GAC considered PwC to
and assurance policy be independent and PwC, in accordance with professional ethical
standards and applicable rules and regulations, provided the GAC with
The Committee continues to focus on ESG and regulatory reporting written confirmation of its independence for the duration of 2022.
as areas for expanded assurance, in line with the risk assessment
The Committee confirms it has complied with the provisions of The
framework established in 2021. The specific external assurance over
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation
ESG disclosures is set out in the ESG review section of the Annual
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit
Report and Accounts. The Committee continued to respond to various
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the financial statements.
regulatory engagement requests and surveys, including the Financial
The Committee acknowledges the provisions contained in the 2018
Reporting Council’s Draft Minimum Standards for Audit Committees.
UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of audit tendering. In
The Committee will continue to monitor developments as legislation
conformance with these requirements, the GAC oversaw the
is drafted to enact the requirements and the associated guidance is
retendering of statutory audit services for the 2025 year-end,
developed.
including considering the tendering and shared audit proposals from
External auditor the UK government’s consultation. More details on the audit tender
can be found on page 267.
The GAC has the primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship
with the Group’s external auditor, PwC. The Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC should be
reappointed as auditor. Resolutions concerning the reappointment of
PwC completed its eighth audit, providing robust challenge to
PwC and its audit fee for 2023 will be proposed to shareholders at the
management and sound independent advice to the Committee on
2023 AGM.
specific financial reporting judgements and the control environment.
The senior audit partner is Scott Berryman who has been in the role Non-audit services
since 2019. The Committee reviewed the external auditor’s approach
The Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and monitoring
and strategy for the annual audit and also received regular updates on
the appropriateness of the provision of non-audit services by the
the audit, including observations on the control environment. Critical
external auditor. It also applies the Group’s policy on the award of
audit matters discussed with PwC are set out in its report on
non-audit services to the external auditor. The non-audit services are
page 313.
carried out in accordance with the external auditor independence
External audit plan policy to ensure that services do not create a conflict of interest. All
non-audit services are either approved by the GAC, or by Group
The GAC reviewed the PwC external audit approach, including the
Finance when acting within delegated limits and criteria set by the
materiality, risk assessment and scope of the audit. PwC highlighted
GAC.
the changes being made to their approach to enhance the quality and
effectiveness of the audit. Changes for the 2023 audit included more The non-audit services carried out by PwC included 73 engagements
auditing being performed centrally across legal entities. The approved during the year where the fees were over $100,000 but less
Committee also focused on PwC's increased use of technology than $1m. Global Finance, as a delegate of the GAC, considered that
solutions, and received detailed briefings on its approach to data and it was in the best interests of the Group to use PwC for these
analytics. services because they were:
Effectiveness of external audit process • audit-related engagements that were largely carried out by
members of the audit engagement team, with the work closely
The GAC assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the Group’s external
related to the work performed in the audit;
auditor, using a questionnaire that focused on the overall audit
process, its effectiveness and the quality of output. • engagements covered under other assurance services that require
obtaining appropriate audit evidence to express a conclusion
In addition, the GAC Chair, certain principal subsidiary audit chairs and
designed to enhance the degree of confidence of the intended
members of the Group Executive Committee met with the Head of
users other than the responsible party about the subject matter
Audit, PwC UK to discuss findings from the questionnaire and provide
information; or
in-depth feedback on the interaction with the PwC audit team.
• other permitted services to advisory attestation reports on internal
PwC highlighted the actions being taken in response to the HSBC
controls of a service organisation primarily prepared for and used
effectiveness review, including the development of audit quality
by third-party end users.
indicators, which would provide a balanced scorecard and transparent
reporting to the GAC. These audit quality indicators focused on the Eleven engagements during the year were approved where the fees
following areas: exceeded $1m. These were mainly engagements required by the
regulator and incremental fees related to previously approved
• findings from inspections across the Group and regulators on PwC
engagements, including the provision of services by PwC relating to
as a firm;
the Section 166 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Skilled
• the hours of audit work delivered by senior PwC audit team Person report.
members, the extent of specialist and expert involvement, delivery
against agreed timetable and milestones and the use of 2022 2021
technology; Auditors‘ remuneration $m $m
Total fees payable 148.1 129.4
• any new control deficiencies in Sarbanes-Oxley locations,
Of which fees for non-audit services 50.5 41.3
proportion of management identified deficiencies and delivery of
audit deliverables to agreed timelines; and
• outcomes and scores from annual audit surveys, independent
senior partner reviews and prior period errors.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 265
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Global Internal Audit Principal activities and significant
The primary role of the Global Internal Audit function is to help the issues considered during 2022
Board and management protect the assets, reputation and
sustainability of the Group. Global Internal Audit does this by providing
Collaborative oversight by GAC, GRC and
independent and objective assurance on the design and operating
effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk management and Technology Governance Working Group
control framework and processes, prioritising the greatest areas of
risk. The independence of Global Internal Audit from day-to-day line The GAC and GRC worked closely to ensure there were procedures
management responsibility is critical to its ability to deliver objective to manage risk and oversee the internal control framework. The
audit coverage by maintaining an independent and objective stance. Chairs are members of both committees and engage on the agendas
Global Internal Audit is free from interference by any element in the of each other’s committees to further enhance connectivity,
organisation, including on matters of audit selection, scope, coordination and flow of information.
procedures, frequency, timing, or internal audit report content. The A further development, based on 2022 evaluation findings, was to
Group Head of Internal Audit reports to, and meets frequently with, have joint meetings of the GAC, GRC and Technology Governance
the Chair of the GAC. In addition, in 2022, there was more interaction Working Group. These meetings would ensure there was coordinated
between Global Internal Audit senior management and the members oversight and consistent joint feedback to management on areas of
of the GAC, aimed at increasing knowledge and awareness of the significant overlap.
audit universe and existing and emerging risks identified by Global
Internal Audit. Global Internal Audit adheres to The Institute of Internal Areas of joint focus for the GAC, GRC and the Technology
Auditors’ mandatory guidance. Governance Working Group during 2022 were:
Consistent with previous years, the 2023 audit planning process Finance on the Cloud
includes assessing the inherent risks and strength of the control Finance on the Cloud is a key multi-year data and reporting
environment across the audit entities representing the Group. Results transformation programme using Cloud technology to enable the
of this assessment are combined with a top-down analysis of risk transformation of the Global Finance operating model and re-
themes by risk category to ensure that themes identified are engineering of core reporting processes.
addressed in the annual plan. Audit coverage is achieved using a
The committees conducted a deep dive review of Finance on the
combination of business and functional audits of processes and
Cloud and held multiple meetings throughout 2022 to challenge
controls, risk management frameworks and major change initiatives,
management on the programme’s overall objectives, scope and target
as well as regulatory audits, investigations and special reviews. In
end-state. As part of these discussions, the committees considered
addition to the ongoing importance of regulatory-focused work, key
organisational realignment and programme leadership, and asked
risk theme categories for 2023 audit coverage remain as: strategy,
management to seek external assurance and validation of the Finance
governance and culture; financial crime, conduct and compliance;
on the Cloud investment case and technology architecture. The
financial resilience; and operational resilience. A quarterly assessment
committees also ensured that there was a greater understanding of
of key risk themes will form the basis of thematic reporting and plan
the complexities and dependencies between Finance on the Cloud
updates and will ultimately drive the 2024 planning process.
and other key programmes to ensure that deadlines for financial and
In 2023, Global Internal Audit will maintain significant focus on the regulatory reporting deliverables were met.
Group transformation portfolio, increase coverage of treasury risks,
Digital Business Services
financial forecasting processes and regulatory reporting, and include
coverage of ESG risk, with focus on climate commitments, The committees held a joint meeting to develop a deeper
operationalisation and reporting. In addition, Global Internal Audit will understanding of the risk and internal controls issues across key
continue its programme of culture audits to assess the extent that components of Digital Business Services. The joint meeting
behaviours reflect HSBC’s purpose, ambition, values and strategy, discussed:
and expand its coverage of franchise audits for locally significant
• the regulatory purpose of the service company structure, and
countries, following the development of the approach in 2022. The
management providing an update on initiatives to streamline,
annual audit plan and material plan updates made in response to
simplify and automate the services;
changes in the Group’s structure and risk profile are approved by the
GAC. • actions taken by the Identity and Access Management sub-
function to tackle access risks through automation and a new
The results of audit work, together with an assessment of the
toolset;
Group’s overall governance, risk management and control framework
and processes are reported regularly to the GAC, GRC and local audit • monitoring and governance activities carried out by the Global
and risk committees, as appropriate. This reporting highlights key Operations and Payments teams, and its shift towards an
themes identified through audit activity, and the output from automated control environment; and
continuous monitoring. This includes business and regulatory • actions carried out within Global Procurement to enhance the risk
developments and an independent view of emerging and horizon risk, management and control culture, in particular with regard to the
together with details of audit coverage and any required changes to oversight of critical third parties and its upgrade to a Cloud-based
the annual audit plan. Based on regular internal audit reporting to the procurement platform.
GAC, private sessions with the Group Head of Internal Audit, the
Global Professional Practices annual assessment and quarterly quality Embedding data into our culture
assurance updates, the GAC is satisfied with the effectiveness of the The committees reviewed and challenged the Group’s data strategy
Global Internal Audit function and the appropriateness of its and the work required for the Group to embed its data policies, define
resources. the data technology landscape, and build a data-led culture. The
Executive management is responsible for ensuring that issues raised committees also reviewed the Group's approach to harnessing and
by Global Internal Audit are addressed within an appropriate and using data to better unlock value for our customers.
agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect must be provided to Whistleblowing and speak-up culture
Global Internal Audit, which validates closure on a risk basis.
Global Internal Audit maintains a close working relationship with An important part of HSBC’s values is speaking up when something
HSBC’s external auditor, PwC. The external auditor is kept informed does not feel right. HSBC remains committed to ensuring colleagues
of Global Internal Audit’s activities and results, and is afforded free have confidence to speak up and acting when they do. A wide variety
access to all internal audit reports and supporting records. of channels are provided for colleagues to raise concerns, including
the Group’s whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential (see page 92
for further information). The GAC is responsible for the oversight of
the effectiveness of the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements. The
266 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2022
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Key financial metrics and strategic priorities In exercising its oversight, the Committee assessed management’s assurance and
The GAC considered the key judgements in preparation of external financial reporting disclosures. The Committee reviewed the
relation to external reporting to track the key draft external reporting disclosures and provided feedback and challenge on the top
financial metrics and strategic priorities and to sensitive disclosures, including key financial metrics and strategic priorities to ensure
review the forecast performance and outlook. HSBC was consistent and transparent in its messaging.
Environmental, social and governance In relation to our climate change resolution, particular attention was given to the
(‘ESG’) reporting disclosure of the financed and facilitated emissions, and thermal coal exposures. The
The Committee considered management’s Committee considered the key limitations and challenges relating to governance,
efforts to enhance ESG disclosures and processes, controls and data underpinning climate reporting. The Committee also
associated verification and assurance activities. discussed the nature and root cause of issues identified through the increased
Financial and The GAC reviewed the 2022 ESG disclosure assurance work and ongoing enhancements to the governance, processes, controls
regulatory approach in line with our external and data underpinning climate reporting, which resulted in the deferral of disclosures
reporting commitments. on facilitated emissions and thermal coal. The Committee reviewed the ESG
reporting strategy, including the broadening of ESG coverage in the Annual Report
and Accounts and management’s approach on integrated reporting, which will be
further informed by feedback from external stakeholders.
Regulatory reporting assurance programme The Committee reflected on the continued focus on the quality and reliability of
The GAC monitored the progress of the regulatory reporting by the PRA and other regulators globally. The GAC reviewed
regulatory reporting assurance programme to management’s efforts to strengthen and simplify the end-to-end operating model,
enhance the Group’s regulatory reporting, including commissioning further independent external reviews of various aspects of
impact on the control environment and regulatory reporting. The Committee discussed and provided feedback on
oversee regulatory reviews and engagement. management’s engagement plans with the Group’s regulators, including any potential
impacts on some of our regulatory ratios. We continue to keep the PRA and other
relevant regulators informed of our progress.
Expected credit losses The measurement of expected credit losses involves significant judgements,
The measurement of expected credit losses particularly under current economic conditions. There remains an elevated degree of
involves significant judgements, particularly uncertainty over ECL estimation under current conditions, due to macroeconomic,
under current economic conditions. Despite a and political uncertainties.
general recovery in economic conditions in The GAC reviewed the economic scenarios for the key countries in which the Group
2022, there remains an elevated degree of operates, and challenged management’s judgements as to the weightings assigned
uncertainty over ECL estimation under current to these scenarios. The GAC also challenged management’s approach to making
conditions, due to macroeconomic and political management adjustments to account for the uncertainty in outcomes arising from the
uncertainties. Russia-Ukraine war, inflation, supply chain disruption risks, China commercial real
estate and Covid-19, including the rationale for such adjustments, the controls
underpinning the adjustment processes, and under what conditions such
adjustments could be reduced or removed. The GAC also challenged management on
the overall levels of ECL across portfolios, including looking at historical performances
of portfolios and peer group comparisons.
Goodwill, other non-financial assets and The GAC received reports on management’s approach to goodwill, other non-financial
investment in subsidiaries impairment assets and investments in subsidiaries impairment testing and challenged the
During the year, management tested for approach and methodologies used, with a key focus on the cash flows included
impairment goodwill, other non-financial assets within the forecasts and the discount rates used. The GAC also challenged
and investments in subsidiaries. Key management’s key judgements and considered the reasonableness of the outcomes
judgements in this area relate to long-term as a sense check against the business forecasts and strategic objectives of HSBC.
Significant growth rates, discount factors and what cash
flows to include for each cash-generating unit
accounting
tested, both in terms of compliance with the
judgements
accounting standards and reasonableness of
the forecast.
Associates (Bank of Communications Co., The GAC reviewed the judgements in relation to the impairment review of HSBC’s
Limited) investment in BoCom, including the sensitivity of the results to estimates and key
During the year, management performed the assumptions such as projected future cash flows and regulatory capital assumptions.
impairment review of HSBC’s investment in Additionally, the GAC reviewed the model’s sensitivity to long-term assumptions
Bank of Communications Co., Ltd (‘BoCom’). including the continued appropriateness of the discount rates. The GAC also
The impairment reviews are complex and challenged management to review all aspects of its approach to accounting for
require significant judgements, such as BoCom to ensure the approach remains the most appropriate in terms of accounting
projected future cash flows, discount rate, and judgements including compliance with the relevant accounting requirements.
regulatory capital assumptions.
Investments in subsidiaries The GAC reviewed the judgements in relation to the impairment review of HSBC
Management has reviewed investments in Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited, and the key inputs underpinning the recoverable
subsidiaries for indicators of impairment and amounts of its subsidiaries.
conducted impairment reviews where relevant.
These involve exercising significant judgement
to assess the recoverable amounts of
subsidiaries, by reference to projected future
cash flows, discount rates and regulatory
capital assumptions.
268 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2022 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Transformation and sustainable control The Committee received regular updates on the Group transformation programme
environment and the broader change framework, to review the impact on the risk and control
The GAC will oversee the impact on the risk environment, to oversee progress of the transformation programme and the
and control environment from the Group continued embedding of the broader change framework.
transformation programme. In these updates the Committee monitored the progress of the programme, focused
on the continued implementation of the change framework and the progress in the
management of the entire change portfolio. This oversight helped the Committee to
understand the progress being made in the management of the change portfolio,
through the implementation of the change framework. The committee noted the
progress on simplifying our change inventory, greater rigour on tracking progress
against committed business cases, and strengthening of the lessons learnt process.
Group Management’s updates were supplemented by further focus and assurance work
transformation from Global Internal Audit where a dedicated team continuously monitored and
reviewed the Group transformation programme. This included carrying out targeted
audit reviews, in addition to audits of significant programmes.
Global Finance transformation The Committee has oversight for the adequacy of resources and expertise, as well as
The Committee reviewed the proposals for the succession planning for the Global Finance function. During 2022, the Committee
Global Finance organisational design, the dedicated significant time to the review and progress of the multi-year Global Finance
migration to Cloud and the impact on financial transformation programme, particularly Finance on the Cloud, with the overall
controls. objectives being to improve the control environment and customer outcomes and to
make use of technology to increase overall efficiency.
The Group Chief Financial Officer had private sessions with the Committee to share
his perspectives on the progress of the Global Finance transformation and where
additional focus was required.
IFRS 17 ’Insurance Contracts’ During 2022 management provided updates to the Committee on preparations for the
implementation of IFRS 17, which is effective from 1 January 2023 with one year of
The Committee will oversee the transition to
comparative restatements required. The Committee was updated on the production
IFRS 17 and consider the wider strategic
of the transition balance sheet and considered the financial impacts (for which a
implications of the change on the insurance
summary is provided within the Future Accounting Developments section of the
business.
Basis of Preparation on page 335), as well as the generation of comparative income
statement estimated impacts (for which a high level summary based on estimated
1H22 results is provided on page 99). The Committee also received updates with
respect to progress on implementing the supporting operational infrastructure,
internal controls over financial reporting, key judgements considered including
transition approaches selected, as well as plans for disclosure of related non-GAAP
measures and key performance metrics.
The first publication of results on an IFRS 17 basis will be at the 1Q23 Earnings
Release, and the Committee noted that management intends to publish an IFRS 17
Regulatory Transition statement together with that announcement.
change Basel III Reform The Committee received an update on the progress and impact of the Basel III
The GAC considered the implementation of the programme on the Group. Management discussed the uncertainty over the final
Basel III Reform and the impact on the capital definition of the rules and the actions taken to ensure sufficient flexibility to make
requirements and RWA assurance. This was changes and mitigate risks from legislation being finalised at a later date and also on a
considered in the context of the strategy and staggered basis across each jurisdiction. The discussion highlighted the
structure of the balance sheet. dependencies of the Basel III programme with other Group transformation
programmes, in particular the dependency on adoption of the Finance on the Cloud
solution, risk model development and the impact on data delivery and storage.
The Committee noted the completion of the programme restructure, reviewed the
ongoing management of risks, issues and dependencies and challenged
management to prioritise deliverables across each jurisdiction in line with regulatory
timelines, in each case, to ensure that solutions delivered to the minimum required
standards. The Committee noted the overall improved status of the programme and
requested an update post the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions
Canada implementation date of 1 April 2023.
Committee evaluation and effectiveness Focus of future activities
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board committees, In 2023, the Committee will prioritise control remediation and
including the GAC, was conducted internally in 2022, led by the Group enhancements, particularly of controls supporting regulatory
Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Overall, the review reporting. This will include developing a deeper understanding of the
concluded that the GAC continued to operate effectively. The Chair’s prioritisation and interdependencies in the delivery of key
management of meetings and leadership of the audit tender process, transformation and regulatory programmes to strengthen the risk and
in particular, were rated highly. The review also made certain control environment. It will also monitor domestic and worldwide tax
recommendations for continuous improvement. These included a policy developments and examine the potential impact on accounting
need for continued focus on the quality of reporting, oversight of judgements. A key priority will be to further embed ESG and climate-
prioritisation of key programmes, and continued coordination between related disclosures to meet increasing expectations of stakeholders,
the GAC and other Board committees on topics of mutual interest. It in particular the implementation of robust processes and controls to
was also suggested that the Committee should dedicate more time to support these disclosures. Along with other committees of the Board,
the oversight of capacity and succession planning in the Finance and the Committee will continue to ensure root cause themes related to
Internal Audit functions. The Committee considered the outcomes of understanding and accountability for data capture, data quality and the
the evaluation and accepts the findings. The evaluation outcomes implementation and embedding of data policies are addressed by
were reported to the Board, and the Committee will track progress management.
against the recommendations during 2023.
270 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Group Risk Committee
Membership
Meeting attendance
Member since in 20221
Jackson Tai (Chair) Sep 2016 18/18
Geraldine Buckingham2 June 2022 11/11
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn3 Sep 2021 17/18
James Forese4 June 2022 12/13
Steven Guggenheimer5 May 2020 16/18
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña6 May 2019 10/10
Eileen Murray7 Jul 2020 7/9
David Nish8 Feb 2020 16/18
"The GRC closely monitored heightened geopolitical 1 These included seven scheduled meetings, five ad hoc meetings, four
joint meetings with the Group Audit Committee and the Technology
and macroeconomic headwinds throughout the year
Governance Working Group, and two joint meetings with the Group
to anticipate potential impacts to the Group‘s
Remuneration Committee.
revenue, capital base and continuing ability to support 2 Geraldine Buckingham joined the GRC on 1 June 2022.
customers." 3 Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was unable to attend one meeting due to a
prior commitment.
Dear Shareholder 4 James Forese joined the GRC on 1 June 2022. He was unable to
I am pleased to present the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) report. attend one meeting due to a prior commitment.
5 Steven Guggenheimer was unable to attend two meetings due to
Geopolitical risks and the macroeconomic outlook deteriorated rapidly personal circumstances.
at the start of the year due to the Russia-Ukraine war. The GRC 6 José Antonio Meade Kuribreña stepped down from the GRC on 1 June
closely monitored heightened geopolitical and macroeconomic 2022.
headwinds throughout the year to anticipate potential impacts to the 7 Eileen Murray stepped down from the GRC on 1 June 2022. She was
Group’s revenue, capital base and continuing ability to support its unable to attend two meetings due to personal circumstances.
customers. Measures included monitoring the Group’s preparedness 8 David Nish was unable to attend two meetings due to a prior
for an expected recession in key markets from rising inflation and commitment.
interest rates. The Committee embraced management’s development
Key responsibilities
of forward-looking sensitivity analysis to assess the potential impacts
on HSBC’s prudential position, franchise resilience and ability to
The GRC has overall non-executive responsibility for the oversight of
support customers.
risk-related matters and the risks impacting the Group. The GRC’s key
The GRC worked closely with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance responsibilities include:
Officer to strengthen the Group’s risk management framework, and
• overseeing and advising the Board on all risk-related matters,
to promote the development of more dynamic and granular risk
including financial and non-financial risks;
appetite statements to manage HSBC’s risk profile.
• advising the Board on risk appetite-related matters, and key
Throughout the year, the GRC reviewed and challenged management regulatory submissions;
on the Group’s regulatory submissions, including the Bank of
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management
England’s requirements for the Resolvability Assessment Framework, framework and internal controls systems (other than internal
internal capital adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) and internal
financial controls overseen by the GAC);
liquidity adequacy assessment process (‘ILAAP’). The GRC had
• reviewing and challenging the Group’s stress testing exercises;
primary non-executive responsibility for reviewing the outcomes of
and
regulatory stress tests, including the Bank of England’s climate
biennial exploratory scenario, and the 2022 annual cyclical scenario • overseeing the Group’s approach to conduct, fairness and
exercise. preventing financial crime.
The GRC carefully considered the Group’s regulatory remediation and Committee governance
change programmes, and helped direct management to better
prioritise and understand where there are interdependencies. In The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief Financial
particular, the GRC reviewed and challenged the Group’s data Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Company Secretary and
management plans and interest rate risk in the banking book strategy. Chief Governance Officer, Group Chief Human Resources Officer,
The GRC also provided oversight and support to risk transformation Group Chief Legal Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Head
activities to develop stronger risk management capabilities and of Finance and Group Head of Risk Strategy and Macroeconomic Risk
outcomes across the Group. are standing attendees at GRC meetings. The Chair and members of
the GRC also hold private meetings with the Group Chief Risk and
The GRC continued to review its committee composition, skills and
Compliance Officer, the Group Head of Internal Audit and external
experience. In June, we welcomed Geraldine Buckingham and James
auditor, PwC, following scheduled GRC meetings.
Forese as new members, and we expressed sincere gratitude to José
The participation of our senior business leaders, including the Group
Antonio Meade Kuribreña and Eileen Murray, who stepped down to
Chief Executive who attended six scheduled GRC meetings in 2022,
assume new Board governance responsibilities.
reaffirmed the ownership and accountability of risks in the first line of
defence.
Jackson Tai
The Chair meets regularly with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance
Chair Officer to discuss priorities and track progress on key actions. The
Chair also has regular meetings with members of senior management
Group Risk Committee
to discuss specific risk matters that arise outside formal meetings.
21 February 2023 The Chair also meets regularly with the GRC Secretary to ensure the
GRC addresses its governance responsibilities. A summary of
coverage is set out in the ’Matters considered during 2022’ table on
page 272.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 271
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
Matters considered during 2022
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Sep Oct Dec
Holistic enterprise risk monitoring including
Group risk profile1 l l l l l l l l ô l
Risk framework and/or policies l l ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô
Treasury risk ô l l l l l l l l l
Wholesale/retail credit risk ô l ô l l ô l ô l l
Financial reporting risk ô l ô ô ô l ô ô ô ô
Resilience risk (including IT and operational risk) ô ô l l l l l l ô l
Financial crime risk ô l l l ô l l ô ô ô
People and conduct risk ô l ô ô l ô ô l ô l
Regulatory compliance risk ô l ô l l ô l l l l
Legal risk ô l ô l ô ô l l ô l
Model risk ô ô ô ô ô ô ô l ô ô
ESG risk ô ô ô ô ô ô l l l l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
1 The GRC receives updates on all risk types through the Group risk profile, which is presented to the majority of meetings. The Committee also met
with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Risk and Compliance Executive Committee members in November 2022 to review the GRC
agenda, particularly matters relating to risk transformation, financial crime and conduct.
How the Committee discharged its During the engagement meeting, the GRC developed a better
understanding of the efforts to strengthen our capabilities across the
responsibilities
Group Risk and Compliance function. There were also in-depth
discussions on the efforts to embed the right risk culture into our
Activities outside formal meetings
global operations to support our transformation activities. The
The GRC held a number of meetings outside its regular schedule to engagement also promoted a healthy working relationship between
facilitate deeper and more effective oversight of the risks impacting GRC members and executive management.
the Group. In particular, Directors’ education meetings and GRC
Collaborative oversight by the GRC, GAC and Technology
Chair’s preview meetings strengthened the understanding of more
Governance Working Group
technical topics and promoted constructive challenge. Areas covered
included risk transformation, interest rate risk in the banking book, The GRC worked closely with the GAC and the Technology
stress testing, ICAAP and ILAAP preparations, as well as recovery and Governance Working Group to address any areas of significant
resolution planning. Further details on these sessions are included in overlap, and to oversee risk more comprehensively through inter-
the ’Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2022’ committee communications and joint meetings.
table starting on page 273.
The GRC, GAC and the Technology Governance Working Group
Connectivity with principal subsidiary risk committees convened on four occasions to consider the Group's data strategy and
ambitions, the Finance on the Cloud transformation programme, and
During 2022, the GRC continued to actively engage with principal
internal control issues across key components of Digital Business
subsidiary risk committees through the scheduled participation of
Services.
principal subsidiary risk committee chairs at GRC meetings, and
through a connectivity meeting with the principal subsidiary risk Further details on each of these sessions can be found under the
committee chairs. This participation and connectivity promoted the ’Collaborative oversight by the GAC, GRC and Technology
sharing of information and best practices between the GRC and Governance Working Group’ section of the GAC report on page 266.
principal subsidiary risk committees.
The committees worked closely to ensure appropriate alignment in
The GRC also received reports on the key risks facing principal the review, discussion, challenge and conclusions on topics including
subsidiaries at its regular meetings and continued to review escalated risk and control issues relating to Digital Business Services, and the
reports and certifications from the principal subsidiary risk transition of core capabilities to the Cloud. This ensured that the
committees. The certifications confirmed that the principal subsidiary committees benefited from each other’s expertise and challenge. The
risk committees had challenged management on the quality of the GRC Chair also included the GAC Chair for pre-meetings on technical
information provided, reviewed the actions proposed by management matters such as interest rate risk in the banking book and stress
to address any emerging issues and that risk management and testing.
internal control systems had been operating effectively.
Coordination between the GRC, GAC and the Technology Governance
These interactions furthered the GRC’s understanding of the risk Working Group is supported by cross-membership. The GRC and GAC
profile of the principal subsidiaries, leading to more comprehensive Chairs are members of both committees in order to strengthen
review and challenge by the GRC. connectivity and the flow of information between the committees.
The GRC Chair is also a member of the Technology Governance
Engagement with the Risk and Compliance Executive
Working Group, and each of the co-Chairs of the Technology
Committee
Governance Working Group are members of the GRC and GAC,
During 2022, the GRC met with the Risk and Compliance Executive respectively.
Committee to promote information sharing and encourage active
engagement with executive management.
272 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2022
Risk areas Key issues Conclusions and actions
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks continue The GRC closely monitored global geopolitical and macroeconomic risks that could
to present significant challenges to revenue impact the Group’s strategy, business performance or operations. These risks
Holistic growth, operational resilience, and our were exacerbated by the Russia-Ukraine conflict and by related regulatory and
enterprise risk commitment to serve customers and local reputational risks impacting our operations globally.
monitoring, markets. The GRC continued to track top and emerging risks, our risk appetite and other
including management information metrics, as well as other early warning measures to
Group risk understand sensitivities and the likelihood of the potential impact to our
profile operations, customers and stakeholders. The GRC encouraged management to
examine and maintain a timely and up-to-date book of strategic management
actions.
The Group risk appetite statement defines the The GRC maintained oversight of the Group’s risk management framework and
Group’s risk appetite and tolerance thresholds changes to the Group’s risk appetite statements, which provided the basis for the
and forms the basis of the first and second lines Committee’s interactive review of financial and non-financial risk management
of defence’s management of risks, the Group’s information at each scheduled GRC meeting. The GRC continued to promote the
capacity and capabilities to support customers, development of more dynamic and granular risk appetite statements that were
Risk
and the achievement of strategic goals. forward looking and risk-responsive. The GRC provided oversight for the linkage
framework/
between risk appetite statements with the Group’s corporate strategy, stress
policies
testing, financial resource plan, as well as the Group’s move towards stronger,
sustainably higher returns for shareholders. The GRC recommended changes to
the Group’s risk appetite statement, including in the areas of interest rate risk in
the banking book, insurance risk, climate risk, resilience risk, financial crime risk,
regulatory compliance and liquidity risk.
The Group takes active steps to safeguard its The GRC reviewed the Group’s ongoing treasury, capital and liquidity risk
capital and liquidity positions. management activities, including early warning indicators, scenario stress testing,
It also performs internal and regulatory stress interest rate risk in the banking book (’IRRBB’) strategy and remediation activity,
tests to measure its resilience and performance capital and liquidity reporting, and capital and liquidity adequacy.
against stress, and to consider strategic The GRC conducted its annual review, challenge and recommendation of the
management actions that could be applied Group’s ICAAP and ILAAP to the Board for approval. GRC members previewed the
against anticipated stress events and headwinds. ICAAP and ILAAP submissions in depth, with input from principal subsidiary risk
The Group is also required to show how its committee chairs as appropriate. The GRC evaluated the Group’s IRRBB strategy
resolution strategy could be carried out in an and progress on the multi-year liquidity improvement programme. The GRC will
orderly way, and identify any risks to successful continue to monitor the Group’s IRRBB strategy closely through regular updates in
resolution. 2023. In relation to stress testing exercises, the GRC reviewed the Bank of
England’s 2022 annual cyclical scenarios, and following a detailed review of
principal subsidiary and global businesses inputs, approved the results of the 2022
annual cyclical scenario exercise in December 2022. The GRC also reviewed the
implications of the results of the severely adverse scenario stress test from the
Treasury risk, Federal Reserve’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review in relation to HSBC
including North America Holdings, and considered actions being progressed by management
stress testing in response.
and recovery The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s progress in developing its
and resolution capabilities against the Bank of England’s requirements for recovery and
resolvability. In 2022, the GRC reviewed and challenged the Group recovery plan,
including with an assessment of the financial resources and recovery capacity
needed to stabilise the Group. The GRC considered views of all lines of defence to
determine credibility and ability to execute the plan. In advance of the review by
the GRC, the GRC and GAC Chairs met with management to consider the principal
subsidiary risk committee components.
The GRC was heavily involved in the governance of the resolvability assessment
framework (‘RAF’). This included oversight of the addendum to the Group’s RAF
self-assessment that set out HSBC’s progress since submission of the original
self-assessment in October 2021. The GRC also reviewed the RAF public
disclosure prior to its submission, and considered remedial actions to address the
feedback provided by the Bank of England.
In addition, the GRC assessed the adequacy of the recovery and resolution
planning programme that is expected to deliver improvements, in line with
management expectation and the PRA’s feedback.
HSBC faces risk from the possibility of losses The GRC reviewed updates on the strategy and approach to managing credit risk
resulting from the failure of a counterparty to and credit risk capabilities. The GRC received quarterly updates on the Group’s
meet its agreed obligations to pay the Group. expected credit losses and provisions, loan impairment charges and the credit risk
arising from the wholesale portfolio and mortgage books. The GRC also reviewed
Wholesale/ the potential impact of a likely recession in our key markets due to rising inflation
retail credit risk and interest rates to assess management’s readiness and approach to drive
stronger credit risk management practices. The GRC continued its emphasis on
building even stronger credit capabilities for specialty sectors, the development of
stronger portfolio management capabilities and further improving the Group’s
credit risk culture.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 273
Corporate
governance
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2022 (continued)
Risk areas Key issues Conclusions and actions
Successful delivery of our climate ambition will The GRC remained focused on ESG risk, including climate risk, and has reviewed
be determined by our ability to measure and quarterly reports on climate risk management, while maintaining oversight of
manage all components of environmental, social delivery plans to ensure that the Group develops robust climate risk management
and governance (’ESG’) risk, including climate capabilities. The GRC also has oversight over ESG-related initiatives and reviews
risk. these to assess the risk profile.
ESG risk The GRC approved the Group’s climate biennial exploratory scenario stress test
submission to the PRA in March 2022. In preparation, the GRC reviewed the
scenario and considered planned engagement with clients, strategic management
actions; the challenges in relation to data, modelling and infrastructure support;
and the impact of climate change on our physical risks including through our
residential and corporate real estate mortgage books.
Committee evaluation Focus of future activities
During 2022, the GRC implemented the recommendations of the The GRC’s focus for 2023 will include the following activities. It will:
external committee evaluation conducted by Lintstock in consultation
• oversee risk transformation activities to develop even stronger risk
with the Group Company Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer in
management capabilities;
December 2021. This included strengthening the focus of meeting
agendas, and continuing the GRC’s engagement with the Risk and • oversee the continued enhancement of the Group's risk appetite
Compliance Executive Committee and principal subsidiary risk and risk management framework, especially in light of continued
committee chairs. geopolitical and macroeconomic headwinds;
Continuing the commitment to regular evaluation, the Group • continue to oversee treasury risk to strengthen our capital and
Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer performed an liquidity management capabilities, including proactive management
annual review of the effectiveness of the GRC in December 2022. of interest rate risk in the banking book;
The evaluation concluded that the GRC continued to operate • continue to review and challenge the consistency of our risk
effectively and in line with regulatory requirements, and identified appetite statements, our financial resource plan, and the outcomes
enhancements. The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported from our stress testing exercise;
to the Board, and the GRC will track the progress in implementing
• monitor our ESG progress, including the delivery against the
recommendations during 2023.
climate commitments and the development of appropriate data
and model management tools and capabilities;
• continue the oversight of recovery and resolution planning
activities to assess our resolvability capabilities if such situation
arises;
• continue the oversight of the delivery of technology-related
programmes including the adoption of Cloud platforms, and
enhancement of the Group’s IT systems/platform;
• continue to oversee financial crime risk and the strengthening of
the financial crime control framework, including proactive
management by the business; and
• assess our strategic opportunities and risks including exposures to
digital currencies or assets and use of timely application of
technology such as machine learning or artificial intelligence.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 275
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration report
Contents Membership
Meeting
276 Committee Chair’s statement
Member since attendance in 2022
279 Executive remuneration at a glance
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (Chair) Sept 2021 6/6
282 Annual report on Directors’ remuneration
Geraldine Buckingham May 2022 4/4
298 Additional regulatory remuneration disclosures Rachel Duan Sept 2021 6/6
James Forese May 2020 6/6
All disclosures in the Directors’ remuneration report are unaudited
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña May 2021 6/6
unless otherwise stated. Disclosures marked as audited should be Pauline van der Meer Mohr1 Jan 2016 2/2
considered audited in the context of financial statements taken as a
whole. 1 Pauline van der Meer Mohr stepped down from the Committee and
Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 29 April 2022.
In 2022, we approved dividends of $0.32 per share, equivalent to a
payout ratio of 44% of reported earnings per share. We are
establishing a dividend payout ratio of 50% of reported earnings per
share for 2023 and 2024, excluding material significant items, and we
intend to revert to paying quarterly dividends from the first quarter of
2023.
Non-financial performance
In our employee Snapshot survey, our Employee engagement and
Inclusion indices both increased by 1% year on year to 73% and 76%,
respectively, which are both above the financial services benchmarks.
The percentage of Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership
"This year we have refreshed our reward strategy to
globally increased by 0.3% to 2.5%, meeting our stretch goal. The
inspire a dynamic culture as we focus on energising
percentage of women in senior leadership also increased by 1.6% to
for growth and delivering sustainable value to our 33.3% since 2021, and we are on track to meet our commitment of
shareholders, customers and colleagues." 35% by 2025.
For customer satisfaction, net promoter score (’NPS’) performance
Dear Shareholder has been positive relative to our competitors in some areas of our
business, with work to do in others. In WPB, our NPS increased in the
I am pleased to present our 2022 Directors’ remuneration report on
UK and Hong Kong, and we were ranked in first place in Hong Kong.
behalf of the members of the Group Remuneration Committee, and
In CMB, our NPS increased in Hong Kong but declined in the UK, and
my first as Chair of the Committee. I would like to thank our previous
we were ranked in second place in Hong Kong. In GBM, our global
Chair, Pauline van der Meer Mohr, for her excellent stewardship of
NPS improved and our global rank remained in fifth place. In WPB and
the Committee.
CMB digital businesses in Hong Kong, we were ranked in first and
I also thank you for your support of our remuneration resolutions at third places, respectively. In GBM globally, our digital trade finance
the 2022 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). Our current policy and its platforms maintained first place for the quality of platforms. Our
implementation received 96% of votes in favour. PayMe payments app was also ranked in second place for digital
wallets. In WPB, our NPS increased in mainland China and Singapore,
In addition to our usual agenda, the Committee has been focused on
remained unchanged in Mexico, and in India saw a small decline. In
aligning performance measures and remuneration more closely with
CMB, our NPS increased in mainland China, Singapore and Mexico,
our strategy. We have been engaging with our major shareholders
and our rank positions in those markets either improved compared
and other investor groups, who have shared valuable feedback.
with 2021 or were in the top three against competitors.
We have refreshed our wider reward strategy and proposition for the
Workforce reward
workforce in response to the new or elevated challenges we are
facing as we move beyond the Covid-19 pandemic, including the cost Group variable pay pool
of living pressures many of our colleagues are experiencing. The
The Committee determined an overall variable pay pool of $3,359m
commitments we make to colleagues are critical to support us in
(2021: $3,495m) following a review of our performance against
energising for growth and delivering sustainable performance.
financial and non-financial metrics set out in the Group risk
Performance in 2022 framework. The Committee considered our strong 2022 financial
performance, with a 17% increase in adjusted profit before tax, a
Financial performance
RoTE of 9.9% and adjusted cost growth of 1% year on year. The
Financial performance in 2022 was supported by a rise in global Committee also considered the external environment, the challenging
interest rates, which materially improved our net interest income, and economic outlook and projected outcomes across the market to
we maintained our strong focus on cost discipline, despite inflationary ensure we remain competitive to attract and retain talent.
pressures and continued investment in technology. While our revenue
The distribution of the pool was differentiated by business
outlook remains positive, there are continued risks around inflation
performance. Overall year-on-year variable pay outcomes were
and increasing macroeconomic uncertainty in many of the markets in
strongest in CMB, followed by WPB but down in GBM to reflect
which we operate.
relative performance. There was robust differentiation for individual
Adjusted profit before tax increased by $3.4bn to $24.0bn, as a rise in performance so that our highest performers received meaningful
adjusted revenue of 18% to $55.3bn was partly offset by an adjusted variable pay increases on the previous year. We have protected
expected credit losses charge of $3.6bn, compared with a net release variable pay for junior colleagues, which was up on average,
in 2021 of $0.8bn, and growth in adjusted operating expenses of 1%. recognising the inflationary and cost of living challenges experienced
Our return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE‘) was 9.9%, an increase across most of our markets.
of 1.6% on 2021, and we have now exceeded our ambition of $120bn
In determining 2023 fixed pay increases, we considered the impact of
of risk-weighted asset (‘RWA‘) gross saves since the start of our
inflation in each country where we operate. Increases were targeted
programme in 2020.
towards more junior and middle management colleagues as fixed pay
is a larger proportion of their overall pay. Across the Group, there was
276 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
want to work, where we reward colleagues responsibly and reward 2022 Directors’ remuneration report, which will be subject to an
their successes. We will continue to do the right thing for our advisory vote at our 2023 AGM.
colleagues, rewarding them fairly and supporting them to grow.
We continue to protect value for our shareholders and customers, and
manage our costs. We will also continue to engage with all our Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
stakeholders on executive pay matters.
Chair
We believe that our decisions on executive pay for 2022 have struck
Group Remuneration Committee
the right balance for all stakeholders and are also fair relative to
performance. As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support the 21 February 2023
Remuneration decisions in context
We have given serious consideration to how we manage competing variables when deciding pay outcomes this year. We feel the decisions
that have been made strike a balance between prioritising fixed pay increases for those who need it the most, and variable pay increases for
our most exceptional performers. We will continue to listen carefully to all stakeholders – colleagues, customers and shareholders, as well as
our regulators – in making these important judgements.
What are we doing to support colleagues? How was fixed and variable pay determined for executive
Directors?
A key aspect of the Committee’s activities this year has been ensuring The Committee makes decisions on executive Director pay based on a
that we support our colleagues through the challenges that many are policy that is agreed with our shareholders. The performance against
facing. In recognition of the broader environment, we are spending targets in the executive Directors’ annual scorecards reflects their
more on fixed pay than we have in recent years, and we have individual contribution to the Group's strong financial performance in
increased the total funding by 5.5% globally. We want to make sure 2022.
that colleagues can avoid facing financial hardship, and we support the
We set clear targets at the start of the year, and then the Committee
senior leadership’s decision to focus fixed pay increases on our more
assesses if they have been met or not. The annual incentive scorecard
junior and middle management employees, where this is a larger
is also subject to a risk and compliance modifier.
proportion of their overall pay.
Overall, this has resulted in a higher annual incentive outcome for our
We have taken a number of targeted actions to support our colleagues
executive Directors for 2022. Details of these outcomes are set out in
during 2022, taking the local context into consideration, as detailed in
our annual report on remuneration below.
the Chair’s letter. This includes support for those particularly impacted
by inflationary pressures in Argentina, Türkiye and Sri Lanka. It also There have been no fixed pay increases for our executive Directors.
includes support in mainland China and Hong Kong where colleagues
are still significantly impacted by the pandemic. In the UK, we
supported colleagues facing energy cost pressures.
We have continued to provide a wide range of resources to all our
colleagues globally, including wider support on financial guidance,
employee assistance programmes and access to hardship funds.
How was fixed and variable pay funding determined for all What are the key areas of focus for the Committee over the
employees? coming year?
The Group has increased fixed pay funding by 5.5% for 2023, The Committee notes the UK government’s consultation around the
compared with 3.6% for 2022. bonus cap, and we anticipate that this will eventually lead to a
We have allocated fixed pay by market, with outcomes differentiated remuneration structure with a greater focus on variable pay for
based on the economic circumstances, and particularly wage inflation, performance. We intend to review the remuneration arrangements for
in each market. We have taken into account the impact of the current our executive Directors in due course in light of the UK government’s
economic environment and targeted fixed pay increases towards proposals, and will consult with shareholders on any potential changes
more junior and middle management colleagues where fixed pay is a to our overall remuneration framework.
larger part of their total compensation and who may be most impacted The Committee continues to keep the performance metrics used for
by inflation and cost of living pressures. our executive scorecards under review to ensure that they continue to
There have been no fixed pay increases for most of our senior leaders support the successful execution of our strategy, while also taking
for 2023, including our executive Directors. into account views of our major shareholders, and investor and
regulatory guidance in this area. As the Group continues to progress
The Group variable pay pool is determined by reviewing Group on our environmental, social and governance (’ESG’) journey, the
performance against key financial and non-financial metrics. Although Committee has discussed how we ensure our environmental and
we have improved our financial performance this year, we have kept social commitments continue to be appropriately reflected in the
the pool broadly flat when compared with 2021. Our approach is to performance scorecards for members of the Group Executive
smooth the variable pay pool outcomes over time to protect overall Committee. This is an area the Committee intends to consider further
pay for colleagues from material volatility in performance caused by over the coming year.
market conditions. Within the overall variable pay pool, there has been
significant differentiation to reward our best performing businesses
and recognise excellent individual performance.
Outcomes for colleagues vary significantly depending on their role,
business area and performance.
278 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Our approach to workforce reward The distribution of the variable pay pool was differentiated by
business performance. There was robust differentiation for individual
Our refreshed reward proposition performance so that our highest performers received meaningful
variable pay increases on the previous year. We have protected
During 2022, the Committee refreshed our reward strategy, to variable pay for junior colleagues, which is up on average, recognising
strengthen our focus on inspiring a dynamic culture where the best the inflationary and cost of living challenges experienced across most
want to work. This work was underpinned by comprehensive internal of our markets.
and external research, including reviewing two years of feedback and Considering the macroeconomic environment and cost of living
data from our Snapshot and pay surveys, and exit interviews about challenges impacting colleagues, we provided specific support to
what makes colleagues join, leave and engaged at HSBC. those most affected. For example, in the UK and the Channel Islands
Our workforce proposition is rooted in our purpose and values. Our we paid our more junior colleagues a one-off payment of £1,500 to
commitment to reward colleagues fairly, along with the opportunity to help with the cost of living pressures, driven primarily by rising energy
do inspiring work and contribute within our international network, costs. In Argentina, Sri Lanka and Türkiye, where colleagues were
creates a unique proposition for colleagues. Our refreshed principles impacted by inflationary challenges, we gave our colleagues fixed pay
and supporting commitments articulate the experience for increases throughout the year. In other areas we provided our
employees, and provide a clear framework to creating a dynamic colleagues support in the form of meal vouchers to help with rising
culture where the best talent are motivated to deliver high food costs, and we increased flexibility around how and where our
performance. These principles are: colleagues work. Some of our colleagues are still significantly
impacted by the pandemic and we have ensured support in these
• We will reward you responsibly through fixed pay security and
specific markets. In mainland China and Hong Kong, we provided care
protection through core benefits, a competitive total compensation
packages and increased well-being sessions. In mainland China, we
opportunity, and pay equity with a more inclusive and sustainable
also delivered food essentials and provided inconvenience
benefits proposition over time.
allowances. Where colleagues have been impacted by the Russia-
• We will recognise your success through our performance culture Ukraine war we offered free independent and professional
and routines, including feedback and recognition, pay for counselling, alongside hosting regular public webinars to manage
performance, and all employee share ownership opportunities. topics such as stress and dealing with anxiety. Our colleagues in
• We will support you to grow through our proposition beyond pay, Poland have been providing direct assistance to people crossing the
with a focus on future skills and development, your mental, border and we quickly made available financial resources for them to
physical, social and financial well-being, and flexibility in working continue to directly support refugees.
practices. The well-being of our people remained a critical focus in 2022, and in
We live up to many of these commitments today. We will also set particular, the financial well-being of our colleagues and their families.
new goals to continue to improve over time, with plans to focus on Guided by data and colleague feedback, the pillars of our well-being
improving colleague sentiment through more transparency and programme are mental, physical, financial and social well-being.
structure in pay design, and better communications on how we make Despite the immense challenges, sentiment remained high. A total of
reward decisions. 70% of colleagues believe HSBC genuinely cares about their well-
being. In a September survey, 84% of colleagues rated their mental
Aligned with these commitments, we have developed a roadmap to
well-being as positive, 71% rated their overall physical well-being
build on our strong benefits and well-being programme, including
positively and 60% of colleagues reported their financial well-being as
flexible working, and more inclusive and sustainable benefits.
positive.
We have set clear measures and key performance indicators to track
We measure our colleagues’ sentiment on performance and pay
our progress, including by listening to colleague feedback.
through our annual pay review surveys. Considering the challenges
Supporting colleagues in 2022 colleagues faced, it was encouraging to see that check-ins happened
regularly, with 66% of colleagues having frequent conversations with
In 2022, our colleagues faced a backdrop of increasing economic their managers (2021: 60%). Our colleagues tell us that these have a
instability, with rising energy prices and inflation, which increased positive impact on their performance, development and well-being,
their cost of living. While we continued to focus on making and are important in motivating them to perform at their best.
responsible reward decisions for our colleagues through our annual
Throughout the year we recognise our colleagues for demonstrating
pay review, we also took a number of actions throughout 2022.
our values. The ‘At Our Best’ recognition online platform allows for
Given this context and our focus on pay security, we allocated more real-time recognition and communication of positive behaviours by
to fixed pay increases than in prior years, and this was based on colleagues, in line with our purpose and values. We also run annual
consistent principles to help address the impact of rising inflation in spotlight campaigns, with the campaign in 2022 focusing on ESG
many of our locations. issues to recognise colleagues for exceptional actions in supporting
In determining 2023 fixed pay increases, we considered the impact of our need to work responsibly. Our colleagues made over 1.2 million
inflation in each market where we operate. Increases were targeted recognitions during 2022, a record high and an 11% increase on the
towards more junior and middle management colleagues as fixed pay previous year.
is a larger proportion of their overall pay. Across the Group, there was
an overall increase of 5.5% in fixed pay, compared with 3.6% for
2022. The level of increases varied by market, depending on the
economic situation and individual roles.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 281
Corporate
governance
Strategic measures for Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson
Measures Weighting (%) Assessment considerations by the Committee Assessment (%) Outcome (%)
Customer Maintain and 15.00% • UK and Hong Kong (assessed at 59%). In WPB, our NPS improved in the 60.33% 9.05%
satisfaction improve NPS UK and Hong Kong, and we were ranked in first place in Hong Kong. In
in the UK CMB, our NPS improved in Hong Kong but fell in the UK, and we were
and Hong ranked in second place in Hong Kong. In GBM, our global NPS improved
Kong, in and our global rank remained in fifth.
digital • Digital markets (assessed at 68%). In WPB and CMB digital businesses in
markets, and Hong Kong, we were ranked in first and third. In GBM globally, our digital
in key trade finance platforms maintained first place for the quality of platforms.
growth Our PayMe payments app was ranked in second place for digital wallets.
markets • Key growth markets (assessed at 54%). In WPB, our NPS improved in
mainland China and Singapore, remained unchanged in Mexico, and in India
saw a small decrease. In CMB, our NPS increased in mainland China,
Singapore and Mexico, and our rank positions in those markets either
improved compared with 2021 or were in the top three against
competitors.
Employee Improve 15.00% • Our Snapshot Employee engagement and Inclusion indices both increased 87.50% 13.13%
experience engagement, one percentage point year on year to 73% and 76%, respectively, above
and diversity maximum targets and the financial services benchmarks.
and inclusion • The percentage of Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership increased
by 0.3% to 2.5%, meeting our maximum target.
• The percentage of women in senior leadership increased by 1.6% to 33.3%
since 2021, within the target range of 33.2% to 33.7%.
Personal objectives for Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson
For each executive Director, personal objectives were set at the start of the year and measured by the Committee with respect to key performance indicators under
our strategy levers.
Noel Quinn Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Technology 2.5% 100% • The Committee's assessment reflects strong progress automating our organisation at scale against targets
transformation set. Our Cloud adoption rate, which is the percentage of our technology services on the private or public
Cloud, increased to 35% (2021: 27%). At the end of 2022, approximately 49% of our WPB customers were
'mobile active' users (2021: 43%).
Execution of 2.5% 100% • The targets for inorganic initiatives were delivered in 2022. We completed the acquisition of L&T
inorganic initiatives Investment Management Limited, making us the 12th largest mutual fund management company in India,
in Asia bringing in $10.8bn assets under management and 2.4 million active portfolios. We raised our stake in
HSBC Qianhai in China to 90%, completed our acquisition of the remaining 50% shares in HSBC Life
Insurance in China. We renewed our exclusive life distribution partnership with Allianz in Asia, resulting in
the combined group being the fourth largest health insurer and seventh largest life insurer in Singapore.
Progress on exits 2.5% 100% • The planned sales of our banking business in Canada, branch operations in Greece and business in Russia
identified were announced, reflecting strong progress in reshaping our portfolio.
Progress on 2.5% 100% • In CMB, we launched an industry-leading native bank account service with Oracle Netsuite Enterprise
innovation Resource Planning. We also launched Business Go, a platform that brings together international SMEs with
programmes providers of expert advice and business optimisation tools. In GBM, we launched HSBC Orion, our new
proprietary tokenisation platform used for digital bond issuance. In WPB, we launched our international
credit offering, allowing customers to gain access to credit in a new country based on credit history in their
home country.
Total 10% out of 10%
Ewen Stevenson Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Finance for the 12% 67% • The financial implications of financed emissions targets for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors
future and for the $750bn to $1tn target were included in our financial resource plan, meeting the objectives set.
• The second round of the climate biennial exploratory scenario and stress tests for the Monetary Authority
of Singapore and European Central Bank were completed, with no material issues.
• Plans have been delivered for IFRS 17 compliant reporting, in line with external reporting and disclosure
requirements.
• The Bank of England Resolvability Assessment Framework and regulatory reporting enhancement
objectives were delivered in line with the targets set.
• Resolved 100% of market risk RWA-related issues and over 80% of liquidity-related issues, which were
previously identified and managed under the regulatory reporting enhancement programme.
• The programme to deliver timely, accurate and complete customer-centric management information using
a single data Cloud platform, with enhanced controls and reduced operational risks, is on track to the
agreed scope, costs and timeline.
Global Finance 4% 96% • Targets were met with increased Employee engagement index at 75% favourable (2021: 68%).
employee • Female representation in senior management roles across Finance increased to 32.1% (2021: 30.2%).
experience and • Finance costs overall were within 2022 targets. The number of FTEs at the end of 2022 was slightly higher
function efficiency than the maximum target, mainly due to growth in key areas where new capabilities are required.
Creating strong 4% 75% • The Group Transformation function has made strong progress in aligning our change portfolio to the
corporate Group's strategy and systematically documenting a full change inventory. Achievements include clear
development and reporting with associated costs on how the change portfolio is enabling the delivery of Group strategy, and
Group stronger governance of the change portfolio, with an expanded remit of the Transformation Oversight
transformation Executive Committee to cover the entire change portfolio with improved accountability via targeted
functions reviews of high impact programmes.
• Major transactions included planned sales of our banking business in Canada, branch operations in Greece
and business in Russia were announced; the planned merger of Oman operations with Sohar International
Bank; the completion of the Axa Singapore acquisition; the sale of US domestic mass market retail
banking; and the acquisition of L&T Investment Management Limited in India.
Total 14.83% out of 20%
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 283
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2022 (performance period 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2025)
Minimum Target Maximum Weighting
Measures1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) %
RoTE with CET1 underpin2 13.0% 14.3% 15.5% 25.0
Capital reallocation to Asia with CET1
49.0% 50.5% 52.0% 25.0
underpin3
Carbon reduction
64.0% 68.0% 72.0%
Transition to net (own emissions)
25.0
zero4
Sustainable finance
$588.0bn $700.0bn $756.0bn
and investment
At the median of the peer Straight-line vesting between At the upper quartile of the
Relative TSR5 25.0
group minimum and maximum peer group
Subject to risk and compliance modifier
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period. This metric will be subject to the CET1 underpin.
3 To be assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a reported basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December 2025. This
metric will be subject to the CET1 underpin.
4 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2025 using 2019 as
the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending 31
December 2025.
5 The peer group for the 2022 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, JP
Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
Annual incentive measures for 2023
2023 annual incentive performance measures Weighting
The 2023 annual incentive scorecard measures for our executive Financial (subject to CET1 underpin) 60%
Directors have been set to deliver growth and business Reported profit before tax 15%
transformation. They were selected by the Committee after taking Reported operating expenses 15%
into account the Group’s strategic pivot to Asia and feedback received
Reported Group RoTE 15%
from our major shareholders during engagement in the year. The
Reported Asia RoTE 5%
targets have been set to reflect the Group’s 2023 plan, while
considering macroeconomic uncertainty, including the interest-rate Fee income growth 5%
environment and rising inflation. Net new invested assets growth 5%
The Committee will continue to retain discretion to adjust the Stakeholders 30%
formulaic outcomes of scorecards, taking into account factors such as Customer satisfaction
15%
Group profits, wider business performance and stakeholder (improvement in NPS scores/rank)
experience, to ensure executive reward is aligned with underlying Employee experience
Group performance and the broader stakeholder experience. (gender and ethnicity representation and Inclusion index 15%
score)
The weightings and performance measures for the 2023 annual
incentive award for executive Directors are disclosed below. In Personal objectives
previous years, the weightings were different for the Group Chief Group Chief Executive: technology transformation,
Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer. For 2023, these have innovation, and simplification of processes and organisation
been aligned, reflecting feedback from shareholders and to simplify Group Chief Financial Officer: regulatory priorities (regulatory 10%
our approach. The performance targets are commercially sensitive reporting enhancement programme, resolution recovery
and it would be detrimental to the Group’s interests to disclose them planning, and ESG and climate), Finance change
at the start of the financial year. Subject to commercial sensitivity, we transformation and digitisation, energised Finance
will disclose the targets for a given year in the Directors’ workforce, and liquidity usage and capital management
remuneration report for that year. Subject to risk and compliance modifier
286 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Scheme interests awarded during 2022
(Audited)
The table below sets out the scheme interests granted to executive Directors during 2022 in respect of performance year 2021, as disclosed in
the 2021 Directors’ remuneration report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year.
Scheme awards in 2022
(Audited)
Face Percentage
value receivable for Number of End of
Type of interest Basis on which awarded1 minimum shares performance
awarded award made Date of award £000 performance awarded period
Noel Quinn LTI deferred shares2 % of salary2 28 February 2022 5,290 25 983,339 31 December 2024
Ewen Stevenson LTI deferred shares2 % of salary2 28 February 2022 3,086 25 573,674 31 December 2024
1 The face value of the award has been computed using HSBC’s closing share price of £5.380 taken on 25 February 2022. LTI awards are conditional
share awards subject to a three-year forward-looking performance period and vest in five equal annual instalments, between the third and seventh
anniversary of the award date, subject to performance achieved. On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period. Awards are subject
to malus during the vesting period and clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award.
2 In line with regulatory requirements, scheme interests awarded during 2022 were not eligible for dividend equivalents. In accordance with the
remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2019 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 320% of salary for Noel Quinn and 320% of salary
for Ewen Stevenson. The number of shares to be granted was determined by taking HSBC’s closing share price of £5.380 taken on 25 February 2022,
and applying a discount based on HSBC’s expected dividend yield of 5% per annum for the vesting period (£4.201).
The above table does not include details of shares issued as part of the fixed pay allowance and shares issued as part of the 2021 annual
incentive award that vested on grant and were not subject to any further service or performance conditions. Details of the performance
measures and targets for the 2021 LTI award are below:
Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2021 (performance period 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2024)
(Audited)
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures1 (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) Weighting %
RoTE (with CET1 underpin)2 8.0% 9.5% 11.0% 25.0
Capital reallocation to Asia (with CET1 underpin)3 46.0% 48.0% 50.0% 25.0
Carbon reduction 52.0% 56.0% 60.0%
Environment and
sustainability4 Sustainable finance and $285.0bn $340.0bn $370.0bn 25.0
investment
At median of the Straight-line vesting between At upper quartile of
Relative TSR5 25.0
peer group minimum and maximum peer group
1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period. The measure will also be subject to a CET1 underpin. If the CET1 ratio at the
end of the performance period is below the CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the assessment for this measure will be
reduced to nil.
3 To be assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December
2024. This metric will be subject to the CET1 underpin outlined above.
4 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2024 using 2019 as
the baseline. The sustainable finance and investment metric will assess cumulative financing provided over the period commencing on 1 January 2020
and ending on 31 December 2024.
5 The peer group for the 2021 award is: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank,
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
Executive Directors’ interests in shares With regard to post-employment shareholding arrangements, we
believe that our remuneration structure achieves the objective of
(Audited) ensuring there is ongoing alignment of executive Directors' interests
The shareholdings of executive Directors in 2022, including the with shareholder experience post-cessation of their employment due
shareholdings of their connected persons, at 31 December 2022 (or to the following features of the policy:
the date they stepped down from the Board, if earlier) are set out • Shares delivered to executive Directors as part of the fixed pay
below. The following table shows the comparison of shareholdings allowance have a five-year retention period, which continues to
with the company shareholding guidelines. There have been no apply following a departure of an executive Director.
changes in the shareholdings of the executive Directors from
• Shares delivered as part of an annual incentive award are subject
31 December 2022 to the date of this report.
to a one-year retention period, which continues to apply following
Individuals have five years from their appointment date to build up the a departure of an executive Director.
recommended levels of shareholding. In line with investor guidance, • LTI awards have a seven-year vesting period with a one-year post-
for executive Directors, unvested shares that are not subject to vesting retention period, which is not accelerated on departure.
forward-looking performance conditions (on a net of tax basis) will The weighted average holding period of an LTI award within HSBC
count towards their shareholding requirement under the shareholder- is therefore six years, in excess of the five-year holding period
approved policy. typically implemented by FTSE-listed companies. When an
The Committee reviews compliance with the shareholding executive Director ceases employment as a good leaver under our
requirement and has full discretion in determining if any unvested policy, any LTI awards granted will continue to be released over a
shares should be taken into consideration for assessing compliance period of up to eight years, subject to the outcome of performance
with this requirement, taking into account shareholder expectations conditions.
and guidelines. The Committee also has full discretion in determining HSBC operates a policy under which individuals are not permitted to
any penalties for non-compliance. enter into any personal hedging strategies in relation to HSBC shares
subject to a vesting and/or retention period.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 287
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Group Remuneration Committee All members of the Committee are independent non-executive
Directors of HSBC Holdings plc. No Directors are involved in deciding
The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the their own remuneration. A copy of the Committee’s terms of
overarching principles, parameters and governance of the Group’s reference can be found on our website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-
remuneration framework for our colleagues, and the remuneration of are/leadership-and-governance/board-committees.
executive Directors, the Group Chairman and other senior Group The Committee met six times during 2022. Pauline van der Meer
colleagues. The Committee regularly reviews the framework to Mohr stepped down from the Committee and the Board after the
ensure it supports the Group’s purpose, values, culture and strategy, 2022 AGM, and was succeeded as Group Remuneration Committee
as well as promoting sound risk management. The Committee also Chair by Dame Carolyn Fairbairn. Geraldine Buckingham was
reviews the framework to satisfy itself that it complies with the appointed as a member of the Committee in June 2022. The
regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. following is a summary of the Committee’s key activities during 2022.
Matters considered during 2022
Jan Feb May Jul Sep Dec
Remuneration framework and governance
Group variable pay pool, workforce performance and pay matters, pay gap report, and employee insights l l l l l l
Directors’ remuneration policy design l ô ô ô ô ô
Executive Director remuneration policy implementation, scorecards and pay proposals l l l l l l
Remuneration for other senior executives of the Group l l l l l l
Directors’ remuneration report l l ô ô ô l
Regulatory, risk and governance
Information on material risk and audit events, and performance and remuneration impacts for individuals involved l l l l l l
Regulatory updates, including approach and outcomes for the identification of Material Risk Takers l l l l l l
Governance matters l l l l l l
Principal subsidiaries
Matters from subsidiary committees l ô l l l l
l Matter considered ô Matter not considered
Advisers • Bob Hoyt, Group Chief Legal Officer;
• Shawn Chen, former Global General Counsel for Litigation and
The Committee received input and advice from different advisers on
Regulatory Enforcement;
specific topics during 2022. Deloitte provided independent advice to
the Committee. Deloitte also provided tax compliance and other • Maureen Lewis, Interim Global General Counsel for Litigation and
advisory services to the Group in 2022. Deloitte is a founding member Investigation; and
of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates
• Aileen Taylor, Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance
under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration
Officer.
consulting in the UK.
The Committee also received feedback and input from the Group Risk
The Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson on
Committee and Group Audit Committee on risk, conduct and
market data and remuneration trends. Willis Towers Watson provides
compliance-related matters relevant to remuneration.
actuarial support to Global Finance and benchmarking data and
services related to benefits administration for our Group employees. No Director is present at Group Remuneration Committee meetings
The Committee was satisfied the advice provided by Deloitte and when their own remuneration is discussed.
Willis Towers Watson was objective and independent in 2022. In addition to the meetings above, the Group Risk Committee
For 2022, total fees of £203,800 and £79,803 were incurred in relation convened two joint meetings with the Group Remuneration
to remuneration advice provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers Committee in September 2022 and December 2022. They reviewed
Watson, respectively. This was based on pre-agreed fees and a time- the Group’s risk and reward alignment framework, which is designed
and-materials basis. to promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and
FCA remuneration rules and expectations.
During the year, the Committee conducted a tender process for its
independent remuneration adviser. This involved participating firms Committee effectiveness
submitting proposals and meeting with the Committee Chair and
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board committees,
management. Following this process, Deloitte was reappointed as the
including the Group Remuneration Committee, was conducted
Committee’s independent advisers.
internally in 2022, led by the Group Company Secretary and Chief
Attendees and interaction with other Board Governance Officer. Overall, the review concluded that the
committees Committee continued to operate effectively and in line with regulatory
requirements.
During the year, Noel Quinn as the Group Chief Executive provided Areas for continued enhancement were identified, including the need
regular briefings to the Committee. In addition, the Committee to focus on: a differentiated, fair and transparent reward framework;
engaged with, and received updates from, the following: ESG performance metrics; and in particular, sustainability; the
• Mark Tucker, Group Chairman; development of climate performance measures aligned to strategic
net zero goals; and greater coordination with the Group Risk
• Elaine Arden, Group Chief Human Resources Officer;
Committee. Given the anticipated changes to remuneration
• Ewen Stevenson, who was Group Chief Financial Officer until regulations and evolving shareholder views on remuneration, a
31 December 2022; structured training programme will be developed and delivered by the
Committee’s independent remuneration advisers. The outcomes of
• Jenny Craik, Group Head of Performance, Reward and Employee
the 2022 annual review have been reported to the Board, and the
Relations;
Group Remuneration Committee will track the progress in
• Pam Kaur, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer; implementing recommendations during 2023.
290 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
2023 fees for non-executive Directors
The table below sets out the 2023 fees for non-executive Directors.
2023 fees
Position £
Non-executive Group Chairman1 1,500,000
Non-executive Director (base fee) 127,000
Senior Independent Director 200,000
Group Risk Committee Chair 150,000
Member 40,000
Group Audit Committee and Group Remuneration Committee Chair 75,000
Member 40,000
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Chair ––
Member 33,000
Technology Governance Working Group Co-Chair 60,000
Designated workforce engagement non-executive Director 40,000
1 The Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fee in respect of chairing of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
Service contracts contracts, but are bound by letters of appointment issued for and on
behalf of HSBC Holdings, which are available for inspection at HSBC
Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding Holdings’ registered office. There are no obligations in the non-
three years, which may be renewed subject to their re-election by executive Directors’ letters of appointment that could give rise to
shareholders at AGMs. Non-executive Directors do not have service remuneration payments or payments for loss of office.
2023 AGM 2024 AGM 2025 AGM
Geraldine Buckingham1 James Forese Rachel Duan
Kalpana Morparia1 Steven Guggenheimer Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
David Nish Eileen Murray José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
Mark Tucker
1 Geraldine Buckingham and Kalpana Morparia were appointed following the 2022 AGM and therefore their initial three-year appointment terms are subject
to approval of their election by shareholders at the 2023 AGM. Their initial three-year term of appointment will end at the conclusion of the 2026 AGM,
subject to annual re-election by shareholders’ at the relevant AGMs.
Our approach to workforce remuneration
Remuneration alignment with executive Directors
Total compensation, which comprises fixed and variable pay, is the key focus of our remuneration framework, with variable pay differentiated by
performance and demonstration of value-aligned behaviours. We set out below the key features and design characteristics of our remuneration
framework, which will apply on a Group-wide basis, subject to compliance with local laws:
Overview of remuneration structure for employees
Remuneration
components and Approach for executive
objectives Application for Group employees Directors
Fixed pay • Fixed pay may include salary, fixed pay allowance, cash in lieu of pension and other cash • Consistent with approach for
Attract and retain allowances in accordance with local market practice. Group colleagues except
employees with market • It is based on predetermined criteria, non-discretionary, transparent and not reduced fixed pay allowance paid in
competitive pay for the based on performance. shares.
role, skills and • It represents a higher proportion of total compensation for more junior employees.
experience required.
• Fixed pay may change to reflect an individual’s position, role or grade, cost of living in the
country, individual skills, capabilities and experience.
• Fixed pay is generally delivered in cash on a monthly basis.
Benefits • Benefits may include, but are not limited to, the provision of a pension, medical insurance, • Provision of medical
Support the physical, life insurance, health assessment and relocation support. insurance, life insurance, car
mental and financial and tax return assistance.
health of a diverse Group Chief Executive is
workforce in eligible to receive
accordance with local accommodation and a car
market practice. benefit in Hong Kong.
Annual incentive • All employees are eligible to be considered for a discretionary variable pay award. • Annual incentive is
Incentivise and reward Individual awards are determined against objectives for performance set at the start of the determined based on the
performance based on year. outcomes of annual
annual financial and • Annual incentives represent a higher proportion of total compensation for more senior scorecard of financial and
non-financial measures employees and will be more closely aligned to Group and business performance as non-financial measures.
consistent with the seniority increases. • Executive Directors and
medium- to long-term • Variable pay for Group employees identified as Material Risk Takers (’MRTs’) under Group Executives are also
strategy, stakeholder European Union Regulatory Technical Standard (’RTS’) 2021/923 is limited to 200% of eligible to be considered for a
interests and values- fixed pay, as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM held on 23 May 2014 (98% in long-term incentive award,
aligned behaviours. favour). which is subject to three-year
forward-looking performance
• Awards are generally paid in cash and shares. For MRTs, at least 50% of the awards are
measures.
in shares and/or where required by regulations, in units linked to asset management
funds.
292 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
Link between risk, performance and reward We set out below the key features of our framework, which help
enable us to achieve alignment between risk, performance and
Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk reward, subject to compliance with local laws and regulations:
management while supporting our business objectives and the
delivery of our strategy.
Framework
elements Application
Variable pay The Group variable pay pool is expected to reflect Group performance, based on a range of financial, non-financial and contextual
pool factors. We use a countercyclical funding methodology, with both a floor and a ceiling, with the payout ratio generally reducing as
performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality. The floor recognises that even in challenging times, remaining competitive is important.
The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance it is not always necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool,
thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance.
The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include:
• Group and business unit financial performance, taking into account contextual factors driving performance, and capital
requirements;
• current and future risks, taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite, financial and resourcing plan and global
conduct outcomes; and
• fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress, which are automatically included in the Committee’s definition of profit for
determining the pool.
In the event that the Group was unable to distribute dividends to shareholders for reasons such as capital adequacy, then the Group
may determine that as a year of weak performance. In such a year, the Group may withhold some, or all, variable pay for employees
including unvested share awards, using the metrics outlined above as a basis for that determination.
Individual • Assessment of individual performance is made with reference to clear and relevant financial and non-financial objectives. Objectives
performance for senior management take into account appropriate measures linked to sustainability risks, such as: reduction in carbon footprint;
scorecard facilitating financing to help clients with their transition to net zero; employee diversity targets; and risk and compliance measures.
A mandatory global risk objective is included in the scorecard of all other employees. All employees receive a behaviour rating as
well as a performance rating, which ensures performance is assessed not only on what is achieved but also on how it is achieved.
Control • The performance and reward of individuals in control functions, including risk and compliance employees, are assessed according to
function staff a balanced scorecard of objectives specific to the functional role they undertake.
• Their remuneration is determined independent of the performance of the business areas they oversee.
• The Committee is responsible for approving the remuneration for the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Group Head of
Internal Audit.
• Group policy is for control functions staff to report into their respective function. Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles
are made by the global function head.
• Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
Variable pay • Variable pay awards may be adjusted downwards in circumstances including:
adjustments – detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute;
and conduct
– involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause
recognition
significant harm to HSBC; and
– non-compliance with the values-aligned behaviours and other mandatory requirements or policies.
• Rewarding positive conduct may take the form of use of our global recognition programme, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to
variable pay awards.
Malus Malus can be applied to unvested deferred awards (up to 100% of awards) granted in prior years in circumstances including:
• detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
• past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
• restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
• improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 (and awards granted to non-MRTs on
or after 1 January 2022) for a period of seven years, extended to 10 years for employees in PRA and FCA designated senior
management functions in the event of ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Clawback may be
applied in circumstances including:
• participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
• failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
• reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract
of employment; and
• a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk-management standards,
policies and procedures.
Sales • We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans, unless aligned with local market practice and with appropriate
incentives safeguards to avoid incentivising inappropriate sales behaviours.
Identification • We identify individuals as MRTs based on the qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the RTS and using the following key
of MRTs principles that underpin HSBC’s identification process:
– MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank (consolidated) and HSBC UK Bank level.
– MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as required by the regulations.
– When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers an employee’s role within its matrix management structure. The global business
and function that an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
• We also identify additional MRTs based on our own internal criteria, which include compensation thresholds and individuals in
certain roles and grades who otherwise would not be identified as MRTs under the criteria prescribed in the RTS.
294 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Policy alignment with UK Corporate Governance Code
The table below details how the Group Remuneration Committee addresses the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code in
respect of the Directors' remuneration policy:
Provision Approach
Clarity • The Committee regularly engages and consults with key shareholders to take into account
Remuneration arrangements should be shareholder feedback and to ensure there is transparency on our policy and its implementation.
transparent and promote effective engagement • Details of our remuneration practices and our remuneration policy for Directors are published and
with shareholders and the workforce. available to all our employees.
Simplicity • Our Directors' remuneration policy has been designed so that it is easy to understand and
Remuneration structures should avoid complexity transparent, while complying with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code
and their rationale and operation should be easy and the remuneration rules of the UK's PRA and FCA, as well as meeting the expectations of our
to understand. shareholders. The objective of each remuneration element is explained and the amount paid in
respect of each element of pay is clearly set out.
Risk • In line with regulatory requirements, our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk
Remuneration structures should identify and management while supporting our business objectives.
mitigate against reputational and other risks from • The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer attends Committee meetings and updates the
excessive rewards, as well as behavioural risks Committee on the overall risk profile of the Group. The Committee also seeks inputs from the
that can arise from target-based incentive plans. Group Risk Committee when making remuneration decisions.
• Risk and conduct considerations are taken into account in setting the variable pay pool, from
which any executive Director variable pay is funded.
• Executive Directors' annual incentive and LTI scorecards include a mix of financial and non-
financial measures. Financial measures in the scorecards are subject to a CET1 capital underpin to
ensure CET1 capital remains within risk tolerance levels while achieving financial targets. In
addition, the overall scorecard outcome is subject to a risk and compliance modifier.
• The deferred portion of any awards granted to executive Directors is subject to a seven-year
deferral period during which our malus policy can be applied. All variable pay awards that have
vested are subject to our clawback policy for a period of up to seven years from the award date
(extending to 10 years where an investigation is ongoing).
Predictability • The charts set out in our shareholder approved policy report (available in our Annual Report and
The range of possible values of rewards to Accounts 2021) show how the total value of remuneration and its composition vary under different
individual Directors and any other limits or performance scenarios for executive Directors.
discretions should be identified and explained at
the time of approving the policy.
Proportionality • The annual incentive and LTI scorecards reward achievement of our financial and resource plan
The link between individual awards, the delivery targets, as well as long-term financial and shareholder value creation targets.
of strategy and the long-term performance of the • The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the annual incentive and LTI payout based on the
Group should be clear and outcomes should not outcome of the relevant scorecards, if it considers that the payout determined does not
reward poor performance. appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance
period.
Alignment with culture • In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve a
Incentive schemes should drive behaviours required behaviour rating, which is assessed by reference to the HSBC Values.
consistent with the Group's purpose, values and • Annual incentive and LTI scorecards contain non-financial measures linked to our wider social
strategy. obligations. These include measures related to reducing the environmental impact of our
operations, improving customer satisfaction, diversity and employee engagement.
• Each year senior employees participate in a 360 degree survey, which gathers feedback on values-
aligned behaviours from peers, direct reports, skip level reports and managers.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 297
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Directors’ interests Save as stated in the following table, no further interests were held
by Directors, and no Directors or their connected persons were
Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and according to awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or
the register of Directors’ interests maintained by HSBC Holdings debentures in any HSBC corporation during the year.
pursuant to section 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of
No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and
Hong Kong, the Directors of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2022
Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares or debentures of
had certain interests, all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the
HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations.
shares or debentures of HSBC Holdings and its associated
corporations.
Directors’ interests – shares and debentures
At 31 Dec 2022 or date of cessation, if earlier
At 1 Jan 2022, or Jointly
date of Child with
appointment, Beneficial under 18 another Total
if later owner or spouse person Trustee interests
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Geraldine Buckingham1 (appointed to the Board on 1 May 2022) — 15,000 — — — 15,000
Rachel Duan1 — 15,000 — — — 15,000
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn — 15,000 — — — 15,000
James Forese1 115,000 115,000 — — — 115,000
Steven Guggenheimer1 15,000 — — 15,000 — 15,000
Irene Lee (retired on 29 Apr 2022) 15,000 15,000 — — — 15,000
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña1 15,000 15,000 — — — 15,000
Eileen Murray1 75,000 75,000 — — — 75,000
David Nish 50,000 — 50,000 — — 50,000
Noel Quinn2 1,131,278 1,422,650 — — — 1,422,650
Ewen Stevenson2 838,154 1,064,626 — — — 1,064,626
Jackson Tai1,3 66,515 32,800 11,965 21,750 — 66,515
Mark Tucker 307,352 307,352 — — — 307,352
Pauline van der Meer Mohr (retired on 29 Apr 2022) 15,000 15,000 — — — 15,000
1 Geraldine Buckingham has an interest in 3,000, Rachel Duan has an interest in 3,000, James Forese has an interest in 23,000, Steven Guggenheimer
has an interest in 3,000, José Antonio Meade Kuribreña has an interest in 3,000, Eileen Murray has an interest in 15,000 and Jackson Tai has an
interest in 13,303 listed American Depositary Shares (’ADS’), which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures
Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
2 Executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK) and the
HSBC Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Scheme interests in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 276. At 31 December 2022, the aggregate
interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, including interests arising through employee
share plans and the interests above were: Noel Quinn – 3,940,314; and Ewen Stevenson – 3,135,841. Each Director’s total interests represents
approximately 0.02% of the shares in issue and 0.02% of the shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
3 Jackson Tai has a non-beneficial interest in 11,965 shares of which he is custodian.
There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the Board governance
current Directors from 31 December 2022 to the date of this report.
Appointment and re-election of Directors
Listing Rule 9.8.4 and other disclosures
A rigorous selection process is followed for the appointment of
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts 2022 forms part of Directors. Appointments are made on merit and candidates are
and includes certain disclosures required in the Report of the considered against objective criteria, having regard to the benefits of a
Directors incorporated by cross-reference, including under Listing diverse Board. Appointments are made in accordance with HSBC
Rule 9.8.4 and otherwise as applicable by law. Holdings’ Articles of Association. The Nomination & Corporate
Governance Committee report sets out further details of the Board
Content Page references selection process.
Long-term incentives 285 The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director or
Dividend waivers 302 secretary, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional officer. The Board
Dividends 302 may appoint any Director or secretary to hold any employment or
Share buy-back 301 executive office, and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Emoluments waivers 291
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term
Emissions 47
and, subject to continued satisfactory performance based upon an
Energy efficiency 49, 57, 59
assessment by the Group Chairman and the Nomination & Corporate
Principal activities of HSBC 12, 31, 108, 382
Governance Committee, are proposed for re-election by shareholders
Business review and future developments 11–42, 44, 133, 142, 409
at each AGM. They typically serve two three-year terms, with any
individual's appointment beyond six years to be for a rolling one-year
term and subject to thorough review and challenge with reference to
the needs of the Board. Where Directors are appointed beyond six
years, an explanation is provided in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders vote at each AGM on whether to elect and re-elect
individual Directors. All Directors that stood for election and re-
election at the 2022 AGM were elected and re-elected by
shareholders.
304 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
None of the Directors who retired during the year or who are not remained in force for the whole of the financial year (or, in the case of
offering themselves for re-election at the 2023 AGM have raised Directors appointed during 2022, from the date of their appointment).
concerns about the operation of the Board or the management of the The deed poll is available for inspection at the registered office of
company. HSBC Holdings.
No executive Director is involved in deciding their own remuneration Additionally, Directors and pension trustees have the benefit of both
outcome. Directors’ and officers’, and pension trustees’, liability insurances.
Commitments
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to the
The terms and conditions of the appointments of non-executive trustees of the Group’s pension schemes, which were in force for the
Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the date of this
expectations of them and the estimated time required to perform report.
their role. Letters of appointment of each non-executive Director are
Contracts of significance
available for inspection at the registered office of HSBC Holdings. The
anticipated time commitment for a non-executive Director serving on During 2022, none of the Directors had a material interest, directly or
the Board and as a member of any committee is no more than 75 indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC company.
days per annum. Directors who also chair a large committee are During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in
expected to commit up to 100 days per annum with the Senior respect of transacting in HSBC securities and following specific
Independent Director expected to serve an additional 30 days per enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with
annum. The time commitment of the Group Risk Committee chair is their obligations.
up to 150 days per annum. Any additional time commitment Shareholder engagement and communication
connected with Board-related appointments will be confirmed
The Board is directly accountable to, and gives high priority to
separately.
communicating with, HSBC’s shareholders. Information about HSBC
Board approval is required for any non-executive Directors’ external and its activities is provided to shareholders in its Interim Reports and
commitments, with consideration given to their total time the Annual Report and Accounts as well as on www.hsbc.com.
commitments and potential conflicts of interest. As set out in the Section 172(1) statement on page 20, the Board
Conflicts of interest seeks to understand investor needs through ongoing dialogue
between members of the Board and institutional investors throughout
The Board has an established policy and set of procedures, reviewed
the year. For examples of such engagement, see ’Board decision
and amended in 2022, to ensure that the Board’s management of
making and engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20, the Board’s
Directors’ conflicts of interest is effective. The Board has the power
engagement with shareholders on page 256 and the Group
to authorise conflicts where they arise, in accordance with the
Remuneration Committee Chair's letter on page 276. During 2022,
Companies Act 2006 and HSBC Holdings’ Articles of Association.
approximately 570 meetings were held with institutional investors and
Details of all Directors’ conflicts of interest are recorded in the
analysts globally.
register of conflicts. As part of its 2022 review, the Board agreed that
responsibility for the ongoing review of the conflicts register be Our shareholder communications policy summarises how we
conducted by the Board, having previously been overseen by the communicate with our shareholders, including through financial
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee. Upon appointment, reporting, general shareholder meetings, investor and analyst
new Directors are advised of the policy and procedures for managing meetings and our website. The policy is reviewed annually by the
conflicts. Directors are required to notify the Board of any actual or Board, and in 2022 the Board confirmed that it was satisfied with its
potential conflicts of interest and to update the Board with any implementation and effectiveness. The policy can be found at
changes to the facts and circumstances surrounding such conflicts. www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-
Directors are requested to review and confirm their own and their responsibilities.
respective closely associated persons’ outside interests and
We also publish our current and past financial results, investor appointments twice each year. The Board has considered, and
presentations and shareholder information such as dividend payments
authorised (with or without conditions) where appropriate, potential
and shareholder meeting details. Stock exchange announcements are
conflicts as they have arisen during the year in accordance with its
also accessible on our website along with information for fixed
conflicts policy and procedures. All non-executive Directors are re-
income investors. For further details, see www.hsbc.com/investors. vetted by the compliance team every three years following
appointment and as part of such process all conflicts checks are Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of
refreshed. shareholders. Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their
shareholdings and HSBC’s business are welcomed.
Joint Company Secretary
Any individual or institutional investor can make an enquiry by
Aileen Taylor is the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance
contacting the investor relations team, Group Chairman, Group Chief
Officer.
Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Company
In addition to being appointed as Deputy Group Secretary in Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Our Senior Independent
December 2021, for administrative purposes, Hannah Ashdown (46) Director is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that
was also appointed in October 2022 as Joint Company Secretary. She cannot be resolved or for which the normal channels would not be
is a Fellow of the Chartered Governance Institute UK and Ireland. appropriate. He can be contacted via the Group Company Secretary
Hannah has over 20 years’ governance and regulatory experience and Chief Governance Officer at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
across multiple sectors including financial services, asset
Annual General Meeting
management, energy, leisure and retail.
The AGM in 2023 is planned to be held in Birmingham, UK at
Directors’ indemnity
11:00am on Friday, 5 May 2023. Information on how to vote and
The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings contain a qualifying participate, both in advance and on the day, can be found in the
third-party indemnity provision, which entitles Directors and other Notice of the 2023 AGM, which will be sent to shareholders on 24
officers to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against March 2023 and be available on www.hsbc.com/agm. A live webcast
claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities. will be available on www.hsbc.com. A recording of the proceedings
HSBC Holdings has granted, by way of deed poll, indemnities to the will be available on www.hsbc.com shortly after the conclusion of the
Directors, including former Directors, against certain liabilities arising AGM. Shareholders should monitor our website and announcements
in connection with their position as a Director of HSBC Holdings or of for any changes to these arrangements. Shareholders may send
any Group company. Directors are indemnified to the maximum enquiries to the Board in writing via the Group Company Secretary
extent permitted by law. and Chief Governance Officer, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square,
London E14 5HQ or by sending an email to
The indemnities that constitute a ’qualifying third-party indemnity
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
provision’, as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006,
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 305
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
General meetings and resolutions HSBC provides administrative support to two political action
committees (’PACs’) in the US funded by voluntary political
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting
contributions by eligible employees. We do not control the PACs, and
other than an AGM, as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. A
all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are
valid request to call a general meeting may be made by members
directed by a voluntary Board Finance Committee, which consists of
representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings as
contributing eligible employees. The PACs recorded combined
carries the right of voting at its general meetings (excluding any paid-
political donations of $100,250 during 2022 (2021: $15,500).
up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general
nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may Charitable contributions
include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is
intended to be moved at the meeting. At any general meeting For details of charitable contributions, see page 84.
convened on such request, no business may be transacted except
Internal control
that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board.
Shareholders may request the Directors to send a resolution to The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the
shareholders for consideration at an AGM, as provided by the UK effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems, and
Companies Act 2006. A valid request must be made by for determining the level and type of risks the Group is willing to take
(i) members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC in achieving its strategic objectives.
Holdings as carries the right of voting at its general meetings
To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under the
(excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares), or (ii) at least
FCA Handbook and the PRA Handbook, procedures have been
100 members who have a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM
designed: for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use or
in question and hold shares in HSBC Holdings on which there has
disposal; for maintaining proper accounting records; and for ensuring
been paid up an average sum, per member, of at least £100.
the reliability and usefulness of financial information used within the
The request must be received by HSBC Holdings not later than (i) six
business or for publication.
weeks before the AGM in question; or (ii) if later, the time at which
the notice of AGM is published. These procedures provide reasonable assurance against material
misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. They are designed to provide
A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must
effective internal control within the Group and accord with the
be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may
Financial Reporting Council‘s guidance for Directors issued in 2014,
be made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK address, referred to in
on risk management, internal control and related financial and
the paragraph above or by sending an email to
business reporting. The procedures have been in place throughout the
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
year and up to 21 February 2023, the date of approval of the Annual
Articles of Association Report and Accounts 2022.
New Articles of Association were approved at the 2022 AGM. The The key risk management and internal control procedures include the
principal changes included updates and changes to articles on hybrid following:
meetings, general meetings, untraceable shareholders, Director share
Global Principles
qualification, Directors’ reappointment, Directors’ written resolutions,
distribution in specie and dividend forfeiture. The Articles of The Group’s Global Principles set an overarching standard for all
Association can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership- policies and procedures and are fundamental to the Group’s risk
and-governance/board-responsibilities. For further details of the 2022 management structure. They inform and connect our purpose, values,
Notice of AGM, see www.hsbc.com/agm. strategy and risk management principles, guiding us to do the right
thing and treat our customers and our colleagues fairly at all times.
Events after the balance sheet date
Risk management framework
For details of events after the balance sheet date, see Note 37 on the
The risk management framework supports our Global Principles. It
financial statements.
outlines the key principles and practices that we employ in managing
Change of control material risks. It applies to all categories of risk and supports a
consistent approach in identifying, assessing, managing and reporting
The Group is not party to any significant agreements that take effect, the risks we accept and incur in our activities.
alter or terminate following a change of control of the Group. The
Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board
Group does not have agreements with any Director or employee that
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group Chief
resulting from a takeover bid. Executive has been delegated authority limits and powers within
which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the Group, including the
Branches
right to sub-delegate those limits and powers. Each relevant Group
Executive Committee member or executive Director has delegated
The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services
authority within which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the
through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
business or function for which he or she is accountable.
Research and development activities
Delegation of authority from the Board requires those individuals to
maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment of significant
During the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new
responsibilities and to oversee the establishment and maintenance of
products and services within the global businesses.
systems of control that are appropriate to their business or function.
Political donations Authorities to enter into credit and market risk exposures
are delegated with limits to line management of Group companies.
HSBC does not make any political donations or incur political However, credit proposals with specified higher-risk characteristics
expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words. We have no require the concurrence of the appropriate global function. Credit and
intention of altering this policy. However, the definitions of political market risks are measured and reported at subsidiary company level
donations, political parties, political organisations and political and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a Group-wide basis.
expenditure used in the UK Companies Act 2006 are very wide. As a
result, they may cover routine activities that form part of the normal Risk identification and monitoring
business activities of the Group and are an accepted part of engaging Systems and procedures are in place to identify, assess, control and
with stakeholders. To ensure that neither the Group nor any of its monitor the material risk types facing HSBC as set out in the risk
subsidiaries inadvertently breaches the UK Companies Act 2006, management framework. The Group‘s risk measurement and
authority is sought from shareholders at the AGM to make political reporting systems are designed to help ensure that material risks are
donations. captured with all the attributes necessary to support well-founded
306 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
decisions, that those attributes are accurately assessed and that The key risk management and internal control procedures over
information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks to be financial reporting include the following:
successfully managed and mitigated.
Entity level controls
Changes in market conditions/practices
The primary mechanism through which comfort over risk
Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in management and internal control systems is achieved is through
market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which could assessments of the effectiveness of controls to manage risk, and the
expose the Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage. reporting of issues on a regular basis through the various risk
The Group employs a top and emerging risks process to provide management and risk governance forums. Entity level controls are a
forward-looking views of issues with the potential to threaten the defined suite of internal controls that have a pervasive influence over
execution of our strategy or operations over the medium to long term. the entity as a whole and meet the principles of the COSO
framework. They include controls related to the control environment,
We remain committed to investing in the reliability and resilience of
such as the Group's values and ethics, the promotion of effective risk
our IT systems and critical services, including those provided by third
management and the overarching governance exercised by the Board
parties, that support all parts of our business. We do so to help
and its non-executive committees. The design and operational
protect our customers, affiliates and counterparties, and to help
effectiveness of entity level controls are assessed annually as part of
ensure that we minimise any disruption to services that could result in
the assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial
reputational and regulatory consequences. In our approach to defend
reporting. If issues are significant to the Group, they are escalated to
against these threats, we invest in business and technical controls to
the GRC and also to the GAC, if concerning financial reporting
help us detect, manage and recover from issues, including data loss,
matters.
in a timely manner.
Process level transactional controls
We continue our focus on the quality and timeliness of the data used
to inform management decisions, through measures such as early Key process level controls that mitigate the risk of financial
warning indicators, prudent active risk management of our risk misstatement are identified, recorded and monitored in accordance
appetite, and ensuring regular communication with our Board and with the risk framework. This includes the identification and
other key stakeholders. assessment of relevant control issues against which action plans are
tracked through to remediation. Further details of HSBC’s approach to
Responsibility for risk management
risk management can be found on page 132. The GAC has continued
All employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk within to receive regular updates on HSBC’s ongoing activities for improving
the scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence model. the effective oversight of end-to-end business processes, and
This is an activity-based model to delineate management management continued to identify opportunities for enhancing key
accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the controls, such as through the use of automation technologies.
control environment. The second line of defence sets the policy and
Financial reporting
guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides advice and
guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the first line of defence The Group’s financial reporting process is controlled using
(the risk owners) on effective risk management. documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported by
detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements, issued
The Board delegated authority to the GAC and it reviewed the
to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each reporting
independence, autonomy and effectiveness of the Group’s policies
period end. The submission of financial information from each
and procedures on whistleblowing, including the procedures for the
reporting entity is supported by a certification by the responsible
protection of staff who raise concerns of detrimental treatment.
financial officer and analytical review procedures at reporting entity
Strategic plans and Group levels.
Strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global functions Group Disclosure and Controls Committee
and geographical regions within the framework of the Group’s overall
Chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group Disclosure
strategy. Financial resource plans, informed by detailed analysis of
and Controls Committee supports the discharge of the Group’s
risk appetite describing the types and quantum of risk that the Group
obligations under relevant legislation and regulation including the UK
is prepared to take in executing its strategy, are prepared and adopted
and Hong Kong listing rules, the UK Market Abuse Regulation and US by all major Group operating companies and set out the key business
Securities and Exchange Commission rules. In so doing, the Group
initiatives and the likely financial effects of those initiatives.
Disclosure and Controls Committee is empowered to determine
The effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk management and whether a new event or circumstance should be disclosed, including
internal control is reviewed regularly by the Board, the GRC and the the form and timing of such disclosure, and review certain material
GAC. disclosures made or to be made by the Group. The membership of
During 2022, the GRC continued to focus on the oversight of risk the Group Disclosure and Controls Committee consists of senior
transformation activities to strengthen our risk management management, including the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief
capabilities and to develop a best-in-class Risk function. In 2023, the Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer, and Group
GRC will continue to focus on overseeing emerging risks and Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. The Group’s
potential risks arising from new products and offerings. brokers, external auditors and its external legal counsel also attend as
required. The integrity of disclosures is underpinned by structures and
The GRC and the GAC received assurance from executive
processes within the Global Finance and Group Risk and Compliance
management that a thorough risk assessment had been undertaken
functions that support rigorous analytical review of financial reporting
and controls were in place to mitigate the risks arising from the
and the maintenance of proper accounting records. As required by the
Group’s key activities. Necessary actions will be taken to remedy any
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief
failings or weaknesses identified from these activities.
Financial Officer have certified that the Group’s disclosure controls
Internal control over financial reporting and procedures were effective as at the end of the period covered by
the Annual Report and Accounts 2022.
HSBC is required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk
Oxley Act of 2002 and assess its effectiveness of internal control over
management and internal control over financial reporting was
financial reporting at 31 December 2022. In 2014, the GAC endorsed
conducted with reference to the COSO 2013 framework. Based on
the adoption of the principles of the Committee of Sponsoring
the assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the year
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (’COSO’) 2013
ended 31 December 2022, the Group’s internal control over financial
framework for the monitoring of risk management and internal control
reporting was effective.
systems to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act. PwC has audited the effectiveness of HSBC’s internal control over
financial reporting and has given an unqualified opinion.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 307
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Other information included in the Annual We expect all colleagues at HSBC to treat each other with dignity and
respect to ensure an inclusive environment. Our policies make it clear
Report and Accounts 2022
that we do not tolerate unlawful discrimination, bullying or
harassment on any grounds.
We include other non-statutory information in the Annual Report and
Accounts to enable a broader perspective of our performance for the To align our approach to inclusion best practices, we participate in
period, including ESG and regulatory capital and liquidity information. global diversity benchmarks that help us to identify improvement
We highlight on pages 14 and 264 that we are seeking to enhance our opportunities. We also track a large number of diversity and inclusion
governance, process, systems and controls in both areas, although metrics, including those included in the Group executive scorecards,
the scale and nature of the challenges differ between reporting areas. which enable us to pinpoint inclusion barriers and enable us to take
Our improvements in regulatory reporting are to ensure this reporting action where required. Our approach to diversity and inclusion is set
is produced to a comparable standard of control as our financial out on page 74 alongside our goals and progress.
reporting. ESG reporting is fast evolving, with few globally consistent Further details of our diversity and inclusion activity, alongside our
reporting standards and a high reliance on external data. The GAC Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap Reports 2022, can be found at
provides oversight to our reporting improvements in both areas, and www.hsbc.com/diversitycommitments.
is also focused on increasing the level of internal and external
Employment of people with a disability
assurance in these areas, in line with wider market developments (set
out on page 264). We strongly believe in providing equal opportunities for all employees.
The employment of people with a disability is included in this
Going concern
commitment. The recruitment, training, development and promotion
of people with a disability are based on the aptitudes and abilities of
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, is satisfied that the
the individual. Should employees become disabled during their
Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue operations for a
employment with us, efforts are made to continue their employment.
period of at least 12 months from the date of this report, and it
Where necessary, we will provide appropriate training, facilities and
therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
reasonable equipment.
financial statements.
For further details, see page 42. Employee development
Employees We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where the best want to
develop the skills and experiences that help them fulfil their potential.
At 31 December 2022, HSBC had a total workforce equivalent to This determines how we develop our people and recruit, identify and
219,000 full-time employees compared with 220,000 at the end of nurture talent. A range of resources bring this to life including:
2021. Our main centres of employment were India with
• HSBC University, our platform for learning and development with
approximately 39,000 employees, the UK with 33,000, mainland
specific business and technical academies;
China with 32,000, Hong Kong with 27,000, Mexico with 17,000 and
• our My HSBC Career portal, which offers career development
France with 6,000.
information and resources; and
Our business spans many cultures, communities and continents. We
• HSBC Talent Marketplace, our new online platform that uses AI to
aspire to provide a high-performing environment where our
provide opportunities to learn as we work.
colleagues can fulfil their potential by building their skills and
capabilities while focusing on the development of a diverse and Everyone at HSBC annually completes global mandatory training. It
inclusive culture. We use employee surveys to assess progress and plays a critical role in shaping our culture by ensuring everyone is
make changes. We want to provide an open culture, where our focused on issues that are fundamental to working at HSBC, from
colleagues feel connected and supported to speak up, and where our sustainability, to financial crime risk, to our intolerance of bullying and
leaders encourage and use feedback. Where we make organisational harassment.
changes, we support our colleagues, in particular where there are job As the opportunities we face change, we provide development to key
impacts. groups of colleagues through business and technical academies. This
Employee relations includes our risk academy, which helps us to develop broad
capabilities in traditional areas of risk like financial crime but also in
We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee emerging risk issues like climate risk and the ethics of AI and data.
representative bodies where we have them. It is our policy to Our approach to learning is skills based. Our academies work with our
maintain well-developed communications and consultation businesses to identify the key skills and capabilities we need in the
programmes with all employee representative bodies. There have future. Alongside this, we help colleagues identify, assess and
been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes develop the skills that match their ambition and aspirations.
during the past five years.
Our platform for learning content is Degreed. This helps colleagues
We are committed to complying with the applicable employment laws identify, assess and develop key skills through internal and external
and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including in training materials in a way that suits them. Content can range from
relation to working hours and rest periods. HSBC’s global quick videos, articles or podcasts to packaged programmes or
employment practices and relations policy provides the framework learning pathways.
and controls through which we seek to uphold that commitment.
In 2021, we launched the HSBC Talent MarketPlace, an AI-based
Diversity and inclusion platform, which matches colleagues to projects and experiences
based on their aspirations. In 2022, we rolled the platform out to an
Our customers, colleagues and communities span many cultures and
additional 83,000 colleagues and we will continue the global roll-out in
continents. We value difference and believe that diversity makes us
2023.
stronger. We are dedicated to building a diverse and connected
workforce where everyone feels a sense of belonging. In 2022, we Effective people management and impactful leadership remain critical
introduced a social well-being index that measures the to our ability to energise for growth. Following the success of our
connectedness of our colleagues as we embrace hybrid working refreshed executive development curriculum in 2021, we launched a
practices. new programme for our Managing Director colleagues in 2022. This
combines internal programmes and business school activities with
Our Group People Committee, which is made up of Group Executive
targeted technical programmes on key topics and skills.
Committee members, governs our diversity and inclusion agenda. It
meets regularly to agree actions to improve diverse representation Health and safety
and build a more inclusive culture where our colleagues can bring
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working
their best selves to work. Members of our Group Executive
environment for everyone. We have adopted global policies,
Committee are held to account for the actions they take on diversity
mandatory procedures, and incident and information reporting
via aspirational targets contained within their performance scorecards.
systems across the organisation that reflect our core values and are
308 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
aligned to international standards. Our global health and safety Remuneration
performance is subject to ongoing monitoring and assurance to
ensure we are compliant with relevant laws and regulations. HSBC’s pay and performance strategy is designed to reward
competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance
Our chief operating officers have overall responsibility for engendering
and attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender,
a positive health and safety culture and ensuring that global policies,
ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance
procedures and systems are put into practice locally. They also have
or experience with the Group, while performing their role in the long-
responsibility for ensuring all local legal requirements are met.
term interests of our stakeholders.
We delivered a range of programmes in 2022 to help us understand
For further details of the Group’s approach to remuneration, see
and manage our health and safety risks:
page 292.
• We continued to provide enhancements to our workplaces globally
to minimise the risks of Covid-19, including enhanced cleaning, Employee share plans
improved ventilation and social distancing measures, as well as
Share options and discretionary awards of shares granted under
reviewing and adjusting our risk control measures as government
HSBC share plans align the interests of employees with the creation
restrictions were lifted.
of shareholder value. The following table sets out the particulars of
• We reinforced our advice and risk assessment and control
outstanding options, including those held by employees working
methodology on working from home for employees adopting a
under employment contracts that are regarded as ‘continuous
hybrid work style, providing more awareness and best practices on
contracts’ for the purposes of the Hong Kong Employment Ordinance.
good ergonomics and well-being.
The options were granted at nil consideration. No options have been
• We delivered health and safety training and awareness to 240,000 granted to substantial shareholders and suppliers of goods or
of our employees and contractors globally, ensuring roles and services, nor in excess of the individual limit for each share plan. No
responsibilities were clear and understood. options were cancelled by HSBC during the year.
• We completed the annual safety inspection on all of our buildings A summary for each plan of the total number of the options that were
globally, subject to local Covid-19 restrictions, to ensure we were granted, exercised or lapsed during 2022 is shown in the following
meeting our standards and continuously improving our safety table. Further details required to be disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17
performance. of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock
• We continued to focus on enhancing the safety culture in our Exchange of Hong Kong Limited are available on our website at
supply chain through our SAFER Together programme, covering www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/remuneration
the five key elements of best practice safety culture, including and on the website of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at
speaking up about safety, and recognising excellence. Our 2022 www.hkex.com.hk, or can be obtained upon request from the Group
safety climate survey results showed that we continue to maintain Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, 8 Canada Square,
a positive safety culture that is significantly above the industry London E14 5HQ.
average. A particular strength that the survey identified is our
Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out
encouragement of colleagues to make suggestions on how to
on page 287.
improve health and safety.
Note 5 on the financial statements gives details of share-based
• We expanded our guidance and training programme for our
payments, including discretionary awards of shares granted under
construction partners, focusing on our key markets globally, to
HSBC share plans.
reduce the likelihood of accidents occurring by helping them
understand and deliver industry-leading health and safety All-employee share plans
performance. More than 3,400 construction workers received HSBC operates all-employee share option plans under which options
safety passporting training across 20 countries. are granted over HSBC ordinary shares. Subject to leaver provisions,
• Our Eat Well Live Well programme continued educating and options are normally exercisable after three or five years. During
informing our colleagues on how to make healthy food and drink 2022, options were granted by reference to the average market value
choices. Launched in 2019, and now live in 12 markets across all of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the five business days
regions, the programme has helped to shift HSBC employee diets immediately preceding the invitation date, then applying a discount of
towards more sustainable choices, with a more than 50% rise in 20%. The closing price for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares quoted on
healthy food options being selected in our workplace catering the London Stock Exchange on 26 September 2022, the day before
outlets since launch. Furthermore, with digital health tools and the options were granted and as derived from the Daily Official List,
over 50 healthy and plant-forward recipes created by chefs was £5.0160.
available online, employees are supported to continue to make The HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK) will
healthy choices when away from the workplace. expire on 24 April 2030, by which time the plan may be extended with
• Protection of our colleagues and operations is of critical approval from shareholders, unless the Directors resolve to terminate
importance and we have effective controls in place to protect our the plan at an earlier date.
people from natural disasters (such as storms and earthquakes). In
The HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan was
2022, there were 38 named storms that passed over 1,667 of our
introduced in 2013 and now includes employees based in
buildings, resulting in no injuries or material business impact.
31 jurisdictions, although no options are granted under this plan.
Employee health and safety During 2022, approximately 189,000 employees were offered
2022 2021 2020 participation in these plans.
Rate of workplace fatalities per 100,000 employees — — —
Number of major injuries to employees1 7 14 15
All injury rate per 100,000 employees 70 64 88
Lost days due to work injury 485 358 449
1 Fractures, dislocation, concussion, loss of consciousness, overnight
admission to hospital.
HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK)
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Dates of awards Exercise price Usually exercisable At Granted Exercised Lapsed At
from to from to from to 1 Jan 2022 during year1 during year2 during year 31 Dec 2022
(£) (£)
22 Sep 2015 27 Sep 2022 2.6270 5.9640 1 Nov 2020 28 Apr 2028 123,196,850 8,928,527 3,483,332 12,991,322 115,650,723
1 Options over HSBC ordinary shares granted in response to approximately 9,564 applications from HSBC employees in the UK on 27 September 2022.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £5.0534.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 309
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Statement of compliance
The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was appointed as Chair to the Group
239 to 311 and the information referred to therein constitutes the Remuneration Committee on 29 April 2022 and has been a member
’Corporate governance report’ and ’Report of the Directors’ of HSBC of such committee since September 2021. In approving Dame
Holdings. The websites referred to do not form part of this report. Carolyn Fairbairn's appointment, the Board considered the UK
Corporate Governance Code expectation that the Chair has served at
Relevant corporate governance codes, role profiles and policies least 12 months as a member on the committee before assuming the
position of Chair. Before her appointment she had served on the
UK Corporate Governance Code www.frc.org.uk
Group Remuneration Committee for eight months. However, given
Hong Kong Corporate www.hkex.com.hk
her previous experience as both a member and chair of the
Governance Code (set out in
remuneration committees of other UK listed companies, the Board
Appendix 14 to the Rules
approved the appointment of Dame Carolyn Fairbairn as Chair.
Governing the Listing of
Securities on the Stock Under the Hong Kong Code, the audit committee should be
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited responsible for the oversight of all risk management and internal
('HKEx')) control systems. HSBC’s Group Risk Committee is responsible for
oversight of internal control, other than internal control over financial
Descriptions of the roles and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
reporting, and risk management systems. This is permitted under the
responsibilities of the: leadership-and-governance/board-
UK Corporate Governance Code.
responsibilities
– Group Chairman
HSBC Holdings has codified obligations for transactions in Group
– Group Chief Executive securities in accordance with the requirements of the UK Market
Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of securities on
– Senior Independent Director
HKEx, save that the HKEx has granted waivers from strict compliance
– Board with the rules that take into account accepted practices in the UK,
Board and senior management www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ particularly in respect of employee share plans. During the year, all
leadership-and-governance Directors were reminded of their obligations in respect of transacting
in HSBC Group securities. Following specific enquiry all Directors
Roles and responsibilities of the www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ have confirmed that they have complied with their obligations.
Board’s committees leadership-and-governance/board-
committees
Board’s policies on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/board-
– diversity and inclusion
responsibilities
– shareholder communication
– human rights
– remuneration practices and On behalf of the Board
governance
Mark E Tucker
Global Internal Audit Charter www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/ Group Chairman
corporate-governance-codes/ HSBC Holdings plc
internal-control
Registered number 617987
HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both the UK 21 February 2023
and Hong Kong. During 2022, save to the extent referred to in the
next paragraph, HSBC complied with the provisions and requirements
of both the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
310 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the
Accounts 2022, the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial ‘Report of the Directors: Corporate governance report’ on pages 240
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. to 243 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2022, confirms that, to the
best of their knowledge:
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared • the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
the parent company (‘Company’) and Group financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards,
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. The international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to
company has also prepared financial statements in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union
international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to and IFRSs issued by IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets,
Regulation (EC) N0 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. In liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss of the Group; and
preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also elected
• the management report represented by the Report of the
to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by
Directors includes a fair review of the development and
the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRSs as issued by
performance of the business and the position of the Group,
IASB). Under company law, the Directors must not approve the
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
that it faces.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group, and of the
profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period. In preparing The Group Audit Committee has responsibility, delegated to it from
these financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external financial
reporting. The Group Audit Committee report on page 262 sets out
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
how the Group Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities.
consistently;
Disclosure of information to auditors
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable
and prudent;
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the
• state whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting Directors’ report includes a statement, in the case of each Director in
standards, international financial reporting standards adopted office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved, that:
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit
European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed,
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements; and • they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a
Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are
is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will
aware of that information.
continue in business.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to On behalf of the Board
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Mark E Tucker
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Group Chairman
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the HSBC Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2022 as they appear on the Company’s
Registered number 617987
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 21 February 2023
in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2022,
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s
position and performance, business model and strategy.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 311
Corporate
governance
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Our audit approach
Overview
Audit scope
• This was the fourth year that it has been my responsibility to form this opinion on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who you first
appointed on 31 March 2015 in relation to that year's audit. In addition to forming this opinion, in this report we have also provided
information on how we approached the audit, how it changed from the previous year and details of the significant discussions that we had
with the GAC.
Key audit matters
• Expected credit losses - Impairment of loans and advances (group)
• Impairment of investment in associate - Bank of Communications Co., Ltd ('BoCom') (group)
• Investments in subsidiaries (company)
• Valuation of defined benefit pension obligations (group)
• Held for sale accounting (group)
Materiality
• Overall group materiality: US$1bn (2021: US$970m) based on 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
• Overall company materiality: US$950m (2021: US$920m) based on 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall materiality of
US$2bn and was therefore reduced below the group materiality.
• Performance materiality: US$750m (2021: US$725m) (group) and US$712m (2021: US$690m) (company).
The scope of our audit
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud)
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and
directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Held for sale accounting (group) is a new key audit matter this year. Otherwise, the key audit matters below are consistent with last year.
314 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Expected credit losses – Impairment of loans and advances (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
Determining expected credit losses (‘ECL’) involves management judgement and is subject to a high degree of estimation uncertainty.
Management makes various assumptions when estimating ECL. The significant assumptions that we focused on in our audit included those with
greater levels of management judgement and for which variations had the most significant impact on ECL. These included assumptions made in
determining forward looking economic scenarios and their probability weightings (specifically the central and downside scenarios given these have the
most material impact on ECL) and estimating management judgemental adjustments and significant discounted cash flows for material credit impaired
exposures in relation to the China offshore unsecured commercial real estate portfolio.
The level of estimation uncertainty and judgement has remained high during 2022 as a result of the uncertain macroeconomic and geopolitical
environment, high levels of inflation and a rising global interest rate environment, as well as developments in China’s commercial real estate sector.
Macroeconomic conditions vary between territories and industries, leading to uncertainty around judgements made in determining the severity and
probability weighting of macroeconomic variable forecasts across the different economic scenarios used in ECL models.
The modelling methodologies used to estimate ECL are developed using historical experience. The impact of the prevailing macroeconomic conditions
has also resulted in certain limitations in the reliability of these methodologies to forecast the extent and timing of future customer defaults and
therefore estimate ECL. In addition, modelling methodologies do not incorporate all factors that are relevant to estimating ECL, such as differentiating
the impact on industry sectors and economic conditions. These limitations are addressed with management judgemental adjustments, the
measurement of which is inherently judgemental and subject to a high level of estimation uncertainty, in particular in relation to the China commercial
real estate offshore portfolio.
Management makes other assumptions which are less judgemental or for which variations have a less significant impact on ECL. These assumptions
include:
• the methodologies used in quantitative scorecards for determining customer risk ratings (‘CRRs’);
• estimating expected cash flows and collateral valuations for credit impaired corporate exposures, other than in relation to the China commercial real
estate offshore portfolio;
• model methodologies themselves; and
• quantitative and qualitative criteria used to assess significant increases in credit risk.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We held discussions with the GAC covering governance and controls over ECL, with a significant focus on the uncertain prevailing macroeconomic
conditions and developments in China’s commercial real estate sector. We discussed a number of areas, including:
• the severity of macroeconomic scenarios, and their related probability weightings, across territories;
• management judgemental adjustments and the nature and extent of analysis used to support those adjustments;
• significant assumptions used to estimate the discounted cash inflow projections for defaulted exposures in relation to unsecured offshore China
commercial real estate;
• management’s policies, governance and controls over model validation and monitoring; and
• the disclosures made in relation to ECL, in particular, the impact of adjustments on determining ECL.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We assessed the design and effectiveness of governance and controls over the estimation of ECL. We observed management’s review and challenge
in governance forums for (1) the determination of macroeconomic scenarios and their probability weightings, and (2) the assessment of ECL for Retail
and Wholesale portfolios, including the assessment of model limitations and any resulting management judgemental adjustments.
We also tested controls over:
• model validation and monitoring;
• credit reviews that determine customer risk ratings for wholesale customers;
• the identification of credit impaired triggers;
• the input of critical data into source systems and the flow and transformation of critical data from source systems to impairment models and
management judgemental adjustments;
• the calculation and approval of management judgemental adjustments to modelled outcomes; and
• approval of significant individual impairments.
We involved our economic experts in assessing the significant assumptions made in determining the severity and probability weighting of
macroeconomic variables (“MEV”) forecasts. These assessments considered the sensitivity of ECL to variations in the severity and probability
weighting of MEV forecasts. We involved our modelling experts in assessing the appropriateness of the significant assumptions and methodologies
used for models and certain management judgemental adjustments. We independently re-performed the calculations for a sample of those models
and certain management judgemental adjustments. In respect of unsecured offshore China commercial real estate, we involved our business recovery
experts in assessing certain significant management judgemental adjustments and discounted cash flows for a sample of credit impaired exposures.
We further considered whether the judgements made in selecting the significant assumptions would give rise to indicators of possible management
bias.
In addition, we performed substantive testing over:
• the compliance of ECL methodologies and assumptions with the requirements of IFRS 9;
• the appropriateness and application of the quantitative and qualitative criteria used to assess significant increases in credit risk;
• a sample of critical data used in ECL models and to estimate management judgemental adjustments;
• assumptions and critical data for a sample of credit impaired wholesale exposures; and
• a sample of CRRs applied to the wholesale exposures.
We evaluated and tested the Credit Risk disclosures made in the Annual Report.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2022
• Credit risk disclosures, page 145.
• Group Audit Committee Report, page 262.
• Note 1.2(d):Financial instruments measured at amortised cost, page 340.
• Note 1.2(i): Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets, page 341.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 315
Financial
statements
Investments in subsidiaries (company)
Nature of the key audit matter
Management reviewed investments in subsidiaries for indicators of impairment and indicators that impairment charges recognised in prior periods may
no longer exist or may have decreased in accordance with IAS 36 as at 31 December 2022. Where indicators have been identified management
estimated the recoverable amount using the higher of value in use (‘VIU’) or fair value less cost to sell. Management’s assessment resulted in a partial
reversal of an impairment charge of US$2.5bn in relation to the investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited (‘HOHU’), which is an immediate
holding company of certain businesses in North America. This resulted in investment in subsidiaries of $US167.5bn at 31 December 2022.
The methodology used to estimate the recoverable amount is dependent on various assumptions, both short term and long term in nature. These
assumptions, which are subject to estimation uncertainty, are derived from a combination of management’s judgement, experts engaged by
management and market data. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of management judgement
and for which variations had the most significant impact on the recoverable amount. Specifically, these included:
• HSBC’s business plan for 2023 to 2027 focusing on revenue, cost and ECL forecasts including the impact of climate change risk;
• regulatory capital requirements;
• long term growth rates; and
• discount rates.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We discussed the partial reversal of the impairment charge for HOHU, the appropriateness of methodologies used and significant assumptions with
the GAC, giving consideration to the macroeconomic outlook and HSBC’s strategy. We considered reasonable possible alternatives for significant
assumptions.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We tested controls in place over significant assumptions and the model used to determine the recoverable amounts. We assessed the
appropriateness of the methodology used, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, to estimate the recoverable amounts. In respect
of the significant assumptions, our testing included the following:
• challenging the achievability of management’s business plan and the prospects for HSBC’s businesses, as well as considering the achievement of
historic forecasts;
• obtaining and evaluating evidence relating to significant assumptions, from a combination of historical experience and external market and other
financial information;
• assessing whether the cash flows included in the model were in accordance with the relevant accounting standard;
• assessing the sensitivity of the VIU to reasonable variations in significant assumptions, both individually and in aggregate; and
• determining a reasonable range for the discount rate used within the model, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and comparing it to the
discount rate used by management.
We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report in relation to investment in subsidiaries.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2022
• Note 19: Investments in subsidiaries, page 382.
Valuation of defined benefit pensions obligations (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
The group has a defined benefit obligation of US$25.7bn, of which US$18.8bn relates to HSBC Bank (UK) pension scheme.
The valuation of the defined benefit obligation for HSBC Bank (UK) pension scheme is dependent on a number of actuarial assumptions. Management
uses an actuarial expert to determine the valuation of the defined benefit obligations. The valuation methodology uses a number of market based
inputs and other financial and demographic assumptions. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of
management judgement and for which variations had the most significant impact on the liability. Specifically, these included the discount rate, inflation
rate and mortality rate.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We discussed with the GAC the methodologies and significant assumptions used by management to determine the value of the defined benefit
obligation.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We tested governance and controls in place over the methodologies and the significant assumptions, including those in relation to the use of
management’s experts. We also evaluated the objectivity and competence of management’s expert involved in the valuation of the defined benefit
obligation.
We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology used, and tested the accuracy of the calculation, to estimate the liability. In respect of the
significant assumptions, we used our actuarial experts to understand the judgements made by management and their actuarial expert in determining
the significant assumptions and compared these assumptions to our independently compiled expected ranges based on market observable indices and
the knowledge and opinions of our actuarial experts.
We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report in relation to the defined benefit pension obligation.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2022
• Group Audit Committee Report, page 262.
• Note 1.2(k): Critical accounting estimates and judgements, page 345.
• Note 5: Employee compensation and benefits, page 351.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 317
Financial
statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Held for sale accounting (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
The group has agreements to sell a number of businesses as part of executing its strategy. This has resulted in US$115.9bn of assets and US$114.6bn
of liabilities being classified as held for sale as at 31 December 2022, in relation to businesses in France, Canada, Russia and Greece. In addition to the
assets and liabilities classified as held for sale, a loss of US$2.4bn has also been recognised in 2022 in relation to the sale of the business in France.
For the assets and liabilities to be classified as held for sale, the sale needs to be considered highly probable and expected to complete within 12
months of the date of classification. We focused our audit on the areas with greater levels of management judgement relating to the highly probable
threshold being met including the expected timing of completion, the appropriateness of disclosures relating to the highly probable assessment and
the loss recognised in relation to the sale of the business in France.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We discussed with the GAC the judgements made by management in determining if the highly probable thresholds were met as at 31 December
2022. We also discussed the appropriateness of the disclosure made in the Annual Report which explained how management had concluded that
transactions met the highly probable threshold as at 31 December 2022.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We tested governance and controls in place over the management process to determine if the highly probable threshold had been met on assets and
liabilities classified as held for sale.
We assessed the key judgments made by management to determine whether the highly probable thresholds were met as at 31 December 2022,
including their assessment of remaining actions to complete the transactions, any regulatory requirements that need to be met, and the likelihood and
expected timing of the transactions being approved by relevant regulators and shareholders.
We also tested the completeness and accuracy of the assets and liabilities that were classified as held for sale and the loss on sale recognised in
relation to the French business. We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report in relation to assets and liabilities classified as
held for sale.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2022
• Group Audit Committee Report, page 262.
• Note 1.2(o): Critical accounting estimates and judgements, page 347.
• Note 23: Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale, page 389.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a
whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they
operate.
The risks that HSBC faces are diverse, with the interdependencies between them being numerous and complex. In performing our risk
assessment we engaged with a number of stakeholders to ensure we appropriately understood and considered these risks and their
interrelationships. This includes stakeholders within HSBC and our own experts within PwC. This engagement covered external factors across
the geopolitical, macroeconomic and regulatory and accounting landscape, the impact of climate change risk as well as the internal environment
at HSBC, driven by strategy and transformation.
We evaluated and challenged management's assessment of the impact of climate change risk, which is set out on page 46, including their
conclusion that there is no material impact on the financial statements. In making this evaluation we considered management’s use of stress
testing and scenario analysis to arrive at the conclusion that there is no material impact on the financial statements. We considered
management's assessment on the areas in the financial statements most likely to be impacted by climate risk, including:
• the impact on ECL on loans and advances to customers, for both physical and transition risk;
• the forecast cashflows from management’s five year business plan and long term growth rates used in estimating recoverable amounts as
part of impairment assessments of investments in subsidiaries, goodwill and intangible assets;
• the impact of climate related terms on the solely payments of principal and interest test for classification and measurement of loans and
advances to customers; and
• climate risks relating to contingent liabilities as HSBC faces increased reputational, legal and regulatory risk as it progresses towards its
climate ambition.
HSBC’s progress on their ESG targets is not included within the scope of this audit. We were engaged separately to provide independent limited
assurance to the Directors over the following ESG data:
• the 2019 and 2020 on-balance sheet financed emissions for 6 sectors in total (page 50);
• the cumulative progress made by HSBC on providing and facilitating sustainable financing and investments (page 57); and
• HSBC’s own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3 (limited to business travel) greenhouse gas emissions data for 2022 (page 62); and supply chain
greenhouse gas emissions for purchased goods and services, and capital goods for 2021 and 2022 (page 64).
The independent limited assurance reports, which explain the scope of our work and the procedures undertaken can be found on:
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. The work performed for a limited assurance report is
substantially less than the work performed for our financial audit, which provides reasonable assurance.
Through our risk assessment, we tailored our determination as to which entities and balances we needed to perform testing over to support our
Group opinion, taking into consideration the complex and disaggregated group structure, the accounting processes and controls as well as the
industry in which they operate. The risks of material misstatement can be reduced to an acceptable level by testing the most financially
significant entities within the Group and those that drive particular significant risks identified as part of our risk assessment. This ensures that
sufficient coverage has been obtained for each financial statement line item (FSLI). We continually assessed risks and changed the scope of our
audit where necessary.
Our risk assessment and scoping identified certain entities (collectively the Significant Subsidiaries) for which we obtained audit opinions. We
obtained full scope audit opinions for the consolidated financial position and performance of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
Limited, HSBC Bank plc, and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. We also obtained full scope audit opinions for the company financial position
and performance of HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC Mexico S.A. Banco. We obtained audit opinions over specific balances for
318 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited - UAE Operations. The audits for HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc were performed by other PwC teams in
the UK. All other audits were performed by other PwC network firms.
We continued to incorporate elements of unpredictability into our audit scoping, extending the scope of work performed for both The Hongkong
and Shanghai Banking Corporation India Branch, and HSBC Bank (China) Limited. These entities are also in scope for The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited. This was undertaken with consideration of both the relative profitability of these entities in the region and
the Group’s strategy.
Group-wide audit approach
HSBC has entity level controls that have a pervasive influence across the group, as well as other global and regional governance and controls
over aspects of financial reporting, such as those operated by the Global Risk function for expected credit losses. A significant amount of IT and
operational processes and controls relevant to financial reporting are undertaken in operations centres run by Digital Business Services ('DBS').
Whilst these operations centres are not separate components, the IT and operational processes and controls are relevant to the financial
information of the Significant Subsidiaries. Financial reporting processes and controls are also performed centrally in HSBC's Group Finance
function and finance operation centres (‘Finance Operations’), including the impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, the
consolidation of the group's results, the preparation of financial statements, and management's oversight controls relevant to the group's
financial reporting.
Group-wide processes or processes in DBS and Finance Operations are subject to specified audit procedures or an audit over specific FSLIs.
These procedures primarily relate to testing of IT general controls, forward looking economic scenarios for ECL, operating expenses, intangible
assets, valuation of financial instruments, intercompany eliminations, reconciliations and consolidation as well as payroll. For these areas, we
either performed audit work ourselves, or directed and provided oversight of the audit work performed by PwC teams in the UK, Poland, China,
Sri Lanka, Malaysia, India, Mexico and the Philippines. Some of this work was relied upon by the PwC teams auditing the Significant
Subsidiaries. This audit work, together with analytical review procedures and assessing the outcome of local external audits, also mitigated the
risk of material misstatement for balances in entities that were not part of a Significant Subsidiary.
Significant Subsidiaries audit approach
In March 2022, we held a meeting in Dubai with the partners and senior staff from the Group audit team and the PwC teams who undertake
audits of the Significant Subsidiaries and the Operations Centres. The meeting focused primarily on reconnecting as a team after virtual
interactions throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, reassessing our approach to auditing HSBC’s businesses, changes at HSBC and in our PwC
teams, and how we continue to innovate and improve the quality of the audit. We also discussed our significant audit risks.
We asked the partners and teams reporting to us on the Significant Subsidiaries to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size of the
operations they audited. The performance materiality levels ranged from US$712m to US$50m. Certain Significant Subsidiaries were audited to a
local statutory audit materiality that was a lower level than our allocated group materiality.
We designed global audit approaches for the products and services that substantially make up HSBC's global businesses, such as lending,
deposits and derivatives. These approaches were provided to the partners and teams performing audit testing for the Significant Subsidiaries.
We were in active dialogue throughout the year with the partners and teams responsible for the audits of the Significant Subsidiaries, including
consideration of how they planned and performed their work. Senior members of our team undertook at least one in-person site visit prior to the
year end where a full scope audit was requested. We attended Audit Committee meetings for some of the Significant Subsidiaries. We also
attended meetings with management for each of these Significant Subsidiaries at the year-end.
The audit of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited in Hong Kong relied upon work performed by other teams in Hong Kong
and the PwC network firms in India, mainland China and Singapore. Similarly, the audit of HSBC Bank plc in the UK relied upon work performed
by other teams in the UK and the PwC network firms in France and Germany. We considered how the audit partners and teams for the
Significant Subsidiaries instructed and provided oversight to the work performed in these locations. Collectively, Significant Subsidiaries covered
84% of total assets and 69% of total operating income.
Using the work of others
We have increased our use of evidence provided by others through our reliance on management assurance testing of controls across the group.
This included testing of controls performed by management themselves in certain low risk areas including reconciliations, footnote disclosure
controls and certain automated controls. We re-performed a portion of the testing to ensure appropriate quality of testing, as well as assessing
the competence and objectivity of those performing the testing.
We also used the work of PwC experts, for example economic experts for our work around the severity and probability weighting of
macroeconomics variables as part of the expected credit loss allowance and actuaries on the estimates used in determining pension liabilities.
An increasing number of controls are operated on behalf of HSBC by third parties. We obtained audit evidence from work that is scoped and
provided by other auditors that are engaged by those third parties. For example, we obtained a report evidencing the testing of external systems
and controls supporting HSBC's payroll and HR processes.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 319
Financial
statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the
financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Financial statements – group Financial statements – company
Overall materiality US$1bn (2021: US$970m). US$950m (2021: US$920m).
How we determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax. 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall
materiality of US$2bn and was therefore reduced below the
group materiality.
Rationale for benchmark We believe a standard benchmark of 5% of adjusted profit A benchmark of total assets has been used, as the
applied before tax is an appropriate qualitative indicator of company's primary purpose is to act as a holding company
materiality, although certain items could also be material for with investments in the group's subsidiaries, not to
qualitative reasons. This benchmark is standard for listed generate operating profits and therefore a profit based
entities and consistent with the wider industry. We measure is not relevant.
selected adjusted profit because, as discussed on page 29,
management believes it best reflects the performance of
HSBC and how the group is run. We excluded the
adjustments made by management on page 29 for certain
customer redress programmes and fair value movements
of financial instruments, as in our opinion they are recurring
items that form part of ongoing business performance.
We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected
misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the nature and
extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes. Our performance
materiality was 75% (2021: 75%) of overall materiality, amounting to US$750m (2021: US$725m) for the group financial statements and
US$712m (2021: US$690m) for the company financial statements.
In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors - the history of misstatements, risk assessment and aggregation
risk and the effectiveness of controls - and concluded that an amount at the upper end of our normal range was appropriate.
We agreed with the GAC that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$50m (group audit) (2021: US$48m)
and US$50m (company audit) (2021: US$48m) as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for
qualitative reasons.
Conclusions relating to going concern
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group's and the company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting
included:
• performing a risk assessment to identify factors that could impact the going concern basis of accounting, including both internal risks (i.e.
strategy execution) and external risks (i.e. macroeconomic conditions);
• understanding and evaluating the group's financial forecasts and the group's stress testing of liquidity and regulatory capital, including the
severity of the stress scenarios that were used;
• understanding and evaluating credit rating agency ratings and actions; and
• reading and evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements in relation to going concern.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or
collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group's and the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve
months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the
financial statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the group's and the company's
ability to continue as a going concern.
In relation to the directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or draw
attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the
going concern basis of accounting.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report.
Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to
the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material
inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the
financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
320 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act
2006 have been included.
Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain opinions and matters as
described below.
Strategic report and Report of the Directors
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors
for the year ended 31 December 2022 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not
identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors.
Directors’ Remuneration
In our opinion, the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
2006.
Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the corporate
governance statement relating to the company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Our additional responsibilities with respect to the corporate governance statement as other information are described in the Reporting on other
information section of this report.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate governance
statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit, and we have nothing material to
add or draw attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation that they have carried out an appropriate assessment of the emerging and principal risks;
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and an
explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;
• the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s and company’s ability to continue to do so
over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements;
• the directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the group's and company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the
period is appropriate; and
• the directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its
liabilities as they fall due over the period of its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications
or assumptions.
Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term viability of the group and company was substantially less in scope than an audit
and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statement; checking that the statement is in
alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering whether the statement is consistent with the
financial statements and our knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
• the directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the
information necessary for the members to assess the group’s and company's position, performance, business model and strategy;
• the section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems; and
• the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the GAC.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when the directors’ statement relating to the company’s compliance with the
Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing Rules for review by the auditors.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Directors' responsibility statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in
accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also responsible for such
internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the company’s ability to continue as a going
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either
intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) and ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 321
Financial
statements
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of HSBC Holdings plc
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities,
outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of
detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.
Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related
to breaches of financial crime laws and regulations and regulatory compliance, including regulatory reporting requirements and conduct of
business, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We also considered
those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006. We evaluated management’s
incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override of controls), and determined
that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries in relation to cost targets, and management bias in accounting
estimates. The group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit
procedures in response to such risks in their work. Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team and/or component auditors
included:
• review of correspondence with and reports from regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority ('PRA') and Financial Conduct
Authority ('FCA');
• reviewed reporting to the GAC and GRC in respect of compliance and legal matters;
• enquiries of management and review of internal audit reports, insofar as they related to the financial statements;
• obtain legal confirmations from legal advisors relating to material litigation and compliance matters;
• assessment of matters reported on the group's whistleblowing programmes and the results of management's investigation of such matters,
insofar as they related to the financial statements;
• challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to the
determination of expected credit losses, the impairment assessment of the investment in BoCom, valuation of defined benefit pensions
obligations, investment in subsidiaries and valuation of financial instruments;
• obtaining confirmations from third parties to confirm the existence of a sample of transactions and balances; and
• identifying and testing journal entries, including those posted with certain descriptions, posted and approved by the same individual,
backdated journals or posted by infrequent and unexpected users.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance with
laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a
material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment
by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing techniques.
However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We will often seek to
target particular items for testing based on their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to enable us to draw a
conclusion about the population from which the sample is selected.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements in accordance with ISAs (UK) is located on the FRC’s website
at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We
also:
• identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control;
• obtain an understanding of internal controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances,
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and company’s internal controls;
• evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by
management;
• conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained,
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and company’s ability to
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the
related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to
cease to continue as a going concern;
• evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the
consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; and
• obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group and
company to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance
of the Group and company audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence,
and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit
of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a
matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh
the public interest benefits of such communication.
Use of this report
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part
16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other
322 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Notes on the financial statements
Under IFRS 17, no present value of in-force business (‘PVIF’) asset is recognised. Instead, the measurement of the insurance contracts liability is
based on groups of insurance contracts and will include fulfilment cash flows, as well as the contractual service margin (‘CSM’), which
represents the unearned profit.
To identify groups of insurance contracts, individual contracts subject to similar dominant risk and managed together are identified as a portfolio
of insurance contracts. Each portfolio is further separated by profitability group and issue date into periodic cohorts.
The fulfilment cash flows comprise:
• the best estimates of future cash flows, including amounts expected to be collected from premiums and payouts for claims, benefits and
expenses, which are projected using assumptions based on demographic and operating experience;
• an adjustment for the time value of money and financial risks associated with the future cash flows; and
• an adjustment for non-financial risk that reflects the uncertainty about the amount and timing of future cash flows.
In contrast to the Group’s IFRS 4 accounting where profits are recognised upfront, the CSM will be systematically recognised in revenue, as
services are provided over the expected coverage period of the group of contracts without any change to the overall profit of the contracts.
Losses resulting from the recognition of onerous contracts are recognised in the income statement immediately.
The CSM is adjusted depending on the measurement model of the group of insurance contracts. While the general measurement model
(‘GMM’) is the default measurement model under IFRS 17, the Group expects that the majority of its contracts will be accounted for under the
variable fee approach (‘VFA’), which is mandatory to apply for insurance contracts with direct participation features upon meeting the eligibility
criteria.
IFRS 17 requires entities to apply the standard retrospectively as if it had always applied, using the full retrospective approach (‘FRA’) unless it is
impracticable. When the FRA is impracticable such as when there is a lack of sufficient and reliable data, an entity has an accounting policy
choice to use either the modified retrospective approach (‘MRA’) or the fair value approach (‘FVA’). HSBC will apply the FRA for new business
from 2018 at the earliest, subject to practicability, and the FVA for the majority of contracts for which the FRA is impracticable. Where the FVA is
used, the measurement takes into account the cost of capital that a market participant within the jurisdiction would be expected to hold based
on the asset and liability positions on the transition date.
The Group will make use of the option to re-designate eligible financial assets held to support insurance liabilities, currently measured at
amortised cost, as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. Following re-designation, interest income earned on these
financial assets will no longer be shown in ‘net interest income’, and will instead form part of ‘net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of
insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss’ in accordance with HSBC’s income and
expense policy set out in Note 1.2(b) on page 339.
The Group will also make use of the risk mitigation option for a number of economic offsets between the VFA contracts and reinsurance
contracts held that meet the requirements, and the other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) option to a limited extent for some contracts.
Impact of IFRS 17
Changes to equity on transition are driven by the elimination of the PVIF asset, the re-designation of certain eligible financial assets in the scope
of IFRS 9, the remeasurement of insurance liabilities and assets under IFRS 17, and the recognition of the CSM.
IFRS 17 requires the use of current market values for the measurement of insurance liabilities. The shareholder’s share of the investment
experience and assumption changes will be absorbed by the CSM and released over time to profit or loss under the VFA. For contracts
measured under GMM, the shareholder’s share of the investment volatility is recorded in profit or loss as it arises. Under IFRS 17, operating
expenses will be lower as directly attributable costs will be incorporated in the CSM and recognised in the insurance service result.
While the profit over the life of an individual contract will be unchanged, its emergence will be later under IFRS 17.
All of these impacts will be subject to deferred tax.
Estimates of the opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2022 have been calculated and are presented below, showing separately the impact on
the total assets, liabilities and equity of our insurance manufacturing operations and Group equity. These estimates are based on accounting
policies, assumptions, judgements and estimation techniques that remain subject to change.
Impact of transition to IFRS 17, at 1 January 2022 Insurance manufacturing operations Group
Assets Liabilities Equity Equity
$bn $bn $bn $bn
Balance sheet values at 1 January 2022 under IFRS 4 144.6 127.6 17.0 206.8
Removal of PVIF (9.5) — (9.5) (9.5)
Replacement of IFRS 4 liabilities with IFRS 17 (0.4) 7.3 (7.7) (8.1)
Removal of IFRS 4 liabilities and recording of IFRS 17 fulfilment cash (0.3) (2.2) 1.9 1.9
IFRS 17 contractual service margin (0.1) 9.5 (9.6) (10.0)
Remeasurement effect of IFRS 9 re-designations 4.9 — 4.9 4.9
Tax effect 0.6 (1.6) 2.2 2.2
Estimated balance sheet values at 1 January 2022 under IFRS 17 140.2 133.3 6.9 196.3
PVIF of $9.5bn less deferred tax of $1.7bn constitute the overall estimated reduction in intangible assets, after tax, of $7.8bn on transition to
IFRS 17.
The Group’s accounting for insurance contracts considers a broader set of cash flows than those arising within the insurance manufacturing
entities. This includes the effect of eliminating intra-Group fees associated with distribution of policies through the Group’s banking channels and
directly attributable costs incurred by other Group entities. These factors lead to an increase to the Group CSM after inclusion of distribution
activities of approximately $0.4bn, with a consequential reduction to Group’s equity of approximately $0.4bn after the inclusion of deferred tax.
(d) Foreign currencies
HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency
bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business. The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency because the US dollar and
currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well
as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
336 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction. Assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, except non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at
historical cost, which are translated using the rate of exchange at the initial transaction date. Exchange differences are included in other
comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying item is recognised. Except for
subsidiaries operating in hyperinflationary economies (see Note 1.2(p)), in the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of
branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into the Group’s presentation
currency at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, while their results are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for
the reporting period. Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange
differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
(e) Presentation of information
Certain disclosures required by IFRSs have been included in the sections marked as (‘Audited’) in the Annual Report and Accounts 2022 as
follows:
• Disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in the ‘Risk
review’ on pages 131 to 238.
• The ‘Own funds disclosure’ is included in the ‘Risk review’ on page 206.
• Disclosures relating to HSBC’s securitisation activities and structured products are included in the ‘Risk review’ on pages 131 to238.
HSBC follows the UK Finance Disclosure Code. The UK Finance Disclosure Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’
disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance agreed in 2010. In line with the principles of the UK Finance
Disclosure Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters, and will
assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
(f) Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions. In view of the inherent
uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items, highlighted as the ‘critical accounting
estimates and judgements’ in section 1.2 below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which
management’s estimates are based. This could result in materially different estimates and judgements from those reached by management for
the purposes of these financial statements. Management’s selection of HSBC’s accounting policies that contain critical estimates and
judgements reflects the materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty
involved.
Management has considered the impact of climate-related risks on HSBC’s financial position and performance. While the effects of climate
change are a source of uncertainty, as at 31 December 2022 management do not consider there to be a material impact on our critical
judgements and estimates from the physical, transition and other climate-related risks in the short to medium term. In particular management
has considered the known and observable potential impact of climate-related risks of associated judgements and estimates in our value in use
calculations.
(g) Segmental analysis
HSBC’s Chief Operating Decision Maker is the Group Chief Executive, who is supported by the rest of the Group Executive Committee (‘GEC’),
which operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board. Operating segments are reported in a manner
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Group Chief Executive and the GEC.
Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Segmental income
and expenses include transfers between segments, and these transfers are conducted at arm’s length. Shared costs are included in segments
on the basis of the actual recharges made.
(h) Going concern
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of
information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and capital
resources. These considerations include stressed scenarios that reflect the uncertainty in structural changes from the Covid-19 pandemic, the
Russia-Ukraine war, disrupted supply chains globally, slower Chinese economic activity, climate change and other top and emerging risks, as
well as from the related impacts on profitability, capital and liquidity.
1.2 Summary of significant accounting policies
(a) Consolidation and related policies
Investments in subsidiaries
Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when it holds – directly or indirectly – the necessary voting rights to pass
resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors,
including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct relevant activities, and whether power is held as agent or principal.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or
at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. This election is made for each business
combination. HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses.
Impairment testing is performed where there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant investment to
its carrying amount.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 337
Financial
statements
Notes on the financial statements
Interest rate benchmark reform: Amendments to IFRS 9 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’
HSBC has applied both the first set of amendments (‘Phase 1’) and the second set of amendments (‘Phase 2’) to IFRS 9 and IAS 39 applicable to
hedge accounting. The hedge accounting relationships that are affected by Phase 1 and Phase 2 amendments are presented in the balance
sheet as ‘Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through other comprehensive income’, ‘Loans and
advances to customers’, ‘Debt securities in issue’ and ‘Deposits by banks’. The notional value of the derivatives impacted by the Ibor reform,
including those designated in hedge accounting relationships, is disclosed on page 138 in the section ‘Financial instruments impacted by the Ibor
reform’. For further details on Ibor transition, see ‘Top and emerging risks‘ on page 137.
During 2022, the Group transitioned all of its hedging instruments referencing sterling Libor, European Overnight Index Average rate (‘Eonia’) and
Japanese yen Libor. The Group also transitioned some of the hedging instruments referencing US dollar Libor. There is no significant judgement
applied for these benchmarks to determine whether and when the transition uncertainty has been resolved.
The most significant Ibor benchmark in which the Group continues to have hedging instruments is US dollar Libor. It is expected that the
transition out of US dollar Libor hedging derivatives will be completed by the second quarter of 2023. These transitions do not necessitate new
approaches compared with any of the mechanisms used so far for transition and it will not be necessary to change the transition risk
management strategy.
For some of the Ibors included under the ‘Other’ header in the table below, judgement has been needed to establish whether a transition is
required, since there are Ibor benchmarks that are subject to computation methodology improvements and insertion of fallback provisions
without full clarity being provided by their administrators on whether these Ibor benchmarks will be demised.
The notional amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in hedge accounting relationships do not represent the extent of the risk exposure
managed by the Group but they are expected to be directly affected by market-wide Ibor reform and in scope of Phase 1 amendments and are
shown in the table below. The cross-currency swaps designated in hedge accounting relationships and affected by Ibor reform are not significant
and have not been presented below.
Hedging instrument impacted by Ibor reform
Hedging instrument
Not impacted
Impacted by Ibor reform by Ibor Notional
€2 £ $ Other3 Total reform amount1
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Fair value hedges 12,756 — 2,015 12,643 27,414 134,648 162,062
Cash flow hedges 8,865 — — 27,830 36,695 77,832 114,527
At 31 Dec 2022 21,621 — 2,015 40,473 64,109 212,480 276,589
Fair value hedges 6,178 — 18,525 6,615 31,318 59,238 90,556
Cash flow hedges 7,954 — 100 8,632 16,686 55,679 72,365
At 31 Dec 2021 14,132 — 18,625 15,247 48,004 114,917 162,921
1 The notional contract amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of
transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date and they do not represent amounts at risk.
2 The notional contract amounts of euro interest rate derivatives impacted by Ibor reform mainly comprise hedges with a Euribor benchmark, which are
‘Fair value hedges’ of $12,756m (31 December 2021: $6,178m) and ‘Cash flow hedges’ of $8,865m (31 December 2021: $7,954m).
3 Other benchmarks impacted by Ibor reform comprise mainly of Canadian dollar offered rate (‘CDOR’), Hong Kong interbank offered rate (‘HIBOR’) and
Mexican interbank equilibrium interest rate (‘TIIE’) related derivatives.
Hedging instrument impacted by Ibor reform held by HSBC Holdings
Hedging instrument
Not impacted
Impacted by Ibor reform by Ibor Notional
€ £ $ Other Total reform amount
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Fair value hedges 15,210 — 2,000 1,336 18,546 63,327 81,873
At 31 Dec 2022 15,210 — 2,000 1,336 18,546 63,327 81,873
Fair value hedges 9,944 — 20,035 1,458 31,437 13,921 45,358
At 31 Dec 2021 9,944 — 20,035 1,458 31,437 13,921 45,358
16 Financial investments
Carrying amount of financial investments
2022 2021
$m $m
Financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 256,817 348,972
– treasury and other eligible bills 86,749 100,158
– debt securities 168,264 246,998
– equity securities 1,696 1,770
– other instruments 108 46
Debt instruments measured at amortised cost 168,747 97,302
– treasury and other eligible bills 35,282 21,634
– debt securities 133,465 75,668
At 31 Dec 425,564 446,274
376 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Goodwill
Impairment testing
The Group’s impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is performed at 1 October each year. A review
for indicators of impairment is undertaken at each subsequent quarter-end and at 31 December 2022. No indicators of impairment were
identified as part of these reviews.
Basis of the recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use (‘VIU’) at each respective testing date.
The VIU is calculated by discounting management’s cash flow projections for the CGU. The key assumptions used in the VIU calculation for each
individually significant CGU that is not impaired are discussed below.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation – significant CGUs at 1 October 2022
Growth Growth rate
rate beyond
Carrying Value in beyond Carrying Value in use initial cash
amount at of which use at Discount initial amount at of which at 1 Oct Discount flow
1 Oct 2022 goodwill 1 Oct 2022 rate cash flow 1 Oct 2021 goodwill 2021 rate projections
$m $m $m % % $m $m $m % %
Europe – WPB 15,215 2,643 46,596 9.9 2.0 18,780 3,556 29,799 9.2 1.8
At 1 October 2022, aggregate goodwill of $1,464m (1 October 2021: $2,108m) had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually
significant. The Group’s CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than
goodwill.
Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU
The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on forecast profitability plans approved by the Board and minimum capital levels required to
support the business operations of a CGU. The Board challenges and endorses planning assumptions in light of internal capital allocation
decisions necessary to support our strategy, current market conditions and macroeconomic outlook. For the 1 October 2022 impairment test,
cash flow projections until the end of 2027 were considered, in line with our internal planning horizon. Key assumptions underlying cash flow
projections reflect management’s outlook on interest rates and inflation, as well as business strategy, including the scale of investment in
technology and automation. Our cash flow projections include known and observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our
sustainable products and operating model. As required by IFRSs, estimates of future cash flows exclude estimated cash inflows or outflows that
are expected to arise from restructuring initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to carry out the plan, and would therefore have
recognised a provision for restructuring costs.
Discount rate
The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of equity assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a capital asset pricing
model (‘CAPM’) and market implied cost of equity. CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including
the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s
assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. The discount rates for each CGU are refined to reflect the rates of
inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management
supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with the cost of equity rates produced
by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets. The impacts of climate-risk are included to the extent that they are observable in
discount rates and asset prices.
Long-term growth rate
The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of business
units making up the CGUs. These growth rates reflect inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates or from which it derives
revenue.
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU
At 1 October 2022, given the extent by which VIU exceeds carrying amount, the Europe – WPB CGU was not sensitive to reasonably possible
adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions,
management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of discount rates
observable, historical performance against forecast and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections. None of the
remaining CGUs are individually significant.
Other intangible assets
Impairment testing
Impairment of other intangible assets is assessed in accordance with our policy explained in Note 1.2(n) by comparing the net carrying amount of
CGUs containing intangible assets with their recoverable amounts. Recoverable amounts are determined by calculating an estimated VIU or fair
value, as appropriate, for each CGU. No significant impairment was recognised during the year.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation
We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:
• Management’s judgement in estimating future cash flows: We considered past business performance, current market conditions and our
macroeconomic outlook to estimate future earnings. As required by IFRSs, estimates of future cash flows exclude estimated cash inflows or
outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to carry out the plan, and would
therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring costs. For some businesses, this means that the benefit of certain strategic actions
may not be included in the impairment assessment, including capital releases. Our cash flow projections include known and observable
climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 387
Financial
statements
Additional information
Based on the company’s audited financial statements and relevant Approach to ESG reporting
market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not believe that it
was a passive investment company for its 2022 taxable year and does The information set out in the ESG review on pages 43 to 96, taken
not anticipate becoming a passive foreign investment company in together with other information relating to ESG issues included in this
2023 or the foreseeable future. Accordingly, dividends paid on the Annual Report and Accounts 2022, aims to provide key ESG
shares or ADSs generally should be treated as qualified dividends. information and data relevant to our operations for the year ended
Taxation of capital gains 31 December 2022. The data is compiled for the financial year
1 January to 31 December 2022 unless otherwise specified.
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of Measurement techniques and calculations are explained next to data
shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless at tables where necessary. There are no significant changes from the
the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, previous reporting period in terms of scope, boundary or
profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or measurement of our reporting of ESG matters. Where relevant,
permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have been rationale is provided for any restatement of information or data that
used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, has been previously published. We have also considered our
vocation, branch or agency or permanent establishment. Such gains obligations under the Environmental, Social and Governance
will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term Reporting Guide contained in Appendix 27 to The Rules Governing the
capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one year. Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual US holder generally (‘ESG Guide’) and under LR9.8.6R(8) of the Financial Conduct
will be subject to US tax at preferential rates. Authority’s (‘FCA’) Listing Rules. We will continue to develop and
Inheritance tax refine our reporting and disclosures on ESG matters in line with
feedback received from our investors and other stakeholders, and in
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is determined to
view of our obligations under the ESG Guide and the FCA’s Listing
be the US for the purposes of the United States–United Kingdom
Rules.
Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes (the
‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such purposes a national of the ESG Guide
UK will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has
been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual’s death We comply with the ‘comply or explain’ provisions in the ESG Guide,
or on a lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain cases save for certain items, which we describe in more detail below:
where the shares or ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at • A1(b) on relevant laws/regulations relating to air and greenhouse
the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of
was not a national of the UK), (ii) are part of the business property of a hazardous and non-hazardous waste: Taking into account the
UK permanent establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) pertain to a UK nature of our business, we do not believe that there are relevant
fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent laws and regulations in these areas that have significant impacts
personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally on HSBC.
provides a credit against US federal tax liability for the amount of any
• A1.3 on total hazardous waste produced, A1.4 on total non-
tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or ADSs are subject to
hazardous waste produced: Taking into account the nature of our
both UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate or gift tax.
business, we do not consider hazardous waste to be a material
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – ADSs issue for our stakeholders. As such, we report only on total waste
produced, which includes hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American
Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will include a transfer of • A1.6 on handling hazardous and non-hazardous waste: Taking into
shares to the depositary) under the current published HMRC practice, account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to be
UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable. The a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we
stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the continue to focus on the reduction and recycling of all waste.
consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of Building on the success of our previous operational environmental
1.5%. strategy, we are identifying key opportunities where we can
lessen our wider environmental impact, including waste
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will
management. For further details, please see our ESG review on
be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same
page 62.
transfer.
• A2.4 on sourcing water issue and water efficiency target: Taking
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to
into account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to
transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument
be a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we
of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times
have implemented measures to further reduce water consumption
outside the UK, and provided further that any such transfer or written
through the installation of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or
agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK. No stamp duty
zero flush sanitary fittings and continue to track our water
reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer,
consumption.
an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
• A2.5 on packaging material, B6(b) on issues related to health and
US information reporting and backup withholding tax
safety and labelling relating to products and services provided,
Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale of B6.1 on percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to
shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain recalls for safety and health reasons and B6.4 in recall procedures:
financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to US information Taking into account the nature of our business, we do not consider
reporting and may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax. these to be material issues for our stakeholders.
General exceptions to this rule happen when the US holder:
This is aligned with the materiality reporting principle that is set out in
establishes that it is a corporation (other than an S corporation) or
the ESG Guide. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ on page 45
other exempt holder; or provides a correct taxpayer identification
for further information on how we determine what matters are
number, certifies that no loss of exemption from backup withholding
material to our stakeholders.
has occurred and otherwise complies with the applicable
requirements of the backup withholding rules. Holders that are not US
taxpayers generally are not subject to US information reporting or
backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with
applicable certification procedures to establish that they are not US
taxpayers in order to avoid the application of such US information
reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments
received within the US or through certain financial intermediaries.
422 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
TCFD recommendations and recommended Metrics and targets (a) relating to internal carbon prices and climate-
related opportunities metrics: We do not currently disclose internal
disclosures
carbon price targets due to transitional challenges such as data
challenges. But we considered carbon prices as an input for our
As noted on page 17, we have considered our ‘comply or explain’
climate scenario analysis exercise. In addition, we do not currently
obligation under the FCA’s Listing Rules, and confirm that we have
fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital
made disclosures consistent with the TCFD Recommendations and
deployment or other business activities aligned with climate-related
Recommended Disclosures in this Annual Report and Accounts 2022
opportunities, including revenue from products and services designed
save for certain items, which we describe below:
for a low-carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with
Targets setting our business or strategic planning time horizons. In relation to
Metrics and targets (c) relating to short-term targets: For financed sustainable finance revenue and assets we are disclosing certain
emissions we do not plan to set 2025 targets. We set targets in line elements. We expect the data and system limitations related to
with the Net-Zero Banking Alliance (‘NZBA‘) guidelines by setting financial planning and performance, and climate-related opportunities
2030 targets. While the NZBA define 2030 as intermediate, we use metrics to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable data
different time horizons for climate risk management. We define short becomes available and technology solutions are implemented. We
term as time periods up to 2025; medium term is between 2026 and expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term.
2035; and long term is between 2036 and 2050. These time periods Impacts of transition and physical risk
align to the Climate Action 100+ disclosure framework. In 2022, we
Strategy (c) relating to quantitative scenario analysis: We do not
disclose interim 2030 targets for on-balance sheet financed emissions
currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk
for eight sectors as we outline on page 18. For the shipping sector,
quantitatively, due to transitional challenges including data limitations
we chose to defer setting a baseline and target until there is sufficient
and evolving science and methodologies. In 2022, we have disclosed
reliable data to support our work, allowing us to more accurately track
the impairment impacts for our wholesale, retail and commercial real
progress towards net zero. We have chosen to defer setting targets
estate portfolios in different climate scenarios. In addition, we have
for facilitated emissions until the PCAF standard for capital markets is
disclosed losses on our retail mortgage book under three scenarios
published, which is expected in the first half of 2023. We aim to
and flood depths for specific markets. For our wholesale book we
update our targets and baselines to include both on- and off-balance
have disclosed potential implications on our expected credit losses for
sheet activities following the publication of the industry standard for
11 sectors under three scenarios. We have also disclosed a heat map
capital markets methodology by PCAF. We intend to review the
showing how we expect the risks to evolve over time.
financed emissions baselines and targets annually, where relevant, to
help ensure that they are aligned with market practice and current Metrics and targets (a) relating to detailed climate-related risk
climate science. exposure metrics for physical and transition risks: We do not fully
disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related physical
Metrics and targets (c) relating to capital deployment target: We do
(chronic) and transitions (policy and legal, technology, market) risks on
not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In relation to
retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and other financial
capital deployment, since 2015, we have issued more than $2bn of
intermediary business activities (specifically credit exposure, equity
our own green bonds and structured green bonds with the capital
and debt holdings, or trading positions, each broken down by industry,
invested into a variety of green projects, including: green buildings,
geography, credit quality, average tenor). We disclose the exposure to
renewable energy and clean transportation projects. In 2022, we are
six high risk wholesale sectors and the flood risk exposure and Energy
internally reviewing and enhancing the green bond framework, with
Performance Certificate breakdown for the UK portfolio. We are
further refinement to be undertaken in 2023. Our continued
aiming to develop the appropriate systems, data and processes to
monitoring of evolving taxonomies and practices over time could
provide these disclosures in future years.
result in revisions in our reporting going forward and lead to
differences year-on-year as compared with prior years. See the Metrics and targets (c) on targets related to physical risk: We do not
HSBC’s Green Bond Report for further information. currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk.
This is due to transitional challenges including data limitations of
Metrics and targets (c) relating to internal carbon prices: We do not
physical risk metrics. For retail, this is because we do not use targets
currently disclose internal carbon prices due to transitional challenges
to measure and manage physical risk. Instead we have developed
such as developing the appropriate systems and processes, but we
exposure monitoring metrics and risk appetite where appropriate to
considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis
measure and manage physical risk. We also considered physical risk
exercise. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium
as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise.
term as more data becomes available.
We expect to further enhance the disclosure in medium term
Impacts on financial planning and performance
considering the data limitations related to quantitative scenario
Strategy (b) relating to financial planning and performance: We have analysis, specific risk metrics and physical risk targets to be
used climate scenarios to inform our organisation’s business, strategy addressed, more reliable data becoming available, and technology
and financial planning. In 2022, we incorporated certain aspects of solutions implemented.
sustainable finance and financed emissions within our financial
Scope 3 emissions disclosure
planning process. We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of
climate-related issues on financial planning, and particularly the impact Metrics and targets (b) relating to scope 3 emissions metrics: We
of climate-related issues on our financial performance (for example, currently disclose partial scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions including
revenue and costs) and financial position (for example, assets and business travel, supply chain and financed emissions. In relation to
liabilities), in each case due to lack of data and systems for compiling financed emissions, we published on-balance sheet financed
the relevant financial impact. We expect to further enhance the emissions for six sectors as detailed on page 18. Future disclosure on
disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available. financed emissions, and related risks is reliant on our customers
publicly disclosing their carbon emissions and related risks. We aim to
Strategy (b) related to transition plan: We do not currently disclose our
disclose financed emissions for additional sectors in our Annual
transition plan. We have committed to publish our own Group-wide
Report and Accounts 2023 and related disclosures. Our approach to
net zero transition plan in 2023. This plan will bring together our
disclosure of financed emissions for additional sectors can be found
climate strategy, science-based targets, and how we plan to embed
at: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
this into our processes, policies, governance and capabilities. It will
reporting-centre. outline, in one place, not only our commitments, targets and approach
to net zero across the sectors and markets we serve, but how we are
transforming our organisation to embed net zero and finance the
transition.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 423
Additional
information
Additional information
Other matters • changes in general economic conditions in the markets in which
we operate, such as new, continuing or deepening recessions,
Strategy (b) relating to acquisitions/divestments: We have considered
prolonged inflationary pressures and fluctuations in employment
the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy, and
and creditworthy customers beyond those factored into
financial planning, but not specifically in relation to acquisitions/
consensus forecasts (including, without limitation, as a result of
divestments. Due to transitional challenges such as process
the Russia-Ukraine war and, to a lesser extent, the Covid-19
limitations, we do not disclose the climate-related impact in these
pandemic); the Russia-Ukraine war and the Covid-19 pandemic and
areas. We will aim to further enhance our processes in relation to
their impact on global economies and the markets where HSBC
acquisitions/divestments in the medium term.
operates, which could have a material adverse effect on (among
Strategy (b) relating to access to capital: We have considered the other things) our financial condition, results of operations,
impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy, and prospects, liquidity, capital position and credit ratings; deviations
financial planning. Our access to capital may be impacted by from the market and economic assumptions that form the basis
reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In for our ECL measurements (including, without limitation, as a
addition, if we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on our business result of the Russia-Ukraine war, inflationary pressures and the
activities or if we fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we Covid-19 pandemic); potential changes in HSBC’s dividend policy;
could face reputational damage, impacting our revenue generating changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates, including the
ability and potentially our access to capital markets. We expect to accounting impact resulting from financial reporting in respect of
further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data hyperinflationary economies; volatility in equity markets; lack of
becomes available. liquidity in wholesale funding or capital markets, which may affect
To manage these risks we have integrated climate risk into our our ability to meet our obligations under financing facilities or to
existing risk taxonomy, and incorporated it within the risk fund new loans, investments and businesses; geopolitical tensions
management framework through the policies and controls for the or diplomatic developments producing social instability or legal
existing risks where appropriate. uncertainty, such as the Russia-Ukraine war (including the
continuation and escalation thereof) and the related imposition of
Metrics and targets (c) relating to water usage target: We have sanctions and trade restrictions, supply chain restrictions and
described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate- disruptions, sustained increases in energy prices and key
related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. commodities, claims of human rights violations, diplomatic
However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do not tensions, including between China and the US, the UK, the EU,
consider water usage to be a material target for our business and, India and other countries, and developments in Hong Kong and
therefore, we have not included a target in this year’s disclosure. Taiwan, alongside other potential areas of tension, which may
With respect to our obligations under LR9.8.6R(8) of the FCA’s Listing adversely affect HSBC by creating regulatory, reputational and
Rules, as part of considering what to measure and publicly report, we market risks; the efficacy of government, customer, and HSBC’s
perform an assessment to ascertain the appropriate level of detail to actions in managing and mitigating ESG risks, in particular climate
be included in the climate-related financial disclosures that are set out risk, nature-related risks and human rights risks, and in supporting
in our Annual Report and Accounts. Our assessment takes into the global transition to net zero carbon emissions, each of which
account factors such as the level of our exposure to climate-related can impact HSBC both directly and indirectly through our
risks and opportunities, the scope and objectives of our climate- customers and which may result in potential financial and non-
related strategy, transitional challenges, and the nature, size and financial impacts; illiquidity and downward price pressure in
complexity of our business. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ national real estate markets; adverse changes in central banks’
on page 45 for further information. policies with respect to the provision of liquidity support to
financial markets; heightened market concerns over sovereign
Cautionary statement regarding
creditworthiness in over-indebted countries; adverse changes in
the funding status of public or private defined benefit pensions;
forward-looking statements
societal shifts in customer financing and investment needs,
including consumer perception as to the continuing availability of
The Annual Report and Accounts 2022 contains certain forward-
credit; exposure to counterparty risk, including third parties using
looking statements with respect to HSBC’s financial condition; results
us as a conduit for illegal activities without our knowledge; the
of operations and business, including the strategic priorities; financial,
discontinuation of certain key Ibors and the development of near
investment and capital targets; and ESG targets, commitments and
risk-free benchmark rates, as well as the transition of legacy Ibor
ambitions described herein.
contracts to near risk-free benchmark rates, which exposes HSBC
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about to material execution risks, including in relation to the
HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. effectiveness of its Ibor remediation strategy, and increases some
Words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘targets’, ‘anticipates’, financial and non-financial risks; and price competition in the
‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and market segments we serve;
‘reasonably possible’, or the negative thereof, other variations thereon
• changes in government policy and regulation, including the
or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and
statements. These statements are based on current plans,
other regulatory authorities in the principal markets in which we
information, data, estimates and projections, and therefore undue
operate and the consequences thereof (including, without
reliance should not be placed on them. Forward-looking statements
limitation, actions taken as a result of the impact of the Russia-
speak only as of the date they are made. HSBC makes no
Ukraine war on inflation and as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic);
commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements to
initiatives to change the size, scope of activities and
reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of
interconnectedness of financial institutions in connection with the
any forward-looking statements. Written and/or oral forward-looking
implementation of stricter regulation of financial institutions in key
statements may also be made in the periodic reports to the US
markets worldwide; revised capital and liquidity benchmarks,
Securities and Exchange Commission, summary financial statements
which could serve to deleverage bank balance sheets and lower
to shareholders, proxy statements, offering circulars and
returns available from the current business model and portfolio
prospectuses, press releases and other written materials, and in oral
mix; changes to tax laws and tax rates applicable to HSBC,
statements made by HSBC’s Directors, officers or employees to third
including the imposition of levies or taxes designed to change
parties, including financial analysts. Forward-looking statements
business mix and risk appetite; the practices, pricing or
involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a
responsibilities of financial institutions serving their consumer
number of factors could cause actual results to differ, in some
markets; expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation of assets and
instances materially, from those anticipated or implied in any forward-
changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership; the UK’s
looking statement. These include, but are not limited to:
relationship with the EU, which continues to be characterised by
uncertainty and political disagreement, particularly with respect to
424 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
the regulation of financial services, despite the signing of the Additional cautionary statement
Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the UK and the EU;
changes in UK macroeconomic and fiscal policy as a result of the regarding ESG and climate-related
change in UK government leadership, which may result in
data, metrics and forward-looking
fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling; general changes in
government policy that may significantly influence investor statements
decisions; the costs, effects and outcomes of regulatory reviews,
actions or litigation, including any additional compliance
The Annual Report and Accounts 2022 contains a number of forward-
requirements; and the effects of competition in the markets where
looking statements (as defined above) with respect to HSBC’s ESG
we operate including increased competition from non-bank
targets, commitments, ambitions, climate-related scenarios or
financial services companies; and
pathways and the methodologies we use to assess our progress in
• factors specific to HSBC, including our success in adequately relation to these (‘ESG-related forward-looking statements’).
identifying the risks we face, such as the incidence of loan losses
In preparing the ESG-related information contained in the Annual
or delinquency, and managing those risks (through account
Report and Accounts 2022, HSBC has made a number of key
management, hedging and other techniques); our ability to achieve
judgements, estimations and assumptions, and the processes and
our financial, investment, capital and ESG targets, commitments
issues involved are complex. We have used ESG and climate data,
and ambitions (including with respect to the commitments set
models and methodologies that we consider, as of the date on which
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy
they were used, to be appropriate and suitable to understand and
and our targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed emissions
assess climate change risk and its impact, to analyse financed
in eight high-emitting sectors), which may result in our failure to
emissions - and operational and supply chain emissions, to set ESG-
achieve any of the expected benefits of our strategic priorities;
related targets and to evaluate the classification of sustainable finance
model limitations or failure, including, without limitation, the
and investments. However, these data, models and methodologies
impact that high inflationary pressures, rising interest rates and the
are new, are rapidly evolving and are not of the same standard as
consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic have had on the
those available in the context of other financial information, nor are
performance and usage of financial models, which may require us
they subject to the same or equivalent disclosure standards, historical
to hold additional capital, incur losses and/or use compensating
reference points, benchmarks or globally accepted accounting
controls, such as judgemental post-model adjustments, to address
principles. In particular, it is not possible to rely on historical data as a
model limitations; changes to the judgements, estimates and
strong indicator of future trajectories, in the case of climate change
assumptions we base our financial statements on; changes in our
and its evolution. Outputs of models, processed data and
ability to meet the requirements of regulatory stress tests; a
methodologies are also likely to be affected by underlying data quality,
reduction in the credit ratings assigned to us or any of our
which can be hard to assess and we expect industry guidance,
subsidiaries, which could increase the cost or decrease the
market practice, and regulations in this field to continue to change. In
availability of our funding and affect our liquidity position and net
light of the highly uncertain nature of the evolution of climate change
interest margin; changes to the reliability and security of our data
and its impact, HSBC may have to re-evaluate its progress towards its
management, data privacy, information and technology
ESG ambitions, commitments and targets in the future, update the
infrastructure, including threats from cyber-attacks, which may
methodologies it uses or alter its approach to ESG and climate
impact our ability to service clients and may result in financial loss,
analysis and may be required to amend, update and recalculate its
business disruption and/or loss of customer services and data; the
ESG disclosures and assessments in the future, as market practice
accuracy and effective use of data, including internal management
and data quality and availability develops rapidly. The ESG-related
information that may not have been independently verified,
forward-looking statements and metrics discussed in the Annual
changes in insurance customer behaviour and insurance claim
Report and Accounts 2022 therefore carry an additional degree of
rates; our dependence on loan payments and dividends from
inherent risk and uncertainty.
subsidiaries to meet our obligations; changes in accounting
standards, including the implementation of IFRS 17 ‘Insurance No assurance can be given by or on behalf of the Group as to the
Contracts’, which may have a material impact on the way we likelihood of the achievement or reasonableness of any projections,
prepare our financial statements and (with respect to IFRS 17) may estimates, forecasts, targets, commitments, ambitions, prospects or
negatively affect the profitability of HSBC’s insurance business; returns contained herein. Readers are cautioned that a number of
changes in our ability to manage third-party, fraud and reputational factors, both external and those specific to HSBC, could cause actual
risks inherent in our operations; employee misconduct, which may achievements, results, performance or other future events or
result in regulatory sanctions and/or reputational or financial harm; conditions to differ, in some cases materially, from those stated,
changes in skill requirements, ways of working and talent implied and/or reflected in any ESG-related forward-looking
shortages, which may affect our ability to recruit and retain senior statements or metrics due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and
management and diverse and skilled personnel; and changes in other factors (including without limitation those referred to below):
our ability to develop sustainable finance and climate-related • Climate change projection risk: this includes, for example, the
products consistent with the evolving expectations of our evolution of climate change and its impacts, changes in the
regulators, and our capacity to measure the climate impact from scientific assessment of climate change impacts, transition
our financing activity (including as a result of data limitations and pathways and future risk exposure and limitations of climate
changes in methodologies), which may affect our ability to achieve scenario forecasts;
our climate ambition, our targets to reduce financed emissions in
• Changes in the ESG regulatory landscape: this involves changes in
our high-emitting sectors portfolio and the commitments set forth
government approach and regulatory treatment in relation to ESG
in our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy, and
disclosures and reporting requirements, and the current lack of a
increase the risk of greenwashing. Effective risk management
single standardised regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors
depends on, among other things, our ability through stress testing
and markets;
and other techniques to prepare for events that cannot be
captured by the statistical models it uses; our success in • Variation in reporting standards: ESG reporting standards are still
addressing operational, legal and regulatory, and litigation developing and are not standardised or comparable across all
challenges; and other risks and uncertainties we identify in ‘Top sectors and markets, new reporting standards in relation to
and emerging risks’ on pages 135 to 142. different ESG metrics are still emerging;
• Data availability, accuracy, verifiability and data gaps: our
disclosures are limited by the availability of high quality data
needed to calculate financed emissions. Where data is not
available for all sectors or consistently year on year, there may be
an impact to our data quality scores. Whilst we expect our data
quality scores to improve over time, as companies continue to
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 425
Additional
information
Additional information
expand their disclosures to meet growing regulatory and Certain defined terms
stakeholder expectations, there may be unexpected fluctuations
within sectors year on year, and/or differences between the data Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ means HSBC
quality scores between sectors. Any such changes in the Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to
availability and quality of data over time could result in revisions to HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this document
reported data going forward, including on financed emissions, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s
meaning that such data may not be reconcilable or comparable Republic of China is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’.
year-on year;
When used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total
• Developing methodologies: the methodologies HSBC uses to shareholders’ equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC
assess financed emissions and set ESG-related targets may Holdings ordinary shares and those preference shares and capital
develop over time in line with market practice, regulation and/or securities issued by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The
developments in science, where applicable. Any such abbreviations ‘$m’, ‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ represent millions, billions
developments in methodologies could result in revisions to (thousands of millions) and trillions of US dollars, respectively.
reported data going forward, including on financed emissions or
the classification of sustainable finance and investments, meaning
that data outputs may not be reconcilable or comparable year-on
year. In addition, climate scenarios and the models that analyse
them have limitations that are sensitive to key assumptions and
parameters, which are themselves subject to some uncertainty,
and cannot fully capture all of the potential effects of climate,
policy and technology driven outcomes; and
• Risk management capabilities: governments’, customers’, and
HSBC’s actions may not be effective in supporting the global
transition to net zero carbon emissions and in managing and
mitigating ESG risks, including in particular climate risk, nature-
related risks and human rights risks, each of which can impact
HSBC both directly and indirectly through our customers, and
which may result in potential financial and non-financial impacts to
HBSC. In particular:
– we may not be able to achieve our ESG targets, commitments
and ambitions (including with respect to the commitments set
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy, our energy policy and
our targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed emissions
in our portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors), which may
result in our failure to achieve any of the expected benefits of
our strategic priorities; and
– we may not be able to develop sustainable finance and climate-
related products consistent with the evolving expectations of
our regulators, and our capacity to measure the climate impact
from our financing activity may diminish (including as a result of
data and model limitations and changes in methodologies),
which may affect our ability to achieve our climate ambition,
our targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed emissions
in our portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the
commitments set forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and
energy policy, and increase the risk of greenwashing.
HSBC makes no commitment to revise or update any ESG forward-
looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring or
existing after the date of any ESG forward-looking statements.
Written and/or oral ESG-related forward-looking statements may also
be made in our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange
Commission, summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy
statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases and
other written materials, and in oral statements made by HSBC’s
Directors, officers or employees to third parties, including financial
analysts.
Our data dictionaries and methodologies for preparing the above ESG-
related metrics and third-party limited assurance reports can be found
on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reportingcentre.
426 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022
Abbreviations
Currencies EBA European Banking Authority
EC European Commission
£ British pound sterling
ECB European Central Bank
CA$ Canadian dollar
ECL Expected credit losses. In the income statement, ECL is
€ Euro
recorded as a change in expected credit losses and other
HK$ Hong Kong dollar credit impairment charges. In the balance sheet, ECL is
MXN Mexican peso recorded as an allowance for financial instruments to which
RMB Chinese renminbi only the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
SGD Singapore dollar EEA European Economic Area
$ United States dollar Eonia Euro Overnight Index Average
A EPC Energy performance certificate
EPS Earnings per ordinary share
ABS¹ Asset-backed security
ESG Environmental, social and governance
ADR American Depositary Receipt
EU European Union
ADS American Depositary Share
Euribor Euro interbank offered rate
AGM Annual General Meeting
EVE Economic value of equity
AI Artificial intelligence
AIEA Average interest-earning assets F
ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee FAST-Infra Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable Transition-
AML Anti-money laundering Infrastructure
AML DPA Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012 FFVA Funding fair value adjustment estimation methodology on
AT1 Additional tier 1 derivative contracts
FPA Fixed pay allowance
B
FRB Federal Reserve Board (US)
Basel Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
FRC Financial Reporting Council
Committee
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
Basel II¹ 2006 Basel Capital Accord
FTE Full-time equivalent staff
Basel III¹ Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and
FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange index
liquidity rules
FVOCI¹ Fair value through other comprehensive income
Basel 3.1 Outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel
III reforms FX Foreign exchange
BGF Business Growth Fund, an investment firm that provides G
growth capital for small and mid-sized businesses in the UK GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles
and Ireland
GAC Group Audit Committee
BoCom Bank of Communications Co., Limited, one of China’s GBM Global Banking and Markets, a global business
largest banks
GDP Gross domestic product
BoE Bank of England
GEC Group Executive Committee
Bps¹ Basis points. One basis point is equal to one-hundredth of a
GMP Guaranteed minimum pension
percentage point
GPS Global Payments Solutions, the business formerly known as
BVI British Virgin Islands
Global Liquidity and Cash Management
C GPSP Group Performance Share Plan
CAPM Capital asset pricing model GRC Group Risk Committee
CDS¹ Credit default swap Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
CEA Commodity Exchange Act (US) GTRF Global Trade and Receivables Finance
CET1¹ Common equity tier 1 H
CGUs Cash-generating units
Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business
HKEx The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
CMC Capital maintenance charge
HKMA Hong Kong Monetary Authority
CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker
HMRC HM Revenue and Customs
COSO 2013 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (US) HNAH HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Holdings ALCO HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee
CP¹ Commercial paper
Hong Kong Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s
CRD IV¹ Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive
Republic of China
CRR¹ Customer risk rating
HQLA High-quality liquid assets
CRR II¹ Revised Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive, as
implemented HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank plc, also known as the non-ring-fenced bank
CSA Credit support annex
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
CSM Contractual service margin
Middle East
CVA¹ Credit valuation adjustment
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank USA, N.A., HSBC’s retail bank in the US
D USA
Deferred Shares Awards of deferred shares define the number of HSBC HSBC Canada The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company
Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada and HSBC
become entitled, generally between one and seven years Securities Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes
from the date of the award, and normally subject to the HSBC HSBC Continental Europe
individual remaining in employment Continental
DPD Days past due Europe
DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance
investment contracts company (formerly Household International, Inc.)
DVA¹ Debit valuation adjustment HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC
HSBC Private HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in
E Bank (Suisse) Switzerland
EAD¹ Exposure at default HSBC UK HSBC UK Bank plc, also known as the ring-fenced bank
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 427
Additional
information
Additional information
HSBC USA The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of PD¹ Probability of default
HSBC Bank USA) and HSBC Bank USA, consolidated for Performance Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee
liquidity purposes shares¹ share plans that are subject to corporate performance
HSI HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. conditions
HSSL HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg) Ping An Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the
HTIE HSBC International Trust Services (Ireland) Limited second-largest life insurer in the PRC
I POCI Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
PRA Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
IAS International Accounting Standards
PRC People’s Republic of China
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
Principal plan HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
Ibor Interbank offered rate
PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business and
ICAAP Internal capital adequacy assessment process
long-term investment contracts with DPF
ICMA International Capital Market Association PwC The member firms of the PwC network, including
IEA International Energy Agency PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards
R
ILAAP Internal liquidity adequacy assessment process
IMA Internal model approach RAS Risk appetite statement
IMM Internal model method Repo¹ Sale and repurchase transaction
IRB¹ Internal ratings-based Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association RFR Risk-free rate
RMM Group Risk Management Meeting
J
RNIV Risk not in VaR
JV Joint venture RoE Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
K RoTE Return on average tangible equity
KMP Key Management Personnel RWA¹ Risk-weighted asset
L S
LCR Liquidity coverage ratio SABB The Saudi British Bank
LGBTQ+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer. The plus SAPS Self-administered pension scheme
sign denotes other non-mainstream groups on the SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
spectrums of sexual orientation and gender identity SBTi Science Based Targets initiative
LGD¹ Loss given default SDG United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
Libor London interbank offered rate SEC Securities and Exchange Commission (US)
Long term For our strategic goals, we define long term as five to six ServCo group Separately incorporated group of service companies
years, commencing 1 January 2020 established in response to UK ring-fencing requirements
LTI Long-term incentive Sibor Singapore interbank offered rate
LTV¹ Loan to value SIC Securities investment conduit
M SICR Significant increase in credit risk
SME Small and medium-sized enterprise
Mainland China People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong and
SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate
Macau
Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed
Medium term For our strategic goals, we define medium term as three to
by HSBC
five years, commencing 1 January 2020
Sonia Sterling Overnight Index Average
MENA Middle East and North Africa
SPE¹ Special purpose entity
MREL Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities
MRT¹ Material Risk Taker T
MSS Markets and Securities Services, HSBC’s capital markets TCFD¹ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
and securities services businesses in Global Banking and THBFIX Thai Baht Interest Rate Fixing
Markets
TNFD Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
N TSR¹ Total shareholder return
Net operating Net operating income before change in expected credit U
income losses and other credit impairment charges/Loan
impairment charges and other credit provisions, also UAE United Arab Emirates
referred to as revenue UK United Kingdom
NGO Non-governmental organisation UN United Nations
NII Net interest income US United States of America
NIM Net interest margin V
NPS Net promoter score
VaR¹ Value at risk
NSFR Net stable funding ratio
VIU Value in use
NYSE New York Stock Exchange
W
NZBA Net-Zero Banking Alliance
WEF World Economic Forum
O
WPB Wealth and Personal Banking, a global business
OCI Other comprehensive income
OECD Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development 1 A full definition is included in the glossary to the Annual Report and
OTC¹ Over-the-counter Accounts 2022 which is available at www.hsbc.com/investors.
P
PBT Profit before tax
PCAF Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials
428 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022