Contents
Strategic report
2 Highlights
4 Who we are
6 Group Chairman’s statement
8 Group Chief Executive’s review
12 Our strategy
16 How we do business
22 Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders
25 Remuneration
26 Financial overview
30 Global businesses
37 Risk overview We have changed how we are reporting
41 Long-term viability and going this year
concern statement We have changed our Annual Report and
Accounts to embed the content previously
provided in our Environmental, Social and
Environmental, social and
Governance Update, demonstrating that how
governance review we do business is as important as what we do.
43 Our approach to ESG
44 Climate
This Strategic Report was approved by the
52 Customers Board on 23 February 2021.
62 Employees
70 Governance
Financial review
77 Financial summary Mark E Tucker
85 Global businesses and geographical Group Chairman
regions
103 Reconciliation of alternative
performance measures
A reminder
The currency we report in is US dollars.
Risk review
107 Our approach to risk Adjusted measures
110 Top and emerging risks We supplement our IFRS figures with
116 Areas of special interest non-IFRS measures used by management
internally that constitute alternative
118 Our material banking risks
performance measures under European
Securities and Markets Authority guidance
Corporate governance report and non-GAAP financial measures defined
196 Group Chairman’s governance statement in and presented in accordance with US
Securities and Exchange Commission rules
198 Biographies of Directors and senior
and regulations. These measures are
management
highlighted with the following symbol:
213 Board committees
229 Directors’ remuneration report Further explanation may be found on page 28.
Financial statements
None of the websites referred to in this Annual
267 I ndependent auditors’ report
Report and Accounts 2020 (including where a
278 Financial statements
link is provided), and none of the information
288 Notes on the financial statements
contained on such websites, are incorporated
by reference in this report.
Additional information
371 Shareholder information
Cover image: Opening up
377 Abbreviations AnnuaHl RSeBpCor Ht aonldd iAncgcso punlcts 2020 a world of opportunity
We connect people, ideas and
capital across the world,
opening up opportunities for
our customers and the
Opoefn oinpgp uorpt ua nwitoyrld communities we serve.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
Opening up a world of opportunity
Our ambition is to be the preferred international financial partner for our clients.
We have refined our purpose, ambition and values to reflect our strategy and to support our
focus on execution.
Read more on our values, strategy and purpose on pages 4, 12 and 16.
Key themes of 2020
The Group has been – and continues to be – impacted by developments in the external environment, including:
Covid-19 Market factors Geopolitical risk
The Covid-19 outbreak has significantly Interest rate reductions and market volatility Levels of geopolitical risk increased with
affected the global economic environment impacted financial performance during heightened US-China tensions and the UK’s
and outlook, resulting in adverse impacts on 2020. We expect low global interest rates to trade negotiations with the EU notably
financial performance, downward credit provide a headwind to improved profitability impacting business and investor sentiment.
migration and muted demand for lending. and returns. We continue to monitor developments closely.
Read more on page 38. Read more on page 26. Read more on page 38.
Progress in key areas
The Group continued to make progress in areas of strategic focus during 2020, including:
Supporting customers Strategic progress Climate
We continued to support our customers We made good progress with our In October 2020, we set out an ambitious
during the Covid-19 outbreak, providing relief transformation programme in 2020. plan to prioritise sustainable finance and
to wholesale and retail customers through We have now set out the next phase investment that supports the global transition
both market-wide schemes and HSBC- of our strategic plan. to a net zero carbon economy.
specific measures.
Read more on page 17. Read more on page 12. Read more on page 15.
Financial performance Non-financial highlights
Reported profit after tax Gender diversity Sustainable finance and investment
$6.1bn 30.3% $93.0bn
(2019: $8.7bn) Women in senior leadership roles. (2019: 29.4%) Cumulative total provided and facilitated
since 2017. (2019: $52.4bn)
Basic earnings per share Customer satisfaction
$0.19 7 out of 8 5 out of 8
(2019: $0.30) Wealth and Personal Banking markets Commercial Banking markets sustained
sustained top-three rank and/or improved top-three rank and/or improved in customer
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio in customer satisfaction. satisfaction.
15.9%
(2019: 14.7%)
Read more on our financial overview on page 26. Read more on how we set and define our environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) metrics on page 18.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 1
Strategic report
Highlights
Financial performance in 2020 was impacted by the Covid-19
outbreak, together with the resultant reduction in global interest
rates. Nevertheless, performance in Asia remained resilient and
our Global Markets business delivered revenue growth.
Delivery against our Financial performance Outlook and strategic
financial targets (vs 2019) update
Return on average tangible equity – Reported profit after tax down 30% to In February 2020, we outlined our plan to
$6.1bn and reported profit before tax upgrade the return profile of our risk-weighted
3.1% down 34% to $8.8bn from higher expected assets (‘RWAs’), reduce our cost base and
credit losses and other credit impairment streamline the organisation. Despite the
charges (‘ECL’) and lower revenue, partly significant headwinds posed by the impact of
February 2020 target: in the range of 10% to offset by a fall in operating expenses. the Covid-19 outbreak, we have made good
12% in 2022. Reported results in 2020 included a $1.3bn progress in implementing our plan.
(2019: 8.4%) impairment of software intangibles, while
However, we recognise a number of
reported results in 2019 included a $7.3bn
fundamental changes, including the prospect
impairment of goodwill. Adjusted profit
of prolonged low interest rates, the significant
Adjusted operating expenses before tax down 45% to $12.1bn.
increase in digital engagement from customers
– Reported revenue down 10% to and the enhanced focus on the environment.
$31.5bn $50.4bn, primarily due to the progressive
impact of lower interest rates across our We have aligned our strategy accordingly.
global businesses, in part offset by higher We intend to increase our focus on areas
Target: ≤$31bn in 2022. revenue in Global Markets. Adjusted where we are strongest. We aim to
(2019: $32.5bn) revenue down 8% to $50.4bn. increase and accelerate our investments
in technology to enhance the capabilities we
– Net interest margin of 1.32% in 2020,
provide to customers and improve efficiency
down 26 basis points (‘bps’) from 2019,
Gross RWA reduction to drive down our cost base. We also intend
due to the impact of lower global interest rates.
to continue the transformation of our
$61.1bn – Reported ECL up $6.1bn to $8.8bn, underperforming businesses. As part of our
mainly due to the impact of the Covid-19 climate ambitions, we have set out our plans to
outbreak and the forward economic outlook. capture the opportunities presented by
Target: >$100bn by end-2022. Allowance for ECL on loans and advances to the transition to a low-carbon economy.
customers up from $8.7bn at 31 December
2019 to $14.5bn at 31 December 2020. We will continue to target an adjusted cost
Further explanation of performance against
Group financial targets may be found on page 26. – Reported operating expenses down base of $31bn or less in 2022. This reflects
a further reduction in our cost base, which has
19% to $34.4bn, mainly due to the
been broadly offset by the adverse impact
non-recurrence of a $7.3bn impairment of
of foreign currency translation due to the
goodwill. Adjusted operating expenses
weakening US dollar towards the end of 2020.
down 3% to $31.5bn, as cost-saving
We will also continue to target a gross RWA
initiatives and lower performance-related
reduction of over $100bn by the end of
pay and discretionary expenditure more
2022. Given the significant changes in our
than offset the growth in investment spend.
operating environment during 2020, we
– During 2020, deposits grew by $204bn no longer expect to reach our return on
on a reported basis and $173bn on a average tangible equity (‘RoTE’) target
constant currency basis, with growth in all of between 10% and 12% in 2022 as
global businesses. originally planned. The Group will now target
– Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) ratio of a RoTE of greater than or equal to 10%
15.9%, up 1.2 percentage points from in the medium term.
14.7% at 31 December 2019, which
We intend to maintain a CET1 ratio above
included the impact of the cancellation of the
14%, managing in the range of 14% to
fourth interim dividend of 2019 and changes
14.5% in the medium term and managing
to the capital treatment of software assets.
this range down in the longer term. The Board
– After considering the requirements set out in has adopted a policy designed to provide
the UK Prudential Regulation Authority’s sustainable dividends going forward. We
(‘PRA’) temporary approach to shareholder intend to transition towards a target payout
distributions for 2020, the Board has ratio of between 40% and 55% of
announced an interim dividend for 2020 of reported earnings per ordinary share
$0.15 per ordinary share, to be paid in cash (‘EPS’) from 2022 onwards, with the flexibility
with no scrip alternative. to adjust EPS for non-cash significant items
such as goodwill or intangibles impairments.
We will no longer offer a scrip dividend option,
and will pay dividends entirely in cash.
2 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
Highlights
Key financial metrics
For the year ended
Reported results 2020 2019 2018
Reported revenue ($m) 50,429 56,098 53,780
Reported profit before tax ($m) 8,777 13,347 19,890
Reported profit after tax ($m) 6,099 8,708 15,025
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company ($m) 3,898 5,969 12,608
Cost efficiency ratio (%) 68.3 75.5 64.4
Basic earnings per share ($) 0.19 0.30 0.63
Diluted earnings per share ($) 0.19 0.30 0.63
Net interest margin (%) 1.32 1.58 1.66
Alternative performance measures
Adjusted revenue ($m) 50,366 54,944 52,098
Adjusted profit before tax ($m) 12,149 22,149 21,199
Adjusted cost efficiency ratio (%) 62.5 59.2 60.9
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) as % of average 0.81 0.25 0.16
gross loans and advances to customers (%)
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity (%) 2.3 3.6 7.7
Return on average tangible equity (%)1 3.1 8.4 8.6
At 31 December
Balance sheet 2020 2019 2018
Total assets ($m) 2,984,164 2,715,152 2,558,124
Net loans and advances to customers ($m) 1,037,987 1,036,743 981,696
Customer accounts ($m) 1,642,780 1,439,115 1,362,643
Average interest-earning assets ($m) 2,092,900 1,922,822 1,839,346
Loans and advances to customers as % of customer accounts (%) 63.2 72.0 72.0
Total shareholders’ equity ($m) 196,443 183,955 186,253
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity ($m) 156,423 144,144 140,056
Net asset value per ordinary share at period end ($) 8.62 8.00 8.13
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share at period end ($)2 7.75 7.13 7.01
Capital, leverage and liquidity
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio (%)3 15.9 14.7 14.0
Risk-weighted assets ($m)3 857,520 843,395 865,318
Total capital ratio (%)3 21.5 20.4 20.0
Leverage ratio (%)3 5.5 5.3 5.5
High-quality liquid assets (liquidity value) ($bn) 678 601 567
Liquidity coverage ratio (%) 139 150 154
Share count
Period end basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding (millions) 20,184 20,206 19,981
Period end basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding and dilutive potential 20,272 20,280 20,059
ordinary shares (millions)
Average basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding (millions) 20,169 20,158 19,896
Dividend per ordinary share (in respect of the period) ($)4 0.15 0.30 0.51
For reconciliations of our reported results to an adjusted basis, including lists of significant items, see page 85. Definitions and calculations of other alternative
performance measures are included in our ‘Reconciliation of alternative performance measures’ on page 103.
1 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, excluding impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets and changes in present value of in-force insurance
contracts (‘PVIF’) (net of tax), divided by average ordinary shareholders’ equity excluding goodwill, PVIF and other intangible assets (net of deferred tax).
2 Excludes impact of $0.10 per share dividend in the first quarter of 2019, following a June 2019 change in accounting practice on the recognition of interim
dividends, from the date of declaration to the date of payment.
3 Unless otherwise stated, regulatory capital ratios and requirements are based on the transitional arrangements of the Capital Requirements Regulation in force at
the time. These include the regulatory transitional arrangements for IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’, which are explained further on page 173. Leverage ratios are
calculated using the end point definition of capital and the IFRS 9 regulatory transitional arrangements. Following the end of the transition period after the UK’s
withdrawal from the EU, any reference to EU regulations and directives (including technical standards) should be read as a reference to the UK’s version of such
regulation and/or directive, as onshored into UK law under the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, as amended.
4 The fourth interim dividend of 2019, of $0.21 per ordinary share, was cancelled in response to a written request from the PRA. 2019 has been re-presented accordingly.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 3
Strategic
report
Who we are
Our global reach Multi-award winning
We aim to create long-term value for our shareholders and capture opportunity. Our goal is We have won industry awards around the
to lead in wealth, with a particular focus on Asia and the Middle East. Taking advantage of world for a variety of reasons – ranging from
our international network, we aspire to lead in cross-border banking flows, and to serve the quality of the service we provide to
mid-market corporates globally. We continue to maintain a strong capital, funding and customers, to our efforts to support diversity
liquidity position with a diversified business model. and inclusion in the workplace.
A selection of the awards recognising
Value of customer accounts by geography
our support of customers during the
Covid-19 outbreak includes:
North America UK Rest of Europe Mainland China
11% 30% 8% 3%
Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2020
Global Excellence in Leadership
Excellence in Leadership in Asia
Excellence in Leadership in the Middle
East
Greenwich Associates 2020 – Standout
Bank for Corporates in Asia During Crisis
Most Distinctive in Helping to Mitigate
Impact of Covid-19
Latin America
2% Middle East and North Africa We highlight a selection of our other recent
3% Rest o f Asia Hong Kong wins below.
11% 32%
See page 84 for further information on our customers and approach to geographical information. Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2020
World’s Best Bank for Sustainable Finance
World’s Best Bank for Transaction Services
Hong Kong’s Best Bank
Engaging with our stakeholders
The Banker Innovation in Digital Banking
Awards 2020
Best Digital Bank in Asia
Customers Employees Investors
Asia Insurance Industry Awards 2020
Regulators and Life Insurance Company of the Year
Communities Suppliers
governments
Building strong relationships with our stakeholders helps enable us to deliver our
strategy in line with our long-term values, and operate the business in a sustainable
PWM Wealth Tech Awards 2020
way. Our stakeholders are the people who work for us, bank with us, own us, regulate
Best Global Private Bank for Digital
us, and live in the societies we serve and the planet we all inhabit. These human
Customer Experience
connections are complex and overlap. Many of our employees are customers and
shareholders, while our business customers are often suppliers. We aim to serve,
creating value for our customers and shareholders. Our size and global reach mean
our actions can have a significant impact. We are committed to doing business
responsibly, and thinking for the long term. This is key to delivering our strategy.
Stonewall
Our section 172 statement, detailing our Directors’ responsibility to stakeholders, can be found Stonewall Top Global Employers List – 2020
on page 22.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 5
Strategic
report
Group Chairman’s statement
“ There are many
opportunities ahead
for a bank with HSBC’s
competitive strengths.”
As reported in the Annual Report and has necessitated new lockdown measures We are today unveiling the outcome of
Accounts 2019, Sir Jonathan Symonds and in the UK and other countries. While the extensive consultation with our people and
Kathleen Casey retired from the Board last deployment of multiple vaccines means we customers on the Group’s purpose and values.
year. Today we also announced that Laura Cha are more optimistic about the future, there is Being clear about who we are, what we stand
will step down from the Board immediately clearly still some way to go before life can for and how this connects to our strategy is an
after our 2021 Annual General Meeting return to something like normality. Recovery important part of how we align and energise
(‘AGM’) in May. I would like to thank will therefore take longer in these economies, the organisation to create long-term value for
Jon, Kathy and Laura for the enormous with growth more likely later in 2021 in all those we work with and for – our investors,
contributions they made to HSBC during their these economies. customers, employees, suppliers and the
years of service. We are now in the advanced communities we serve. The Board fully
stages of a search for suitable candidates The agreement of a trade deal between the endorses the outcome of this work.
to join and strengthen the Board, and I will UK and EU prior to the end of 2020 provides
update further on the outcome of this search some certainty for cross-border trade. Our commitment to create sustainable value is
in due course. However, the reduced access for financial demonstrated by the new climate ambitions
services under these new arrangements we announced in October 2020. The most
Like the rest of the Group, the Board had to means that further work is needed to maintain significant contribution that HSBC can make
adapt its ways of working in 2020. We met the level playing field that has existed until to the fight against climate change is to bring
virtually for much of the year, which brought now. Given the many benefits that the UK our customers with us on the transition to a
benefits including less travel and more financial services industry brings to the UK low-carbon future. Our goal of being net zero
frequent, shorter meetings. It will be important and EU economies, equivalence must be a for our financed emissions by 2050 sends an
for us to consider how we retain what has key priority for both parties. important signal to our investors, our
worked well over the last year once restrictions customers and our people – if our clients are
are lifted and it becomes possible to travel The geopolitical environment remains prepared to change their business models and
once again. challenging – in particular for a global bank make that transition, we will help and support
like HSBC – and we continue to be mindful them to do so. HSBC was also delighted to be
The Board enjoys the constructive discussions of the potential impact that it could have on one of the founding signatories of the Terra
that we have with shareholders at the AGM in our strategy. We continue to engage fully Carta, which was launched last month by HRH
the UK and the Informal Shareholders’ and frequently with all governments as we The Prince of Wales’ Sustainable Markets
Meeting in Hong Kong, so it was a matter of seek to do everything we possibly can to Initiative. Further details about all of the steps
regret that we did not meet in person in 2020. help our customers navigate an increasingly we are taking towards a more sustainable
While we did maintain regular contact with complex world. future are set out in the ESG review, which for
shareholders throughout the year, we will the first time is included within the Annual
resume our face-to-face engagement with Capturing future opportunities Report and Accounts 2020.
shareholders in the UK, Hong Kong and more Given the external environment, it is vital
widely, as soon as is practicable. we stay focused on what we can control. Finally, 2020 underlined once again that
The Board is confident there are many our people are the driving force behind
External environment opportunities ahead for a bank with HSBC’s our business. I would like to reiterate how
After the significant deterioration in global competitive strengths. This makes it all the enormously grateful I am to my colleagues for
economic conditions in the first half of the year more important that we position ourselves the great dedication and care they showed to
due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there were to capture them. our customers and to each other during such
signs of improvement in the second half, testing times. Further empowering and
especially in Asia. The most impressive While we prioritised supporting our customers enabling them to do their jobs and execute
economic recovery has been in China – still and our people during the pandemic, we our strategic priorities is the key to our
the biggest driver of global growth – where made good progress against the three future success.
international trade is rebounding most strategic priorities announced in February
strongly. The signing of the Regional 2020 – reallocating capital from
Comprehensive Economic Partnership should underperforming parts of the business,
further boost intra-regional activity across reducing costs and simplifying the
Asia, while the recent political agreement organisation. In particular, the Board worked
between the EU and China on an investment closely with the management team over the
deal should, once ratified, bolster the already course of the year on plans to accelerate
significant two-way investment flows. progress and investment in key areas of Mark E Tucker
growth, which include our Asian franchise, Group Chairman
Covid-19 infection levels remain very high in our wealth business and new technology
Europe, the US and Latin America, and new across the Group. 23 February 2021
variants of the virus have spread quickly. This
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 7
Strategic report
Group Chief Executive’s review
With a blueprint for the future and a renewed purpose to guide us,
we are building a dynamic, efficient and agile global bank with a
digital-first mindset, capable of providing a world-leading service
to our customers and strong returns for our investors.
digital capabilities – both in 2020 and in
previous years – enabled our customers to
access more services remotely, and we
worked closely with our regulators around the
world to open new digital channels in a safe
and secure way. In total, we provided more
than $26bn of relief to our personal customers
and more than $52bn to our wholesale
customers, both through government
schemes and our own relief initiatives. We also
played a vital role in keeping capital flowing for
our clients, arranging more than $1.9tn of loan,
debt and equity financing for our wholesale
customers during 2020.
Even in the middle of the pandemic, we
continued to look to the future. In October, we
announced our ambition to become a net zero
bank by 2050, supporting customers through
the transition to a low-carbon economy and
helping to unlock next-generation climate
solutions. If the Covid-19 pandemic provided a
shock to the system, a climate crisis has the
potential to be much more drastic in its
consequences and longevity. We are therefore
stepping up support for our clients in a material
way, working together to build a thriving
low-carbon economy and focusing our
business on helping achieve that goal.
Noel Quinn In 2020, HSBC had a very clear mandate
Group Chief Executive – to provide stability in a highly unstable The actions we outlined in February 2020
environment for our customers, are largely on track or ahead of where
communities and colleagues. I believe we intended them to be, despite the
we achieved that in spite of the many complications of the pandemic. We renewed
challenges presented by the Covid-19 and re-energised the senior management
pandemic and heightened geopolitical team, with around three-quarters of the Group
Executive Committee in post for just over a
uncertainty.
year or less. Our business is more streamlined
than it was a year ago, with three global
Our people delivered an exceptional level
businesses instead of four and increased
of support for our customers in very tough
back-office consolidation. Costs are down
circumstances, while our strong balance sheet
materially, with over $1bn of gross operating
and liquidity gave reassurance to those who
costs removed during 2020. We are also
rely on us. We achieved this while delivering
already more than half-way towards our target
a solid financial performance in the context
to reduce at least $100bn of gross risk-
of the pandemic – particularly in Asia – and
weighted assets by 2022. Unfortunately, the
laying firm foundations for our future growth.
changed interest-rate environment means
I am proud of everything our people achieved
we are no longer able to achieve a return
and grateful for the loyalty of our customers
on tangible equity of 10% to 12% by 2022.
during a very turbulent year.
We will now target a return on tangible equity
of 10% or above over the medium term.
2020
Helping our customers emerge from the
The world around us changed significantly
Covid-19 pandemic in a sustainable position
in 2020. Central bank interest rates in many
was our most pressing priority. We did this by
countries fell to record lows. Pandemic-related
equipping our colleagues to work from home
lockdowns led to a rapid acceleration in the
at the height of the pandemic, and keeping the
shift from physical to digital banking. Like
vast majority of our branches and all of our
many businesses, we learned that our people
contact centres open. Our investment in our
could be just as productive working from
8 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
Group Chief Executive’s review
represent a chance for our customers to grow
“ Helping our customers
and to help those close to them – protecting,
nurturing, building.
emerge from the Covid-19 ‘Opening up a world of opportunity’ both
captures this aim and lays down a challenge
for the future. Opportunity never stands still. It
pandemic in a sustainable changes and evolves with the world around
us. It is our job to keep making the most of it,
and to find and capture it with a spirit of
position was our most entrepreneurialism, innovation and
internationalism that represents HSBC at its
very best. This is the essence of what our
pressing priority.“ plans intend to deliver, and what we intend to
keep delivering for our customers, colleagues
and communities as we navigate change and
complexity together.
home as in the office. Also, as the world Financial performance
resolved to build back responsibly from the The pandemic inevitably affected our 2020
pandemic, governments, businesses and financial performance. The shutdown of much
customers united to accelerate a low-carbon of the global economy in the first half of the
transition that works for all. year caused a large rise in expected credit
losses, and cuts in central bank interest rates
All of these things caused us to adjust and reduced revenue in rate-sensitive business
reinforce elements of our strategy to fit this lines. We responded by accelerating the
new environment. The growth plans that we transformation of the Group, further reducing
have developed are a natural progression of our operating costs and moving our focus
our February 2020 plans. They aim to play to from interest-rate sensitive business lines
our strengths, especially in Asia; to accelerate towards fee-generating businesses. Our
our technology investment plans to deliver expected credit losses stabilised in the second
better customer service and increased half of the year in line with the changed
productivity; to energise our business for economic outlook, but the revenue
growth; and to invest further in our own environment remained muted.
low-carbon transition and that of our
customers. They are also designed to As a consequence, the Group delivered
deliver a 10% return on tangible equity over $8.8bn of reported profit before tax, down
the medium term in the current low interest- 34% on 2019, and $12.1bn of adjusted profits,
rate environment. down 45%. Our Asia business was again the
major contributor, delivering $13bn of adjusted
Our purpose profit before tax in 2020.
As we charted the next stage of HSBC’s
journey, we also reflected on our purpose as a Adjusted revenue was 8% lower than in 2019.
business. We consulted widely both internally This was due mainly to the impact of interest
and externally, speaking to thousands of rate cuts at the start of the year on our deposit
colleagues and customers, and looked deeply franchises in all three global businesses. By
into our history. The same themes came up contrast, our Global Markets business
again and again. benefited from increased customer activity
due to market volatility throughout the year,
HSBC has always focused on helping growing adjusted revenue by 27%.
customers pursue the opportunities around
them, whether as individuals or businesses. We made strong progress in reducing our
Sometimes those opportunities are clear and operating expenses. A combination of our
visible, and sometimes they are far from cost-saving programmes, cuts in
obvious. Sometimes they arise in the next performance-related pay and lower
street, and sometimes on the next continent. discretionary spending due to the Covid-19
Sometimes they exist in the status quo, and pandemic helped to reduce our adjusted
sometimes they are a product of great social operating expenses by $1.1bn or 3%.
or economic change. But always, they
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 9
Strategic report | Group Chief Executive’s review
Response to Covid-19
Dividends are hugely important, but so is everything that we want to achieve. It is how
capacity for growth. To deliver both, we are we intend to win new customers and retain
Our operations have stayed highly adopting a new policy designed to provide them, to become more agile and efficient, to
resilient and we are participating in sustainable dividends, offering good income create richer, seamless customer journeys,
several Covid-19 relief measures. while giving management the flexibility to and to build strong and innovative
reinvest capital to grow the firm over the partnerships that deliver excellent benefits
medium term. We will consider share for our customers. We have an opportunity
Approximately
buy-backs, over time and not in the near term, to meet the growing market need for
85%
where no immediate opportunity for capital sophisticated, robust and rapid payment
redeployment exists. We will also no longer solutions, and to lead our industry in applying
offer a scrip dividend option, and will pay digital solutions to analogue services, such as
of our employees are now equipped to work dividends entirely in cash. trade. We therefore intend to protect
from home. technology investment throughout the cycle,
The last 12 months were tough, but I am highly even as we reduce spending elsewhere.
focused on turning our performance around in
We provided over
2021 and beyond. I strongly believe that the Third, we want to energise HSBC for growth
$26bn
combination of our growth plans and our new through a strong culture, simple ways of
dividend policy will unlock greater value for our working, and by equipping our colleagues
shareholders in the years to come. with the future skills they need. Giving life to
of relief to our personal customers. our purpose will be critical to building the
Opening up a world of opportunity dynamic, entrepreneurial and inclusive culture
‘Opening up a world of opportunity’ is more that we want to create, as will removing the
than a purpose – it is a statement of intent. remaining structural barriers that sometimes
Everything that we plan to do over the next stop our people from delivering for our
decade is designed to unlock opportunity customers. We need to change the way we
for our stakeholders, whether customers, hire to build skills and capabilities in areas that
colleagues, shareholders or communities. are different to what we have needed
We intend to do this by building a dynamic, historically, including data, artificial
efficient and agile global bank with a intelligence, and sustainable business models.
digital-first mindset, capable of providing Our expanded HSBC University will also help
a world-leading service to our customers and to upskill and reskill our people, while fostering
Our investment plans remain essential to the strong returns for our investors. We will also more of the softer skills that technology can
future of the business. We continued to invest need to focus intently on the areas where never replace.
heavily in technology while managing costs we excel, and to foster a commercial and
down, spending $5.5bn during 2020. entrepreneurial culture with a conviction to get Fourth, we will seek to help our customers and
things done. We believe we can achieve this in communities to capture the opportunities
Our funding, liquidity and capital remain four ways. presented by the transition to a low-carbon
strong. We grew deposits by $173bn on a economy. Accelerating this transition is the
constant currency basis, with increases across First, we plan to focus on and invest in the right thing to do for the environment, but also
all three global businesses. Our common areas in which we are strongest. In Wealth the right thing commercially. We intend to
equity tier one ratio was 15.9% on 31 and Personal Banking, we aim to become a build on our market-leading position in
December 2020. market-leader for high net worth and ultra high sustainable finance, supporting our clients
net worth clients in Asia and the Asian with $750bn to $1tn of sustainable financing
Our shareholders diaspora, and to invest in our biggest retail and investment over the next 10 years. We
It was a difficult year for our shareholders. markets where the opportunity is greatest. In also intend to unlock new climate solutions by
The Covid-19 pandemic and the impact of Commercial Banking, we want to remain a building one of the world’s leading climate
geopolitics weighed heavily on our share price global leader in cross-border trade, and to lead managers – HSBC Pollination Climate Asset
throughout 2020. In March, we cancelled the the world in serving mid-market corporates Management – and helping to transform
payment of our fourth interim dividend for 2019 internationally. In Global Banking and Markets, sustainable infrastructure into a global asset
at the request of our lead regulator, and also we intend to invest to capture trade and capital class. These will help us achieve our ambition
agreed not to make any quarterly or interim flows into and across Asia, while connecting to align our portfolio of financed emissions to
dividend payments until the end of 2020. This global clients to Asia and the Middle East the Paris Agreement goal to achieve net zero
particularly affected shareholders who rely on through our international network. by 2050.
our dividend for income. It was a priority for the
management team to get back to being able to Second, we intend to increase the pace at Championing inclusion
pay dividends by the end of the year, and we which we digitise HSBC through higher levels I believe passionately in building an inclusive
were pleased to be able to recommend the of technology investment. This underpins organisation in which everyone has the
payment of an interim dividend for 2020.
10 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic report
OOuurr ssttrraatteeggyy
With continued delivery against our February 2020 commitments, we
are now in the next stage of our strategic plan, which responds to the
significant shifts during the year and aligns to our refreshed purpose,
values and ambition.
Progress on our 2020 commitments
In February 2020, we outlined our plan to we outlined. We delivered $1bn of cost Banking. We also reduced management layers
upgrade our returns profile through recycling programme saves. We also reduced gross in Global Banking and Markets and our
risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) out of low- RWAs by $52bn, including $24bn from our non-ring-fenced bank in Europe and the UK.
return franchises into higher-performing ones, non-ring-fenced bank in Europe and the UK, We have built a strong capital position, ending
reducing our cost base and streamlining and are currently on track to meet the greater the year with a CET1 ratio of 15.9%. Our return
our organisation. than $100bn target outlined by 2022. on tangible equity (‘RoTE’) of 3.1% was
negatively impacted by the Covid-19 outbreak
During 2020, in spite of significant headwinds We took bold steps to simplify our and the challenging macroeconomic
posed by the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak organisation, including the merger of Retail environment, including lower interest rates
across our network, we made significant Banking and Wealth Management and Global and higher expected credit losses.
progress on delivering against the ambitions Private Banking to form Wealth and Personal
Responding to the new environment
There was a set of fundamental shifts in 2020 that profoundly impacted our organisation as well as the wider financial services sector. We have
adapted our strategy accordingly.
Low interest-rate environment The new digital experience economy Increased focus on sustainability
Interest rates are expected to remain lower for Remote working and global lockdowns due to The demand for sustainable solutions and
longer, resulting in a more difficult revenue the Covid-19 outbreak have increased our green finance rose to new highs in 2020.
environment for the financial services sector. customers’ propensity and preference to
engage digitally.
Evolution of major interbank rates1 Digital banking usage up c.30%2 Green, social and sustainability
Three-month interbank offered rates (%) in the industry (’GSS’) bond market4
% customers increasing digital usage, $bn GSS share
mid-2020 vs pre-Covid-19 of global debt
3.0 capital markets
80
Mobile 2018 179 2.7%
Online
60 2019 261 3.6%
2020 40 2020 445 5.0%
1.5 Average
20
Companies with
disclosed climate 228 1,106
0
US UK China India action targets (in 2018) (in 2020)
under the Science
Based Targets Initiative
0.0 HSBC customer trends
2018 2019 2020 2021
125% 253%
Increase in HSBCnet Increase in HSBCnet
US UK Hong Kong
mobile downloads3 mobile payments3
We are responding by targeting fee income We are responding by increasing investments We stepped up our climate ambitions – we
growth in wealth and wholesale banking in technology across our customer platforms. aim to be a net zero bank and support our
products and improving cost efficiencies. clients in their transition with $750bn to $1tn
of financing.
1 Source: Datastream.
2 Source: Bain & Company Covid-19 Pulse Survey, July 2020; Overall sample: 10,000.
3 Fourth quarter of 2020 vs fourth quarter of 2019.
4 Source: Dealogic.
12 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
Our strategy
Digitise at scale
$1bn
We plan to grow investments1 at a compound free up office footprint, supported by a shift to
annual growth rate of approximately 7% to a more agile way of working and more
10% from 2019 to 2022. We will focus our efficiencies through reduced headcount. increase in our 2022 cost reduction target
investments in areas such as technology to
(≤$30bn based on full year 2020 exchange rate
improve our customers’ digital experiences
Continuing to invest in technology vs ≤$31bn in our February 2020 commitments)
while ensuring security and resilience. These
capabilities
investments will be funded in part by using
Technology spend ($bn) We plan to deliver
technology to drive down costs, including a
reduction in manual client processes and a
$5bn to $5.5bn
reduction in our commercial real estate 2018 4.7
footprint.
2019 5.3
of cost programme saves from 2020 to 2022.
Investing in technology 2020 5.5 (vs $4.5bn in February 2020 commitments)
We aim to deliver excellent customer
2022
experience throughout our network,
We plan to spend approximately
including through the use of straight-through Investments Business-as-usual activities
processing for payments, and through $7bn
partnerships with big technology firms and
Driving down our cost base
fintechs for innovation support. We also
intend to build platforms for higher front-end We plan to deliver $5bn to $5.5bn of in costs to achieve to help deliver our cost saves.
cost programme saves from 2020 to 2022,
productivity, including arming our front-line (vs $6bn in February 2020 commitments)
supporting a decline of our cost base to
staff with data analytics and visualisation for
$31bn or less by 2022 (using December 2020
key insights. We plan to automate our middle
average exchange rate) or $30bn or less
and back office by, for example, integrating
(using full year 2020 average exchange rate). 1 ‘Investment’ includes strategic business growth
machine-learning to improve analytics We plan to keep costs broadly stable 2 fr 0 o 1 m 9 (including build-out of front-line staff), and other
capabilities. We also plan to build solutions to strategic, regulatory, and technology investment
2022, while increasing the proportion
(including amortisation).
of investment.
Energise for growth
We are moving to a leaner and simpler Champion inclusion Develop future skills
organisation that is energised and fit for We aim to increase diverse representation, To energise our colleagues, we are setting out
the future. particularly in the senior levels of our initiatives to help develop their future skills and
organisation. In 2020, we achieved more than capabilities. We aim to deepen the prevalence
Inspire a dynamic culture 30% of female senior leadership, and we of digital, professional and enabling skills
We intend to re-energise our culture to intend to increase to more than 35% by 2025. across the organisation. Our accomplishments
succeed with purpose and bring our values We endeavour to close the gaps in employee to date include expanding HSBC University
to life. We also aim to adopt future ways of engagement in under-represented groups. We courses on future skills, digitalisation and
working. To support these objectives, we are also focusing on the quality and reporting sustainability. Moreover, we are deploying
secured inputs from approximately 120,000 of ethnicity data and benchmarking our third-party platforms such as Degreed, for
colleagues and engaged with over 2,500 actions. Our progress to date includes race educational technology, and Gloat, for career
customers to help shape our renewed purpose commitments to at least double the number of development.
and values, which have been embedded into Black employees in senior leadership roles
our strategy. Furthermore, we are launching globally by 2025 and recognition within
new leadership expectations that help to: give Stonewall’s 2020 Top Global Employers Index
life to our purpose; unleash our organisation’s for LGBT+ staff.
potential; and see through our actions.
Transition to net zero
Our ambition is to support the transition to a Supporting our customers We address the progress made on our
net zero global economy. Our aim is to provide between $750bn and commitments in a number of different sections
$1tn of sustainable finance and investment by of this Annual Report and Accounts 2020 and
Becoming a net zero bank 2030 to support our customers in their beyond. For more information on our climate
We are making changes both in our own transition to lower carbon emissions. strategy, please refer to the below.
operations and for our customers through
our financing portfolio. We aim to bring our Unlocking new climate solutions Our ESG review can be found on page 42.
operations and supply chain to net zero by We are working with a range of partners to A summary of our fourth Task Force on
2030 or sooner. We also plan to align our increase investment in natural resources, clean Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
can be found on page 20, and our TCFD Update
financed emissions – the carbon emissions technology and sustainable infrastructure. We
2020 can be found at www.hsbc.com/esg.
of our portfolio of customers – to the Paris also plan to donate $100m to a programme
Agreement goal to achieve net zero by 2050 that will support climate solutions to scale over
or sooner. the next five years.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 15
Strategic report
How we do business
We conduct our business intent on supporting the sustained
success of our customers, people and other stakeholders.
Our approach
We recognise that it is important to be clear able to work from home, and provided extra connected workforce. We achieved our target
about who we are and what we stand for to resources and support to help them manage of 30% women holding senior leadership
create long-term value for our stakeholders. the mental and physical health challenges of roles, which are classified as 0 to 3 in our
This will help us deliver our strategy and the pandemic. global career band structure, by 2020. We
operate our business in a way that want to keep our focus and momentum and
is sustainable. We did not apply for government support build more gender-balanced teams, so we
packages for our employees across the have set ourselves a target to achieve 35%
Following an extensive consultation with countries and territories in which we operate. women in senior leadership roles by 2025.
our people and customers, we refined our
purpose and values. Our new purpose is On the following page, we have set out We published ethnicity data in the UK and
‘Opening up a world of opportunity’ and we further ways that we supported each of US and recognise we need to take action. We
aim to be the preferred international financial our stakeholders. aim to at least double the number of Black
partner for our clients. employees in senior leadership roles globally
Fair outcomes by 2025.
To achieve this in a way that is sustainable, we In 2020, we continued to promote and
are guided by our values: we value difference; encourage good conduct through our people’s Our climate ambition
we succeed together; we take responsibility; behaviours and the decisions we take during In 2020, we announced our climate ambition
and we get it done. these unprecedented times. We define to become net zero in our operations and our
conduct as delivering fair outcomes for our supply chain by 2030, and align our financed
Our Covid-19 actions customers and not disrupting the orderly and emissions to the Paris Agreement goal of
Having a clear purpose and strong values has transparent operation of financial markets. net zero by 2050. We know this is a journey
never been more important, with the Covid-19 This is central to our long-term success and and recognise that the current means of
pandemic testing us all in ways we could ability to serve customers. We have clear measuring progress globally need improving
never have anticipated. As the world changed policies, frameworks and governance in place to track reductions better.
over the course of 2020, we adapted to new to protect them. For further information on
ways of working and endeavoured to provide conduct, see page 187. Details on our conduct We have changed how we report on ESG
support to our customers during this framework are available at www.hsbc.com/ issues this year by embedding the content
challenging period. who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/ previously provided in our stand-alone
our-conduct. ESG Update within this Annual Report
We kept the majority of our branches and all and Accounts. This can be found in the
of our contact centres open. To help achieve We believe diversity makes us stronger, and ESG review on page 42.
this, we equipped 85% of our colleagues to be we are dedicated to building a diverse and
Our new purpose and values
HSBC was born across different cultures and has
a long history of connecting people, ideas and
capital that make progress happen. That is why
we have been working hard to sharpen our
strategic focus, clarify our sense of purpose, and
re-energise our culture.
As we set out in this Annual Reports and
Accounts 2020, we have revised our purpose,
values and ambition. This has followed an extensive
listening, talking and reflecting exercise involving
tens of thousands of colleagues, customers and
other stakeholders. It was the largest employee
engagement programme in our history.
We plan to formally launch our purpose and
values to HSBC colleagues and other
stakeholders in March 2021.
16 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
How we do business
Supporting our stakeholders through Covid-19
The Covid-19 outbreak has created a great deal of uncertainty and disruption for the people, businesses and communities we serve around the
world. It is affecting everyone in different ways, with markets at different stages of the crisis. We are tailoring our response to the different
circumstances and situations in which our stakeholders find themselves.
Customers Employees Investors
The Covid-19 outbreak has posed significant The Covid-19 outbreak tested our The Covid-19 outbreak and the impact of
challenges for our customers. Our immediate colleagues in many ways and they geopolitics weighed heavily on our share
priority is to do what we can to provide them adapted at pace in this fast-changing price throughout 2020. Central banks and
with support and flexibility. environment. governments also implemented several
measures in their response to the
This has included offering payment relief and In branches, we introduced social
pandemic. In line with all other large
restructuring mortgage payments, as well as distancing measures, provided personal
UK-based banks, and in response to a
extending relief loans or temporary credit limit protective equipment, reduced operating
request from the UK’s PRA, we cancelled
increases for borrowers. At 31 December hours and offered virtual appointments.
the fourth interim dividend for 2019. We
2020, we had active payment relief measures For office workers, we made sure
also announced that, until the end of
impacting 87,000 accounts and $5.5bn in cybersecurity controls and software
2020, we would make no quarterly or
balances as part of market-wide schemes and supported home working.
interim dividend payments or accruals in
our own payment holidays programmes.
For some of our colleagues, we changed respect of ordinary shares.
On the first day of a government cash payout their roles, asking them to undertake
This was a difficult decision and we
scheme in Hong Kong, we received one activities that were outside their normal
deeply regret the impact it has had on
million registrations after we set up a simple activities. This helped to keep many of our
shareholders. We are therefore pleased to
digital and branch registration process. At the colleagues working during these
restart dividend payments at the earliest
end of 2020, the lending support we provided extraordinary times.
opportunity. The Board has announced an
to more than 237,000 wholesale customers
Our employee networks have held regular interim dividend of $0.15 for 2020.
globally was valued at $35.3bn, both through
support calls for those experiencing Adopting a prudent approach now will
government schemes and our own initiatives.
mental health challenges and 92,000 help ensure the dividend remains
We have taken steps to keep many of our colleagues participated in our Covid-19 sustainable in the future.
branches open while protecting customers well-being survey, with 86% telling us
We continued to engage virtually with
and our colleagues. However, with customers they were confident in the approach our
investors. It was unfortunately not
doing more of their banking online, we have leadership team was taking to managing
possible for shareholders to attend the
also deployed new technology to help enable the crisis.
2020 AGM in person due to social
them to engage with us in new ways.
distancing measures. Shareholders were
For further details on how we are helping our instead encouraged to vote by proxy and
For further details on how we are helping our colleagues, see the Employees section of the submit questions in advance with the
customers, including during the Covid-19 ESG review on page 62. answers published subsequently on our
outbreak, see the Customers section of the website. We also maintained an active
ESG review on page 52. programme of shareholder meetings and
presentations.
Communities Regulators and governments Suppliers
Our $25m Covid-19 donation fund supported We have proactively engaged with We made early payments to thousands
relief and recovery efforts around the world, regulators and governments globally of our suppliers during the year to support
including immediate medical relief, access to regarding the policy changes issued them through the pandemic.
food, and care for the most vulnerable people. in response to the Covid-19 outbreak
to help our customers and to contribute
to an economic recovery.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 17
Strategic report | How we do business
Our ESG metrics and targets
We have established targets that guide how we outcomes that underpin the ESG metrics executive remuneration outcomes, see pages
do business, including how we operate and below. In addition, for executive Directors, a 241 to 245 in the Director’s remuneration
how we serve our customers. These targets are 25% weighting is given to environment and report.
designed to help us to make our business – and sustainability measures in the 2020 long-term
those of our customers – more environmentally incentive (‘LTI’) scorecards, which have a For a number of the metrics outlined below,
sustainable. They also help us to improve three-year performance period ending on 31 2020 was a transition year. For further details,
employee advocacy and diversity at senior December 2023. The targets for this measure including the high-level framework for how we
levels as well as strengthen our market conduct. are linked to our climate ambition of achieving are looking to measure the progress on our
a reduction in our carbon footprint and new climate ambition, see the ESG review on
The 2020 annual incentive scorecards of the facilitating financing to help our clients in their page 42. In 2021, we will introduce new
Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial transition to net zero. For a summary of how metrics and targets aligned to our strategy.
Officer and Group Managing Directors had all financial and non-financial metrics link to
30% weightings for measures linked to
Target Performance in 2020
Environmental
Sustainable finance and investment Provide and facilitate1 $93.0bn
$100bn
cumulative progress since 20171
by the end of 2025
Reduce operational CO emissions 2.0 1.76
2
tonnes used per full-time tonnes used per FTE2
equivalent (‘FTE’) by the
end of 20202
Climate-related disclosures Continued implementation We published our
of the Financial Stability
4th
Board’s TCFD
TCFD, which can be found on page 20
and in the separate TCFD Update 2020 on
www.hsbc.com/esg. We recognise there
is still work to be done on how we report
climate-related disclosures
Social
Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction 7 5
improvements in
8 WPB markets CMB markets
sustained top-three sustained top-three
rank and/or improved rank and/or improved
scale markets3 in customer in customer
satisfaction3 satisfaction3
Employee advocacy 69% 71%
of employees recommending of employees would recommend HSBC
HSBC as a great place to work as a great place to work4
by the end of 20204
Employee gender diversity 30% 30.3%
women in senior leadership women in senior leadership roles5
roles by the end of 20205
Governance
Achieve sustained delivery of global 98% 93.2%
conduct outcomes and effective
financial crime risk management
of staff to complete annual of staff completed conduct training in 20206
conduct training
1 The sustainable finance commitment and progress figure includes green, social and sustainability activities. In October 2020, we announced a new target ambition
to provide between $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For further details, see page 44 in the ESG review.
2 This carbon figure covers scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 (travel) emissions. For further details, see www.hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/esg-reporting-
and-policies.
3 Our customer satisfaction performance is based on improving from our 2017 baseline. Our scale markets are Hong Kong, the UK, Mexico, the Pearl River Delta,
Singapore, Malaysia, the UAE and Saudi Arabia. For further details on how we are transitioning to a new metric, see page 54 in the ESG review.
4 Our target was to improve employee advocacy by three points each year through to 2020. Our employee advocacy score in 2019 was 66%. Performance is based
on our employee Snapshot results. From 2021, our targets will be based on our employee engagement index.
5 Senior leadership is classified as 0 to 3 in our global career band structure.
6 The launch of conduct global mandatory training in 2020 was delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the completion date was rolled over into 2021.
18 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
How we do business
Our climate risk and reporting strategy
Every organisation has a role to play in limiting The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force We have made headway assessing climate’s
the impact of climate change. We believe our on Climate-related Financial Disclosures impact on our customers and our operations
most significant contribution will be to align (‘TCFD’) recommendations set an important – from the physical risk of increased severity
with the Paris Agreement goal of net zero framework for understanding and analysing or shifts in weather events, and the potential
global greenhouse emissions by 2050, climate-related risks, and we are committed transition risk from changes to policy,
through financing the transformation of to regular, transparent reporting to help technology and consumer behaviour. Working
businesses and infrastructure. communicate and track our progress. We to embed climate into our risk management
will advocate the same from our customers, framework, we are initially focusing on five
Central to our new climate ambition of suppliers and the industry. However, this is principal risk types most likely to be influenced
becoming net zero in our financed emissions a journey and much work lies ahead as we by climate risk. The table below sets out
by 2050 or sooner is the intensification of our develop our climate risk management and examples of how these risk types might
support for customers transitioning to a metrics capabilities, and build on our 2020 be impacted.
low-carbon economy. We aim to mobilise climate scenario analysis. This summary,
between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable together with our separate TCFD Update 2020, For further details of our climate ambition,
finance and investment by 2030. forms our fourth TCFD disclosure. see pages 45 to 50 in the ESG review.
Our TCFD Update 2020 can be found at
www.hsbc.com/esg.
Climate risk impact Principal risk type impacted Examples of potential impact
Extreme weather events or chronic Retail credit risk – The cost of flood damage to a customer’s home leaves
changes in weather patterns impact our Wholesale credit risk them unable to repay their mortgage
assets, operations or our customers’ Resilience risk – Hurricane damage to a customer’s warehouse halts
assets manufacturing and leaves them unable to repay their loan
– One of our data centres is flooded and we are unable to
service customers
Our business models or our customers’ Wholesale credit risk – Failure to align to new regulations leads to a loss of business
business models fail to align to a Reputational risk and customers are unable to repay their loans
low-carbon economy – Our actions lead to negative external perceptions of
our organisation
We fail to effectively design and market Reputational risk – We fail to respond to a regulatory change, leading to adverse
climate-related products across all Regulatory compliance risk stakeholder reaction
global businesses or respond to
regulatory change
We have identified six sectors where we are processes. Across 2019 and 2020, we Within the power and utilities, and metals and
most exposed to transition risk and our level of received responses from customers within mining sectors shown in the table below, our
lending activity in those sectors. From our the six high transition risk sectors, which direct exposure to thermal coal is 0.2% of the
corporate questionnaire, we collate represented 41% of our exposure – an wholesale loans and advances figures.
information about our customers’ climate increase of seven percentage points from
transition strategies to assess their need and 2019. The table below shows our lending
readiness to adapt, and to identify potential activity in the six sectors and insights from
business opportunities. This supports our our questionnaire.
decision making and credit risk management
Wholesale loan exposure to transition risk sectors and customer questionnaire responses
Building and Metals and Oil and Power and
Automotive construction Chemicals mining gas utilities Total
Wholesale loan exposure as % of total ≤3.1% ≤4.0% ≤3.4% ≤2.5% ≤3.4% ≤3.2% ≤19.6%
wholesale loans and advances to customers
and banks1,2,3
Proportion of sector for which questionnaires 42% 44% 32% 45% 42% 40% 41%
were completed4
Proportion of questionnaire responses that 68% 81% 77% 54% 84% 93% 77%
reported having a board policy or a
management plan4
Sector weight as proportion of high 16% 20% 18% 13% 17% 16% 100%
transition risk sector4
1 Amounts shown in the table include green and other sustainable finance loans, which support the transition to the low-carbon economy. The methodology for
quantifying our exposure to high transition risk sectors and the transition risk metrics will evolve over time as more data becomes available and is incorporated in
our risk management systems and processes.
2 Counterparties are allocated to the high transition risk sectors via a two-step approach. Firstly, where the main business of a group of connected counterparties is in a
high transition risk sector, all lending to the group is included irrespective of the sector of each individual obligor within the group. Secondly, where the main business
of a group of connected counterparties is not in a high transition risk sector, only lending to individual obligors in the high transition risk sectors is included.
3 Total wholesale loans and advances to customers and banks amount to $673bn (2019: $680bn).
4 All percentages are weighted by exposure.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 19
Strategic report | How we do business
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
The table below sets out the 11 TCFD recommendations and summarises the progress we have made in the past 12 months.
TCFD recommendation Our progress in 2020
Governance
Describe the Board’s oversight of – The Board is responsible for our climate ambition and strategy and receives climate-focused updates
climate-related risks and twice a year.
opportunities
– The Group Risk Committee provides oversight of climate risks and opportunities through enterprise
Describe management’s role in risk reports, deep dives and updates.
assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities – The Group Executive Committee manages our climate ambition with management responsibilities
integrated into the relevant business and functional areas.
For further details of our governance approach, see page 5 of our TCFD Update 2020.
Strategy
Describe the climate-related risks and – We have identified our key climate risks over the short, medium and long term and identified the
opportunities the organisation has principal risk types as retail credit risk, wholesale credit risk, resilience risk, reputational risk and
identified over the short, medium and regulatory compliance risk1.
long term
For further details of our climate risks and risk types, see pages 3 and 22 of our TCFD Update 2020.
– We are prioritising climate-related financing and investment, and in October announced our new
Describe the impact of climate climate ambition to become a net zero bank, support customers to thrive in the transition to a
risks and opportunities on the
low-carbon economy, and to unlock next generation climate solutions.
organisation’s business, strategy
and planning
For further details of our climate ambition, see pages 45 to 50 in the ESG review.
– We have carried out various exercises to analyse our resilience, including:
Describe the resilience of the
organisation’s strategy taking into – using the Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment (‘PACTA’) tool to assess our customers’
consideration different climate- impact on climate and help develop clear pathways to net zero financed emissions. We have run a
related scenarios, including a 2ºC or pilot on our automotive loan book; and
lower scenario
– running a stress testing pilot to assess the impact of different climate scenarios on our customers
and our own infrastructure.
For further details of our scenario analysis and ‘PACTA’ pilots, see pages 13 to 21 of our TCFD Update 2020.
Risk management
Describe the organisation’s processes – In response to identifying our key climate risks, we have reviewed our risk appetite and defined our
for identifying and assessing approach to managing these risks.
climate-related risks
– We are reviewing our policies for managing a number of principal risk types, initially resilience risk,
sustainability risk and regulatory compliance risk.
For further details of our climate risk management approach, see page 48 in the ESG review and pages 22 to 24
of our TCFD Update 2020.
Describe the organisation’s processes – We manage our asset management customers’ climate risk in line with our fiduciary responsibilities
for managing climate-related risks
to protect and grow the assets.
Read more on our asset management approach to climate risk in our policies and procedures on
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/en/institutional-investor/about-us/responsible-investing/policies.
Describe how processes for – The Trustee of our UK Pension Scheme manages climate risk in line with its fiduciary responsibilities
identifying, assessing and managing towards members2.
climate-related risks are integrated
– We have established a dedicated climate risk programme to accelerate the integration of climate risk
into the organisation’s overall risk
management into our Group-wide risk management framework, which includes identification and assessment,
management, and aggregation and reporting.
Metrics and targets
Disclose the metrics used by the – We use several metrics to measure and track our progress against key targets, and we will be refining
organisation to assess climate-related our approach to financed emissions (scope 3), including carbon intensity, for specific portfolios.
risk and opportunities in line with its
– We set a new sustainable finance and investment target of $750bn to $1tn by 2030, after reaching
strategy and risk management process
$93.0bn of our $100bn by 2025 target. The $40.6bn achieved in 2020 counts towards both the existing
2025 target and the new target.
Describe the targets used by the – We continue to disclose our wholesale loan exposure to the six high transition risk sectors, and use
organisation to manage climate-
our corporate customer transition risk questionnaire to help inform our risk management.
related risks and opportunities and
performance against targets – We include an environment measure in the scorecards of our executive Directors and Group Managing
Directors. The long-term incentive scorecards of our executive Directors (three-year performance period
to the end of December 2023) have a 25% weighting for targets aligned to our climate ambitions.
Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if
appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas – We continue to disclose business travel, energy-related emissions and renewable energy use, and
emissions and the related risks aim to disclose further details on our own scope 3 emissions in future reporting.
For further details of our climate metrics and targets, see pages 45 to 50 in the ESG review.
1 Short term: less than one year; medium term: period to 2030; long term: period to 2050.
2 For further details of our UK Pension Scheme’s latest TCFD statement, see https://futurefocus.staff.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/project/futurefocus/information-centre/
pensioner/other-information/2020-tcfd-statement.pdf
20 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
How we do business
Responsible business culture
We have the responsibility to protect our employees in senior roles over the next contribute to disaster relief efforts based on
customers, our communities and the integrity five years. We are focusing on the quality need. In 2020, we contributed $112.7m to
of the financial system. In this section, we and reporting of ethnicity data to be more charitable programmes and our employees
outline our requirements under the Non- transparent about our representation and volunteered 82,000 hours to community
Financial Reporting Directive. accountable for the effectiveness of our activities during the working day.
actions. In 2020, we began a three-year
Environmental matters transformation programme. We work hard Human rights
In October 2020, we announced our ambition to ensure colleagues impacted by change Our commitment to respecting human rights,
to achieve net zero in our own operations and are supported. principally as they apply to our employees, our
our supply chain by 2030 or sooner. We also suppliers and through our financial services
plan to align our financed emissions – The table below outlines high-level lending, is set out in our Statement on Human
the carbon emissions of our portfolio of diversity metrics. Rights. This statement, along with our
customers – to the Paris Agreement goal of statements under the UK’s Modern Slavery
net zero by 2050 or sooner. For further details All employees Act (‘MSA’) is available on www.hsbc.com/
of our climate strategy and carbon emission our-approach/measuring-our-impact.
metrics, see the ESG review on page 44. Male 48%
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
Female 52%
Employee matters HSBC requires compliance with all applicable
We are opening up a world of opportunity for Senior leadership1 anti-bribery and corruption laws in all markets
our colleagues through building an inclusive and jurisdictions in which we operate. These
organisation that prioritises well-being and Male 70% laws include the UK Bribery Act, the US
prepares our colleagues for the future of work. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the Hong
Female 30%
Kong Prevention of Bribery Ordinance, as well
We expect colleagues to treat each other Directors as other similar laws and regulations in the
with dignity and respect and take action countries where we operate. We have a global
where we find behaviour that falls short of our Male 64% anti-bribery and corruption policy, which gives
expectations. We monitor how we perform on practical effect to these laws and regulations,
metrics that we value and benchmark against Female 36% but also requires compliance with the spirit of
our peers. We have a range of tools and laws and regulations to demonstrate HSBC’s
resources to help colleagues to take 1 Senior leadership is classified as 0 to 3 in our commitment to ethical behaviours
global career band structure.
ownership of their development journey. and conduct.
For further details on how we look after
We believe in the importance of listening
our people, including our diversity targets,
to our people and seek innovative ways to transformation employee metrics and how we
encourage employees to speak up. At times, encourage our employees to speak up, see the
individuals may not feel comfortable speaking Employees section of the ESG review on page 62.
up through the usual channels. Our global
whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, is Social matters Non-financial information statement
open to colleagues, past and present, to raise We have a responsibility to invest in the This section primarily covers our non-
concerns either confidentially or anonymously. long-term prosperity of the communities financial information as required by the
where we operate. We recognise that regulations. Other related information can
In 2018, we committed to reach 30% women technology is developing at a rapid pace and be found as follows:
in senior leadership roles, which are classified
that a range of new and different skills are
as 0 to 3 in our global career band structure, For further details on our key performance
now needed to succeed in the workplace. For
by 2020. At the end of 2020, we achieved indicators, see page 1.
this reason, much of our focus is on
30.3% and have now set ourselves a target to For further details on our business model,
programmes that develop employability and
see page 4.
achieve 35% by 2025. In July 2020, we set out
financial capability. We also back initiatives
global race commitments, which included a For further details on our principal risks and
that support responsible business, and how they are managed, see pages 37 to 40.
goal to at least double the number of Black
Investing in the skills of the future
In 2020, we launched the global HSBC Future Skills
Innovation Challenge in partnership with Ashoka, a global
network for social entrepreneurs, to support innovations
that help people become more employable and financially
capable. We received more than 200 submissions to the
challenge, with 12 winners selected. Each winner received
a prize of up to $25,000 and additional support and
mentoring.
All winning entries provided solutions that address local
problems, such as digital platform Bamba, which helps
domestic workers gain access to the financial system
in Mexico.
Thanks to our support to the challenge, we won The
Banker’s global award for Banking in the Community in
December 2020. The award recognised the most innovative
initiatives launched by financial institutions that enrich and
improve the societies in which they operate.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 21
Strategic report
Board decision making and
engagement with stakeholders
Our Board is committed to effective engagement and
seeks to understand the interests of and impacts on
relevant stakeholders when making decisions.
Section 172 (1) statement
This section, from pages 22 to 24, forms our promote the success of the company, how they have taken account of the matters
section 172 statement. It describes how the including how they have considered and set out in section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the
Directors have performed their duty to engaged with stakeholders and, in particular, Companies Act 2006.
Stakeholder engagement and Covid-19
There were no changes to the Board’s stakeholders contributed to the development consider carefully the impact of decisions on a
identified key stakeholders during the year, of our Group strategy and purpose and values. range of stakeholders. For example, the
namely our customers, employees, investors, For further details of how the Board engaged decision to cancel the fourth interim dividend
communities, suppliers, and regulators and with stakeholders in adapting our Group for 2019 and suspend dividends for 2020
governments. In overseeing the business, the strategy and refreshing our purpose and required consideration of the request from the
Board sought to understand – and have values, see ‘Board engagement with Prudential Regulation Authority to cancel the
appropriate regard to – the interests and shareholders’ on page 204. dividend, the impact the decision would have
priorities of these stakeholders, including in on our shareholders and the important role
relation to material decisions that were taken The unique nature of the Covid-19 outbreak that HSBC has in helping its customers
during the course of the year. also brought logistical challenges for manage through the crisis. Further details on
interacting with stakeholders. For instance, to the dividend cancellation are provided in
Events during the year called for careful protect and keep our shareholders and people ‘Financial decisions’ on page 209 and
consideration of the needs and interests of the safe and in line with the advice from the UK ‘Dividends’ on page 256.
company’s various stakeholders. A specific Government, it was not possible for
area of focus arising from the Covid-19 shareholders to attend our AGM. Despite logistical challenges, the Board
pandemic included our colleagues’ mental and Consequently, shareholders did not have the continued to engage directly with many
physical health, which the Board monitored by opportunity to ask questions of the Board in stakeholders, including employees, regulators
way of frequent Snapshot and pulse surveys, person, although alternative arrangements and shareholders, and was kept informed
and discussions with senior management on were made to publish responses to written indirectly about relevant stakeholder matters
the well-being of their teams. Another area of questions on our website. Similarly, it was not through management reports. Some of the
Board focus, supported by guidance from possible to hold the Informal Shareholders’ ways in which the Board engaged with – or
subject matter experts, was the evolving views Meeting in Hong Kong nor for the Board to received views – from its key stakeholders
and requirements of our customers, investors, undertake site visits due to travel restrictions. during the year are provided below. Further
employees, communities and suppliers. The In addition, the financial impact of the details on our stakeholders are provided in
effects of the Covid-19 outbreak on these pandemic brought into sharp focus the need to ‘How we do business’ on page 17.
Customers Employees Investors
Our business is centred around our customers and We want our organisation to continue to be a positive We seek to understand investor needs through
clients. The greater the understanding we have of place to work and build careers. The success of the ongoing dialogue. Examples of the Board
their needs and the challenges they face, the better Group’s strategy is dependent upon having motivated engaging with investors in 2020 included:
we can support them to achieve their financial people with the expertise and skills required to help
aims. Examples of the Board engaging with deliver our strategy. Examples of the Board’s – virtual and Covid-19 safe regular meetings with
customers in 2020 included: engagement with our employees in 2020 included: investors to understand evolving views, trends
and sentiment;
– monthly Group Chief Executive Board reports, – ‘Snapshot’ survey updates on employee – reports from institutional investor meetings
which included updates on key customer sentiment and well-being, which were published attended by Directors; and
sentiment and activities; twice during the year;
– regular updates from Investor Relations,
– reports from the Group Chief Executive on – additional employee opinion surveys to assess including a weekly update on market activity
meetings he held with customers across the world, employee physical and mental well-being; and sentiment.
including pre-Covid-19 interactions and Covid-19 – status surveys to assess how employees might
safe physical meetings in the UK and Asia; be affected by the Covid-19 outbreak so that they
– regional and sector-based customer insights can be supported appropriately;
developed through customer interactions with – virtual and Covid-19 safe attendance by our
senior management and relationship managers, Board members at workforce engagement
which were incorporated into relevant Board events focused on our global businesses,
reports; and functions and employee resource groups; and
– customer survey feedback, including the – reports from members of senior management on
results of our 2020 Navigator survey and the welfare of their teams and areas of expertise
net promoter scores. and skills that required development to deliver
the strategy.
22 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Regulators and governments Communities Suppliers
Constructive dialogue and relations with the We play an important role in supporting the Our suppliers provide the Group with vital
relevant authorities in the markets we operate are communities in which we operate through resources, expertise and services to help us
critical to support the effective functioning of customers we serve and corporate social operate our business effectively. We work with
economies globally. Examples of the Board’s responsibility activities. We are, in turn, dependent our suppliers to ensure mutually beneficial
engagement with regulators and governments in on those communities. Examples of the Board’s relationships on a global and local level. In some
2020 included: engagement with communities in 2020 included: cases our suppliers will also be our customers.
Examples of the Board’s engagement with
– executive and non-executive Directors ‘continuous – regular climate and ESG-related updates to suppliers in 2020 included:
assessment’ meetings with the PRA and other the Board;
individual regulatory meetings; – economist updates to the Board on the varying – reports from the Group Chief Operating Officer,
– the annual presentation by the PRA to discuss impact of the Covid-19 outbreak on the markets in which included updates on third-party suppliers
the outcome and progress of its Periodic which the Group operates, helping to guide the and operational resilience; and
Summary Meeting Letter; focus of the strategy and connect with stakeholder – Board level engagement at external events
– the presentation by the UK Financial Conduct groups; such as the World Economic Forum with the
Authority (‘FCA’) of its Firm Evaluation; – immunologist updates to the Board on the varying opportunity to engage with suppliers across
– reports from meetings with the supervisory impact of the Covid-19 outbreak in the geographies the globe.
college of regulators; and in which the Group operates, providing insight into
what support may be required by governments
– regular dialogue with governments across the globally in support of the recovery and from HSBC
world, including representation on government- to our customers and employees; and
led forums.
– a Director-led roundtable in Latin America to
focus on geopolitical and social matters influencing
that region.
Principal decisions
Examples of principal decisions made by the Board during 2020, where the Directors had regard to the relevant matters set out in section 172(1)
(a)-(f) of the Companies Act 2006 when discharging their duties, are set out below:
Appointment of Group Chief Executive In taking this decision, the Board considered appraised of the progress with the search.
among other matters the ability of prospective Towards the end of the process, the
candidates to develop trusted, constructive appointment was approved by the Group’s UK
and strong relations with each of the Group’s regulators, an important step given that the
In early 2020, Noel Quinn was appointed customers, colleagues, regulators and role of Group Chief Executive is a regulated
as Group Chief Executive to lead the members of the investor community. For position in the UK.
instance, the Board benefited from
Group through the next phase of its
assessment criteria that evaluated the ability This detailed engagement, together with
strategy and transformation.
of each candidate to develop and maintain the various interviews and assessments
strong relations with the global workforce conducted during the process, helped the
The appointment followed a thorough and
while implementing strategic change. Board determine that the appointment of
robust search process, which considered the
Noel was in the best interests of the Group
best internal and external talent with the aim
Given the market sensitive implications of the as a whole.
of identifying the most suitable and able
appointment and the requirement for absolute
candidate to lead HSBC through its next
discretion and confidentiality in relation to
stage. For further details of the appointment
prospective candidates, it would not have
process, see the Nomination & Corporate
been appropriate to engage with all
Governance Report on page 213.
stakeholders while the process was ongoing.
The Group’s principal regulators were kept
Dividend cancellation request from the PRA, the then current and shareholders in Hong Kong, the UK
potential material impact on the global and elsewhere.
economy as a result of the Covid-19 outbreak
At the time of the announcement in March,
and the important role that HSBC has in
the Board stated that it would review the
helping its customers manage through the
On 31 March 2020, HSBC announced ordinary share dividend policy and payments
crisis and to have the resources to invest
that, in response to a written request in respect of 2020 once the full impact of the
when recovery occurs.
from the Bank of England through the outbreak was better understood and
PRA, the Board had cancelled the fourth The Board recognised that while HSBC had a economic forecasts for global growth in
interim dividend for 2019. The Board also strong capital, funding and liquidity position, future years were clearer.
there were significant uncertainties in
announced that no quarterly or interim We are therefore pleased to restart dividend
assessing the length and impact of the
dividend payments, accruals or share payments at the earliest opportunity and on
Covid-19 outbreak. The Board also noted
buy-backs would be paid in respect of 23 February 2021 the Board announced an
HSBC’s commitment to supporting
ordinary shares until the end of 2020. customers in the economies in which HSBC interim dividend for 2020 of $0.15 per ordinary
share. The Board has adopted a policy
serves, particularly Hong Kong and the UK.
Cancelling the dividend was an extremely designed to provide sustainable dividends
difficult decision for the Board. In reaching its These considerations were carefully balanced going forward. For more information on
decision, the Board took into account a against the impact the decision would have dividend decisions for 2021 see ‘Highlights’
number of considerations including the on HSBC’s shareholders, including retail on page 2.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 23
Strategic report | Board decision making and engagement with stakeholders
Principal decisions continued
Adapted Group strategy Customer insights were gathered through its plans. The insights gained reinforced the
comprehensive engagement with over 4,000 need to shift capital away from
customers, led by Global Banking and underperforming businesses while investing
Markets, which helped inform the Board of the for growth and reducing our cost base. The
When Covid-19 was declared a global likely wider medium- to long-term implications Board considered the views of the Group’s
pandemic, the Board determined that the and consumer and societal shifts arising from brokers in challenging the current strategy
the pandemic. These insights indicated that from an investment perspective. In addition,
assumptions underpinning its February
the Covid-19 outbreak had accelerated the Board recognised the need for continued
2020 business review were to be
customers’ behaviours and preferences and constructive engagement with our
revisited.
towards an increasingly digital, data-driven regulators to address their concerns and
and real-time service requirement, with priorities as the Group transforms its business.
As the extent and implications of the Covid-19
service standards set by sectors outside of
outbreak began to emerge, the Board
financial services. Providing a superior Employees were identified as a key
recognised the need to consider the impact on
digitalised proposition supports our customers stakeholder group given that they needed to
the strategy of a prolonged low interest-rate
to help achieve their full potential and create a understand and implement the Group
environment, as well as geopolitical,
culture of innovation and accountability strategy. The Board received updates on
technological and environmental challenges.
among our colleagues. senior talent and areas where skills need to be
These fundamental shifts profoundly impacted
developed further.
our organisation as well as the wider financial
The Board actively engaged with senior
services sector. The Board responded by management to consider the likely For further details of the Group’s adapted
aligning our strategy accordingly. consequences of the strategic actions strategy, see ‘Strategy and business
proposed, while providing constructive performance’ on page 209.
challenge and support in the development of
Purpose and values large-scale surveys. This engagement sought countries, and represent a clear guide to
to understand what was important to and action. This feedback encouraged the Board
resonated with our employees and customers to adopt a fourth value focused on delivery
(including next generation customers), while and decision making. As the stakeholder
The strategic review prompted the Board identifying societal trends. The purpose and engagement neared completion, an additional
to revise the Group’s purpose and values. value statements were tested for longevity 7,000 colleagues were consulted in the final
and were required to support a culture that assessment of the proposed values. The
could help deliver the Group’s strategy. primary view indicated that the revised values
To support the Board in its decision making, a
represented a ‘positive evolution’ for HSBC.
working group was established to develop
The insights gained from this stakeholder
proposals, including three non-executive
engagement were used to shape, refine and The Board selected the purpose and values
Directors who supported and challenged
enhance the proposals presented to the Board that it considered best aligned to the Group’s
management’s proposals.
for approval. In terms of our values, there was revised strategy, would drive a culture to
a consistent message that we should build on deliver that strategy, and resonated most with
An extensive programme of stakeholder
what was already working and avoid passive stakeholder sentiment.
engagement across our main operating
language. Clear direction was provided that
markets was undertaken during the
the values should be simple, memorable, Our new purpose and values can be found on
development of the revised purpose and
translate and be easily understood in many page 16.
values involving interviews, focus groups and
Climate ambition comprehensive market update on current Board acknowledged the opportunity to help
positions taken by non-government support our customers with their transition to
organisations, investors, competitors, lower carbon emissions and to manage other
regulators and increased societal awareness. expectations and matters impacting our
During the year, the Board reviewed shareholders, employees and local
and approved a new climate ambition As part of the review, HSBC’s climate advisory communities.
panel – consisting of representatives from
for the Group.
non-government organisations, clients and In addition, the Board noted that HSBC
academics – was consulted in the had been recognised as a leading bank
In reviewing and approving a new climate
development and drafting of the new climate for sustainable finance and acknowledged
ambition, the Board acknowledged that ESG
ambition. Wider stakeholder engagement was increased competitive activity. As a result, it
issues have developed significantly over
undertaken to help inform the Group’s position was conscious of the need to maintain the
recent years, and such issues are now
from a customer perspective including the Group’s leadership in this area.
recognised by stakeholders as key elements
HSBC Sustainable Financing and Investment
and risks for businesses to manage.
Survey 2020 and the HSBC Navigator survey. In making its decision, the Board recognised
investors’ expectations for HSBC to continue
In May 2020, the Board conducted a detailed
In the course of the Board’s discussions, it to make progress on climate change, as it
review of stakeholder expectations and was
considered stakeholder feedback in the provides sustainable finance and investment
advised of key stakeholders impacted by the
context of our business mix and the need to and gradually reduces exposure to high-
proposed climate strategy and the leading role
work towards an orderly transition, given carbon assets on a timeline aligned with the
HSBC was expected to take. This included a
current exposures to fossil fuels assets. The Paris Agreement.
24 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
Risk overview
Risk overview
Active risk management helps us to achieve our strategy,
serve our customers and communities and grow our
business safely.
Managing risk
Unprecedented global economic events meant Key risk appetite metrics
banks played an expanded role in supporting
Risk
society and customers in 2020. Many of our
Component Measure appetite 2020
customers’ business models and income were
impacted by the global economic downturn Returns Return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE’) ≥6.5% 3.1%
caused by the Covid-19 outbreak, requiring
Capital CET1 ratio – end point basis1 ≥13.1% 15.9%
them to take significant levels of support from
both governments and banks. Change in Change in expected credit losses and other credit ≤0.50% 0.68%
expected impairment charges as a % of advances: retail
Throughout the pandemic, we continued to credit losses
Change in expected credit losses and other credit ≤0.45% 0.89%
support our customers and adapted our and other credit
impairment charges as a % of advances:
operational processes. We maintained high impairment
wholesale (GBM, CMB, Global Private Banking)
levels of service as our people, processes and charges
systems responded to the required changes.
against the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak. understanding the nature and extent of
The financial performance of our operations We placed a specific emphasis on capital and vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed.
varied in different geographies, but the liquidity to ensure the Group could withstand The results from the stress tests also drive
balance sheet and liquidity of the Group extreme but plausible stress, and had adequate recovery and resolution planning to enhance
remained strong. This helped us to support capacity to provide increasing levels of financial the Group’s financial stability under various
our customers both during periods of support to customers. Associated non-financial macroeconomic scenarios. The selection of
government imposed restrictions and when risks were reviewed and, where applicable, stress scenarios is based upon the
these restrictions were eased. processes and controls were enhanced to identification and assessment of our top and
accommodate material increases in lending emerging risks identified and our risk appetite.
To meet the additional challenges, we volumes and help our people manage the
supplemented our existing approach to risk lending process from a home environment. A In 2020, the Bank of England (‘BoE’) and
management with additional tools and particular focus was placed on enhancing our European Banking Authority (‘EBA’) cancelled
practices. We increased our focus on the risk appetite statement to provide early warnings the requirement for all participating banks to
quality and timeliness of the data used to of credit deterioration, deliver a more holistic conduct their respective 2020 stress test
inform management decisions, through view of the Group’s resilience capabilities and exercises in light of the emerging impacts of
measures such as early warning indicators, develop a climate risk appetite focusing on the Covid-19 outbreak. Notwithstanding this,
prudent active risk management of our risk transition and physical risk Significant work is we conducted a range of internal stress tests
appetite, and ensuring regular communication also underway to further develop our risk during 2020. These included stress tests
with our Board and key stakeholders. appetite framework, with forward-looking covering several potential Covid-19-related
statements informed by stress testing. outcomes, incorporating assessments from
Our risk appetite credit experts to assess the resilience of key
Our risk appetite defines our desired forward- As seen in the key risk appetite metrics table, balance sheet metrics including capital
looking risk profile, and informs the strategic the financial impact of the Covid-19 outbreak adequacy and liquidity. We are regularly
and financial planning process. It provides an is apparent with RoTE and ECL outside of reviewing the economic impacts for key
objective baseline to guide strategic decision appetite. These are subject to close monitoring economies and markets to understand
making, helping to ensure that planned and management actions focusing on potential vulnerabilities in our balance sheet
business activities provide an appropriate adapting our strategy in the context of the and to identify appropriate mitigating actions.
balance of return for the risk assumed, while pandemic and recovery. We have conducted We continue to monitor emerging geopolitical,
remaining within acceptable risk levels. reviews of our portfolios that are highly economic and environmental risks impacting
vulnerable to general economic conditions the Group’s capital adequacy and liquidity. Our
Our risk appetite also provides an anchor and additional review measures have been balance sheet and capital adequacy remain
between our global businesses and the Global implemented for new credit requests. resilient based on regulatory and internal
Risk and Global Finance functions, helping to stress test outcomes.
enable our senior management to allocate Stress tests
capital, funding and liquidity optimally to We regularly conduct stress tests to assess We also developed a framework for our
finance growth, while monitoring exposure the resilience of our balance sheet and our climate stress testing and scenario analysis
and the cost impacts of managing non- capital adequacy, as well as to provide capabilities. We conducted a pilot climate
financial risks. actionable insights into how key elements of scenario analysis on some of our portfolios
our portfolios may behave during crises. We exposed to climate risk. The analysis was used
In 2020, we continued to evolve our risk appetite use the outcomes to calibrate our risk appetite to identify the most material drivers of climate
by reallocating both financial and non-financial and to review the robustness of our strategic risk within our business, and create informed
resources and adapting aspects of our risk and financial plans, helping to improve the insights of our climate exposures for use in our
appetite statement to ensure we remained able quality of management’s decision making. risk management and business decision
to support our customers and strategic goals Stress testing analysis assists management in making.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 37
Strategic report | Risk overview
Our operations business and technical controls, such as our of the restructuring safely, which include
We remain committed to investing in the infrastructure, software solutions, and system execution, operational, governance,
reliability and resilience of our IT systems and resilience and service continuity. reputational, conduct and financial risks. We
critical services that support all parts of our put support in place to help our people,
business. We do so to protect our customers, We have started to move forward with the particularly when we are unable to find
affiliates and counterparties, and to help implementation of our business transformation alternative roles for them as a result of the
ensure that we minimise any disruption to plans. This follows a pause on some elements business transformation plans.
services that could result in reputational and during the first half of 2020 to help ensure our
regulatory consequences. We continue to continued safe operation and to support our For further details on our risk management
operate in a challenging environment in which people and communities during a period of framework and risks associated with our banking
and insurance manufacturing operations, see
cyber threats are prevalent. To help defend significant change due to the Covid-19
pages 118 and 119 respectively.
against these threats we continue to invest in outbreak. We are aiming to manage the risks
Risks related to Covid-19
The Covid-19 outbreak and its effect on the development, approved or pending approval, While the longer-term effects of the outbreak
global economy have impacted our customers while the potential differences in protection on businesses are uncertain, our financial
and our performance, and the future effects of offered by vaccines and the speed and scale position should allow us to continue to help
the outbreak remain uncertain. The outbreak with which they can be manufactured and support our customers. The management of
necessitated governments to respond at distributed may further add to tensions. capital and liquidity remains a key focus area
unprecedented levels to protect public health, and is being continually monitored both at
local economies and livelihoods. It has affected The Covid-19 outbreak has led to a significant Group and entity levels.
regions at different times and to varying degrees weakening in GDP in many of our markets,
as it has developed. The varying government although regions and sectors have rebounded The nature and scale of the Covid-19 crisis has
support measures and restrictions in response to differing levels from their previous low necessitated strong responses from
have added challenges, given the rapid pace of points. Economic consensus forecasts have governments, central banks and regulators, and
change and significant operational demands. stabilised in recent months and monthly the outbreak has also resulted in changes in the
The speed at which countries and territories will changes to the forecasts have become behaviours of our retail and wholesale
be able to unwind the government support smaller, with a partial rebound broadly customers. These factors have impacted the
measures and restrictions and return to predicted for 2021. However, there is wide performance of our expected credit loss
pre-Covid-19 economic levels will vary based on dispersion in forecasts, and these have yet to models, requiring enhanced monitoring of
the levels of infection, local governmental incorporate fully the adverse effect of the most model outputs and use of compensating
decisions and access to and ability to roll out recent stringent government restrictions that controls, specifically management judgemental
vaccines. There remains a risk of subsequent have been imposed in an increasing number adjustments based on the expert judgement of
waves of infection, as evidenced by the recently of countries. Labour markets in several key senior credit risk managers. In addition, we have
emerged variants of the virus. Renewed economies (namely those of the UK and EU) built up our operational capacity rapidly in
outbreaks emphasise the ongoing threat of may take longer to recover, with response to government and central bank
Covid-19 even in countries that have recorded unemployment rates expected to rise in 2021 support measures aimed at combating the
lower than average cases so far. We continue to as government support measures are impacts of the Covid-19 outbreak, and have
monitor the situation. discontinued or tapered off. been responding to complex conduct
considerations and heightened risk of fraud
The development of Covid-19 vaccines has Notwithstanding the potential for recovery in related to these external programmes.
raised hopes of widespread immunisation being 2021, GDP levels are unlikely to return to
achieved by the end of 2021 and government pre-Covid-19 levels until later years in many For further details on our approach to the risks
restrictions being eased. However, tensions markets. Differing levels of vaccine access related to Covid-19, see ‘Areas of special interest’
on page 116.
could increase as countries compete for access between markets will also hamper economic
to the array of vaccines either under recovery and could see individual markets
rebound at different paces.
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks
The geopolitical and economic landscape was A range of tensions in US-China relations could including those in the US. Certain measures are
dominated by the Covid-19 outbreak for much have potential ramifications for the Group and of particular relevance, including the US Hong
of 2020 and the virus and its economic impact its customers. These tensions could include Kong Autonomy Act. It remains unclear the
is expected to remain the dominating factor of divisions over Hong Kong, US funding of and extent to which the new US administration
2021. The pandemic contributed to an trading with strategic Chinese industries, claims will affect the current geopolitical tensions
increasingly fragmented trade and regulatory of human rights violations, and others. Some of following the inauguration of President Biden.
environment, and impacted business and these tensions have manifested themselves We continue to monitor the situation.
investor sentiment during a period of through actions taken by the governments of
heightened existing US-China tensions and the US and China in 2020 and early 2021. These Investor and business sentiment in some
trade negotiations between the UK and the EU. tensions may affect the Group as a result of the sectors in Hong Kong remains dampened,
impact of sanctions, including sanctions that although the financial services sector has
Central banks reduced interest rates in most impact the Group’s customers, as well as remained strong and has benefited from
financial markets due to the adverse impact of regulatory, reputational and market risks. The stable liquidity conditions.
the pandemic, which has in turn increased the US has imposed a range of sanctions and trade
likelihood of negative interest rates. Prolonged restrictions on Chinese persons and The financial impact to the Group of
low interest rates and flatter interest rate companies, focusing on entities the US believes geopolitical risks in Asia is heightened due
curves in major financial markets continue are involved in human rights violations, to the strategic importance of the region,
to present risks and concerns, such as our information technology and communications and Hong Kong in particular, in terms of
readiness to accommodate zero or negative equipment and services, and military activities, profitability and prospects for growth.
rates, the resulting impacts on customers, and among others. In response, China has
the financial implications on our net interest announced a number of sanctions and trade For further details on our approach to geopolitical
and macroeconomic risks, see ‘Top and
income. restrictions that target or provide authority to emerging risks' on page 110.
target foreign officials and companies,
38 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
Risk overview
UK withdrawal from the European Union
The UK left the EU on 31 January 2020 and – bilateral exchanges of views and analysis services between the UK and EU. Our existing
entered a transition period until 31 December relating to regulatory initiatives and other footprint in the EU, and in particular our
2020. A Trade and Cooperation Agreement issues of interest; subsidiary in France, provides a strong
between the EU and the UK was agreed on 24 – transparency and appropriate dialogue in foundation for us to build upon. As part of our
December 2020 and ratified by the UK on 30 the process of adoption, suspension and stress testing programme, a number of
December 2020. The deal mainly focused on withdrawal of equivalence decisions; and internal macroeconomic and event-driven
goods and services but also covered a wide scenarios were assessed to support our
– enhanced cooperation and coordination,
range of other areas, including competition, planning for, and evaluation of, the impact of
including in international bodies as
state aid, tax, fisheries, transport, data and the UK’s withdrawal from the EU. The results
appropriate.
security. However, it included limited elements confirmed that we are well positioned to
on financial services, and, as a result, did not withstand potential shocks. However, the UK’s
In the coming months, both parties are
change HSBC’s planning in relation to the UK’s withdrawal from the EU is likely to increase
expected to enter discussions with the aim of
withdrawal from the EU. market volatility and economic risk,
agreeing a memorandum of understanding
particularly in the UK, which could adversely
establishing the framework for this
The EU and UK agreed through a joint impact our profitability and prospects for
cooperation. The parties are expected to
declaration to establish structured regulatory growth in this market.
discuss, inter alia, how to move forward on
cooperation on financial services, with the aim
both sides with financial equivalence
of establishing a durable and stable relationship For further details on our approach to the UK’s
between autonomous jurisdictions. Based on a determinations between the EU and UK. withdrawal from the EU, see ‘Areas of special
interest’ on page 116.
shared commitment to preserve financial
Our global presence and diversified customer
stability, market integrity, and the protection of
base should help mitigate the direct impacts
investors and consumers, these arrangements
on our financial position of the absence of a
are expected to allow for:
comprehensive agreement on financial
Ibor transition
Throughout 2020, our interbank offered rate programme now covers 12 interest rate manage the continued sale of Ibor products to
(‘Ibor’) transition programme, which is tasked benchmarks: five London interbank offered assist in meeting our clients’ needs. As
with the development of new replacement rate (‘Libor’) currencies; four Asia-Pacific products referencing Ibor continue to be sold,
near risk-free rate (‘RFR’) products and benchmarks that reference US dollar Libor; the and RFR products are developed,
transition from legacy Ibor products, has Euro Overnight Index Average (‘Eonia’); the considerations relating to the enforceability of
continued to implement the required IT and Singapore interbank offered rate (‘Sibor’); and Ibor fallback provisions and the evolution of
operational changes necessary to facilitate an Turkish Lira interbank offered rate (‘TRLibor’). RFR market conventions have increased legal
orderly transition from Ibors to RFRs, or and compliance risks.
alternative benchmarks, such as policy interest Global business lines, functions and, where
rates. These changes have enabled HSBC to appropriate, HSBC entities have identified Furthermore, the impact of the Covid-19
meet regulatory endorsed milestones related financial and non-financial risks related to the outbreak has compressed timelines for client
to product readiness and the clearing transition and developed key actions to engagement and potentially increased the
house-led transition to RFR discounting. mitigate the identified risks. These risks resilience risks associated with the rollout of
Additionally, to further support our business include those associated with the continued new products, transition of legacy contracts,
and our customers, our programme’s scope sale of products referencing Ibor, through and new RFR product sales.
has widened to include additional interest rate 2020. However, HSBC has actively removed
benchmarks, which now have a plan for certain Ibor referencing products from sale, For further details on our approach to Ibor
transition, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on
demise in the near future. The Ibor transition and implemented processes and controls to
page 110.
Top and emerging risks
Our top and emerging risks report identifies themes were streamlined to interconnect
forward-looking risks so that they can be appropriate thematic risk issues that impact
considered in determining whether any our portfolios and business. The themes
incremental action is needed to either prevent ‘geopolitical risk’, ‘the credit cycle’ and
them from materialising or to limit their effect. ‘economic outlook and capital flows’ were
merged into a single theme under ‘geopolitical
Top risks are those that may have a material and macroeconomic risks’. We continue to
impact on the financial results, reputation or monitor closely the identified risks and ensure
business model of the Group in the year robust management actions are in place, as
ahead. Emerging risks are those that have required. In December 2020, change
large unknown components and may form execution risk was added as a new thematic
beyond a one-year horizon. If any of these risk due to the level of change in priorities
risks were to occur, it could have a material resulting from the Group transformation
adverse effect on HSBC. programme and other regulatory or
remediation programmes.
Our suite of top and emerging risks is subject
to review by senior governance forums. In
January 2020, our top and emerging risk
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 39
Strategic report | Risk overview
Risk Trend Mitigants
Externally driven
Geopolitical and We monitor developments in geopolitical and macroeconomic risk and assess what impacts these may have on
macroeconomic risks our portfolios. The Covid-19 outbreak, heightened US-China geopolitical tensions and the UK’s withdrawal from
the EU have resulted in an unprecedented global economic slowdown, leading to a significant increase in credit
stress in our portfolio. We have increased the frequency and depth of monitoring activities, and performed
stress tests and other sectoral reviews to identify portfolios or customers who were experiencing, or were likely
to experience, financial difficulty as a result.
Cyber threat and We help protect HSBC and our customers by continuing to strengthen our cyber defences, helping enable the
unauthorised access to safe execution of our business priorities and the security of our customers’ information. Our data-driven
systems approach, grounded in strong controls that help to mitigate advanced cyber threats, enhances our capability
in threat detection, access controls and resiliency.
Regulatory compliance We monitor regulatory developments closely and engage with regulators, as appropriate, to help ensure that
risk environment, new regulatory requirements are implemented effectively and in a timely way. In addition to developments
including conduct driven by the Covid-19 outbreak, we are keeping abreast of the emerging regulatory agenda, which is
increasingly focused on diversity, sustainable development, climate change, operational resilience and digital
services and innovation.
Financial crime risk We continued to support the business and our customers throughout the Covid-19 outbreak, while ensuring that
environment our controls remained effective to manage financial crime risk. We progressed with our plans to improve our
fraud controls and continue to invest in both advanced analytics and artificial intelligence (‘AI’), which remain key
components of our next generation of tools to fight financial crime. Additionally we continued to update our
policies and controls in response to new, increasingly complex sanctions and export control regulations, which
reflected heightened geopolitical tensions.
Ibor transition We remain focused on providing alternative near risk-free rate products, and the supporting processes and
systems, to replace all outstanding Ibor-linked contracts that are on a demise path. We engage with industry
participants and regulatory working groups to aid an orderly transition within the required timelines. In light of
delays in market and client readiness caused by the Covid-19 outbreak, we are engaging and prioritising clients
for transition of their outstanding contracts linked to Ibors that already have a confirmed demise.
Climate-related risks We continue to enhance the identification, oversight and management of climate risk. In 2020, we enhanced
our climate risk appetite statement with quantitative metrics to articulate the risks from climate change, and
formalised our overall approach to climate risk management. We also started to integrate climate risk into the
Group-wide risk management framework (see our TCFD Update 2020 for further information).
Internally driven
IT systems We actively monitor and improve service resilience across our technology infrastructure to minimise service
infrastructure and disruption to our customers, and enhance our service management disciplines and change execution
resilience capabilities. We continued to adapt our IT systems during 2020 to support our customers and operations during
the Covid-19 outbreak.
Risks associated with We monitor workforce capacity and capability requirements in line with our published growth strategy and
workforce capability, any emerging issues in the markets in which we operate. We have put in place measures to help ensure that
capacity and our people are supported and able to work safely during the Covid-19 outbreak. We are monitoring people
environmental factors risks that may arise due to business transformation to help ensure that we sensitively manage any
with potential impact on redundancies and support impacted employees.
growth
Risks arising from the We continue to enhance our third-party risk management programme to help ensure engagements comply with
receipt of services from our third-party risk policy and required standards. We work closely with providers to monitor performance. In
third parties 2021, we will continue to strengthen our third-party risk framework and improve our technology, process and
people capabilities.
Model risk We continue to strengthen our oversight of models and the second line of defence Model Risk Management
management function. We are embedding a new model risk policy, which includes updated controls around the monitoring
and use of models. We have developed new model risk appetite measures, which we expect to implement in the
first quarter of 2021. A redevelopment of our IFRS 9 and capital models is underway to reflect the potential
effects of the extreme economic shocks and various government support measures as a consequence of the
Covid-19 outbreak.
Data management We continue to enhance and advance our insights, data aggregation, reporting and decisions through
ongoing improvement and investments in data governance, data quality, data privacy, data architecture, and
analytics (including machine learning and AI capabilities). Our work to modernise our data infrastructure also
continues, building on the Cloud to increase flexibility and scalability and improve our fit-for-purpose data
while also respecting the evolving regulatory landscape regarding the localisation of data. This is a crucial
component of effectively managing our risk.
Change execution risk We have established a global transformation programme to oversee all initiatives mobilised to deliver the
commitments made to restructure the business and reduce costs. The related execution risks are being
monitored and managed, recognising that many initiatives impact our colleagues and require continued
investment in technology. We are working to strengthen our change management practices to deliver changes
efficiently and safely.
Risk heightened during 2020 Risk remained at the same level as 2019
40 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Strategic
report
Long-term viability and going concern statement
Long-term viability and going
concern statement
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, The Directors carried out a robust assessment – enterprise risk reports, including the Group’s
the Directors are required to provide a viability of the emerging and principal risks facing the risk appetite profile (see page 107 of the
statement that must state whether the Group Group to determine its long-term viability, Annual Report and Accounts 2020) and top
will be able to continue in operation and meet including those that would threaten its and emerging risks (see page 110 of the
its liabilities, taking into account its current solvency and liquidity. They determined that Annual Report and Accounts 2020);
position and the principal risks it faces. They the principal risks are the Group’s top and – the impact on the Group due to the Covid-19
must also specify the period covered by, and emerging risks, as set out on page 39. These pandemic, the UK’s departure from the EU,
the appropriateness of, this statement. include risks related to geopolitical and tensions between the US and China and the
macroeconomic risks (including in relation to
situation in Hong Kong;
The Directors have specified a period of three Covid-19), which bring a heightened level of
years to 31 December 2023. They are satisfied uncertainty compared with previous years. – reports and updates regarding regulatory
that a forward-looking assessment of the and internal stress testing. While the Bank of
Group for this period is sufficient to enable a The Directors assessed that all of the top and England and European Banking Authority
reasonable statement of viability. In addition, emerging risks identified are considered to be cancelled their industry-wide stress test
this period is covered by the Group’s stress material and, therefore, appropriate to be exercises in 2020, a number of internal
testing programmes, and its internal classified as the principal risks to be stress tests were conducted in 2020,
projections for profitability, key capital ratios considered in the assessment of viability. They including several potential Covid-19 related
and leverage ratios. Notwithstanding this, our also appraised the impact that these principal outcomes;
stress testing programmes also cover risks could have on the Group’s risk profile, – reports and updates from management on
scenarios out to five years and our assessment taking account of mitigating actions planned risk-related issues selected for in-depth
of risks are beyond three years where or taken for each, and compared this with the consideration;
appropriate: Group’s risk appetite as approved by the – reports and updates on regulatory
Board. At 31 December 2020, there were
developments;
– This period is representative of the time seven heightened top and emerging risks:
horizon to consider the impact of ongoing geopolitical and macroeconomic risks; – legal proceedings and regulatory matters
regulatory changes in the financial services financial crime risk environment; Ibor set out in Note 34 on the financial
industry. transition; climate-related risks; risks statements of the Annual Report and
Accounts 2020; and
– Our updated business plan covers associated with workforce capability, capacity
2021–2025. and environmental factors with potential – reports and updates from management on
impact on growth; model risk management; the operational resilience of the Group.
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, and change executions risks.
is satisfied that the Group as a whole has Having considered all the factors outlined
adequate resources to continue operations for In carrying out their assessment of the above, the Directors confirm that they have a
a period of at least 12 months from the date of principal risks, the Directors considered a wide reasonable expectation that the Group will be
this report, and it therefore continues to adopt range of information including: able to continue in operation and meet its
the going concern basis in preparing the liabilities as they fall due over the period of the
financial statements. – details of the Group’s business and assessment up to 31 December 2023.
operating models, and strategy;
Based upon their assessment, the Directors – details of the Group’s approach to managing
have a reasonable expectation that the Group risk and allocating capital; Aileen Taylor
will be able to continue in operation and meet – a summary of the Group’s financial position Group Company Secretary and Chief
liabilities as they fall due over the next three considering performance, its ability to Governance Officer
years.
maintain minimum levels of regulatory
capital, liquidity funding and the minimum 23 February 2021
In making their going concern and viability
requirements for own funds and eligible
assessments, the Directors have considered a
liabilities over the period of the assessment.
wide range of detailed information relating to
Notable are the risks which the Directors
present and potential conditions, including
believe could cause the Group’s future
projections for profitability, cash flows, capital
results or operations to adversely impact
requirements and capital resources.
any of the above;
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 41
Environmental,
social and governance
review
43 Our approach to ESG
44 Climate
52 Customers
62 Employees
70 Governance
Our ESG reporting
We have changed how we report this
year by embedding the content previously
provided in our stand-alone ESG Update
within our Annual Report and Accounts.
This is to further demonstrate that how
we do business is just as important as what
we do. In response to the feedback from
our investors, we are publishing a more
extensive breakdown of ESG information
in a supplementary ESG Data Pack for the
first time alongside the ESG review, which
can be found at www.hsbc.com/esg.
42 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG
review
ESG review
Our approach to ESG
We have sought to support our stakeholders through an
unprecedented year, as we set a new climate ambition and
refined our purpose, ambition and values to reflect our strategy.
About the ESG review
Our new purpose is: ‘Opening up a world Environmental
of opportunity’.
– We announced our net zero climate ambition and increased our climate
To achieve our purpose and deliver our disclosures under TCFD, but we recognise more work is needed as methods
strategy in a way that is sustainable, we to measure progress evolve.
are guided by our values: we value difference; – We surpassed our goal of reducing CO per FTE to 2.0 tonnes in 2020, although we
we succeed together; we take responsibility; acknowledge this was mainly due to th 2 e consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic.
and we get it done.
Read more in the Climate section on page 44.
We also need to build strong relationships
with all of our stakeholders, who are the
Social
people who work for us, bank with us, own
us, regulate us, and live in the societies we – The customer shift to digital accelerated, with 54% of retail customers digitally
serve and the planet we all inhabit. active in 2020. Mobile app downloads of our core business digital platform,
HSBCnet, rose 146%.
Having a clear purpose and strong values
– An increase in complaints in certain markets reflected a challenging year,
have never been more important, with the
but we continued to embed new ways of capturing feedback.
Covid-19 pandemic testing us all in ways
we could never have anticipated. Read more in the Customers section on page 52.
We introduced payment relief measures to
– Employees responded to our Snapshot surveys at a record rate, and our
our customers as part of government-backed
employee advocacy rose five points to 71%.
and our own schemes, which impacted
87,000 personal accounts and $5.5bn in – We met our target of 30% women in senior leadership roles, and published ethnicity
balances, as at the end of 2020. We also data in the UK and US. We recognise we need to take action, and aim to at least
provided $35.3bn of lending support to double the number of Black employees in senior leadership roles by 2025.
more than 237,000 wholesale customers.
Read more in the Employees section on page 62.
For our colleagues, we adapted to new ways
of working and provided extra support and
resources to manage their mental and physical Governance
health. We also announced our climate
– Our pioneering scheme to help survivors of human trafficking is used as a model
ambition of net zero by 2050, but we know
for making financial services more accessible.
this is a journey and that the current means
of tracking emissions globally need improving. – In seeking to safeguard the financial system, we screen over 708 million
transactions each month for signs of money laundering and financial crime.
In this Environmental, Social and Governance
Read more in the Governance section on page 70.
(‘ESG’) review, we aim to set out our approach
to our climate, customers, employees and
governance.
How we decide what to measure
We listen to our stakeholders in a number of Social and Governance Reporting Guide ESG issues become sufficiently important
different ways, which we set out in more detail contained in Appendix 27 to The Rules to our investors and other stakeholders that
within the ESG review. We use the information Governing the Listing of Securities on the they should be publicly reported. We are
they provide us to identify the issues that are Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited) also informed by stock exchange listing and
most important to them – and consequently to choose what we measure and publicly disclosure rules globally. We know that what
also matter to our own business. report in this ESG review. is important to our stakeholders evolves over
time and we will continue to assess our
Our ESG Steering Committee and other Recognising the need for a consistent and approach to ensure we remain relevant in
relevant governance bodies regularly discuss global set of ESG metrics, we have committed what we measure and publicly report.
the new and existing themes and issues that to start aligning to World Economic Forum
matter to our stakeholders. Our management core metrics from next year. For further information on our approach to
team then uses this insight, alongside the reporting, see the ‘Additional information’
framework of the ESG Guide (which refers Under the ESG Guide, ’materiality’ is section on page 375.
to our obligations under the Environmental, considered to be the threshold at which
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 43
ESG review
Climate
We are powering new solutions to the climate crisis and
supporting the transition to a low-carbon future, moving to
carbon net zero ourselves and helping others to do so too.
At a glance Becoming a net zero bank
Our climate ambition To achieve our ambition to be a net zero bank, we can make changes both in
The transition to net zero carbon emissions our own operations and for our customers through our financing portfolio. We
creates a clear opportunity to set the global aim to bring our operations and supply chain to net zero by 2030 or sooner, and
economy on a more sustainable, resilient align our financed emissions to the Paris Agreement goal to achieve net zero by
and inclusive path. We have the ability to 2050 or sooner.
catalyse a resilient, vibrant future by financing
the transformation of businesses and Read more on becoming a net zero bank on page 45.
infrastructure to a low-carbon economy.
We have a strong track record of leadership Supporting our customers through transition
in the transition to a low-carbon economy.
In 2017, we committed that we would provide The most significant contribution we can make to solving the climate crisis
and facilitate $100bn of sustainable finance is supporting our customers to decarbonise, while helping to ensure their
and investment by 2025. Since then, we have ongoing resilience and prosperity. Our aim is to provide between $750bn and
achieved $93.0bn of that goal, launched a $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030 to support our customers
number of award-winning products and to transition to lower carbon emissions.
been recognised as a leading bank for
sustainable finance. Read more on supporting our customers through transition on page 48.
Achieving the scale of change required for the
world to meet the Paris Agreement goal of net Unlocking climate solutions and innovations
zero by 2050 will require us to go further and
faster. As such, in October 2020, we set out a We need new ideas to increase the pace of the transition to net zero. We are
three-part plan to accelerate financing for the working with a range of partners to increase investment in natural resources,
transition to net zero, underpinned by strong technology and sustainable infrastructure. We also plan to donate $100m to a
governance and risk management. programme that will support climate solutions to scale over the next five years.
A summary of our fourth TCFD disclosure can Read more on unlocking climate solutions and innovations on page 50.
be found on page 20 in our Strategic Report.
The full TCFD Update 2020 can be found at
www.hsbc.com/esg.
Our approach to sustainability policies
Our sustainability policies help define our appetite for business, and seek to
encourage customers to meet good international standards of practice. In light
of our new net zero ambition, we are undertaking a review of our sustainability
risk policies. We have also removed an exception to our energy policy and are
a signatory of the Equator Principles.
Read more on our approach to sustainability policies on page 51.
Awards and achievements
Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2020 The Banker Investment Banking Awards 2020 Environmental Finance Bond Awards 2020
World’s Best Bank for Sustainable Finance Best Investment Bank for Sustainability Finance Lead Manager for the Year for Green Bond Bank
(second consecutive year) Best Investment Bank for Green/Climate Lead Manager for the Year for Green Bond SSA
Asia’s Best Bank for Sustainable Finance Action Bonds Lead Manager for the Year for Sustainability
Middle East’s Best Bank for Sustainable Finance Best Investment Bank for Sustainable SSA Bond Local Authority/Municipality
Western Europe’s Best Bank for Sustainable Financing Lead Manager for the Year for Sustainability
Finance Bond Bank
Lead Manager for the Year for Social Bond SSA
44 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG
review
Climate
Becoming a net zero bank
Securing the future of our planet – and a fully functional carbon offset market. We are emissions were mainly composed of energy
economic resilience and prosperity – depends working closely with our peers, central banks (approximately 16%), travel (approximately 6%)
on the transition to a net zero global economy. and industry bodies to mobilise the financial and supply chain emissions (approximately
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate system around these important goals. 78%). We are in the process of reviewing our
Change, a United Nations body, indicated that supply chain methodology and we will be
in order to avoid the worst impacts of climate Reduce, replace and remove updating our 2019 baseline, accordingly. We
change, we need to reduce global greenhouse To achieve net zero carbon emissions in our will take into consideration cabin class in our
emissions by 45% by 2030, and achieve net operations and our supply chain, we are recording of travel emissions, including the
zero by 2050. building on the set of reduction targets that baseline, as it represents a more accurate
we set in 2011 to reduce environmental and representation of our air travel emissions.
Our net zero ambition carbon impacts from our operations by 2020.
In October 2020, we announced our ambition Among other achievements, we reduced Reducing our operational emissions
to become net zero in all direct and indirect carbon emissions from energy and travel per In 2017, we committed to achieving 100%
emissions, known as scope 1, 2 and 3 FTE by 49.6% from the 2011 baseline. For renewable power across our operations by
emissions. We aim to deliver this by achieving further details on our progress, see www. 2030, joining other global companies in the
net zero in our operations and our supply chain hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-climate-strategy/ RE100 initiative. As electricity currently makes
by 2030 or sooner. We also plan to align our becoming-a-net-zero-bank. up 92% of our energy emissions, our aim is to
financed emissions – the carbon emissions reduce electricity consumption by 50% over
of our portfolio of customers – to the Paris For our 2030 ambition, we have three elements the next 10 years. We plan to then transition
Agreement goal of net zero by 2050 or sooner. to our strategy: reduce, replace and remove. the remainder to renewable energy. In 2020,
We plan to first focus on reducing carbon 37.4% of our electricity was renewable, mainly
We have outlined on the following page a set emissions from consumption, and then due to our power purchase agreements of
of metrics and indicators against which we replacing remaining emissions with low-carbon wind and solar energy in the UK, Mexico and
plan to report progress towards our climate alternatives in line with the Paris Agreement India. We plan to continue to build our power
ambition. We continue to make regular goal of limiting global warming to below 1.5°C. purchase agreements portfolio and expand
TCFD-aligned disclosures and have published We plan to remove the remaining emissions our purchase of green tariffs in markets
our fourth disclosure, a summary of which is that cannot be reduced or replaced by procuring where these are available.
on page 20. Our stand-alone TCFD Update high-quality offsets at a later stage.
2020 is available at www.hsbc.com/esg. The majority of our travel emissions
We will compare our success against our are concentrated in air travel, which fell in
We understand that achieving net zero carbon emissions in 2019, including scope 2020 due to the Covid-19 outbreak. As travel
requires not just emissions reduction but 1, 2 and 3 emissions. We will use 2019 figures restrictions are lifted, we expect our travel
investment in carbon offsets for a balanced as a baseline due to the Covid-19 outbreak emissions to rise. However, we will continue to
transition. However, the world currently lacks affecting working behaviours, which helped encourage the use of technological solutions
both a globally consistent, future-proofed to drive further reductions reflected in 2020 where possible to provide connectivity with
standard to measure financed emissions and results. For our 2019 baseline, our operational colleagues and customers.
Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 3
To measure and manage our carbon emissions, Indirect Indirect Direct Indirect
we follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol global
framework, which identifies three scopes
of emissions. Scope 1 represents the direct
emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the
indirect emissions resulting from the use of Electricity,
electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 hea s t t i e n a g m a nd Company
represents indirect emissions attributed to cooling facilities
upstream and downstream activities taking
place to provide services to customers. Our
Company
upstream activities include business travel and Employee vehicles
emissions from our supply chain including Supply Business commuting1 Investments and
chain travel financed emissions
transport, distribution and waste. Our
downstream activities are those related to
investments and financed emissions.
Upstream activities HSBC Holdings Downstream activities
For further details, see our ESG Data Pack at
www.hsbc.com/esg. 1 HSBC-sponsored shuttles only
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 45
)sennot(
snoissime
2OC
latoT
1,000,000
900,000
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000
400,000
CO2
per
FTE
(tonnes)
ESG review | Climate
Becoming a net zero bank continued
Working with our supply chain This means making financing decisions solutions to help even the most heavy-
As the majority of our emissions are within with a consideration for climate change, emitting sectors to progressively decarbonise,
our supply chain, we know we cannot achieve and intensifying our support for customers while helping to ensure a just and stable
our net zero goal without our suppliers joining in their transition to lower carbon emissions. transition to maintain economic stability.
us on our journey. Our supplier emissions are
currently calculated using a methodology In 2017, we pledged to provide and facilitate
based on supplier spend. In 2020, we began $100bn of sustainable finance and investment
the three-year process of targeting our largest by 2025 to support our customers as they Included within the $100bn facilitation
suppliers, representing 60% of our annual switch to more sustainable ways of doing total is $2.8bn-worth of advisory services
supplier spend, to encourage them to make business, and by the end of 2020 we had on HSBC-issued green/SDG bonds. Our
their own carbon commitments, and to already achieved $93.0bn of that ambition. green bond report summarises and our
disclose their emissions via the CDP supply In October 2020, we set ourselves a new asset register lists the loans that underpin
chain programme. This programme will allow target of providing between $750bn and our issuances. The latest report includes
us to work with our suppliers to understand $1tn in sustainable finance and investment $1.6bn of balances as at 30 June 2020
their commitment to carbon emission by 2030 (for further details, see page 48). that have been included within the
reduction, to educate those that are starting financing total. The green report and asset
their journey, and to collaborate with those We will work with our portfolio of customers register are available at: www.hsbc.com/
that are leading in this area. to provide expert advice and support them our-approach/esg-information/esg-
on their transition to lower carbon emissions, reporting-and-policies.
Our lending portfolio while taking into account the unique
At the heart of our climate plan is a goal conditions for customers across developed
to align our financed emissions to the Paris and developing economies. To do this, we
Agreement goal of net zero by 2050 or sooner. will increase our portfolio of transition finance
Our carbon dioxide emissions in 2020 where we have operational control and a Carbon emissions (total and FTE)
We report our carbon emissions following small presence, we scale up the emissions
the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which data from 93% to 100%. 4.0
incorporates the scope 2 market-based
emission methodology. We report carbon We then apply emission uplift rates to
dioxide emissions resulting from energy reflect uncertainty concerning the quality 3.5
use in our buildings and employees’ and coverage of emission measurement and
business travel. estimation. The rates are 4% for electricity,
3.0 10% for other energy and 6% for business
In 2020, we surpassed our carbon emissions travel. This is consistent both with the
target of 2.0 tonnes per FTE, achieving 1.76 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 2.5
tonnes per FTE. This was mainly attributed Change’s Good Practice Guidance and
to travel restrictions and the reduction of Uncertainty Management in National
usage of our buildings due to the Covid-19 Greenhouse Gas Inventories and our internal 2.0
outbreak. We also implemented over analysis of data coverage and quality.
600 energy conservation measures that
1.5 amounted to an estimated energy Further details on our methodology,
avoidance in excess of 15 million kWh. our third-party assurance report and
relevant environment key facts found 1.0
In 2020, we collected data on energy in our ESG Data Pack can each be found 20112012 2013 2014 20152016 2017 201820192020
use and business travel for our operations at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Key:
in 28 countries and territories, which
accounted for approximately 93% of our Total CO2 emissions (tonnes)
FTEs. To estimate the emissions of our CO 2 per FTE (tonnes)
operations in countries and territories The 2020 target was set at 2.5 CO2 tonnes/FTE until 2017,
when the targ et was stretched to 2.0 CO2 tonne s/FTE
Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes per FTE Energy consumption in GWh
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Total 406,000 530,000 Total 1.76 2.26 Total Group 928 1,050
From energy 363,000 414,000 From energy 1.57 1.76 UK only 247 281
Included energy
8,000 10,400 From travel 0.19 0.5
UK
From travel 43,000 116,000
46 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG
review
Climate
Becoming a net zero bank continued
Measuring our progress In 2020, we began to apply PACTA to formalising the qualifying criteria for
We are using several metrics to measure our the relevant segments of our loan book, sustainable finance, and enhancing
progress of our net zero journey, including our starting with the automotive sector, to build reporting on investments.
carbon emissions, renewable energy sourced our knowledge of the tool and improve
for our operations, balance sheet exposure to our understanding of its effectiveness and In the following table, we set out our
carbon-intensive sectors and progress made limitations (for further details, see page 18 ambition, the metrics and indicators we
against our sustainable finance commitment. of our TCFD Update 2020). used in 2020 to measure our progress,
and the metrics and indicators we aim to
We intend to develop clear, measurable We know this is a journey and recognise develop in future to measure our progress.
pathways to net zero within our financing that the current means of measurement of
portfolio, using the Paris Agreement Capital financed emissions globally need improving
Transition Assessment (‘PACTA’) tool, which to track reductions better. Over the course
measures the alignment of relevant sectors of 2021, we will be refining our approach
with net zero. to financed and supply chain emissions,
Metrics and indicators to be
Ambition Metrics and indicators used in 2020 developed in 2021
Becoming a net zero bank1 – CO emissions per FTE across scope 1, 2 and 3 – Supply chain emissions
2
Be net zero in our operations
and supply chain by 2030 or – Absolute CO emissions across scope 1, 2 and 3
sooner 2
– Percentage of renewable electricity sourced
Align our financed emissions – Illustrative PACTA results for our automotive book. (For further – Net zero alignment of our
to achieve net zero by 2050 details, see pages 18 and 19 of our TCFD Update 2020.) financing portfolio
or sooner
– Percentage of wholesale loans and advances in high transition
risk sectors. (For a breakdown by sector, see page 9 of our
TCFD Update 2020.)
– Illustrative impacts of climate scenarios on our transition
risk sectors. (For further details of our scenario analysis,
see pages 14 to 16 of our TCFD Update 2020.)
Supporting our customers – Sustainable finance and investment provided ($bn). (For further
Support our customers details of our progress, see pages 48 to 50.)
in the transition to
a sustainable future
– Ranking in Dealogic green, social and sustainable bond
with $750bn to $1tn of
league tables2
sustainable finance and
investment by 2030
Unlocking new climate – Established HSBC Pollination Climate Asset Management with – Cleantech investment within our
solutions the aim to launch the first fund in mid-2021. (For further details, technology venture debt fund
Help transform sustainable see page 50.) – Philanthropic programme
infrastructure into a global to provide scale to climate
asset class, and create a innovation ventures, renewable
pipeline of bankable projects energy, and nature-based
solutions
1 Our reported CO emissions in 2020 related to energy and business travel. For further details on scopes 1, 2 and 3, and our progress on carbon emissions and
2
renewable energy targets, see pages 45 and 46.
2 Dealogic ranking based on apportioned bookrunner value, excluding self-issuances.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 47
ESG review | Climate
Supporting our customers through transition
Our ability to finance the transformation of access to capital markets, and $20.0bn
businesses and infrastructure is key to building in financing and $6.1bn in investments to Sustainable finance
a sustainable future for our customers and support environmental and social goals. We define sustainable finance as:
society. The most significant contribution we
can make to this is supporting our portfolio of Our sustainable finance commitment has – any form of financial service that
customers to decarbonise within the transition enabled sustainable infrastructure and energy integrates ESG criteria into business
to a net zero global economy. systems, financed the transition towards net or investment decisions; and
zero emissions by promoting decarbonisation
– financing, investing and advisory
A leader in sustainable finance efforts across the real economy, and enhanced
activities that support the UN
We are a recognised leader in sustainable investor capital through sustainable
Sustainable Development Goals
finance, helping to pioneer the market for investments.
(‘SDGs’), in particular taking action to
green, social and sustainable bonds and
combat climate change. The SDGs,
attaching ambitious environmental targets We recognise that more and faster action is
also known as the Global Goals, were
to business loans. We maintained leadership in needed to achieve the Paris Agreement goal
adopted by all UN member states in
green, social and sustainable bonds, ranking of net zero by 2050 or sooner. That is why in
2015 as a universal call to action to
third globally in 2020, according to Dealogic October 2020 we announced our ambition
end poverty, protect the planet and
on an excluding self-mandated basis. We to provide between $750bn and $1tn of
ensure that all people enjoy peace
also set up HSBC Pollination Climate Asset sustainable finance and investment over the
and prosperity by 2030.
Management, the first large-scale venture next 10 years. This new commitment builds
to invest in natural capital as an asset class on our 2017 target. Our new commitment
We have reviewed and updated these
(see page 50). We have been recognised incorporates sustainable finance and
definitions to reflect our updated climate
as the World’s Best Bank for Sustainable investment of $40.6bn in 2020, which also
ambition, which is available at www.hsbc.
Finance by Euromoney in 2019 and 2020. contributed to our initial 2017 target, as
com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
well as additional products of $3.5bn.
business/esg-reporting-and-policies.
In 2020, we continued to expand the horizons
of sustainable finance. We helped the Egyptian Our sustainable finance and investment in
government launch the first sovereign green 2020 for our updated target comprises 23%
bond in the Middle East and supported Henkel, green and sustainability-linked lending to
a German household goods company, to issue companies, 9% investments we manage and $93.0bn
the world’s first plastics reduction bond (see distribute on behalf of investors, and 68%
page 76). We also issued the first transition facilitating the flow of capital and providing
Islamic bond to enable Etihad, a Middle access to capital markets.
Cumulative progress since 2017
Eastern airline, to become more sustainable
on our commitment to provide
(see page 266). As we set out below, we are We have developed and evolved our existing
and facilitate sustainable finance
intensifying our support to customers as they data dictionary, taking into consideration
and investment.
transition to lower carbon emissions. the principles we developed with UK Finance
in the white paper ‘Sustainable finance: (Target: $100bn by 2025)
Our vision is to help create a vibrant, thriving Establishing a principles-based framework for
and resilient future that opens up opportunities the measurement and reporting of multi-year
for new skills, ideas and jobs to thrive. Providing commitments’. Our progress will be published 3rd
transition finance solutions, particularly in each year and will seek to continue to be
emerging markets where the opportunity independently assured.
is greatest, is core to our climate strategy. Dealogic ranking for green, social and
Our revised data dictionary, which includes a sustainability bonds globally in 2020.
detailed definition of contributing activities, and
Transition solutions (2019: 2nd)
our ESG Data Pack, which includes our third-party
In 2017, we committed to providing and assurance letter and the breakdown of our
facilitating $100bn of sustainable finance sustainable finance and investment, can be found
and investment by 2025. At the end of 2020, at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
we had fulfilled $93.0bn of this commitment, responsible-business/esg-reporting-and-policies.
comprising $66.9bn through facilitating the For further details of our net zero ambition,
see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-climate-
flow of capital and providing customers
strategy/becoming-a-net-zero-bank.
Our approach to climate risk
We continue to improve the identification, We also formalised our overall approach
oversight and management of climate risk. to climate risk management to integrate
In 2020, we enhanced our climate risk climate risk into the Group-wide risk
appetite statement with quantitative management framework.
metrics to articulate the risks from climate
change, and we plan to develop our risk For further details on climate risk, see our
TCFD Update 2020 at www.hsbc.com/esg.
appetite and key indicators iteratively
through 2021.
48 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG
review
Climate
Supporting our customers through transition continued
Sustainable infrastructure analysts, led to ESG issues being raised in to build our sustainable investment portfolios
Good infrastructure is the backbone of any engagements with over 2,300 corporate and to support the UN SDGs and the Paris
successful society and economy. However, non-corporate issuers in 78 markets in 2020. Agreement. During 2020, we expanded
addressing climate change requires the world We voted on more than 86,000 resolutions at the assets in scope of the policy with full
– particularly emerging markets – to develop over 8,200 company meetings in 70 markets. compliance due in early 2021.
a new generation of sustainable infrastructure
quickly. The OECD estimates that up to At HSBC Global Asset Management, nearly Embedding ESG into our engagement
$6.9tn each year is needed through to 2030 89% of total assets under management were Our vision is to support our customers’
to achieve this. While many institutions invested according to at least one of the seven aspirations to make a positive change in the
have been engaged in mobilising finance strategies defined by the Global Sustainable world through wealth value creation. We are
for this purpose, there remains a significant Investment Alliance, as at December 2020. embedding ESG across client engagement
investment gap and lack of adequate, and investment solutions in our wealth
bankable projects. Stronger standards are We define sustainable investing as: inclusion, management and private banking businesses.
also needed to bring investors to the table. which involves strategies that enhance
portfolio exposure to better ESG performers; We offer a comprehensive range of
To help solve for this, we are leading thematic, where strategies provide exposure sustainable investment products to help
the Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable to transformative environmental or social clients marry their sustainability and financial
Transition-Infrastructure (‘FAST-Infra’) initiative. trends; and impact, which are strategies goals. These include green, social and
This was established in partnership with the linked to tangible societal or environmental sustainability bonds, investment funds,
International Finance Corporation (‘IFC’), the outcomes/impact. ETFs, discretionary mandates, private market
OECD, the World Bank’s Global Infrastructure investments, structured products and green
Facility and Climate Policy Initiative under the We launched the Real Economy Green certificates of deposit. Our advisory offering
auspices of the One Planet Lab to develop a Investment Opportunity (‘REGIO’) fund with also covers securities with substantial
consistent, globally applicable labelling system the IFC, and at December 2020 had raised exposure to environmental themes.
for sustainable infrastructure investment. $475m to fund green projects in developing
This will aim to ensure that governments and economies that reduce emissions and meet To help customers understand the topic and
project developers embed high ESG standards the UN SDG Goals. Through our HGIF Lower the benefits of investing sustainably, a range
into new infrastructure to access this label. We Carbon Equity and Bond Funds, which are of educational materials, thought leadership
also co-chair the Coalition for Climate Resilient available in nine Wealth and Personal Banking publications, and articles on sustainability
Investment, launched at the UN General markets and seven Global Private Banking themes are distributed regularly. We partnered
Assembly’s Climate Action Summit in 2019, markets, we aim to help investors generate with the Principles for Responsible Investment
bringing together institutional investors, banks, long-term total return with a lower carbon to develop a training programme for our
insurers, rating agencies and governments footprint than reference benchmark indices. advisers, covering ESG fundamentals,
to develop risk-informed frameworks and tools We expanded our investment offering for investing strategies and client engagement.
to integrate and price physical climate risks private banking and wealth clients, including:
in decision making. TPG Rise, an impact fund linked to the UN We provide our customers with ESG insights
SDGs; structured products and certificates of and foster industry development. HSBC Global
Responsible and sustainable investment deposit where proceeds were used to fund Research published over 200 climate and
We offer a broad suite of ESG capabilities green and sustainable development projects; ESG-related reports in 2020, accompanied
across asset management, global markets, and various thematic solutions such as gender by approximately 500 client meetings and 15
research, wealth, private banking and equality and energy transition. client webcasts. Our ESG team works in close
securities services, enabling institutional collaboration with analysts from other asset
and individual investors to manage risk As a signatory of the United Nations classes and across markets, embedding
and pursue ESG-related opportunities. Environment Programme Finance Initiative’s sustainability into research and offering
Principles of Sustainable Insurance, our a deeper integration approach to a global
Our endeavour is to influence the market insurance business has continued to investor client base. The team released
through active engagement on ESG issues. implement its sustainability policy. The policy four episodes of the ESG Brief podcast.
We have a dedicated Responsible Investment includes restricting investments that may ESG Insights from HSBC Global Research
team across developed and emerging have adverse impacts on people and the are also repackaged for retail investors as
markets. The team’s activities, along with environment, and incorporating ESG principles a series known as #WhyESGMatters.
portfolio managers and other investment into our investment governance. We continued
Laying the foundations for a sustainable future
Cement is one of the world’s most socially We helped LafargeHolcim towards its goals
and economically important materials – by playing a major role in the world’s first
and also among the most highly carbon building materials sustainability-linked bond.
intensive. Long-term change is needed We acted as joint bookrunner on the €850m
to help cement producers reduce their sustainability-linked bond, whose terms
environmental impact. Switzerland-based mean LafargeHolcim must pay a premium
LafargeHolcim, one of the largest global if it does not meet its target to reduce the
cement producers, aims to lead its industry carbon intensity of the cement it produces
in becoming greener. by 17.5% – from 2018 levels – by 2030.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 49
ESG review | Climate
Unlocking climate solutions and innovations
We understand the need to find new solutions Backing new technology and innovations
to increase the pace of change if the world is Addressing climate change requires innovative Our charitable
to achieve the Paris Agreement’s goal of being ideas. By connecting financing with fresh
contributions
net zero by 2050. We are working closely with thinking, we can help climate solutions to
a range of partners to accelerate investment in scale to support sustainable growth. Formed
In 2020, our charitable giving totalled
natural resources, technology and innovations, in 2020, our $100m philanthropic climate
$112.7m, including our $25m Covid-19
and sustainable infrastructure to reduce programme aims to do this and truly transform
donation fund. We also encourage our
emissions and address climate change. the way we protect our planet, overcoming
people to volunteer time and share their
barriers to addressing climate change. We
Working with our partners provided $7.1m to our non-governmental skills, offering paid volunteer days. In
We know that many investors want to organisation partners during the year to get 2020, our colleagues gave over 82,000
invest in companies that can demonstrate the programme underway. hours to community activities during
their ESG credentials. Through philanthropy, work time.
partnerships and new initiatives our aim is We intend to expand our technology venture
In 2018, we set out a three-year
to help them invest in protecting the planet, debt capabilities to provide $100m of financing
goal to help two million people in our
with HSBC Global Asset Management to companies developing clean technologies
communities be more employable and
offering a range of funds for clients to invest that can be deployed at scale to support
financially capable through providing
in businesses and projects that have strong businesses and households to transition to a
more than $100m in charitable
ESG track records and ambitions. low-carbon economy. We will provide further
donations. Current projections from our
updates on cleantech investment and the
HSBC Global Asset Management also created philanthropic programme in 2021. charity partners indicate our support
a joint venture in 2020 with Pollination, a reached more than four million people
specialist climate change advisory and Skills for a sustainable future through donations of over $115m. This
investment firm. The joint venture, HSBC We have a responsibility to invest in the funding helped marginalised young
Pollination Climate Asset Management, aims long-term prosperity of the communities people prepare for and secure their first
to be the world’s largest manager of capital where we operate. We recognise that jobs, supported indigenous people to
invested in natural resources (see box below). technology is developing at a rapid pace and complete their education and gain
employment, and helped migrant
that a range of new and different skills are now
To encourage more investment in building needed to succeed. For this reason, much of workers avoid financial fraud. The
sustainable infrastructure, we are at the our focus is on programmes that develop increased reach from our initial
forefront of an initiative that gives investors employability and financial capability. We also projection is due in part to increased
greater confidence about where their money is back climate solutions and innovation, and reach from programmes moving online.
going. Working with the IFC, OECD, the World contribute to disaster relief efforts based on
Bank’s Global Infrastructure Facility and the need (see panel on the right).
Climate Policy Initiative, under the auspices
of the One Planet Lab, we helped conceive We also continue to increase knowledge
the FAST-Infra initiative. Our collective aim on sustainability issues with our people.
is to turn sustainable infrastructure into We developed a seven-part online course
a mainstream asset class. We will aim to exclusively for our employees in partnership
achieve this by establishing a global labelling with the University of Cambridge Institute
system that clearly shows investors the for Sustainability Leadership. In 2020,
infrastructure in which they are investing our colleagues completed more than
is sustainable and contributes to achieving 36,700 modules.
the UN’s SDGs.
Investing in nature-based projects with Pollination
A key part of our strategy is to unlock new investment firm, intends to set up funds that
climate solutions, helping to transform will invest in a range of nature-based
sustainable infrastructure into a global asset projects that protect and enhance nature
class. As part of this ambition, we launched over the long term, and reduce greenhouse
HSBC Pollination Climate Asset emissions. The intention is to launch a series
Management in August 2020, with the of natural capital and carbon credit funds for
vision to create the world’s largest institutional investors, with the aim to
dedicated natural capital investment launch the first fund in mid-2021.
manager. The joint venture with Pollination,
a specialist climate change advisory and
50 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG
review
Climate
Our approach to sustainability policies
We recognise that businesses can have To accelerate the global transition to net
an impact on the environment, individuals zero, we also want to unlock climate solutions,
and communities around them. We have such as cleantech innovation, sustainable
developed, implemented and refined our infrastructure and nature-based solutions.
approach to working with our business These will help smooth a transition and shift to
customers to understand and manage a more sustainable economy in the long term.
these issues. As we move closer to 2050, we expect our
portfolio of financed emissions to reflect this
Our sustainability risk policies seek to ensure and our customers’ business activities to be
that the financial services that we provide to less carbon intensive.
customers do not contribute to unacceptable
impacts on people or the environment. We In that light, we are undertaking a review of
seek to analyse the impact of ESG issues our sustainability risk policies to ensure that Our energy policy
and follow international good practice in they will reflect this need to transition and
these areas. the phased reduction of carbon-intensive When we last updated our energy
business activities. policy in 2018, we stated that we
We believe that the key to managing
would not finance any new coal-fired
sustainability risk is creating partnerships Governance
power plants, with the potential
with our customers, assisting them on their Within our Global Risk function, we
targeted and time-limited exceptions
transition path to a more sustainable and have reputational and sustainability risk
in Bangladesh, Indonesia and
low-carbon economy. specialists who are responsible for reviewing,
Vietnam, recognising the need to
implementing and managing our sustainability
balance local humanitarian needs
Our policies risk policies as well as our application of the
with the need to transition to a
Our sustainability risk policies cover Equator Principles. Our global network of
low-carbon economy.
agricultural commodities, chemicals, more than 75 sustainability risk managers
defence, energy, forestry, mining and supports the implementation of these We therefore agreed that any
metals, UNESCO World Heritage Sites policies. In 2020, these local sustainability risk funding of new coal-fired power
and Ramsar-designated wetlands. managers were further supported by regional plants in those three countries would
reputational risk managers across the Group only be considered subject to certain
These policies define our appetite for business who have taken on additional oversight strict criteria. It is important to note
in these sectors and seek to encourage responsibilities for sustainability risk. that we have not provided any
customers to meet good international
project finance for any new coal-fired
standards of practice. Where we identify We have also established a Sustainability
power plants anywhere in the world
activities that could cause material negative Risk Oversight Forum, made up of senior
since then, including those countries.
impacts, we will only provide finance if we can members of the Global Risk function and
confirm customers are managing these risks global businesses across the Group. In April 2020, we removed these
responsibly. Such customers are subject to
exceptions and will not finance
greater due diligence and generally require Equator Principles any new coal-fired power plants
additional approval by sustainability risk The Equator Principles provide a risk anywhere globally. We continue
specialists. We will not provide finance if management framework for determining, to support the other needs of our
the business activities are not aligned to our assessing and managing environmental and customers in these countries and
aims and values. social risk in projects. We were an early continue to support their
adopter of the principles in 2003. governments.
Our sustainability policies are being aligned
with our approach to climate risk as well as In October 2020, the revised Equator Within the power and utilities, and
our net zero commitments, and will be Principles framework came into effect, after metals and mining sectors shown
enhanced during 2021. consultation with member banks and external in our TCFD disclosures on page 19,
stakeholders. In response to the launch of the our direct exposure to thermal coal
For further details on how we manage revised framework, we are rolling out updated is 0.2% of the wholesale loans and
sustainability risk as well as our full policies,
see www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and- training for staff in 2021 to ensure that Equator advances figures.
Principles transactions are properly identified
responsibility/sustainability-risk.
and managed.
Supporting the transition
We report annually on the transactions
At the heart of our net zero plan is an aim
completed under the principles. Our latest
to align our financed emissions – emissions
Equator Principles report is available at: www.
produced by our portfolio of customers – to
hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-climate-strategy/
the Paris Agreement goal of net zero by 2050
sustainability-risk/equator-principles.
or sooner. The most significant contribution
we can make is to support our customers’ For further details of our approach to human
transition to lowering carbon through rights, see page 71.
transition financing, which is financial support For further details of our approach to risk
that helps heavy-emitting companies take management, see page 37.
action to become more environmentally
sustainable over time.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 51
ESG
review
Customers
Conduct continued
Prior to the Covid-19 outbreak, we increased group, which has been set up by UK While working remotely, our Global Research
our focus on identifying vulnerable customers Finance and includes other lenders and team enhanced its review processes to
in the UK, but this meant that our teams government bodies. provide timely research on economics,
who service vulnerable customers in financial currencies, fixed income and equities, helping
difficulty became much busier, resulting in a In our GBM business, we focused on making our institutional, government, corporate and
backlog of customer requests. In response, responsible lending decisions and extending central bank clients, as well as colleagues,
we added more staff to these teams, trained credit to corporate and institutional customers. navigate the extremely complex and fast-
them and are working to resolve the backlog. We also sought to protect the integrity and moving situation. We also increased the
flow of both internal and customer data, number of research products made freely
We also focused on training and coaching our while maintaining an operationally resilient available to help those affected by the crisis
customer-facing colleagues to meet the needs infrastructure. Relationship managers were in on a wide variety of platforms.
of customers who were made vulnerable due regular contact with customers, helping to
to having difficulties making payments. ensure they received the most suitable Digital support
support for their business. We continued to invest in our digital services
Responding to business needs and tools to support our customers and
Our CMB and GBM businesses introduced Our Global Liquidity and Cash Management colleagues, delivering initiatives to make
several measures to support our customers, business, which helps our corporate clients banking with us simpler and more efficient,
many of whom faced pressures in their access, manage and move their cash, and we made greater use of online
finances as lockdown restrictions impacted provided urgent payment facilities to mobilise appointments and video calls to enable
their businesses. As at the end of 2020, the clients’ cash where it was needed most, our workforce to work from home.
lending support we provided to more than and helped them move rapidly to digital
237,000 wholesale customers globally was solutions. This included fast-tracking We launched new features in each of our
valued at $35.3bn, both through government payments for urgent medical supplies businesses so we could handle crucial
schemes and our own initiatives. We offered from China to hospitals in Italy and enabling everyday activities remotely, such as
repayment holidays to help businesses cashless, socially distanced payments onboarding.
respond to cash flow pressures and provided for drive-through testing sites in Malaysia.
trade finance solutions to support customers Global Liquidity and Cash Management also In WPB, new digital features included allowing
with their supply chains. launched a green deposit proposition during customers to activate cards and cancel regular
2020 in the UK, Singapore and India, which payments through our mobile apps in select
We launched online portals for customer involved allowing treasurers to make deposits markets. Our CMB and GBM businesses
applications to various government-initiated that we use to finance environmentally each enabled key documents to be sent and
loan schemes, and set up a global team beneficial initiatives, such as renewable received with paperless instructions, enabling
to help oversee the provision of the loans, energy and energy efficient projects. digital sign-offs and eliminating the need for
expediting the turnaround of loan requests physical signatures.
and getting funds to our customers quicker. Our Markets and Securities Services business
In the UK, a dedicated Covid-19-related phone provided additional guidance around pricing We also rolled out globally our digital platform
line supported our customers by conveying decisions in 2020, in light of heightened credit ‘Vital Insights’ in CMB following a pilot in
what financial guidance and support is risk and remote working arrangements. We Asia-Pacific, which helped enable us to
available to them. In order to help identify put in place measures and guidelines to help understand the impact of Covid-19 on our
and mitigate any potential fraud associated ensure information continues to be monitored customers and to take relevant action to
with the Bounce Bank Loan Scheme, our UK effectively and controlled in the new working help them manage uncertainty.
Commercial Banking business is also part of environment.
an industry-wide fraud collaboration working
Conduct of our colleagues
The conduct of our people is inextricably In our CMB and GBM businesses, we issued
linked to the way we work. guidance to our colleagues on remote
working to help maintain high standards of
In WPB, in response to the Covid-19 conduct, adhere to competition law, and
outbreak, we adapted and reprioritised manage potential conflicts of interest.
global training, and rolled out well-being
programmes and tools, such as coaching In GBM, classroom-based conduct training
plans to support virtual working to ensure was adapted for virtual learning, with more
our teams had the resources they needed than 21,000 colleagues completing the
to work safely and productively. curriculum in 2020. Cultivating a positive
working culture is central to the well-being
We also remodelled our incentive of our colleagues and the performance
programme scorecards to allow for of our business. We introduced culture
flexibility, to help our colleagues focus ambassadors, set up new communication
on our customer needs, ensuring they channels for interactions with senior
can provide the appropriate solutions management, and established various
as a result of the pandemic. well-being programmes.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 59
ESG review | Customers
Conduct continued
Delivering fair outcomes with Product design and development Our CMB business considers customer
our products Our approach to product design and feedback and user groups in its product
We are committed to providing customers development entails the following development and has invested in the
with products that meet their needs. We have overarching principles: development of a new global product
policies and procedures to help deliver fair inventory and lifecycle management system
outcomes for our customers, and to maintain – We offer a carefully selected range of to help ensure optimal product governance.
orderly and transparent financial markets. products that are continually reviewed to The system uses Cloud technology to provide
Conduct principles are embedded into the way help ensure they remain relevant in each an improved way of managing our products
we develop, distribute, structure and execute country they are offered and perform in from approval through to demise, and has
products and services. We are refreshing our line with expectations we have set. Where been successfully piloted in our Global Trade
approach to conduct arrangements across the products do not meet our customers’ needs and Receivables Finance and Global Liquidity
Group with a view to ensuring that the or no longer meet our high standards, and Cash Management businesses. The
arrangements remain appropriate for the improvements are made or they are system, which we plan to deploy to all CMB
nature of our business. withdrawn from sale. markets within 2021, will help us to bring
– Wherever possible, we act on feedback appropriate products to market more quickly,
from our customers to provide better and as well as helping to ensure we can more
more accessible products and services. easily demonstrate fair customer outcomes.
– We complete regular assessments of our
In our GBM business, we made strides to
products to help ensure we continue to
further improve pricing transparency. We
deliver fair value.
launched the first phase of our strategic
foreign exchange margin management tool
Oversight of product design and sales
across 1.1 million wholesale customers in
governance for each of our global businesses
Singapore, the UAE, Australia and the UK.
is provided by governance committees
The tool provides customers who make
chaired and attended by senior executives
or receive payments that require foreign
who are accountable for ensuring we manage
exchange conversion with consistent pricing
our related non-financial risks appropriately,
and improved transparency of information
within appetite and in a manner designed to
across our various banking channels.
ensure fair customer outcomes.
Transitioning away from Ibors
As a result of the planned cessation of the (‘Sonia’) benchmark administered by
London interbank offered rates (‘Libor’), Euro the Bank of England, which means that
Overnight Index Average (‘Eonia’) and other customers wanting to borrow on sterling
benchmarks actively known as Ibors, we are Libor now have the option to borrow
ensuring that we have the product capability against Sonia instead.
in place to support our customers on the
transition to alternative rates. We aim to We began offering Secured Overnight
clearly outline the options available to our Financing Rate (‘SOFR’) loans as an
customers holding existing Libor-based alternative to US dollar Libor in the US,
products, and our commercial strategy is Hong Kong and the UK in 2020. Further
designed to minimise value transfer when products, notably derivatives, and country
transitioning their products from Libor roll-outs are scheduled in 2021.
to alternative rates.
For further details on the transition from
Ibors, see ‘Ibor transition’ in the Risk section
In October 2020, we launched loans using
on page 112.
the Sterling Overnight Index Average
60 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG review
Employees
We are opening up a world of opportunity for our colleagues by building
an inclusive organisation that prioritises well-being, invests in learning and
careers and prepares our colleagues for the future of work.
At a glance The future of work
Our culture The Covid-19 outbreak taught us many roles can be undertaken effectively
Our organisation has been shaped by the outside of our branches and offices, accelerating our focus on enabling greater
many cultures, communities and continents flexibility in future working arrangements. Reskilling is also a key priority for us
we serve, with over 226,000 full-time and we are investing in a programme to build future skills as we transform the
equivalent employees (‘FTEs’) in 64 countries structure of our business.
with 168 nationalities. We were founded on
the strength of different experience and we Read more on the future of work on page 63.
continue to value that difference. We strive
to champion inclusivity to better reflect the
worlds of our customers and communities.
Our culture is underpinned by our values: we Inclusion
value difference; we succeed together; we
take responsibility, and we get it done. While there have been many new challenges during the Covid-19 outbreak,
we continued our emphasis on inclusion. We believe that diversity makes us
For further details on region, age, ethnicity, stronger, and we are dedicated to building a diverse and connected workforce.
tenure and employment type of our workforce,
We made good progress on gender diversity and increased our focus on ethnicity
see the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
and supporting our Black colleagues.
Read more on inclusion on page 64.
Well-being
We provided extra resources to help colleagues manage the mental and physical
health challenges caused by the Covid-19 outbreak. We carried out two global
well-being surveys of our colleagues in 2020, helping to shape our response and
ensure we had the right assistance in place.
Read more on well-being on page 66.
Learning and skills development
We have continued to find new ways to support colleagues’ learning and growth,
transitioning to on-demand and digital platforms. We are also using video
technologies to collaborate across boundaries more than ever before.
Read more on learning and skills development on page 67.
Listening to our colleagues
We believe in the importance of listening to our colleagues and seeking
innovative ways to encourage colleagues to speak up. We monitor how
we perform on selected metrics and benchmark against our peers.
Read more on listening to our colleagues on page 68.
62 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG review | Employees
Inclusion
Our customers, suppliers and communities Focus on UK gender and ethnicity Gender diversity statistics1,2
span many cultures and continents. We pay gaps
believe this diversity makes us stronger, In 2020, our median aggregate UK-wide 9 64%
Holdings
and we are dedicated to building a diverse gender pay gap, including all reported HSBC
Board
and connected workforce where everyone entities, was 48%, and our median bonus gap 5 36%
feels a sense of belonging. was 57.9%. Our overall UK gender pay gap Group 13 81%
is driven by the shape of our UK workforce. Executive
Women in senior leadership There are more men than women in senior and Committee 3 19%
In 2018, we committed to reach 30% women high-paid roles, and more women than men in Combined 141 69%
in senior leadership roles by 2020, which are junior roles, many of which are part-time. executive
classified as 0 to 3 in our global career band committee and 62 31%
structure. We achieved 30.3%. Appointments For the first time we also published our UK direct reports
o
le
f
a
e
d
x
e
t
r
e
s
r
h
n
i
a
p
l
r
f
e
e
d
m
u
a
c
l
e
e
d
c a
fr
n
o
d
m
id
3
a
3
te
.0
s
%
in t
i
o
n
s
2
e
0
n
1
i
9
o r
t o
e
U
t
K
h
-
n
w
ic
id
it
e
y p
et
a
h
y
n
g
ic
a
i
p
ty
. O
pa
u
y
r
g
m
a
e
p
d
a
ia
c
n
ro
a
s
g
s
g
a
r
l
e
l
g
re
a
p
te
o rted
S20en1i9or 6,621 70%
leadership
31.6% in 2020. We will continue efforts to build HSBC entities was -5.6%. Our median bonus 2,875 30%
more gender-balanced leadership teams and gap was 0.8%. However, the pay gaps differ Senior 1,059 66%
have set ourselves a target to achieve 35% depending on the underlying ethnic minority leadership
women in senior leadership roles by 2025. group. The businesses and roles which WPB 545 34%
employees from different ethnic groups work
Senior 710 70%
To diversify the talent pipeline, every member in impact the gaps, with relatively lower leadership
of our Group Executive Committee, as well as representation of ethnic minority employees in CMB 300 30%
many members of their management teams, senior, higher paid roles. While 79% of our UK
actively sponsor colleagues from under- employees have declared their ethnicity, fewer Senior 2,218 78%
leadership
represented groups, including women. senior, higher paid employees have done so GBM 635 22%
We paid specific attention to how we select to date and were therefore not included in our
and promote candidates for roles and how ethnicity pay gap analysis. 2 S 0 en 1 i 9 or 732 72%
colleagues can readily access opportunities. leadership
Digital Business 285 28%
We intend to publish ethnicity representation
Services
In 2020, we expanded the Accelerating into and pay gap data annually to help ensure we
Leadership programme to all businesses and continue making progress and help us identify All 111,422 48%
functions. The programme provides group further areas for action. employees
119,618 52%
coaching, networking and development for
high-performing women at manager level, We review our pay practices regularly and
Male Female
which are those at level 4 in our global career also work with independent third parties to
band structure. Our Accelerating Female review equal pay. The most recent exercise 1 Combined executive committee and direct reports
includes HSBC executive Directors, Group
Leaders programme, which focuses on was undertaken in 2020. If pay differences
Managing Directors, Group Company Secretary
developing high-performing women at level 3 are identified that are not due to objective, and Chief Governance Officer and their direct
in the global career band structure, was tangible reasons such as performance or skills reports (excluding administrative staff).
attended by four times as many women and experience, we make adjustments. 2 S enior leadership refers to employees performing
in 2020 than in the previous year. roles classified as 0, 1, 2 and 3 in our global career
Our complete Gender and Ethnicity UK Pay Gap band structure.
Report 2020, along with more information about
our pay gaps and related actions, can be found at
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people-and-
communities/diversity-and-inclusion.
Gender balance Percentage of our senior
All employees Senior leaders2 leadership who are women
30.3%
(2019: 29.4%)
Male 48% (2019: 48%) Male 70% (2019: 71%)
Female 52% (2019: 52%) Female 30% (2019: 29%)
1 Senior leaders are defined as 0 to 3 in our global career band structure.
Our approach to ethnicity and Black Lives Matter
In May 2020, we launched a global ethnicity ethnicity across the Group. Listening to what to at least double the number of Black
inclusion programme to help us respond to our colleagues have told us in response to employees in senior leadership roles from
challenges that we identified through our the Black Lives Matter movement has been 0.7% at 31 December 2020 to 1.3% globally
data. This programme aims to improve the so important in informing our actions. In July by 2025. To achieve our commitments,
diversity of our workforce ethnicity profile 2020, we also set out our race commitments we are also strengthening our recruitment
across the organisation to reflect the to improve opportunities for Black and ethnic processes, partnering with specialist search
customers and communities we serve. minority colleagues and boost the diversity firms, and enhancing talent development
of our senior leadership. opportunities. In October 2020, we also
The tragic death of George Floyd in the US published country-specific ethnicity data
accelerated conversations around race and As part of this, we set an aspirational target and action plans in the UK and US.
64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG
review
Employees
Inclusion continued
Delivering more inclusive outcomes for all
Our diversity and inclusion strategy is designed to deliver more inclusive outcomes for our colleagues, customers and suppliers. Globally we have
driven improvements in representation and sentiment across multiple diversity strands, grown our commercial focus, strengthened our employee
networks, and improved our diversity data. Here are some examples of our key achievements in 2020:
Beyond gender Beyond employees Employee networks Enhancing data
Our global approach to diversity Across our businesses, we By appointing global executive Collecting better diversity data
goes beyond gender to include are taking opportunities to be sponsors from our Group People is imperative to measure the
ethnicity, disability and LGBT+ more inclusive of diverse Committee as well as global success of our diversity and
inclusion: customer groups. co-chairs across our employee inclusion strategy, and to inform
networks we are helping them to our inclusion priorities going
– Ethnicity: In 2020, we launched In our private bank, we want deliver consistent and impactful forward. It will help us to gain
our global ethnicity inclusion to improve how we serve and outcomes aligned to our strategy. a more accurate picture of our
programme, which is gain insights into our female workforce diversity, pinpoint
sponsored by Group Chief Risk clients, and we are partnering In 2020, we appointed our first inclusion hotspots and be more
Officer Pam Kaur and aims with external networks AllBright global executive sponsors for transparent about our progress.
to diversify our workforce and WealthiHer to address ways our Embrace (ethnicity) and
ethnicity profile (see box to improve women’s wealth. Generations (age) networks, We have updated ethnicity
on page 64). and our first global co-chairs for categories in markets where
Our Global Banking and Embrace, Ability (disability) and we can currently collect that data
– Disability: We continue to
Markets business has a team Nurture (caregivers) networks. to better reflect how colleagues
develop our global approach
that incorporates a gender Global sponsors and co-chairs self-identify. In many locations
to workplace adjustments
perspective into our mainstream are identifying issues and we have also delivered local
to improve consistency for
products and business lines to opportunities across their groups campaigns to promote self-
employees with disabilities,
generate business revenue from in different markets, and are identification. In 2021, we are
as part of our global disability
transactions that drive collaborating with key business enabling more colleagues to
confidence programme,
gender equality. areas and across networks to share their ethnicity data with us
sponsored by Group Chief
implement changes that will where it is legally permissible and
Financial Officer Ewen
Our insurance business HSBC help improve representation culturally acceptable to do so. We
Stevenson. We used our global
Life uses a diversity and inclusion and engagement with diverse will run similar self-identification
footprint and connectivity to
framework to ensure product groups of colleagues. campaigns to improve declaration
raise awareness about disability
development and engagement rates throughout the year.
inclusion through our
opportunities are designed to
sponsorship of #PurpleLightUp.
address needs across different
– LGBT+: Our work, particularly customer groups.
around leadership and engaging
colleagues, has again been
recognised by Stonewall, which
named HSBC as one of only 17
Top Global Employers for LGBT+
inclusion.
Making progress and next steps
There is a clear commitment to achieve We will continue to integrate inclusion
change from across our leadership. This principles into how we do business, and
commitment is reinforced by enhanced will use our employee networks to help us
recruitment processes, targets, partnerships address barriers or opportunities together.
with like-minded organisations, programmes Following colleague feedback, we will also
to accelerate diverse leadership and ongoing seek to improve the HSBC experience for
dialogue with employees from under- those with disability, using the Business
represented groups to understand Disability Forum’s Disability Standard – for
what we can do better. which we achieved Silver in 2020 – as well
as for our ethnic minority colleagues.
The next phase of our strategy will take a
broader approach to inclusion across the We are realistic that some progress will take
organisation. We will expand our focus to time, and we will keep seeking to understand
recognise the impact of belonging to multiple different perspectives and experiences to grow,
under-represented groups – for example, learn and improve.
the barriers that might be faced by a Black
women with disability. For further details on how our colleagues
self-identify, see the ESG Data Pack at
www.hsbc.com/esg.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 65
ESG review
Governance
We remain committed to high standards of governance.
We work alongside our regulators and recognise our
contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance
Our relationship integrity and learn from past events to help We acknowledge that increasing financial
We act on our responsibility to run our prevent their recurrence. inclusion is a continuing effort, and we are
business in a way that upholds high carrying out a number of initiatives to increase
standards of corporate governance. We meet our responsibilities to society, access to financial services.
including through being transparent in our
We are committed to working with our approach to paying taxes. We also seek to For further details on our corporate
regulators to manage the safety of the ensure we respect global standards on human governance see our corporate governance
report on page 195.
financial system, adhering to the spirit and the rights in our workplace and our supply chains,
letter of the rules and regulations governing and continually work to improve our
our industry. In our endeavour to restore trust compliance management capabilities.
in our industry, we aim to act with courageous
Respecting human rights Our approach with our suppliers
We respect human rights and have signed, Our ethical code of conduct for suppliers of goods
or expressed support for, a number of and services, which must be complied with by all
international codes, as set out in our suppliers, sets out minimum standards for economic,
Statement on Human Rights. environmental and social impacts.
Read more on respecting human rights on page 71. Read more on our approach with our suppliers on page 73.
Supporting financial inclusion A responsible approach to tax
We aim to deliver products and services that We seek to pay our fair share of tax in the jurisdictions
address financial barriers. We invest in financial in which we operate and to minimise the likelihood
education to help customers, colleagues and of customers using our products to inappropriately
people in our communities be confident users avoid tax.
of financial services.
Read more on a responsible approach to tax on page 74.
Read more on supporting financial inclusion on
page 71.
Protecting data Restoring trust
We are committed to protecting the information We have sought to learn from past mistakes and
we hold and process in accordance with local we are seeking to develop and implement specific
laws and regulations. We continue to strengthen measures designed to prevent recurrence of similar
our controls to prevent, detect and react to events in the future.
cyber threats.
Read more on restoring trust on page 75.
Read more on protecting data on page 72.
Safeguarding the financial system
We remain committed in our efforts to combat
financial crime by continuing to invest in
new technology to protect our customers
and organisation, while supporting key
industry initiatives.
Read more on safeguarding the financial system on
page 73.
70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG
review
Governance
Respecting human rights
We recognise the duty of states to protect Finance Against Slavery and Trafficking Spotting the signs of human trafficking
human rights and the role played by business (‘FAST’) Survivor Inclusion Initiative. In many cases, transactions related to modern
in respecting them, in line with the UN Guiding slavery and human trafficking will not be
Principles’ Protect, Respect and Remedy Building on the success of our Survivor Bank identified by automated systems alone. As
framework. We have signed, or expressed programme in the UK, for which we received a result, our analysts also use a range of
support for, a number of international codes a Stop Slavery Award from the Thomson secondary indicators that may not signify
as set out in our Statement on Human Rights. Reuters Foundation, we became the first bank suspicious activity on their own, but which
Our Human Rights Steering Committee, which in Hong Kong to offer a Hong Kong Dollar can be assessed as part of a case review.
was set up in 2018, continues to develop our Statement Savings account for residents who Examples where such transactions have
approach to human rights. Our Statement on do not have a fixed abode, or who are living successfully been identified and escalated
Human Rights is available at www.hsbc.com/ in subdivided flats without access to postal are then shared internally, as case studies
our-approach/esg-information. services. Having a bank account can for others to learn from.
improve financial security for members of
Pioneering scheme disadvantaged communities – including those For details of our approach to modern slavery,
Our pioneering scheme to help survivors of under potential risk of forced labour or debt see: www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-
responsibility/modern-slavery-act.
human trafficking is now used as a model for bondage – and potentially enable them
making financial services more accessible to to receive welfare allowances or find
vulnerable communities through the UN’s employment.
Identifying suspicious activity
When two large cash deposits were made to activity report with the UK regulator. We also
the same account on two consecutive days, proceeded to close the account. With these
it raised suspicion with one of our analysts. actions, we not only disrupted the individual,
Further investigation identified a number of but also alerted the authorities to take the
cautionary flags for potential illegal activity, case forward through appropriate law
including the apparent findings that 17 people enforcement channels.
– all of whom banked with HSBC – lived in the
same property. The case was escalated to an
investigations team, who filed a suspicious
Supporting financial inclusion
We believe that financial services, when We embedded diversity and inclusion 2019 goal of reaching four million unique
accessible and fair, can reduce inequality standards into our new product approval visitors by the end of 2022.
and help more people access opportunities. framework for retail banking, wealth,
insurance and digital products, such as We also support charity programmes that
Access to products and services in India, where we added a transgender deliver financial education. In 2020, HSBC UK
We aim to deliver products and services option to the customer application and partnered with Young Money, a UK-based
that address the barriers people can face underwriting criteria for health insurance. charity focused on children’s financial
in accessing financial services. education, to introduce Money Heroes, an
Access to financial education innovative education programme that brings
In 2020, we continued to offer innovative We invest in financial education to help together teachers and parents or carers to
product offerings. In the UK, we are educating customers, colleagues and people in our develop a child’s financial capability from ages
people about banking services and reducing communities be confident users of financial three to 11. Combining learning with real life
barriers for those who do not have a fixed services. activities, Money Heroes aims to reach one
address as well as for survivors of human million children over three years, supporting
trafficking. We also introduced new products, In 2020, we provided more of our own the most vulnerable communities.
such as banking services for refugees in financial education content, such as articles
Hong Kong, allowing individuals to have and features on our digital channels. We had
a safe, affordable way to receive support over 1.7 million unique visitors to our digital
from overseas family, friends or local content in 2020, making progress towards our
non-governmental organisations.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 71
ESG review | Governance
Protecting data
Cybersecurity security risk teams, the second line of We have established dedicated privacy
The threat of cyber-attacks remains a concern defence, which provide independent review teams reporting to the highest level of
for our organisation, as it does across the and challenge. They are overseen by the third management on data privacy risks and
entire financial sector. Failure to protect line of defence, which is the Global Internal issues, and overseeing our global data privacy
our operations from internet crime or Audit function. programmes. We report data privacy regularly
cyber-attacks may result in financial loss, at multiple governance forums, including at
disruption for customers or a loss of data. We regularly report and review cyber risk and Board level, to help ensure there is appropriate
This could undermine our reputation and control effectiveness at relevant governance challenge and visibility among senior
ability to attract and retain customers. forums and the Board to ensure appropriate executives. In addition, we have established
oversight. We also report across the global data privacy governance structures and
We have invested in business and technical businesses, functions and regions to help continue to embed accountability across
controls to help prevent, detect and react to ensure appropriate visibility and governance all businesses.
these threats. We continually evaluate threat of risks and mitigating controls.
levels for the most prevalent attack types We are committed to implementing industry
and their potential outcomes. We have Data privacy practices for data security and our privacy
strengthened our controls to reduce the We are committed to protecting and teams work closely to drive the necessary
likelihood and impact of advanced malware, respecting the data we hold and process, design, implementation and monitoring of
data leakage, infiltration of payment systems in accordance with the laws and regulations privacy solutions, including conducting regular
and denial of service attacks. In 2020, we of the geographies in which we operate. reviews and data privacy risk assessments.
continued to strengthen our cyber defences We implemented procedures that articulate
to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities, Our approach rests on having the right clearly the action to be taken when dealing
including: Cloud security; identity and access talent, technology, systems, controls policies, with a data privacy breach. These include
management; metrics and data analytics; and and processes to help ensure appropriate notifying regulators, customers or other data
third-party security reviews. These defences management of privacy risk. Our Group-wide subjects, as required under applicable privacy
are grounded in mature controls that mitigate privacy policy and principles provide a laws and regulations, in the event of a
the current cyber-attacks and build upon a consistent global approach to managing data reportable incident occurring.
proactive data analytical approach to identify privacy risk, and must be applied by all of
and mitigate future advanced targeted threats. our global businesses and global functions.
In addition, an important part of our defence
We conduct regular training sessions on data Data Privacy Day
strategy is ensuring our people remain aware
privacy and security issues throughout the
of cybersecurity issues and know how to
report incidents. We continue to run regular year, including global mandatory training for all In January 2020, we hosted a global
cyber awareness campaigns and have our colleagues, along with additional training data privacy event for all our colleagues
dedicated training programmes in place. sessions, where required, to keep abreast of to mark International Data Privacy Day.
new developments in this space. The event highlighted the importance
We operate a three lines of defence model, of taking accountability for data privacy
aligned to the operational risk management We provide transparency to our customers across the organisation and the
framework, to ensure robust oversight and and stakeholders on how we collect, use continuing need to provide simple and
challenge of our cybersecurity capabilities and and manage their personal data, and their clearer mechanisms for our customers
priorities. In the first line of defence, we have associated rights. Where relevant, we work to have more control and choice in
risk owners within global businesses and closely with third parties to help ensure managing their data.
adequate protections are provided, in line with
functions who are accountable for identifying,
owning and managing the cyber risk. They our data privacy policy and as required under We invited internal and external speakers,
work with control owners to help ensure data privacy law. We offer a broad range of including the UK’s former Deputy
controls are in place to mitigate issues, prevent channels in the markets we operate, through Information Commissioner, our Group
risk events from occurring and resolve them if which customers and stakeholders can raise Data Protection Officer and Group Chief
they do. These controls are executed in line any concerns regarding the privacy of Data Officer, as well as representatives
with policies produced by the information their data. from the technology industry. The event
was broadcast across 62 countries.
Cybersecurity Awareness Month
Our cybersecurity teams endeavour to and local events were hosted by our
educate, support and equip every colleague executive leaders, with the support of a
with the tools to prevent, mitigate and report number of internal subject matter experts and
cyber incidents, and keep our organisation external guest speakers. The Cybersecurity
and customers’ data safe. Throughout Awareness Month established a new level
October 2020, the cybersecurity team hosted of awareness, participation, and commitment
a number of virtual awareness events for all to cybersecurity inside the Group.
colleagues as part of a dedicated annual
Cybersecurity Awareness Month. The global
72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG
review
Governance
Safeguarding the financial system
We have continued our efforts to combat which we operate. For further details on our Building on this approach, we have made
financial crime risks and reduce their impact on financial crime risk management framework, progress in applying machine learning
our organisation and the wider world. These see page 187. techniques to improve the accuracy and
financial crime risks include money laundering, timeliness of our financial crime detection
terrorist and proliferation financing, tax We continue to invest in new technology capabilities. Working with industry leaders,
evasion, bribery and corruption, sanctions to enable us to make an impact in the fight we have sought to share what we have
and fraud. As part of this work, we have made against financial crime. Our global social learned, contributing to the development of
progress on several key initiatives, enabling network analytics platform, which we best practice in this emerging field, in line
us to manage and mitigate these risks more launched in 2018 as an investigative tool, now with our Principles for the Ethical Use of
effectively, and further our pioneering work in helps us detect high-risk activity across our Big Data and AI.
financial crime risk management across the trade finance business. Using a contextual
financial services industry. monitoring approach, we are able to improve We are confident our adoption of these new
the accuracy and efficiency of our operations, technologies will continue to enhance our
Financial crime risk management removing delays in approving genuine ability to respond quickly to suspicious activity
We have embedded a strong financial crime customer transactions while focusing and be more granular in our risk assessments,
risk management framework across all global attention on behaviour of concern. helping to protect our customers and the
businesses and all countries and territories in integrity of the financial system.
The scale of our work
Each month, we screen over 708 million
transactions across 275 million accounts for
signs of money laundering and financial
crime. In addition, we screen approximately
114 million customer records and 45 million
transactions monthly for sanctions
exposures. During 2020, we filed almost
50,000 suspicious activity reports to law
enforcement and regulatory authorities
where we identified potential financial
crime.
Our approach with our suppliers
We have globally consistent standards and must be complied with by all suppliers. we conduct business with our third-party
procedures for the onboarding and use of While our businesses and functions are suppliers both in our legal and commercial
external suppliers. We require suppliers to accountable for the suppliers they use, our obligations. They also explain how we treat
meet our compliance and financial stability global procurement function owns the code suppliers fairly through our behaviour and
requirements, as well as to comply with of conduct review process for them. Our goal actions and in line with our values.
our supplier ethical code of conduct. We is to work collaboratively with our supply
consider on time payment to be of paramount chain partners on sustainability at all times. Our supplier management principles and our
ethical code of conduct are available at: www.
importance, and our commitment to
hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/
paying our suppliers is in line with all The ethical code of conduct, which we
working-with-suppliers.
local requirements, including the Prompt require suppliers to adopt, sets out minimum
Payment Code in the UK. standards for economic, environmental and
social impacts and outlines the requirement
Supplier ethical code of conduct for a governance and management structure
We have an ethical code of conduct for to help ensure compliance. Our supplier
suppliers of goods and services, which management conduct principles set out how
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 73
ESG review | Governance
A responsible approach to tax
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in the – We seek to have open and transparent services being used to facilitate customer
jurisdictions in which we operate and to relationships with all tax authorities. As tax evasion. These initiatives include the
minimise the likelihood of customers using with any group of our size and complexity, US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act,
our products and services to evade or a number of areas of differing interpretation the OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange
inappropriately avoid tax. Our approach to or disputes with tax authorities exist at any of Financial Account Information (the
tax and governance processes is designed point in time. We work with the local tax ‘Common Reporting Standard’), and the
to achieve these goals. authorities to try to agree and resolve these UK legislation on the corporate criminal
in a timely manner. offence of failing to prevent the facilitation
Through adoption of the Group’s risk – We have applied the OECD/G20 Inclusive of tax evasion.
management framework, controls are
Framework Pillar 2 guidance to identify – We have processes in place to help ensure
in place that are designed to ensure that
those jurisdictions in which we operate that that inappropriately tax-motivated products
inappropriately tax-motivated transactions or
have nil or low tax rates (12.5% or below). and services are not provided to our
products are not adopted by the Group and
We have identified seven such jurisdictions customers.
that any tax planning used must be supported
in which we had active subsidiaries during
by genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no 20201. We continually monitor the number For further details of our approach to financial
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. crime and action we have taken, see page 73.
of subsidiaries within the Group as part of
Significant investment has been made to
the Group’s ongoing entity rationalisation
strengthen our risk processes and train staff to
programme. We intend to continue this Our tax contributions
identify instances of potential tax evasion and process, with the aim of ensuring that the The effective tax rate for the year was 30.5%.
we continue to enhance these processes. HSBC entities remaining in such jurisdictions Further details are provided on page 308.
are regulated entities essential for
With respect to our own taxes, we are guided conducting business. As highlighted below, in addition to paying
by the following principles: $8.1bn of our own tax liabilities during 2020,
With respect to our customers’ taxes, we we collected taxes of $9.5bn on behalf of
– We are committed to applying both the
are guided by the following principles: governments around the world. A more
letter and spirit of the law in all jurisdictions
detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes
in which we operate. This includes
– We have made considerable investment paid in 2020 is provided in the ESG Data Pack.
adherence to a variety of measures arising
implementing processes designed to enable The tax we paid during 2020 was higher than
from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit
us to support external tax transparency in 2019 due to differences in the timing of
Shifting initiative.
initiatives and reduce the risk of banking payments, particularly in Hong Kong.
Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region
Tax on profits $3,873m (2019: $1,988m) Europe $3,022m (2019: $3,077m) Europe $3,462m (2019: $3,636m)
Withholding taxes $386m (2019: $282m) Asia-Pacific $3,911m (2019: $1,487m) Asia-Pacific $3,595m (2019: $3,288m)
Employer taxes $1,121m (2019: $1,041m) Middle East and North Africa $299m Middle East and North Africa $90m
Bank levy $1,011m (2019: $889m) (2019: $313m) (2019: $127m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,389m (2019: $1,164m) North America $382m (2019: $314m) North America $1,089m (2019: $876m)
Other duties and levies $278m (2019: $227m) Latin America $444m (2019: $400m) Latin America $1,302m (2019: $1,379m)
1 The Bahamas, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, Guernsey, Ireland, Jersey and the British Virgin Islands.
74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
ESG
review
Governance
Restoring trust
Restoration of trust in our industry remains to make decisions based on doing the right develop and implement specific measures
a significant challenge as past misdeeds thing for customers and never compromising designed to prevent recurrence of similar
continue to remain in the spotlight. But it is our ethical standards. events in the future. Further information
a challenge we must meet successfully. We regarding the measures that we have taken
owe this not just to our customers and to The chart below sets out fines and penalties to prevent the recurrence of some of these
society at large, but to our employees to arising out of major investigations involving matters can be found at www.hsbc.com/
ensure they can rightly be proud of the criminal, regulatory, competition or other law who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
organisation where they work. We aim to act enforcement authorities, and costs relating to esg-reporting-and-policies.
with courageous integrity in all we do. This PPI remediation. We have sought to learn from
guiding principle means having the courage these past mistakes and are seeking to
Major criminal and regulatory fines and penalties and PPI remediation1
Pre-
2006 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
AML-related
1,921
investigations
Global Private
Banking
13 43 13 360 521
tax-related
investigations
RMBS-related
765
investigations
Libor/Euribor 36 2
FX-related
618 6 175 102
investigations
PPI 333 870 1,138 700 553 448 502 741 750 572
Key
Duration of conduct period $m Fines/penalties/other costs
1 This chart only includes fines and penalties arising out of major investigations involving criminal, regulatory, competition or other law enforcement authorities,
and costs relating to PPI remediation. The chart reflects the year in which a fine, penalty or remediation cost was paid, which may be different from when a loss
or provision was recognised under IFRSs. Settlements or other costs arising out of private litigation or arbitration proceedings are not included.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 75
• communication with risk stewards on the developing risk
Our approach to risk
landscape;
Our risk appetite • strength of our capital, liquidity and balance sheet;
We recognise the importance of a strong culture, which refers to • compliance with applicable laws and regulations;
our shared attitudes, values and standards that shape behaviours • effectiveness of the applicable control environment to mitigate
related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management. All our risk, informed by risk ratings from risk control assessments;
people are responsible for the management of risk, with the
• functionality, capacity and resilience of available systems to
ultimate accountability residing with the Board.
manage risk; and
We seek to build our business for the long term by balancing
• the level of available staff with the required competencies to
social, environmental and economic considerations in the
manage risks.
decisions we make. Our strategic priorities are underpinned by our
endeavour to operate in a sustainable way. This helps us to carry We formally articulate our risk appetite through our RAS. Setting
out our social responsibility and manage the risk profile of the out our risk appetite ensures that we agree a suitable level of risk
business. We are committed to managing and mitigating climate- for our strategy. In this way, risk appetite informs our financial
related risks, both physical and transition, and continue to planning process and helps senior management to allocate capital
incorporate consideration of these into how we manage and to business activities, services and products.
oversee risks internally and with our customers.
The RAS consists of qualitative statements and quantitative
The following principles guide the Group’s overarching appetite for metrics, covering financial and non-financial risks. It is applied to
risk and determine how our businesses and risks are managed. the development of business line strategies, strategic and business
planning and remuneration. At a Group level, performance against
Financial position
the RAS is reported to the Group Risk Management Meeting
• We aim to maintain a strong capital position, defined by (‘RMM’) alongside key risk indicators to support targeted insight
regulatory and internal capital ratios. and discussion on breaches of risk appetite and associated
• We carry out liquidity and funding management for each mitigating actions. This reporting allows risks to be promptly
operating entity, on a stand-alone basis. identified and mitigated, and informs risk-adjusted remuneration
to drive a strong risk culture.
Operating model
Each global business, region and strategically important country
• We seek to generate returns in line with a conservative risk and territory is required to have its own RAS, which is monitored
appetite and strong risk management capability. to help ensure it remains aligned with the Group’s RAS. Each RAS
• We aim to deliver sustainable earnings and consistent returns and business activity is guided and underpinned by qualitative
for shareholders. principles and/or quantitative metrics.
Business practice Risk management
• We have zero tolerance for any of our people knowingly We recognise that the primary role of risk management is to
engaging in any business, activity or association where protect our customers, business, colleagues, shareholders and the
foreseeable reputational risk or damage has not been communities that we serve, while ensuring we are able to support
considered and/or mitigated. our strategy and provide sustainable growth. This is supported
through our three lines of defence model described on page 109.
• We have no appetite for deliberately or knowingly causing
detriment to consumers, or incurring a breach of the letter or We are focused on the implementation of our business strategy,
spirit of regulatory requirements. as part of which we are carrying out a major change programme.
It is critical that we ensure that as we implement changes, we use
• We have no appetite for inappropriate market conduct by any
active risk management to manage the execution risks.
member of staff or by any Group business.
We will also perform periodic risk assessments, including against
Enterprise-wide application
strategies, to help ensure retention of key personnel for our
Our risk appetite encapsulates the consideration of financial and continued safe operation.
non-financial risks. We define financial risk as the risk of a
We use a comprehensive risk management framework across the
financial loss as a result of business activities. We actively take
organisation and across all risk types, underpinned by our culture
these types of risks to maximise shareholder value and profits.
and values. This outlines the key principles, policies and practices
Non-financial risk is the risk to achieving our strategy or objectives
that we employ in managing material risks, both financial and non-
as the result of failed internal processes, people and systems, or
financial.
from external events.
The framework fosters continual monitoring, promotes risk
Our risk appetite is expressed in both quantitative and qualitative
awareness and encourages sound operational and strategic
terms and applied at the global business level, at the regional level
decision making. It also ensures a consistent approach to
and to material operating entities. Every three years, the Global
identifying, assessing, managing and reporting the risks we accept
Risk function commissions an external independent firm to review
and incur in our activities.
the Group’s approach to risk appetite and to help ensure that it
remains in line with market best practice and regulatory Our risk management framework
expectations. The exercise carried out in 2019 confirmed the
The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of
Group’s risk appetite statement (‘RAS’) remains aligned to best
the risk management framework, including governance and
practices, regulatory expectations and strategic goals. Our risk
structure, our risk management tools and our culture, which
appetite continues to evolve and expand its scope as part of our
together help align employee behaviour with our risk appetite.
regular review process.
The Board reviews and approves the Group’s risk appetite twice a
year to make sure it remains fit for purpose. The Group’s risk
appetite is considered, developed and enhanced through:
• an alignment with our strategy, purpose, values and customer
needs;
• trends highlighted in other Group risk reports;
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 107
Risk
review
Risk
Key components of our risk management framework
HSBC Values and risk culture
The Board approves the Group’s risk appetite, plans and performance
Non-executive risk governance targets. It sets the ‘tone from the top’ and is advised by the Group Risk
Committee (see page 209).
Risk governance
Our executive risk governance structure is responsible for the enterprise-
Executive risk governance wide management of all risks, including key policies and frameworks for
the management of risk within the Group (see pages 109 and 118).
Our ‘three lines of defence’ model defines roles and responsibilities for
Roles and
Three lines of defence model risk management. An independent Global Risk function helps ensure the
responsibilities
necessary balance in risk/return decisions (see page 109).
Risk appetite
Enterprise-wide risk management tools The Group has processes in place to identify/assess, monitor, manage
Processes and tools
and report risks to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite.
Active risk management: identification/assessment,
monitoring, management and reporting
Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the
Policies and procedures
controls required to manage our risks.
Operational and resilience risk management defines minimum standards
Control activities
Internal controls and processes for managing operational risks and internal controls.
The Group has systems and/or processes that support the identification,
Systems and infrastructure capture and exchange of information to support risk management
activities.
Risk governance The management of regulatory compliance risk and financial crime
risk resides with the Group Chief Compliance Officer. Oversight is
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effective
maintained by the Group Chief Risk Officer, in line with their
management of risk and approves our risk appetite.
enterprise risk oversight responsibilities, through the RMM.
The Group Chief Risk Officer, supported by the RMM, holds
Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated
executive accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment
to senior managers with individual accountability for decision
and management of the risk environment and the effectiveness of
making. All our people have a role to play in risk management.
the risk management framework.
These roles are defined using the three lines of defence model,
The Group Chief Risk Officer is also responsible for the oversight which takes into account our business and functional structures as
of reputational risk, with the support of the Group Reputational described in the following commentary, 'Our responsibilities’.
Risk Committee. The Group Reputational Risk Committee
We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help
considers matters arising from customers, transactions and third
ensure there is appropriate oversight and accountability of risk,
parties that either present a serious potential reputational risk to
which facilitates reporting and escalation to the RMM. This
the Group or merit a Group-led decision to ensure a consistent risk
structure is summarised in the following table.
management approach across the regions, global businesses and
global functions. Our reputational risk policy sets out our risk
appetite and the principles for managing reputational risk. Further
details can be found under the ‘Reputational risk’ section of
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility.
Governance structure for the management of risk
Authority Membership Responsibilities include:
Risk Management Meeting Group Chief Risk Officer • Supporting the Group Chief Risk Officer in exercising Board-delegated risk
Group Chief Legal Officer management authority
Group Chief Executive • Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the risk management
framework
Group Chief Financial Officer
• Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk
All other Group Executive Committee
impacts and taking appropriate action
members
• Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action
• Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and conduct
Global Risk Executive Group Chief Risk Officer • Supporting the Group Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the
Committee Chief risk officers of HSBC’s Global Risk function, setting priorities and providing oversight
global businesses and regions • Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk
Heads of Global Risk sub-functions across the Group
Global business/regional Global business/regional chief • Supporting the Group Chief Risk Officer in exercising Board-delegated risk
risk management meetings risk officer management authority
Global business/regional chief • Forward-looking Group assessment of the risk environment, analysing the
executive officer possible risk impact and taking appropriate action
Global business/regional chief financial • Implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
officer • Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating actions
Global business/regional heads • Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls
of global functions
The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 213.
108 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Our responsibilities impact of such risks and develop plausible business-as-usual
mitigating actions.
All our people are responsible for identifying and managing
risk within the scope of their roles as part of the three lines of The Bank of England (‘BoE’) annual cyclical scenario stress test in
defence model. 2020 was cancelled and the publication of the results of the 2019
biennial exploratory scenario on liquidity was postponed due to
Three lines of defence
the Covid-19 outbreak.
To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use
Internal stress tests
an activity-based three lines of defence model. This model
delineates management accountabilities and responsibilities Our internal capital assessment uses a range of stress scenarios
for risk management and the control environment. that explore risks identified by management. They include
potential adverse macroeconomic, geopolitical and operational
The model underpins our approach to risk management by
risk events, as well as other potential events that are specific to
clarifying responsibility and encouraging collaboration, as well as
HSBC.
enabling efficient coordination of risk and control activities.
The three lines of defence are summarised below: The selection of stress scenarios is based upon the output of our
identified top and emerging risks and our risk appetite. Stress
• The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible
testing analysis helps management understand the nature and
for identifying, recording, reporting and managing them in line
extent of vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed. Using this
with risk appetite, and ensuring that the right controls and
information, management decides whether risks can or should be
assessments are in place to mitigate them.
mitigated through management actions or, if they were to
• The second line of defence challenges the first line of defence crystallise, be absorbed through capital and liquidity. This in turn
on effective risk management, and provides advice and informs decisions about preferred capital and liquidity levels and
guidance in relation to the risk. allocations.
• The third line of defence is our Global Internal Audit function, In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major
which provides independent assurance that our risk subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event-driven
management approach and processes are designed and scenario analyses specific to its region. They also participate, as
operating effectively. required, in the regulatory stress testing programmes of the
Global Risk function jurisdictions in which they operate, such as the Comprehensive
Capital Analysis and Review and Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing
Our Global Risk function, headed by the Group Chief Risk Officer, programmes in the US, and the stress tests of the Hong Kong
is responsible for the Group’s risk management framework. This Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’). Global functions and businesses
responsibility includes establishing global policy, monitoring risk also perform bespoke stress testing to inform their assessment of
profiles, and identifying and managing forward-looking risk. Global risks to potential scenarios.
Risk is made up of sub-functions covering all risks to our business.
We also conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group level and, Global Risk forms part of the second line of defence. It is
where required, at subsidiary entity level to understand potential
independent from the global businesses, including sales and
extreme conditions that would make our business model non-
trading functions, to provide challenge, appropriate oversight and
viable. Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and
balance in risk/return decisions.
vulnerabilities we might face, and helps inform early warning
Responsibility for minimising both financial and non-financial risk triggers, management actions and contingency plans designed to
lies with our people. They are required to manage the risks of the mitigate risks.
business and operational activities for which they are responsible.
Recovery and resolution plans
We maintain adequate oversight of our risks through our various
specialist risk stewards and the collective accountability held by Recovery and resolution plans form part of the integral framework
our chief risk officers. safeguarding the Group’s financial stability. The Group recovery
Non-financial risk is the risk to achieving our strategy or objectives plan together with stress testing help us understand the likely
as a result of failed internal processes, people and systems, or outcomes of adverse business or economic conditions and in the
from external events. Sound non-financial risk management is identification of appropriate risk mitigating actions. The Group is
central to achieving good outcomes for our customers. committed to further developing its recovery and resolution
capabilities in line with the BoE resolvability assessment
During 2020, we continued to strengthen the control environment framework requirements.
and our approach to the management of non-financial risk, as
Key developments in 2020
broadly set out in our risk management framework. The
management of non-financial risk focuses on governance and risk We actively managed the risks resulting from the Covid-19
appetite, and provides a single view of the non-financial risks that outbreak and its impacts on our customers and operations during
matter the most and the associated controls. It incorporates a risk 2020, as well as other key risks described in this section.
management system designed to enable the active management
of non-financial risk. Our ongoing focus is on simplifying our In addition, we enhanced our risk management in the following
approach to non-financial risk management, while driving more areas:
effective oversight and better end-to-end identification and • In January 2020, we simplified our approach and articulation of
management of non-financial risks. This is overseen by the risk management through the combination of our enterprise
Operational and Resilience Risk function, headed by the Group risk management framework and our operational risk
Head of Operational and Resilience Risk. management framework.
Stress testing and recovery planning • The global model risk policy and associated standards were
revised to improve how we manage model risk and meet
We operate a wide-ranging stress testing programme that is a key
enhanced external expectations.
part of our risk management and capital and liquidity planning.
Stress testing provides management with key insights into the • We continued to focus on simplifying our approach to non-
impact of severely adverse events on the Group, and provides financial risk management. We are implementing more
confidence to regulators on the Group’s financial stability. effective oversight and better end-to-end identification and
management of non-financial risks.
Our stress testing programme assesses our capital and liquidity
strength through a rigorous examination of our resilience to • We established the Treasury Risk Management function. This
external shocks. As well as undertaking regulatory-driven stress function is a dedicated second line of defence, providing
tests, we conduct our own internal stress tests in order to independent oversight of treasury activities across capital risk,
understand the nature and level of all material risks, quantify the liquidity and funding risk, structural foreign exchange risk and
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 109
Risk
review
Risk
interest rate risk in the banking book, together with pension approval, while the potential differences of protection offered by
risk. vaccines, and the speed and scale with which they can be
manufactured and distributed may further add to tensions.
• We continued to support the business and our customers
throughout the global pandemic, while continuing our focus on The Covid-19 outbreak also heightened existing US-China
managing financial crime risk. We continued to invest in both tensions. Tensions span a wide range of issues, including trade,
advanced analytics and artificial intelligence, which remain key finance, military, technology and human rights. The Covid-19
components of our next generation of tools to fight financial outbreak has accelerated US and Chinese efforts to reduce mutual
crime. dependence in strategic industries such as sensitive technology,
pharmaceuticals and precursor chemicals.
• We combined our Operational Risk and Resilience Risk teams
to form a new Operational and Resilience Risk sub-function. A range of tensions in US-China relations could have potential
This sub-function provides robust non-financial risk first line of ramifications for the Group and its customers. These tensions
defence oversight and risk steward oversight of the could include divisions over Hong Kong, US funding of and trading
management of risk by the Group’s businesses, functions, legal with strategic Chinese industries and claims of human rights
entities and critical business services. The sub-function helps to violations. Some of these tensions have manifested themselves
ensure that the first line of defence is focused firmly on priority through actions taken by the governments of the US and China in
tasks. By bringing the two teams together, we expect to benefit 2020 and early 2021. These tensions may affect the Group through
from improved stewardship, better risk management the impact of sanctions, including the impact of sanctions on
capabilities and better outcomes for our customers. customers, and could result in regulatory, reputational and market
risks for the Group.
• We established a dedicated Climate Risk Oversight Forum to
shape and oversee our approach to climate risk. We have also The US has imposed a range of sanctions and trade restrictions on
established a climate risk programme to drive the delivery of Chinese persons and companies, focusing on entities the US
our enhanced climate risk management approach. believes are involved in human rights violations, information
technology and communications equipment and services, and
Top and emerging risks military activities, among others. In response, China has
announced a number of sanctions and trade restrictions that
We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forward- target or provide authority to target foreign officials and
looking view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution companies, including those in the US. Certain measures are of
of our strategy or operations over the medium to long term. particular relevance.
We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment, The US Hong Kong Autonomy Act provides 'secondary sanctions’
as well as review the themes identified across our regions and authority that allows for the imposition of US sanctions against
global businesses, for any risks that may require global escalation, non-US financial institutions found to be engaged in significant
updating our top and emerging risks as necessary. transactions with certain Chinese individuals and entities subject
We define a ‘top risk’ as a thematic issue that may form and to US sanctions as a result of a US determination that these
crystallise within one year, and which has the potential to individuals or entities engaged in activities undermining Hong
materially affect the Group’s financial results, reputation or Kong’s autonomy. The US has also imposed restrictions on US
business model. It may arise across any combination of risk types, persons’ ability to engage in transactions in or relating to publicly
regions or global businesses. The impact may be well understood traded securities of a number of prominent Chinese companies.
by senior management and some mitigating actions may already China has subsequently adopted regulations providing a
be in place. framework for specific prohibitions against compliance with, and
private rights of action for damages resulting from, measures that
An ‘emerging risk’ is a thematic issue with large unknown
the government determines have an unjustified extraterritorial
components that may form and crystallise beyond a one-year time
application that impairs Chinese sovereignty.
horizon. If it were to materialise, it could have a material effect on
our long-term strategy, profitability and/or reputation. Existing No penalties have yet been imposed against financial institutions
mitigation plans are likely to be minimal, reflecting the uncertain under any of these measures, and their scope and application
nature of these risks at this stage. Some high-level analysis and/or remain uncertain. These and any future measures that may be
stress testing may have been carried out to assess the potential taken by the US and China may affect the Group, its customers,
impact. and the markets in which we operate.
Our current top and emerging risks are as follows. It remains unclear the extent to which the new US administration
will affect the current geopolitical tensions, following the
Externally driven
inauguration of President Biden on 20 January 2021. However,
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks long-term differences between the two nations will likely remain,
which could affect sentiment and restrict global economic activity.
Our operations and portfolios are exposed to risks associated with
We continue to monitor the situation.
political instability, civil unrest and military conflict, which could
lead to disruption of our operations, physical risk to our staff and/ While UK-China relations have historically been shaped by strong
or physical damage to our assets. trade and investment, there are also emerging challenges.
Following China’s implementation of the Hong Kong national
Global tensions over trade, technology and ideology can manifest
security law, the UK offered residency rights and a path to
themselves in divergent regulatory standards and compliance
citizenship to eligible British National (Overseas) passport holders
regimes, presenting long-term strategic challenges for
in Hong Kong. In addition, both the UK and Hong Kong
multinational businesses.
governments have suspended their extradition treaties with each
The Covid-19 outbreak dominated the political and economic other.
landscape through much of 2020. The twin shocks of a public
As geopolitical tensions rise, the compliance by multinational
health emergency and the resultant economic fallout were felt
corporations with their legal or regulatory obligations in one
around the world, hitting both advanced and emerging markets.
jurisdiction may be seen as supporting the law or policy objectives
The closure of borders threatened medical and food supplies for
of that jurisdiction over another, creating additional reputational
many markets, leading to countries and territories focusing efforts
and political risks for the Group. We maintain an open dialogue
on building resilient supply chains closer to home. The Covid-19
with our regulators on the impact of legal and regulatory
outbreak and corresponding vaccine roll-out will likely dominate
obligations on HSBC's business and customers.
the political and economic agenda for most of 2021.
China’s expanding data privacy and cybersecurity laws could pose
Tensions could increase as countries compete for access to the
potential challenges to intra-group data sharing, especially within
array of vaccines either under development, approved or pending
the Greater Bay Area. China’s draft Personal Information
110 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Protection Law and Data Security Law, if passed in their current details on customer relief programmes, see page 142. For further
forms, could increase financial institutions’ compliance burdens in details on RWAs, see page 174.
respect of cross-border transfers of personal information. In Hong
Mitigating actions
Kong, there is also an increasing focus by regulators on the use of
data and artificial intelligence. Use of personal data through digital • We closely monitor economic developments in key markets
platforms for initiatives in the Greater Bay Area may need to take and sectors and undertake scenario analysis. This helps enable
into account these evolving data privacy and cybersecurity us to take portfolio actions where necessary, including
obligations. enhanced monitoring, amending our risk appetite and/or
reducing limits and exposures.
Emerging and frontier markets have suffered particularly heavily
from the Covid-19 outbreak, in light of healthcare shortcomings, • We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify
widespread labour informality, exposure to commodities sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with management
production and often weak policy frameworks and buffers. actions being taken to rebalance exposures and manage risk
Multilateral institutions have mobilised support for the weaker appetite where necessary.
frontier markets, with the World Bank and G-20 marshalling efforts
• We undertake regular reviews of key portfolios to help ensure
to implement a standstill on debt to public sector institutions. The
that individual customer or portfolio risks are understood and
International Monetary Fund has also, to date, made
our ability to manage the level of facilities offered through any
approximately $106bn in emergency funds available to over 80
downturn is appropriate.
countries. However, negotiations on debt to the private sector will
likely prove more difficult, and may result in sovereign debt • We continually monitor the geopolitical outlook, in particular in
restructuring and defaults for several countries. Most developed countries where we have material exposures and/or a
markets are expected to recover from the crisis, as significant physical presence. We have also established
macroeconomic policies remain highly accommodative. However, dedicated forums to monitor geopolitical developments.
permanent business closures and job losses in some sectors will • We continue to carry out contingency planning following the
likely prevent several developed markets from achieving pre-crisis UK’s withdrawal from the EU and we are assessing the
growth rates or activity levels in the near term. These countries potential impact on our portfolios, operations and staff. This
and territories should be able to shoulder the higher public deficits includes the possibility of disputes arising from differing
and debts necessary to offset private sector weaknesses, given interpretations of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement and
the continuing low cost of servicing public debt. However, some other aspects of the bilateral relationship.
continental European countries entered the Covid-19 crisis on a
• We have taken steps to enhance physical security in those
weak economic and fiscal footing and suffered high healthcare
geographical areas deemed to be at high risk from terrorism
and economic costs. Although substantial joint EU monetary and
and military conflicts.
fiscal measures should help support recoveries and keep debt
servicing costs down at least through 2021, there are concerns Climate-related risks
that permanently higher debt burdens will eventually lead to
Climate change can have an impact across HSBC’s risk taxonomy
investors questioning their sustainability. Renewed government
through both transition and physical channels. Transition risk can
restrictions in response to new waves of infections will put further
arise from the move to a low-carbon economy, such as through
pressure on these economies.
policy, regulatory and technological changes. Physical risk can
Central banks have reduced interest rates in most financial arise through increasing severity and/or frequency of severe
markets due to the adverse impact on the path for economic weather or other climatic events, such as rising sea levels and
recovery from the Covid-19 outbreak, which has in turn increased flooding.
the likelihood of negative interest rates. This raises a number of
These have the potential to cause both idiosyncratic and systemic
risks and concerns, such as the readiness of our systems and
risks, resulting in potential financial and non-financial impacts for
processes to accommodate zero or negative rates, the resulting
HSBC. Financial impacts could materialise if transition and
impacts on customers, and the financial implications given the
physical risks impact the ability of borrowers to repay their loans.
significant impact that prolonged low interest rates have had, and
Non-financial impacts could materialise if our own assets or
may continue to have, on our net interest income. For some
operations are impacted by extreme weather or chronic changes
products, we have floored deposit rates at zero or made decisions
in weather patterns, or as a result of business decisions to achieve
not to charge negative rates. This, alongside loans repriced at
our climate ambition.
lower rates, will result in our commercial margins being
compressed, which is expected to be reflected in our profitability. Climate risks increased over 2020, primarily as a result of the pace
The pricing of this risk will need to be carefully considered. These and volume of policy and regulatory changes. These impacted the
factors may challenge the long-term profitability of the banking Group both directly and indirectly through our customers.
sector, including HSBC, and will be considered as part of the Mitigating actions
Group’s transformation programme.
• A dedicated Climate Risk Oversight Forum is responsible for
A Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and the UK
shaping and overseeing our approach to climate risk to provide
was agreed on 24 December 2020 and ratified by the UK on 30
support in managing the Group climate-related risks that are
December 2020. This avoids the imposition of tariffs and quotas
outside of our risk appetite. We have also established a climate
on UK-EU goods trade, and thus a more material setback to the
risk programme to drive the delivery of our plans relating to the
expected gradual recovery of the UK and EU economies from
enhancement of our risk management approach.
recessions caused by the Covid-19 outbreak. However, the new
trading relationship features non-tariff barriers, and leaves several • The Group’s risk appetite statement has been enhanced with
aspects of the broader relationship, including financial services quantitative metrics to articulate the risks from climate change
trade, for further negotiation. While it is too early to assess the full and embed climate risk into our risk management framework.
economic impact, the UK’s exit from the EU may lead to an We established a transition risk framework to gain a better
increase in market volatility and economic risk, particularly in the understanding of our exposure to the highest transition risk
UK, which could adversely impact our profitability and prospects sectors.
for growth in this market. For further details on our approach to • We implement sustainability risk policies as part of our
the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, see ‘Areas of special interest’ on reputational risk framework. We focus our policies on sensitive
page 116. sectors that may have a high adverse impact on people or on
the environment and in which we have a significant number of
The contraction in the global economy during 2020 has had
customers. These include sectors with potentially high-carbon
varying effects on our customers, with many of them experiencing
impacts.
financial difficulties. This has resulted in an increase in expected
credit losses (‘ECL’) and risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’). For further
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 111
Risk
review
Risk
• We have conducted a climate stress test pilot to inform the Securities Services business areas. The offering of RFR products is
development of our approach to climate risk management. This expected to be expanded, with further releases for products
pilot also aims to help us prepare and build the necessary referencing the Sterling Overnight Index Average (‘Sonia’) and the
capabilities to execute the Bank of England’s climate biennial Secured Overnight Financing Rate (‘SOFR’) set for the first half of
exploratory scenario in 2021. 2021, in addition to products linked to other RFRs set to be
released throughout 2021.
• We continue to engage with our customers, investors and
regulators proactively when compiling and disclosing the These developments and the reduced suitability of Ibor products
information needed to manage climate risk. We also engage have enabled HSBC to cease selling certain Ibor-linked products.
with initiatives actively, including the Climate Financial Risk Notably, the origination of US adjustable rate mortgages linked to
Forum, Equator Principles, Taskforce on Climate-related Libor has ceased, and Libor-linked loan products have been
Financial Disclosures and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure demised for Business Banking and mid-market enterprise
Project) to drive best practice for climate risk management. segments in certain countries, where suitable alternatives are
available.
For further information, see our TCFD report on page 20.
While Ibor sales do continue for a number of product lines, Ibor
Ibor transition
exposures that have post-2021 maturities are reducing, aided by
Interbank offered rates (‘Ibors’) are used to set interest rates on market compression of Ibor trades, and undertaking new
hundreds of trillions of US dollars of different types of financial transactions in alternative rate and replacement RFR products, as
transactions and are used extensively for valuation purposes, risk market liquidity builds.
measurement and performance benchmarking.
Transition legacy contracts
The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) announced in July
In addition to offering alternative rate and replacement RFR
2017 that it would no longer continue to persuade or require panel
products, the development of new product capabilities will also
banks to submit rates for the London interbank offered rate
help facilitate the transition of legacy Ibor and Eonia products.
(‘Libor’) after 2021. In addition, the 2016 EU Benchmark
HSBC has begun to engage clients to determine their ability to
Regulation, which aims to ensure the accuracy, robustness and
transition in line with the readiness of alternative rate and
integrity of interest rate benchmarks, has resulted in other
replacement RFR products. The Covid-19 outbreak and the
regulatory bodies reassessing their national benchmarks. As a
interest-rate environment may have affected clients’ abilities to
result, industry-led national working groups are actively discussing
transition early, and has resulted in compressed timelines for the
the mechanisms for an orderly transition of five Libor currencies,
transition of legacy Ibor contracts. However, for some US dollar
four Asia-Pacific benchmarks that reference US dollar Libor, the
Libor legacy contracts, this timing risk may be mitigated in part by
Euro Overnight Index Average (‘Eonia’), the Singapore interbank
the recent announcement by the Libor benchmark administrator,
offered rate (‘Sibor’), and the Turkish Lira interbank offered rate
ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (‘IBA’), to consult on
(‘TRLibor’) to their chosen replacement rates.
extending the publication of overnight and one, three, six and 12
The transition process away from Ibors, including the transition of month US dollar Libor settings to 30 June 2023. Despite the
legacy contracts that reference Ibors, exposes HSBC to material proposed extension, regulatory and industry guidance has been
execution risks, and increases some financial and non-financial clear that market participants should cease writing new US dollar
risks. Libor contracts as soon as is practicable, and in any event by the
As our Ibor transition programme progresses into the execution end of 2021 for the majority of products. While the extended
phase, resilience and operational risks are heightened. This is due deadline will result in additional US dollar Libor transactions
to an expected increase in the number of new near risk-free rate maturing before cessation, not all of them will, so it is possible
('RFR') products being rolled out, compressed timelines for the that other proposed solutions, including legislative relief, will still
transition of legacy Ibor contracts and the extensive systems and be needed.
process changes required to facilitate both new products and the The Group continues to have Ibor and Eonia derivatives, loan and
transition. This is being exacerbated by the current interest rate bond exposures maturing beyond 2021.
environment where low Libor rates, in comparison with
For the derivatives exposures, HSBC’s main trading entities have
replacement RFRs, could affect decisions to transition contracts
adhered to the adoption of the International Swaps and
early, further compressing transition timelines. Regulatory
Derivatives Association (‘ISDA’) protocol as a fallback provision,
compliance, legal and conduct risks may also increase as a result
which came into effect in January 2021, and the successful
of both the continued sale of products referencing Ibors, and the
changes made by clearing houses to discount derivatives using
sale of new products referencing RFRs, principally due to the lack
the euro short-term rate (‘€STR’) and SOFR, to reduce the risk of a
of established market conventions across the different RFR
disorderly transition of the derivatives market.
products, and the compressed timelines for transition.
Financial risks resulting from the discontinuation of Ibors and the For HSBC’s loan book, our global businesses have developed
development of market liquidity in RFRs will also affect HSBC commercial strategies that include active client engagement and
throughout transition. The differences in Ibor and RFR interest communication, providing detailed information on RFR products to
rates will create a basis risk that we need to actively manage determine our clients’ abilities to transition to a suitable alternative
through appropriate financial hedging. Basis risk in the trading rate or replacement RFR product, before Ibor cessation.
book and in the banking book may arise out of the asymmetric
With respect to HSBC’s legacy bond issuances referencing Ibors
adoption of RFRs across assets and liabilities and across
that may be subject to demise, we continue to assess the terms of
currencies and products. In addition, this may limit the ability to
those bond issuances and a variety of transition options, with a
hedge effectively.
view to implementing, through 2021 and beyond, transition plans
The continued orderly transition from Ibors continues to be the that we expect to be value neutral and in line with market practice.
programme’s key objective through 2021 and can be broadly The timing of that implementation will depend on a variety of
grouped into two workstreams: the development of alternative factors, including the expected timing for the demise of the
rate and RFR product capabilities and the transition of legacy Ibor relevant Ibor rate. The success of these transition plans will, to a
contracts. certain extent, also depend on the participation and engagement
of third-party market participants. In addition, bond issuances that
Development of alternative rate and RFR product capabilities
reference Ibors by certain issuing entities in the Group also
All of our global businesses have actively developed and reduced during 2020, with such entities opting to issue bonds that
implemented system and operational capabilities for alternative reference RFRs such as Sonia and SOFR. For those bonds where
rates, such as base or prime rates and RFR products during 2020. HSBC is the paying agent, there remains dependence on
Several key RFR product transactions were undertaken within the engagement of third-party market participants in the transition
wholesale, Wealth and Personal Banking and Markets and process of their issued debt.
112 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Mitigating actions • We assess, monitor and dynamically manage risks, and
implement specific mitigating controls when required.
• Our global Ibor transition programme continues to assist in
progressing towards an orderly transition to alternative • We continue to engage with regulatory and industry bodies
benchmarks and replacement RFRs for our business and our actively to mitigate risks relating to hedge accounting changes,
clients, which is overseen by the Group Chief Risk Officer. multiple RFR market conventions, and so-called ‘tough legacy’
contracts that have no appropriate replacements or no
• We have widened the scope of the global Ibor transition
likelihood of renegotiation to transition. This includes providing
programme to include additional interest rate benchmarks,
feedback and responses on recent IBA and FCA consultations.
where plans are in place to demise those benchmarks in the
near future. Financial instruments impacted by Ibor reform
• We have and continue to carry out extensive training, (Audited)
communication and client engagement to facilitate appropriate
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Phase 2, the amendments to
selection of products.
IFRSs issued in August 2020, represents the second phase of the
• We have dedicated teams in place to support the development IASB’s project on the effects of interest rate benchmark reform.
of and transition to alternative rate and replacement RFR The amendments address issues affecting financial statements
products. when changes are made to contractual cash flows and hedging
relationships.
• We are implementing IT and operational changes to enable a
longer transition window. Under these amendments, changes made to a financial instrument
measured at other than fair value through profit or loss that are
• We met the third quarter of 2020 regulatory endorsed
economically equivalent and required by interest rate benchmark
milestones for implementing changes to contractual
reform, do not result in the derecognition or a change in the
documentation and the clearing house-led transition to RFR
carrying amount of the financial instrument. Instead they require
discounting for derivatives.
the effective interest rate to be updated to reflect the change in
• We actively compressed derivative contracts and are targeting the interest rate benchmark. In addition, hedge accounting will not
regulatory endorsed and industry-agreed milestones for the be discontinued solely because of the replacement of the interest
cessation of new issuance of Libor transactions maturing rate benchmark if the hedge meets other hedge accounting
post-2021. These include the first quarter 2021 for sterling Libor criteria.
and the second quarter 2021 for US dollar Libor. This led to a
These amendments applied from 1 January 2021 with early
reduction in the Group’s Ibor portfolio of financial instruments.
adoption permitted. HSBC adopted the amendments from
• We are undertaking reviews of existing Ibor hedge accounting 1 January 2020.
strategies and have implemented policy and entity tools in
respect of regulatory reliefs.
Financial instruments yet to transition to alternative
benchmarks, by main benchmark
USD Libor GBP Libor JPY Libor Others1
At 31 Dec 2020 $m $m $m $m
Non-derivative financial assets2 94,148 46,587 371 10,763
Non-derivative financial liabilities2 33,602 7,183 1,548 549
Derivative notional contract amount 3,045,337 1,196,865 508,200 514,959
1 Comprises financial instruments referencing other significant benchmark rates yet to transition to alternative benchmarks (Euro Libor, Swiss franc
Libor, Eonia, SOR, MIFOR, THBFIX, PHIREF, TRLibor and Sibor).
2 Gross carrying amount excluding allowances for expected credit losses.
The amounts in the above table relate to HSBC’s main operating 2020, the escalating US-China tensions had significant impacts on
entities where HSBC has material exposures impacted by Ibor sanctions and export control legal and regulatory regimes.
reform, including in the UK, Hong Kong, France, the US, Mexico, The global economic slowdown as a result of the Covid-19
Canada, Singapore, the UAE, Bermuda, Australia, Qatar, Germany, outbreak, and the resulting rapid deployment of government relief
Japan and Thailand. The amounts provide an indication of the measures to support individuals and businesses, have increased
extent of the Group’s exposure to the Ibor benchmarks that are the risk of fraud. Developments around virtual currencies,
due to be replaced. Amounts are in respect of financial stablecoins and central bank digital currencies have continued,
instruments that: with the industry’s financial crime risk assessment and
management frameworks in their early stages. The evolving
• contractually reference an interest rate benchmark that is
regulatory environment presents an execution challenge. We
planned to transition to an alternative benchmark;
continue to face increasing challenges presented by national data
• have a contractual maturity date after 31 December 2021, the privacy requirements in a global organisation, which may affect
date by which Libor is expected to cease; and our ability to manage financial crime risks effectively. There has
• are recognised on HSBC’s consolidated balance sheet. also been an increase in media and public scrutiny on how
financial crime is managed within financial institutions.
The administrator of Libor, IBA, has announced a proposal to
extend the publication date of most US dollar Libor tenors until Mitigating actions
30 June 2023. Publication of one-week and two-month tenors will • We continue to enhance our financial crime risk management
cease after 31 December 2021. This proposal, if endorsed, would capabilities. We are investing in next generation capabilities to
reduce the amounts presented in the above table as some fight financial crime through the application of advanced
financial instruments included will reach their contractual maturity analytics and artificial intelligence. We continue to monitor
date prior to 30 June 2023. geopolitical developments closely and the impacts on our
Financial crime risk environment financial crime controls.
Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory • We are strengthening and investing in our fraud controls, to
scrutiny regarding their ability to prevent and detect financial introduce next generation anti-fraud capabilities to protect both
crime. Financial crime threats continue to evolve, often in tandem our customers and the Group.
with increased geopolitical developments and tensions, posing • We have developed procedures and controls to manage the
challenges for financial institutions to keep abreast of risks associated with direct and indirect exposure to virtual
developments and manage conflicting laws. In particular, during currencies. We continue to monitor external developments. We
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 113
Risk
review
Risk
continue to educate our staff on emerging digital products and crime groups and to collaborate in fighting, detecting and
associated risks. preventing cyber-attacks on financial organisations.
• We continue to monitor external developments on stablecoins Internally driven
and central bank digital currencies, engaging with central
Data management
banks and regulators on financial crime risk management.
We use a large number of systems and applications to support key
• We continue to work with jurisdictions and relevant
business processes and operations. To manage the risk of error,
international bodies to address data privacy challenges through
HSBC employs data controls at the point of capture, transfer and
international standards, guidance and legislation to help enable
consumption. Along with other organisations, we also need to
effective management of financial crime risk.
meet external/regulatory obligations such as the General Data
• We continue to take steps designed to ensure that the reforms Protection Regulation (‘GDPR’) and Basel III.
we have put in place are both effective and sustainable over the
Mitigating actions
long term.
• We continue to work closely with our regulators and engage in • We are improving data quality across a large number of
public-private partnerships, playing an active role in shaping systems globally. Our data management, aggregation and
the industry’s financial crime controls for the future. oversight continues to strengthen and enhance the
effectiveness of internal systems and processes. We are
Regulatory compliance risk environment including
implementing data controls for end-to-end critical processes to
conduct improve our data capture at the point of entry and throughout
Financial service providers continue to face numerous regulatory the data lifecycle.
and supervisory requirements, particularly in the areas of capital • Through our global data management framework we are
and liquidity management, conduct of business, financial crime, expanding and enhancing our data governance processes to
internal control frameworks, the use of models and the integrity of help monitor the quality of critical customer, product, reference
financial services delivery. The competitive landscape in which the and transaction data proactively and resolve associated data
Group operates may be significantly altered by future regulatory issues in a timely manner.
changes and government intervention. Regulatory changes,
• We continue to modernise our data and analytics infrastructure
including those driven by geopolitical issues, such as US-China
through investments in advanced capabilities in Cloud,
tensions and those resulting from the UK’s exit from the EU, may
visualisation, machine learning and artificial intelligence
affect the activities of the Group as a whole, or of some or all of its
platforms.
principal subsidiaries. For further details, see page 110.
• We help protect customer data via our global data privacy
Mitigating actions
framework programme, which establishes data privacy
• We engage, wherever possible, with governments and practices, design principles and guidelines that help enable us
regulators in the countries and territories in which we operate, to demonstrate compliance with data privacy laws and
to help ensure that new requirements are considered properly regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
and can be implemented effectively. In particular, we were
• To help our employees keep abreast of data privacy laws and
proactive with the global policy changes issued in response to
regulations we hold data privacy awareness training,
the Covid-19 outbreak to help our customers and contribute to
highlighting our commitment to protect personal data for our
an economic recovery.
customers, employees and other stakeholders.
• We have had regular meetings with all relevant authorities to
Model risk management
discuss strategic contingency plans, including those arising
from geopolitical issues. Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes
reliance on models. We use models in both financial and non-
Cyber threat and unauthorised access to systems
financial contexts, as well as in a range of business applications
Together with other organisations, we continue to operate in an such as customer selection, product pricing, financial crime
increasingly hostile cyber threat environment, which requires transaction monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial
ongoing investment in business and technical controls to defend reporting. Assessing model performance is a continuous
against these threats. undertaking. Models can need redevelopment as market
Key threats include unauthorised access to online customer conditions change. This was required following the outbreak of
accounts, advanced malware attacks, attacks on our third-party Covid-19 as some models used for estimating credit losses needed
suppliers and security vulnerabilities being exploited. to be redeveloped due to the dramatic change to inputs including
GDP, unemployment rates and housing prices.
Mitigating actions
Prior to the Covid-19 outbreak a key area of focus was improving
• We continually evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent and enhancing our model risk governance, and this activity
attack types and their potential outcomes. To further protect continued throughout 2020. We prioritised the redevelopment of
HSBC and our customers and help ensure the safe expansion of internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) and internal models methods (‘IMM’)
our global business lines, we strengthen our controls to reduce models, in relation to counterparty credit, as part of the IRB repair
the likelihood and impact of advanced malware, data leakage, and Basel III programmes with a key focus on enhancing the
exposure through third parties and security vulnerabilities. quality of data used as model inputs.
• We continue to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities, Mitigating actions
including Cloud security, identity and access management,
metrics and data analytics, and third-party security reviews. An • We enhanced the monitoring and review of loss model
important part of our defence strategy is ensuring our performance through our Model Risk Management function as
colleagues remain aware of cybersecurity issues and know how part of a broader quarterly process to determine loss levels. The
to report incidents. Model Risk Management team aims to provide strong and
effective review and challenge of any future redevelopment of
• We report and review cyber risk and control effectiveness these models.
quarterly at executive and non-executive Board level. We also
report across our global businesses, functions and regions to • We appointed model risk stewards for each of the global
help ensure appropriate visibility and governance of the risk businesses and functions to support, oversee and guide the
and mitigating actions. global businesses and functions on model risk management.
The risk stewards will provide close monitoring of changes in
• We participate globally in several industry bodies and working model behaviour, working closely with business and function
groups to share information about tactics employed by cyber- model owners and sponsors.
114 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
In order to address some model limitations and performance Our programme focused on four main components: legal entity
issues, we redeveloped some of the key models used to calculate restructuring; product offering; customer migrations; and
ECL estimates. These models have been independently validated employees. However, there remain risks, many of them linked to
by the Model Risk Management team and assessed as having the the absence of some equivalence decisions between the EU and
ability to deliver reliable credit loss estimates. While this reduced the UK.
the reliance on management judgement for determining ECL
We have carried out detailed reviews of our credit portfolios to
estimates, the current uncertain economic outlook, coupled with
determine those sectors and customers most vulnerable to the
the expected end to government support schemes, resulted in
UK’s exit from the EU and will continue to monitor any
judgemental post-model adjustments still being required. The
implications for our clients in adhering to the new requirements
Model Risk Management team is reviewing IFRS 9 model
under the Trade and Cooperation Agreement.
performance at the country and Group level on a quarterly basis to
assess whether or not the models in place can deliver reliable Legal entity restructuring
outputs.
Our branches in seven EEA countries (Belgium, the Netherlands,
These assessments provide the credit teams with a view of model Luxembourg, Spain, Italy, Ireland and Czech Republic) relied on
reliability. The redevelopment of IFRS 9 models will continue as financial passporting out of the UK. We had worked on the
the economic consequences of the Covid-19 outbreak become assumption that this passporting would no longer be possible
clearer over time, economic conditions normalise and actual credit following the UK’s withdrawal from the EU and therefore
losses occur. transferred our branch business to newly established branches of
HSBC Continental Europe, our primary banking entity authorised
As a result of the Covid-19 outbreak, business continuity
in the EU. This was completed in the first quarter of 2019.
responses were implemented and the majority of service level
agreements have been maintained. We have not experienced any Product offering
major impacts to the supply chain from our third-party service
To accommodate customer migrations and new business after the
providers due to the pandemic. The risk of damage or theft to our
UK’s departure from the EU, we expanded our product offering in
physical assets or criminal injury to our employees remains
a wide range of areas such as in our Markets and Securities
unchanged and no significant incidents have impacted our
Services franchise as well as in our Global Trade Business. We
buildings or staff.
also enhanced our cash management solutions in France, the
There remain significant uncertainties in assessing the duration of Netherlands and Ireland. We also opened a new branch in
the Covid-19 outbreak and its impact. The actions taken by various Stockholm to service our customers in the Nordic region.
governments and central banks, in particular in the UK, mainland
Customer migrations
China, Hong Kong and the US, provide an indication of the
potential severity of the downturn and post-recovery environment, The UK’s withdrawal from the EU has had an impact on our
which from a commercial, regulatory and risk perspective could be clients’ operating models, including their working capital
significantly different to past crises and persist for a prolonged requirements, investment decisions and financial markets
period. A continued prolonged period of significantly reduced infrastructure access. Our priority is to provide continuity of
economic activity as a result of the impact of the outbreak could service, and while our intention was to minimise the level of
have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results change for our customers, we were required to migrate some
of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital position and credit EEA-incorporated clients from the UK to HSBC Continental Europe
ratings. We continue to monitor the situation closely, and given or another EEA entity. We have now migrated almost all clients
the novel or prolonged nature of the outbreak, additional who we expect can no longer be serviced out of the UK. The
mitigating actions may be required. majority of remaining customers are covered by national regimes
that allow continuity of financial services on a temporary or
UK withdrawal from the European Union
permanent basis between the UK and their respective jurisdictions.
The UK left the EU on 31 January 2020 and entered a transition We are working in close collaboration with our customers with the
period until 31 December 2020. A Trade and Cooperation aim of managing their transition in 2021, where required.
Agreement between the EU and the UK was agreed on Employees
24 December 2020 and ratified by the UK on 30 December 2020. It
includes a joint declaration of cooperation, and in the coming The migration of EEA-incorporated clients required us to
months both parties are expected to enter discussions with the strengthen our local teams in the EU, and France in particular. We
aim of agreeing a Memorandum of Understanding establishing the have now completed the transfer of roles from London to Paris to
framework for this cooperation. As expected, the financial support our post-UK withdrawal from the EU operating model.
passporting arrangement expired at the end of the transition Looking beyond the transfer of roles to the EU, we are also
period, and therefore financial institutions in the UK including providing support to our employees who are UK citizens resident
HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK lost their EU regulatory permissions in EEA countries, and employees who are citizens of an EU
to continue servicing clients in the European Economic Area member state resident in the UK, for example on settlement
(‘EEA’) from 1 January 2021. The Trade and Cooperation applications.
Agreement mainly focused on goods and services but also
covered a wide range of other areas, including competition, state
aid, tax, fisheries, transport, data and security. However, it
included limited elements on financial services, and, as a result,
did not change HSBC’s planning in relation to the UK’s withdrawal
from the EU.
Our programme to manage the impact of the UK withdrawal from
the EU has now been largely completed. It was based on the
assumption of a scenario whereby the UK exits the transition
period without the financial passporting or regulatory equivalence
framework that supports cross-border business.
Equivalence decisions are an established feature of EU law, which
allow the authorities in the UK and EU to rely on the other’s
regime for specific regulatory purposes only. While the UK and the
EU have made a number of equivalence decisions, these decisions
do not give UK firms full access to EU clients and counterparties.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 117
Risk
review
Risk
Governance and structure activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry
sectors so that their collective ability to meet contractual
We have established Group-wide credit risk management and
obligations is uniformly affected by changes in economic, political
related IFRS 9 processes. We continue to assess the impact of
or other conditions. We use a number of controls and measures to
economic developments in key markets on specific customers,
minimise undue concentration of exposure in our portfolios across
customer segments or portfolios. As credit conditions change, we
industries, countries and global businesses. These include portfolio
take mitigating action, including the revision of risk appetites or
and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, and stress
limits and tenors, as appropriate. In addition, we continue to
testing.
evaluate the terms under which we provide credit facilities within
the context of individual customer requirements, the quality of the Credit quality of financial instruments
relationship, local regulatory requirements, market practices and
(Audited)
our local market position.
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based
Credit Risk sub-function approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to
(Audited) support the calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital
requirement. The five credit quality classifications encompass a
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the
range of granular internal credit rating grades assigned to
Group Chief Executive together with the authority to sub-delegate
wholesale and retail lending businesses, and the external ratings
them. The Credit Risk sub-function in Global Risk is responsible for
attributed by external agencies to debt securities.
the key policies and processes for managing credit risk, which
include formulating Group credit policies and risk rating For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external
frameworks, guiding the Group’s appetite for credit risk ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications based
exposures, undertaking independent reviews and objective upon the mapping of related customer risk rating (‘CRR’) to
assessment of credit risk, and monitoring performance and external credit rating.
management of portfolios. Wholesale lending
The principal objectives of our credit risk management are:
The CRR 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying
• to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible 23-grade scale of obligor probability of default (‘PD’). All corporate
lending, and robust risk policies and control frameworks; customers are rated using the 10- or 23-grade scale, depending on
the degree of sophistication of the Basel approach adopted for the
• to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining,
exposure.
implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite
under actual and scenario conditions; and Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by
reference to long-run default rates for that grade, represented by
• to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks,
the average of issuer-weighted historical default rates. This
their costs and their mitigation.
mapping between internal and external ratings is indicative and
Key risk management processes may vary over time.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ process Retail lending
The IFRS 9 process comprises three main areas: modelling and Retail lending credit quality is based on a 12-month point-in-time
data; implementation; and governance. probability-weighted PD.
Modelling and data
We have established IFRS 9 modelling and data processes in
various geographies, which are subject to internal model risk
governance including independent review of significant model
developments.
Implementation
A centralised impairment engine performs the expected credit
losses calculation using data, which is subject to a number of
validation checks and enhancements, from a variety of client,
finance and risk systems. Where possible, these checks and
processes are performed in a globally consistent and centralised
manner.
Governance
Regional management review forums are established in key sites
and regions in order to review and approve the impairment results.
Regional management review forums have representatives from
Credit Risk and Finance. The key site and regional approvals are
reported up to the global business impairment committee for final
approval of the Group’s ECL for the period. Required members of
the committee are the global heads of Wholesale Credit, Market
Risk, and Wealth and Personal Banking Risk, as well as the global
business chief financial officers and the Group Chief Accounting
Officer.
Concentration of exposure
(Audited)
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of
counterparties or exposures have comparable economic
characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar
120 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Risk
liability enhancing actions, the Group and all entities had performance and planning, risks to capital, and the implications of
significant surplus liquidity, resulting in heightened liquidity stress testing. Our assessment of capital adequacy is driven by an
coverage ratios throughout 2020. At 31 December 2020, all of assessment of risks. These risks include credit, market,
the Group’s material operating entities were above regulatory operational, pensions, insurance, structural foreign exchange and
minimum levels of liquidity and funding. interest rate risk in the banking book. The Group ICAAP supports
the determination of the consolidated capital risk appetite and
• Declines in interest rates and the flattening of interest rate yield
target ratios as well as enables the assessment and determination
curves combined to put downwards pressure on net interest
of capital requirements by regulators. Subsidiaries prepare ICAAPs
income (‘NII’). Balance sheet composition changed, with a
based on their local regulatory regimes in order to determine their
significant build-up of liquidity that was deployed in short-term
own risk appetites and ratios.
investments, which were predominantly cash, hold-to-collect-
and-sell securities and reverse repos. This factor, together with HSBC Holdings is the provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries
the lower level of interest rates, increased the sensitivity of NII and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary.
to future changes in interest rates. In the scenario where These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’
interest rates fall significantly from current levels, contractual own capital issuance and profit retention.
floors would dampen the effect on the average rate that would
HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the
be paid on liabilities whereas the asset side of the balance
composition of its capital and its investments in subsidiaries,
sheet would be more likely to reprice lower, reducing
including management of double leverage. Double leverage
commercial margin.
reflects the extent to which equity investments in operating
• During 2020 we worked with the fiduciaries of all our pension entities are funded by holding company debt. Where Group capital
plans to ensure robust and timely actions were taken in requirements are less than the aggregate of operating entity
response to the Covid-19 outbreak, including the smooth capital requirements, double leverage can be used to improve
transition to remote working for plan providers and dealing Group capital efficiency provided it is managed appropriately and
appropriately with affected plan members. Our de-risking prudently in accordance with risk appetite. Double leverage is a
programmes provided protection against the volatility in constraint on managing our capital position, given the complexity
financial markets that resulted from the outbreak’s economic of the Group’s subsidiary structure and the multiple regulatory
impact. regimes under which we operate. As a matter of long-standing
policy, the holding company retains a substantial portfolio of high-
For quantitative disclosures on capital ratios, own funds and RWAs, see
pages 173 to 174. For quantitative disclosures on liquidity and funding quality liquid assets (‘HQLA’), which at 31 December 2020 was in
metrics, see pages 176 to 178. For quantitative disclosures on interest rate excess of $14bn. The portfolio of HQLA helps to mitigate holding
risk in the banking book, see pages 179 to 180. company cash flow risk arising from double leverage, and
underpins the strength of support the holding company can offer
Governance and structure
its subsidiaries in times of stress. Further mitigation is provided by
The Global Head of Treasury Risk Management and Global Risk additional tier 1 (‘AT1’) securities issued in excess of the regulatory
Analytics is the accountable risk steward for all treasury risks, the requirements of our subsidiaries.
Group Head of Performance and Reward is the risk owner for
We maintain a comprehensive liquidity and funding risk
pensions and the Group Treasurer is the risk owner for remaining
management framework (‘LFRF’), which aims to enable us to
treasury risks.
withstand very severe liquidity stresses. The LFRF comprises
Capital and liquidity are the responsibility of the Group Executive policies, metrics and controls designed to ensure that Group and
Committee and directly addressed by the Group Risk Committee entity management have oversight of our liquidity and funding
(‘GRC’). Treasury risks are generally managed through the risks in order to manage them appropriately. We manage liquidity
Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and and funding risk at an operating entity level to ensure that
local ALCOs and overseen by the Risk Management Meeting obligations can be met in the jurisdiction where they fall due,
(‘RMM’). generally without reliance on other parts of the Group. Operating
The Asset, Liability and Capital Management (‘ALCM’) function is entities are required to meet internal minimum requirements and
responsible for managing interest rate risk in the banking book. It any applicable regulatory requirements at all times. These
maintains the transfer pricing framework and informs the Holdings requirements are assessed through the ILAAP, which ensures that
ALCO of the Group’s overall banking book interest rate exposure. operating entities have robust strategies, policies, processes and
Banking book interest rate positions may be transferred to be systems for the identification, measurement, management and
managed by the Markets Treasury business, previously known as monitoring of liquidity risk over an appropriate set of time
Balance Sheet Management, within the market risk limits horizons, including intra-day. The ILAAP informs the validation of
approved by the RMM. Effective governance of Markets Treasury risk tolerance and the setting of risk appetite. It also assesses the
is supported by the dual reporting lines it has to the Chief capability to manage liquidity and funding effectively in each
Executive Officer of Global Banking and Markets and to the Group major entity. These metrics are set and managed locally but are
Treasurer, with the Global Risk function acting as a second line of subject to robust global review and challenge to ensure
defence. consistency of approach and application of the LFRF across the
Group.
Pension risk is managed by a network of local and regional
pension risk forums. The Global Pensions Oversight Forum Planning and performance
provides oversight of all pension plans sponsored by HSBC Capital and risk-weighted asset (‘RWA’) plans form part of the
globally and is co-chaired by the Group Treasurer and the Global annual operating plan that is approved by the Board. Capital and
Head of Treasury Risk Management and Global Risk Analytics. RWA forecasts are submitted to the Group Executive Committee
Capital, liquidity and funding risk management on a monthly basis, and capital and RWAs are monitored and
processes managed against the plan. The responsibility for global capital
allocation principles rests with the Group Chief Financial Officer
Assessment and risk appetite supported by the Group Capital Management Meeting. This is a
Our capital management policy is underpinned by a capital specialist forum addressing capital management, reporting into
management framework and our ICAAP. The framework Holdings ALCO.
incorporates key capital risk appetites for CET1, total capital, Through our internal governance processes, we seek to strengthen
minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions, and
(‘MREL’), and double leverage. The ICAAP is an assessment of the to ensure that returns on investment meet management’s
Group’s capital position, outlining both regulatory and internal objectives. Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and
capital resources and requirements resulting from HSBC’s entities to support growth objectives where returns above internal
business model, strategy, risk profile and management, hurdle levels have been identified and in order to meet their
170 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Pension risk is assessed using an economic capital model that Following the end of the transition period following the UK's
takes into account potential variations in these factors. The impact withdrawal from the EU, any reference to EU regulations and
of these variations on both pension assets and pension liabilities is directives (including technical standards) should be read as a
assessed using a one-in-200-year stress test. Scenario analysis reference to the UK's version of such regulation or directive, as
and other stress tests are also used to support pension risk onshored into UK law under the European Union (Withdrawal) Act
management. To fund the benefits associated with defined benefit 2018, as amended.
plans, sponsoring Group companies, and in some instances
Capital figures and ratios in the previous table are calculated in
employees, make regular contributions in accordance with advice
accordance with the revised Capital Requirements Regulation and
from actuaries and in consultation with the plan’s trustees where
Directive, as implemented (‘CRR II’). The table presents them
relevant. These contributions are normally set to ensure that there
under the transitional arrangements in CRR II for capital
are sufficient funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for
instruments and after their expiry, known as the end point. The
the future service of active members. However, higher
end point figures in the table above include the benefit of the
contributions are required when plan assets are considered
regulatory transitional arrangements in CRR II for IFRS 9, which
insufficient to cover the existing pension liabilities. Contribution
are more fully described below.
rates are typically revised annually or once every three years,
depending on the plan. Where applicable, they also reflect government relief schemes
intended to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak.
The defined benefit plans invest contributions in a range of
investments designed to limit the risk of assets failing to meet a Regulatory transitional arrangements for IFRS 9
plan’s liabilities. Any changes in expected returns from the ‘Financial Instruments’
investments may also change future contribution requirements. In
We have adopted the regulatory transitional arrangements in
pursuit of these long-term objectives, an overall target allocation is
CRR II for IFRS 9, including paragraph four of article 473a. Our
established between asset classes of the defined benefit plan. In
capital and ratios are presented under these arrangements
addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such
throughout the table above, including in the end point figures.
as stock-market or property valuation indices or liability
Without their application, our CET1 ratio would be 15.7%.
characteristics. The benchmarks are reviewed at least once every
three to five years and more frequently if required by local The IFRS 9 regulatory transitional arrangements allow banks to
legislation or circumstances. The process generally involves an add back to their capital base a proportion of the impact that
extensive asset and liability review. IFRS 9 has upon their loan loss allowances during the first five
years of use. The impact is defined as:
In addition, some of the Group’s pension plans hold longevity
swap contracts. These arrangements provide long-term protection • the increase in loan loss allowances on day one of IFRS 9
to the relevant plans against costs resulting from pensioners or adoption; and
their dependants living longer than initially expected. The most • any subsequent increase in ECL in the non-credit-impaired
sizeable plan to do this is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme,
book thereafter.
which holds longevity swaps covering approximately three-
quarters of the plan’s pensioner liabilities (50% with The Prudential Any add-back must be tax affected and accompanied by a
Insurance Company of America and 25% with Swiss Re). recalculation of exposure and RWAs. The impact is calculated
separately for portfolios using the standardised (‘STD’) and internal
Capital risk in 2020
ratings-based (‘IRB’) approaches. For IRB portfolios, there is no
Capital overview add-back to capital unless loan loss allowances exceed regulatory
12-month expected losses.
Capital adequacy metrics The EU’s CRR II ‘Quick Fix’ relief package enacted in June 2020
increased from 70% to 100% the relief that banks may take for
At loan loss allowances recognised since 1 January 2020 on the
31 Dec 31 Dec non-credit-impaired book.
2020 2019
In the current period, the add-back to CET1 capital amounted to
Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) ($bn)
$1.6bn under the STD approach with a tax impact of $0.4bn. At 31
Credit risk 691.9 676.6
December 2019, the add-back to the capital base under the STD
Counterparty credit risk 42.8 44.1
Market risk 28.5 29.9
approach was $1.0bn with a tax impact of $0.2bn.
Operational risk 94.3 92.8
Total RWAs 857.5 843.4
Capital on a transitional basis ($bn)
Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital 136.1 124.0
Tier 1 capital 160.2 148.4
Total capital 184.4 172.2
Capital ratios on a transitional basis (%)
Common equity tier 1 ratio 15.9 14.7
Tier 1 ratio 18.7 17.6
Total capital ratio 21.5 20.4
Capital on an end point basis ($bn)
Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital 136.1 124.0
Tier 1 capital 158.5 144.8
Total capital 173.2 159.3
Capital ratios on an end point basis (%)
Common equity tier 1 ratio 15.9 14.7
Tier 1 ratio 18.5 17.2
Total capital ratio 20.2 18.9
Liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’)
Total high-quality liquid assets ($bn) 677.9 601.4
Total net cash outflow ($bn) 487.3 400.5
LCR ratio (%) 139.1 150.2
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 173
Risk
review
which is responsible for measuring, monitoring and reporting Risk not in VaR framework
market risk exposures against limits on a daily basis. Each
The risks not in VaR (‘RNIV’) framework captures and capitalises
operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising in its
material market risks that are not adequately covered in the VaR
business and to transfer them either to its local Markets and
model.
Securities Services or Markets Treasury unit for management, or
to separate books managed under the supervision of the local Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and are either
ALCO. The Traded Risk function enforces the controls around incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or
trading in permissible instruments approved for each site as well quantified through either the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress
as changes that follow completion of the new product approval test approach within the RNIV framework. While VaR-based RNIVs
process. Traded Risk also restricts trading in the more complex are calculated by using historical scenarios, stress-type RNIVs are
derivative products to offices with appropriate levels of product estimated on the basis of stress scenarios whose severity is
expertise and robust control systems. calibrated to be in line with the capital adequacy requirements.
The outcome of the VaR-based RNIV approach is included in the
Key risk management processes
overall VaR calculation but excluded from the VaR measure used
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures for regulatory back-testing. In addition, the stressed VaR measure
also includes risk factors considered in the VaR-based RNIV
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures
approach.
while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk
appetite. Stress-type RNIVs include a deal contingent derivatives capital
charge to capture risk for these transactions and a de-peg risk
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures
measure to capture risk to pegged and heavily managed
including sensitivity analysis, VaR and stress testing.
currencies.
Sensitivity analysis
Stress testing
Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market
Stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated into our
factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios, including
market risk management framework to evaluate the potential
interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. We use
impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible,
sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions within
events or movements in a set of financial variables. In such
each risk type. Granular sensitivity limits are set for trading desks
scenarios, losses can be much greater than those predicted by
with consideration of market liquidity, customer demand and
VaR modelling.
capital constraints, among other factors.
Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall
Value at risk
Group levels. A set of scenarios is used consistently across all
(Audited) regions within the Group. The risk appetite around potential stress
VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions losses for the Group is set and monitored against a referral limit.
as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a Market risk reverse stress tests are designed to identify
specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use vulnerabilities in our portfolios by looking for scenarios that lead to
of VaR is integrated into market risk management and calculated loss levels considered severe for the relevant portfolio. These
for all trading positions regardless of how we capitalise them. In scenarios may be quite local or idiosyncratic in nature, and
addition, we calculate VaR for non-trading portfolios to have a complement the systematic top-down stress testing.
complete picture of risk. Where we do not calculate VaR explicitly,
Stress testing and reverse stress testing provide senior
we use alternative tools as summarised in the ‘Stress testing’
management with insights regarding the ‘tail risk’ beyond VaR, for
section below.
which our appetite is limited.
Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that
Trading portfolios
incorporates the following features:
Trading portfolios comprise positions held for client servicing and
• historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with
market-making, with the intention of short-term resale and/or to
reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest
hedge risks resulting from such positions.
rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;
Back-testing
• potential market movements that are calculated with reference
to data from the past two years; and We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by back-
• calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a one-day testing the VaR metric against both actual and hypothetical profit
holding period. and loss. Hypothetical profit and loss excludes non-modelled items
such as fees, commissions and revenue of intra-day transactions.
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the
underlying exposures. The nature of the VaR models means that The number of back-testing exceptions is used to gauge how well
an increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in the models are performing. We consider enhanced internal
VaR without any changes in the underlying positions. monitoring of a VaR model if more than five profit exceptions or
more than five loss exceptions occur in a 250-day period.
VaR model limitations
We back-test our VaR at set levels of our Group entity hierarchy.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used with awareness of
Market risk in 2020
its limitations. For example:
• The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future Global financial conditions worsened rapidly with the onset of the
market moves may not encompass all potential market events, Covid-19 outbreak from mid-February 2020. Market volatility
particularly those that are extreme in nature. reached extreme levels across most asset classes and equity
prices fell sharply. In credit markets, spreads and yields reached
• The use of a one-day holding period for risk management
multi-year highs. The gold market experienced Covid-19-related
purposes of trading and non-trading books assumes that this
disruption in refining and transportation, affecting the relative
short period is sufficient to hedge or liquidate all positions.
pricing of gold futures contracts. Oil prices collapsed due to rising
• The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take oversupply as demand reduced materially from the economic
into account losses that might occur beyond this level of slowdown. Financial markets stabilised from April onwards, as
confidence. governments in several developed countries announced economic
recovery programmes and key central banks intervened to provide
• VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the
liquidity and support asset prices. Global equity markets
close of business and therefore does not reflect intra-day
substantially recovered from their losses in March and credit
exposures.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 183
Risk
review
Risk
Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on securities held at fair Governance and structure
value, structural foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk on
The Operational and Resilience Risk target operating model
fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings. HSBC’s
provides a globally consistent view across resilience risks,
management of market risks in non-trading books is described
strengthening our risk management oversight while operating
further in the Treasury Risk section.
effectively as part of a simplified non-financial risk structure. We
Market risk balance sheet linkages view resilience risk across seven risk types related to: third parties
and supply chains; information, technology and cybersecurity;
The following balance sheet lines in the Group’s consolidated
payments and manual processing; physical security; business
position are subject to market risk:
interruption and contingency risk; building unavailability; and
Trading assets and liabilities workplace safety.
The Group’s trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases A principal senior management meeting for operational and
originated by GBM. These assets and liabilities are treated as resilience risk governance is the Non-Financial Risk Management
traded risk for the purposes of market risk management, other Board, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, with an escalation
than a limited number of exceptions, primarily in Global Banking path to the Group Risk Management Meeting.
where the short-term acquisition and disposal of the assets are Key risk management processes
linked to other non-trading-related activities such as loan
origination. Operational resilience is our ability to anticipate, prevent, adapt,
respond to, recover and learn from internal or external disruption,
Derivative assets and liabilities
protecting customers, the markets we operate in and economic
We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: to stability. Resilience is determined by assessing whether we are
create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the able to continue to provide our most important services, within an
portfolio risks arising from client business, and to manage and agreed level. We accept we will not be able to prevent all
hedge our own risks. Most of our derivative exposures arise from disruption but we prioritise investment to continually improve the
sales and trading activities within GBM. The assets and liabilities response and recovery strategies for our most important business
included in trading VaR give rise to a large proportion of the services.
income included in net income from financial instruments held for Business operations continuity
trading or managed on a fair value basis. Adjustments to trading
income such as valuation adjustments are not measured by the As a result of the Covid-19 outbreak, we successfully implemented
trading VaR model. business continuity responses and continue to maintain the
majority of service level agreements. We did not experience any
For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments at
major impacts to the supply chain from our third-party service
fair value, see Note 1 on the financial statements
providers due to the pandemic. The risk of damage or theft to our
physical assets or criminal injury to our colleagues remains
Resilience risk
unchanged and no significant incidents impacted our buildings or
people.
Overview
Resilience risk is the risk that we are unable to provide critical Regulatory compliance risk
services to our customers, affiliates and counterparties, as a result
of sustained and significant operational disruption. Resilience risk Overview
arises from failures or inadequacies in processes, people, systems
Regulatory compliance risk is the risk that we fail to observe the
or external events.
letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and
Resilience risk management standards of good market practice, which as a consequence incur
fines and penalties and suffer damage to our business.
Key developments in 2020
Regulatory compliance risk arises from the risks associated with
In line with the increasing expectations from customers, regulators
breaching our duty to our customers and inappropriate market
and the Board, and in response to a continually evolving threat
conduct, as well as breaching regulatory licensing, permissions
landscape that the wider industry faces, we combined Operational
and rules.
Risk and Resilience Risk to form a new Operational and Resilience
Risk sub-function. This sub-function provides robust non-financial Regulatory compliance risk management
risk steward oversight of the management of risk by the Group
Key developments in 2020
businesses, functions, legal entities and critical business services.
It also provides effective and timely independent challenge. We In 2020, we made changes to our wider approach to the
carried out several initiatives during the year: governance and structure of the Compliance function and
continued to raise standards related to the conduct of our
• We developed regional hubs accountable for core Operational
business, as set out below.
and Resilience Risk activities.
Governance and structure
• We implemented teams aligned to businesses and functions,
which were focused on emerging risks as well as material In May, we introduced a new operating model to transform the
products and services. Compliance function. We created a new Group capability called
Group Regulatory Conduct, which was formed from the regulatory
• We deployed risk management oversight of the most material
compliance and regulatory affairs capabilities, and the monitor
transformation programmes across the Group.
liaison office team. The Group Head of Regulatory Conduct
• We implemented central services including governance, continues to report to the Group Chief Compliance Officer. The
reporting and transformation. Group Regulatory Conduct capability works with the newly
appointed regional chief compliance officers and their respective
• We created a stand-alone assurance capability that provides
teams to help them identify and manage regulatory compliance
independent review and evaluation of end-to-end processes,
risks across the Group. They also work together to ensure good
risks and key controls.
conduct outcomes and provide enterprise-wide support on the
We prioritise our efforts on material risks and areas undergoing regulatory agenda.
strategic growth, aligning our location strategy to this need. We
Key risk management processes
also remotely provide oversight and stewardship, including
support of chief risk officers, in territories where we have no The Group Regulatory Conduct capability is responsible for setting
physical presence. global policies, standards and risk appetite to guide the Group’s
management of regulatory compliance. It also devises clear
186 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
frameworks and support processes to protect against regulatory measures during this period to support the business and our
compliance risks. The capability provides oversight, review and customers. These included:
challenge to the regional chief compliance officers and their teams
• We supported the most vulnerable customers and those in
to help them identify, assess and mitigate regulatory compliance
financial difficulty, including by increasing the awareness of
risks, where required. The Group’s regulatory compliance risk
fraud during this period.
policies are regularly reviewed. Global policies and procedures
require the prompt identification and escalation of any actual or • The Compliance function proactively engaged with other parts
potential regulatory breach. Relevant reportable events are of the organisation to ensure financial crime risks were
escalated to the Group RMM and the GRC, as appropriate. considered as part of Covid-19-related decisions.
Conduct of business • Compliance colleagues were seconded to other parts of the
organisation to assist with supporting the establishment of
In 2020, we continued to promote and encourage good conduct
government relief measures.
through our people’s behaviour and decision making to deliver fair
outcomes for our customers, and to maintain financial market • We supported customers and the organisation through policy
integrity. During 2020: exceptions, including by allowing email instructions instead of
face-to-face meetings, and introducing virtual onboarding.
• We continued to champion a strong conduct and customer-
focused culture. We implemented a number of measures We consistently review the effectiveness of our financial crime risk
throughout the Covid-19 outbreak to support our customers in management framework, which includes consideration of
financial difficulties. We also maintained service and supported geopolitical and wider economic factors. The sanctions regulatory
colleagues in unprecedented conditions. environment remained changeable and uncertain during the
course of 2020 due to the ongoing geopolitical tensions between
• We continued our focus on culture and behaviours, adapting
the US and China, the end of the transition period following the
our controls and risk management processes to reflect
UK’s departure from the EU, and the increasing divergence in
significant levels of remote working throughout the year.
sanctions policies between the US and the EU on Iran and Russia.
• We continued to invest significant resources to improve our Our policy is to comply with all applicable sanctions regulations in
compliance systems and controls relating to our activities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we continue to monitor
Global Markets and to ensure market integrity. These included the geopolitical landscape for ongoing developments. We also
enhancements to: pricing and disclosure, order management continued to progress several key financial crime risk
and trade execution; trade; voice and audio surveillance; front management initiatives, including:
office supervision; and the enforcement and discipline
• We continued to strengthen our anti-fraud capabilities,
framework for employee misconduct.
focusing on threats posed by new and existing technologies,
• We continued to emphasise – and worked to create – an and have delivered a comprehensive fraud training programme
environment in which employees are encouraged and feel safe across the Group.
to speak up. We placed a particular focus on the importance of • We continued to invest in the use of artificial intelligence (‘AI’)
well-being during the pandemic through regular top-down
and advanced analytics techniques to manage financial crime
communications, virtual town halls, videos and podcasts.
risk, and we published our principles for the ethical use of Big
• We continued to embed conduct within our business line Data and AI.
processes. We also considered and sought to mitigate the
• We continued to work on strengthening our ability to combat
conduct impacts of the Group’s strategic transformation
money laundering and terrorist financing. In particular, we
programme and other key business change programmes,
focused on the use of technology to enhance our risk
including those relating to the UK’s departure from the EU and
management processes while minimising the impact to the
the Ibor transition.
customer. We also continued to develop our approach of
• We delivered our sixth annual global mandatory training course intelligence-led financial crime risk management, in part,
on conduct to reinforce the importance of conduct for all through enhancements to our automated transaction
colleagues. monitoring systems.
• We are refreshing our approach to conduct arrangements Governance and structure
across the Group with a view to ensuring that the
Since establishing a global framework of financial crime risk
arrangements remain appropriate for the nature of our
management committees in 2018, we have continued to
business.
strengthen and review the effectiveness of our governance
The Board continues to maintain oversight of conduct matters framework to manage financial crime risk. Formal governance
through the GRC. committees are held across all countries, territories, regions and
global businesses, and are chaired by the respective chief
Further details can be found under the ‘Our conduct’ section of
www.hsbc.com/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility. executive officers. They help to enable compliance with the letter
and the spirit of all applicable financial crime laws and regulations,
Financial crime risk as well as our own standards, values and policies relating to
financial crime risks. At a Group level, the Financial Crime Risk
Overview Management Meeting, chaired by the Group Chief Compliance
Officer, has served as the pinnacle of this governance structure,
Financial crime risk is the risk of knowingly or unknowingly
ultimately responsible for the management of financial crime risk.
helping parties to commit or to further illegal activity through
As a reflection of the growing maturity and effectiveness of our
HSBC, including money laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption,
financial crime risk management, this meeting was integrated with
tax evasion, sanctions breaches, and terrorist and proliferation
the Group Risk Management Meeting in January 2021. During the
financing. Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day banking
course of 2021, we will review the management of financial crime
operations involving customers, third parties and employees.
risk across the Group to identify other areas that could be
Financial crime risk management simplified.
Key developments in 2020 During 2020, we redesigned and delivered an integrated operating
model for our Compliance function, with the accompanying
In 2020, we continued to strengthen our fight against financial restructure providing greater accountability to our regional
crime and to enhance our financial crime risk management Compliance teams. These teams, led by regional chief compliance
capability. Amid the challenges posed by the Covid-19 outbreak, officers, will support the Group Chief Compliance Officer in
we introduced a number of financial crime risk management aligning the way in which we manage all compliance risks,
including financial crime risk, to the needs and aims of the wider
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 187
Risk
review
Corporate
governance
Corporate
governance report
196 Group Chairman’s governance statement
198 The Board
202 Senior management
204 How we are governed
209 Board activities during 2020
213 Board committees
229 Directors’ remuneration report
256 Share capital and other related disclosures
260 Internal control
261 Employees
264 Statement of compliance
265 Directors’ responsibility statement
HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate
governance. We have a comprehensive range of
policies and systems in place designed to ensure that
the Group is well managed, with effective oversight
and control.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 195
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Group Chairman’s governance statement
Despite the challenging environment, the Board
remained informed on relevant issues, engaged
with stakeholders, and oversaw the development
of our new Group purpose and values.
As Group Chairman, I am ultimately
responsible for the Group’s governance
arrangements and the effective operation of
the Board. I am also responsible for ensuring
that the Board sets the right tone from the top
of the organisation and monitors the Group’s
culture. Given the unique challenges faced
during 2020 as a result of the Covid-19
outbreak, it was important that the Board was
properly informed on a regular basis on all
key issues and priorities affecting the Group.
To achieve this, we increased our Board
communication and met more frequently
during 2020, albeit remotely and with
scheduling flexed to meet the challenges
of Directors based in different time zones.
This allowed us to share insights and receive
updates on key developments, supported by
the attendance of external subject matter
experts.
Given the restrictions on travel and large
gatherings, and the guidance available to us
at the time, we took the decision to hold the
2020 AGM behind closed doors. As we
approach our 2021 AGM, we will continue to
monitor the situation, and will prioritise the
health and safety of the Board, our colleagues
and of course our shareholders. Further details
Mark E Tucker will be provided when our Notice of AGM is
Group Chairman published on 24 March 2021.
“ Governance improvements will remain Board changes
an area of focus for the Board and its Following a thorough and robust search
process, as more fully set out in the
subsidiaries in the years ahead as the Nomination & Corporate Governance
Group aims to achieve its ambition of Committee report on page 213, the Board
unanimously supported the appointment
operating with world-class governance.”
of Noel Quinn as Group Chief Executive on
17 March 2020. Noel has provided strong
direction and excellent leadership to HSBC
through these unprecedented times.
I would like to thank Sir Jonathan Symonds
Dear Shareholder
and Kathleen Casey who stepped down from
the Board earlier this year. We subsequently
With the global pandemic and challenging appointed three new Directors, James Forese,
macroeconomic and geopolitical environment, Steven Guggenheimer and Eileen Murray, who
2020 was an extraordinary year for the Board. collectively bring strong universal banking,
These challenges have highlighted the operational and technology expertise.
importance of our governance framework and
operating practices. Against this backdrop, While the Board and its committees have
the Board oversaw the development of the operated well in a virtual environment, I do
Group’s future purpose and strategy led by not underestimate the value of in-person
the Group Chief Executive. We adapted our meetings. Our three new Directors underwent
Board and senior management engagement a successful virtual non-executive Director
schedule to ensure that as a Board, we induction programme during the year and we
continued to deliver on our responsibilities look forward to welcoming them in person at
to our key stakeholders. an appropriate point in the future.
196 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Corporate
governance
Today we also announce that Laura Cha will effective and diverse skill sets that are aligned issues, as well as training to provide the Board
step down from the Board at the conclusion of with our future strategy. Further details with insight and an understanding of the
our 2021 AGM in May. On behalf of the Board, are set out in the Nomination & Corporate developing landscape and stakeholder
I wish to thank Laura for her outstanding Governance Committee report on page 213. expectations.
dedication and the enormous contribution
she has made to the success of HSBC over We enhanced our subsidiary accountability Recognising the importance of these matters
many years. I greatly appreciate the support framework, which applies to all subsidiaries to our stakeholders, investors and customers,
and counsel that she has provided to me within the Group, by supplementing this with the Board was pleased to announce our
personally on many occasions since I clear principles and provisions. The refreshed updated climate ambition in October 2020.
became the Group Chairman. framework builds on the progress made to Further information is provided on pages 24
enhance Group standards with the aim of and 44.
The Board initiated a search for suitable achieving world-class governance across
candidates to join and strengthen the expertise all our subsidiaries. Workforce engagement
on the Board, and further enhance our Members of the Board and subsidiary boards
Board diversity and knowledge of Asia. We strengthened connectivity between engaged actively with our employees during
I was delighted that last week we were able the HSBC Holdings Board and principal 2020 in line with the requirements of the 2018
to announce the appointment of Dame Carolyn subsidiaries by increasing the frequency of the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to
Fairbairn as an independent non-executive Chairman’s Forum meetings. These monthly workforce engagement.
Director. Carolyn will bring a wealth of relevant meetings – which I chair – are attended by the
experience to our Board and her appointment chairs of the Holdings Board committees and Despite travel restrictions, all of the non-
will be effective from 1 September 2021. I am the chairs of the principal subsidiaries’ boards. executive Directors engaged directly with
pleased to report we are in advanced stages Given the significant uncertainty and members of the workforce across our global
on other searches that will result in further challenges that the Group, the industry and business lines, and through our employee
strengthening the Board’s skill set. wider society encountered in 2020, these resource groups. This has provided great
more frequent meetings proved hugely insight into the views of the wider workforce
Board evaluation beneficial in identifying and navigating the and gave valuable context for the Directors
In line with best practice, the Board and its challenges facing the Group globally. in informing their discussions at the Board.
committees again conducted a review of the Further details of our workforce engagement
effectiveness of our operation and practices. Purpose and values practices during 2020 can be found on
As we developed our purpose and values, the page 210.
Our 2019 review identified a number of areas Board undertook significant engagement with
for improvement in the way that the Board key stakeholders. Their input was important Looking ahead
operated. We took a number of actions during and influenced the outcome. It is critical that I am pleased with the progress that the Board
the second half of 2019 and throughout the values and associated behaviours are and broader Group have made in enhancing
2020 to address the areas identified, which embedded across the Group. Senior our governance practices during 2020.
contributed to improved effectiveness despite management’s success in embedding the Governance improvements will remain an area
the challenges posed by Covid-19 and the purpose and values will be overseen by the of focus for the Board and its subsidiaries in
uncertain geopolitical environment. Board. The Board and the Group Executive the years ahead as the Group aims to achieve
Committee set the tone from the top by its ambition of operating with world-class
We took the decision to once again invite adopting these refreshed values, which will governance.
Dr Tracy Long, the independent board inform the Board’s engagement practices
evaluator, to facilitate our 2020 review, provide and help facilitate an open and collaborative As a result of the Covid-19 outbreak, we
assurance on the progress made, and identify relationship with its stakeholders. The have had to adjust how we engage with our
any areas where further action was required. boardroom guidelines, which set out the shareholders and other stakeholders, with
Further details of the process, findings and ways of working between the Board and in-person meetings substituted for virtual
recommendations from the 2020 review can management and which were implemented meetings where necessary. Despite this, we
be found on page 211. in 2020, also support the engagement continued to engage fully with institutional
between the Board and management. investors. With encouraging news regarding
Subsidiary governance successful vaccines, I look forward to
During the year, the Board requested Further details of the Board’s consideration resuming in-person engagement practices
the Group Company Secretary and Chief when developing the purpose and values with our stakeholders when safe to do so.
Governance Officer to undertake a review of can be found in our section 172 statement
subsidiary governance, including a review of on page 24.
the composition of the principal subsidiary
boards. Following this exercise, principal Climate commitments
subsidiaries will report to the Nomination & Environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’)
Corporate Governance Committee during issues have been an area of significant Board Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman
2021 on their future board compositions and focus during 2020. This has been in the form
succession plans to help ensure that they have of formal consideration of our strategy and
23 February 2021
ambitions in relation to ESG and climate
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 197
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
The Board
The Board aims to promote the Group’s long-term
success, deliver sustainable value to shareholders
and promote a culture of openness and debate.
Chairman and executive Directors
Mark E Tucker (63) Noel Quinn (59) Ewen Stevenson (54)
Group Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer
Appointed to the Board: September 2017 Appointed to the Board: August 2019 Appointed to the Board: January 2019
Group Chairman since: October 2017 Group Chief Executive since: March 2020
Skills and experience: Ewen has over 25 years’
Skills and experience: With over 30 years’ Skills and experience: Noel has more than 30 experience in the banking industry, both as an
experience in financial services in Asia and the years’ banking and financial services experience, adviser to major banks and as an executive of
UK, Mark has a deep understanding of the industry both in the UK and Asia, with over 28 years at HSBC. large financial institutions. In addition to his existing
and the markets in which we operate. leadership responsibilities for Group Finance,
Career: Noel was formally named Group Chief Ewen assumed responsibility for the oversight
Career: Mark was previously Group Chief Executive Executive in March 2020, having held the role on an of the Group's transformation programme in
and President of AIA Group Limited (‘AIA’). Prior to interim basis since August 2019. He has held various February 2021 and will assume responsibility
joining AIA, he held various senior management management roles across HSBC since joining in for the Group’s mergers and acquisitions activities
roles with Prudential plc, including as Group Chief 1992. He was most recently Chief Executive Officer in April 2021.
Executive for four years. He served on Prudential’s of Global Commercial Banking, having been
Board for 10 years. appointed to the role in December 2015 and as a Career: Ewen was Chief Financial Officer of
Group Managing Director in September 2016. Noel Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc from 2014
Mark previously served as non-executive Director of joined Forward Trust Group, a subsidiary of Midland to 2018. Prior to this, Ewen spent 25 years with
the Court of The Bank of England, as an independent Bank, in 1987 and joined HSBC in 1992 when the Credit Suisse, where his last role was co-Head
non-executive Director of Goldman Sachs Group and Group acquired Midland Bank. of the EMEA Investment Banking Division
as Group Finance Director of HBOS plc. and co-Head of the Global Financial
External appointments: Institutions Group.
External appointments: – Chair of the Financial Services Task Force of the
– Chair of TheCityUK Sustainable Market Initiative External appointments: None
– Non-executive Chairman of Discovery Limited
– Member of Build Back Better Council
– Supporting Chair of Chapter Zero
Board committee membership key
Committee Chair
Group Audit Committee
Group Risk Committee
Group Remuneration Committee
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
For full biographical details of our Board members, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership.
198 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Corporate
governance
David Nish (60) Jackson Tai (70) Pauline van der Meer Mohr (61) Aileen Taylor (48)
Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Group Company Secretary and
Appointed to the Board: May 2016 Appointed to the Board: September 2016 Independent non-executive Director Chief Governance Officer
Senior Independent non-executive Appointed to the Board: September 2015 Appointed: November 2019
Skills and experience: Jackson
Director since February 2020
has significant experience as a Skills and experience: Pauline has Skills and experience: Aileen
Skills and experience: David has non-executive Director, having held extensive legal, corporate governance has significant governance and
substantial international experience senior operating and governance and human resources experience regulatory experience across
of financial services, corporate roles across Asia, North America across a number of different sectors. various roles in the banking
governance, financial accounting and Europe. industry. She is a solicitor and a
and operational transformation. Career: Pauline served on the member of the European Corporate
Career: Jackson was Vice Chairman Supervisory Board of ASML Holding Governance Council, the GC100 and
Career: David served as Group Chief and Chief Executive Officer of DBS N.V. between 2009 and 2018. She the Financial Conduct Authority’s
Executive Officer of Standard Life plc Group and DBS Bank Ltd. between was formerly President of Erasmus Listing Authority Advisory Panel.
between 2010 and 2015, having joined 2002 and 2007, having served as Chief University Rotterdam, a member of
the company in 2006 as Group Financial Officer and then as President the Dutch Banking Code Monitoring Career: Aileen spent 19 years at
Finance Director. He is also a former and Chief Operating Officer. He was Committee and a Senior Vice the Royal Bank of Scotland Group,
Group Finance Director of Scottish previously a managing director and President and Head of Group Human having held various legal, risk
Power plc and was a partner at Price senior officer for Asia-Pacific, and Resources Director at ABN AMRO and compliance roles. She was
Waterhouse. executive director and Head of Japan Bank N.V. and TNT N.V. She also held appointed Group Secretary in
Capital Markets in the investment various executive roles at the Royal 2010 and was most recently
David has also previously served as a banking division of J.P. Morgan & Co. Dutch Shell Group. Chief Governance Officer and
non-executive Director of HDFC Life Incorporated, where he worked for Board Counsel.
(India), Northern Foods plc, London 25 years. External appointments:
Stock Exchange Group plc, the UK – Chair of the Dutch Corporate
Green Investment Bank plc and Zurich Other former appointments include Governance Code Monitoring
Insurance Group. non-executive Director of Canada Committee
Pension Plan Investment Board, Royal – Chair of the Supervisory Board
External appointments: Philips N.V., Bank of China Limited, of EY Netherlands
– Non-executive Director of Vodafone Singapore Airlines, NYSE Euronext, – Deputy Chair of the Supervisory
Group plc ING Groep N.V., CapitaLand Ltd, Board of Royal DSM N.V.
Former Directors who served
SingTel Ltd. and Jones Lang LaSalle – Member of the Selection and
for part of the year
Inc. He also served as Vice Chairman Nomination Committee of the
of Islamic Bank of Asia. Supreme Court of the Netherlands
Sir Jonathan Symonds
– Member of the Capital Markets
Sir Jonathan Symonds retired from the
External appointments: Committee of the Dutch Authority
Board on 18 February 2020.
– Non-executive Director of Eli Lilly for Financial Markets
and Company – Non-executive Director of Viatris,
Kathleen Casey
– Non-executive Director of Inc.
Kathleen Casey retired from the Board
MasterCard Incorporated
on 24 April 2020.
For full biographical details of our Board members,
see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 201
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Group. For further details of how the Board engages with the
How we are governed
workforce, see page 210.
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance. The
How Board governance was adapted for Covid-19
Group has a comprehensive range of policies and procedures in
place designed to ensure that it is well managed, with effective The Board oversaw the implementation of various governance
oversight and controls. We comply with the provisions of the UK changes introduced in response to the Covid-19 outbreak. Board
Corporate Governance Code and the applicable requirements of and committee agendas were tailored to focus on key priorities
the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code. taking into account the need to hold most meetings via
videoconference. The challenges that arose from communicating
Board’s role, Directors’ responsibilities and across three time zones were navigated by remaining agile in
attendance meeting arrangements and through increased frequency of
communications during the year.
The Board, led by the Group Chairman, is responsible among other
matters for: In addition to substantially increasing the frequency of Board and
executive committee meetings, the following changes were
• promoting the Group’s long-term success and delivering implemented to improve connectivity, and provide an
sustainable value to shareholders; understanding of the challenges and priorities of the
• establishing and approving the Group’s strategy and objectives management team as it led the organisation through the crisis:
and monitoring the alignment of the Group’s purpose, strategy • The Group Chairman introduced a weekly Board update note.
and values with the desired culture; • Management produced a weekly Board report on its response
• setting the Group’s risk appetite and monitoring the Group’s to the Covid-19 outbreak.
risk profile; • A Board Oversight Sub-Group was set up to provide guidance
to the executive team on emerging issues.
• approving and monitoring capital and operating plans for
achieving strategic objectives; and • The chairs of our principal subsidiaries and the chairs of the
Group's Board committees attended the Group Chairman’s
• approving material transactions.
Forum each month.
The Board's terms of reference are available on our website at
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-
Technology governance
responsibilities.
In light of the increasingly significant role of technology in the
The Board's powers are subject to relevant laws, regulations and
Group’s strategy, operations and growth prospects, in January
HSBC’s articles of association.
2021 the Board approved the establishment of a Technology
The role of the independent non-executive Directors is to support Governance Working Group for a period of 12 months.
the development of proposals on strategy, hold management to The working group has been tasked with developing
account and ensure the executive Directors are discharging their recommendations to strengthen the Board’s oversight of
responsibilities properly, while creating the right culture to technology strategy, governance and emerging risks and
encourage constructive challenge. Non-executive Directors also enhance connectivity with the principal subsidiaries.
review the performance of management in meeting agreed goals
The working group will be jointly chaired by Eileen Murray and
and objectives. The Group Chairman meets with the non-executive
Steven Guggenheimer, given their expertise and experience in
Directors without the executive Directors in attendance after
this area. Jackson Tai, the Group Risk Committee Chair, will be a
Board meetings and otherwise, as necessary.
member, along with other non-executive Directors to be
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are nominated by each of our US, UK, European and Asian principal
separate. There is a clear division of responsibilities between the subsidiaries. The co-Chairs will each receive fees in respect of
leadership of the Board by the Group Chairman, and the executive their leadership of the working group over the next 12 months.
responsibility for day-to-day management of HSBC’s business, Details of these fees can be found on page 238.
which is undertaken by the Group Chief Executive. Key IT and business staff will attend the Technology Governance
The majority of Board members are independent non-executive Working Group to provide insights on key technology issues
Directors. At 31 December 2020, the Board comprised the Group across the Group allowing the working group to make
Chairman, 11 non-executive Directors, and two executive recommendations for enhanced Board oversight of technology.
Directors who are the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief The total time commitment expected of the co-chairs will be up
Financial Officer. With effect from 1 January 2020, the role of the to 30 days, reflective of the complexity and profile of the subject
Group Chief Risk Officer ceased to be a member of the Board. matter.
For further details of the Board’s career background, skills,
experience and external appointments, see pages 198 to 201.
Board engagement with shareholders
Operation of the Board
In 2020, the Group Chairman, Senior Independent Director and
The Board is ordinarily scheduled to meet at least seven times a the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer
year. In 2020, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Board held 17 engaged with a number of our large institutional investors in over
meetings. The Board agenda is agreed by the Group Chairman, 20 meetings, primarily ahead of the 2020 AGM. Topics that were
working with the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance raised included geopolitical tensions, primarily relating to Hong
Officer and the Group Chief Executive. For more information, see Kong, mainland China, the US and the UK, as well as Board
the section on 'Board activities during 2020' on page 209. composition, changes to the Group Executive Committee, our
climate policy and the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak on the
The Group Chief Risk Officer and Group Chief Legal Officer are
Group, its employees, customers and communities.
regular attendees at Board meetings, and other senior executives
attend as required. The Group Remuneration Committee Chair also engaged with
key investors and proxy advisory firms on our remuneration
Outside of Board meetings, the Board Oversight Sub-Group,
approach in respect of the 2020 performance year. During such
established by the Group Chairman, meets in advance of each
engagements, the Group Remuneration Committee Chair kept
Board meeting as an informal mechanism for a smaller group of
investors informed on other matters including the Group’s
Board members and management to discuss emerging issues.
response to the Covid-19 outbreak and the Group Chief
This group provides regular opportunities for members of the
Executive's and Group Chief Financial Officer's salary sacrifice
Board to communicate with senior management to deepen
and charitable donations.
understanding of, and provide input into, key issues facing the
204 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Board roles, responsibilities and attendance
At 31 December 2020, the Board comprised the Group Chairman, 11 non-executive Directors and two executive Directors. The table
below sets out their roles, responsibilities and attendance at Board meetings. For a full description of responsibilities see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-responsibilities.
Board
attendance
Roles in 2020 Responsibilities
Group Chairman 17/17 • Provides effective leadership of the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance
Mark E Tucker1,2 practices.
• Leads the Board in providing strong strategic oversight and setting the Board’s agenda, culture and
values.
• Leads the Board in challenging management’s thinking and proposals, and foster open and constructive
debate among Directors.
• Maintains external relationships with key stakeholders and communicates investors' views to the Board.
• Evaluates the performance of the Board, Committees, non-executive Directors and Group Chief
Executive.
Executive Director 17/17 • Leads and directs the implementation of the Group’s business strategy, embedding the organisation’s
Group Chief Executive culture and values.
Noel Quinn2 • Leads the Group Executive Committee with responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Group,
under authority delegated to him from the Board.
• Maintains relationships with key stakeholders including the Group Chairman and the Board.
Executive Director 17/17 • Supports the Group Chief Executive in developing and implementing the Group strategy and
Chief Financial Officer recommends the annual budget and long-term strategic and financial plan.
Ewen Stevenson2 • Leads the Finance function and is responsible for effective financial reporting, including the
effectiveness of the processes and controls, to ensure the financial control framework is robust and fit
for purpose.
• Maintains relationships with key stakeholders including shareholders.
Non-executive Directors 17/17 • Supports the Group Chairman, acting as intermediary for non-executive Directors when necessary.
Senior Independent • Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman, supporting the clear division
Director of responsibility between the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
David Nish2,3 • Listens to shareholders' views if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal
channels.
Laura Cha3 17/17 • Develop and approve the Group strategy.
Henri de Castries3 17/17 • Challenge and oversee the performance of management.
James Forese3 12/12 • Approve the Group’s risk appetite and review risk profile and performance.
Steven Guggenheimer3 12/12
Irene Lee3 17/17
Dr José Antonio Meade 17/17
Kuribreña3
Heidi Miller3,4 16/17
Eileen Murray3,4 5/7
Jackson Tai3 17/17
Pauline van der Meer Mohr3 17/17
Kathleen Casey3 5/5
Sir Jonathan Symonds3 2/2
Group Company Secretary • Maintains strong and consistent governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
and Chief Governance • Supports the Group Chairman in ensuring effective functioning of the Board and its committees, and
Officer transparent engagement between senior management and non-executive Directors.
Aileen Taylor • Facilitates induction and professional development of non-executive Directors.
• Advises and supports the Board and management in ensuring effective end-to-end governance and
decision making across the Group.
1 The non-executive Group Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
2 Mark Tucker, David Nish, Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson attended the AGM on 24 April 2020. As a consequence of the UK Government's
Covid-19 guidance and prohibitions at the time of the AGM, only a limited number of Directors and essential personnel attended the AGM to
ensure a quorum was present and to conduct the business of the meeting.
3 Independent non-executive Director. All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of HSBC. There are no relationships or
circumstances that are likely to affect any individual non-executive Director’s judgement. All non-executive Directors have confirmed their
independence during the year. Kathleen Casey and Sir Jonathan Symonds retired from the Board on 24 April 2020 and 18 February 2020
respectively.
4 Eileen Murray was unable to attend two Board meetings owing to prior commitments made before her appointment to the Board. Heidi Miller
was unable to attend one Board meeting that was arranged at short notice owing to a pre-scheduled external commitment.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 205
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Board induction and training technology and Cloud capability; climate change; financial crime;
shareholder activism; and business and governance. External
The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer
consultants, in conjunction with the Group Company Secretary
works with the Group Chairman to oversee appropriate induction
and Chief Governance Officer, provided specific training to
and ongoing training programmes for the Board. On appointment,
members of relevant boards and executive committees within
new Board members are provided with tailored, comprehensive
scope for the Senior Managers and Certification Regime. This
induction programmes to fit with their individual experiences and
included practical examples of responsibility in decision making
needs, including the process for dealing with conflicts.
and discussion of relevant case studies.
The structure of the induction allows a Board member to
In addition, non-executive Directors discussed individual
contribute meaningfully from appointment. An early focus on
development areas with the Group Chairman during performance
induction supports good information flows within the Board and
reviews and in conversations with the Group Company Secretary
its committees and between senior management and non-
and Chief Governance Officer. The Group Company Secretary and
executive Directors, providing a better understanding of our
Chief Governance Officer makes appropriate arrangements for any
culture and way of operating. During 2020 we welcomed three
additional training needs identified using internal resources, or
new non-executive Directors to our Board and also facilitated the
otherwise, at HSBC’s expense.
Group Chief Executive’s induction. For illustrations of the typical
induction modules, see the 'Directors' induction and ongoing Between the induction and training programmes, the Directors’
development in 2020' table on the following page. understandings of key matters and risks for the business are
supported so that they provide effective, informed and insightful
Although there were constraints due to the Covid-19 outbreak,
challenge in their leadership and oversight roles.
virtual meetings enabled our new non-executive Directors to
engage with colleagues and key external personnel in a shorter Members of Board committees receive relevant training as
time period than would have been the case if meeting in person. appropriate. Directors may take independent professional advice
at HSBC’s expense.
When it is safe to recommence Board travel to our global
locations, we will take opportunities to facilitate comprehensive Board Directors who serve on principal subsidiary boards also
face-to-face engagement. These opportunities provide invaluable receive training relevant to those boards. Opportunities exist for
insight and understanding of our business, customers, culture and the principal subsidiary and principal subsidiary committee chairs
people. to share their understanding in specific areas with the Board
Directors.
Directors undertook routine training during 2020. They also
participated in 'deep dive' sessions into specific areas of the
Group’s strategic priorities, risk appetite and approach to
managing certain risks. These focused on areas such as:
'I was impressed with the smooth and thorough management
of my induction at a time when the Covid-19 outbreak was
otherwise creating confusion and uncertainty.
Shifting quickly to a remote, video-enabled process allowed
me to be introduced to other Board members and to meet a
wide range of senior executives from across the global
businesses, regions and functions in quick succession.
Conversations with management were informative and
comprehensive.
Where I had questions or wanted further conversations, the
team responded swiftly and engaged in additional sessions as
requested. Despite the lack of the usual in-person induction
meetings, the open culture at HSBC helped me to come up
the learning curve quickly and made me feel immediately
James Forese
welcomed.'
Non-executive Director
206 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Directors’ induction and ongoing development in 2020
Strategy and
business Risk and Corporate Global mandatory ARCC, Chairs and
Director Induction1 briefings2 control3 governance4 training5 Remco Forum Subsidiary
Kathleen Casey ô l l l l l ô
Laura Cha ô l l l l l l
Henri de Castries ô l l l l ô ô
James Forese l l l l l ô ô
Steven
l l l l l ô ô
Guggenheimer
Irene Lee ô l l l l l l
José Antonio
ô l l l l l ô
Meade Kuribreña
Heidi Miller ô l l l l l l
Eileen Murray l l l l l ô ô
David Nish ô l l l l l ô
Noel Quinn l ô l l l l ô
Ewen Stevenson ô l l l l l ô
Jackson Tai ô l l l l l ô
Mark Tucker ô l l l l l ô
Pauline van der
ô l l l l l ô
Meer Mohr
1 The induction programme is delivered through formal briefings and introductory sessions with Board members, senior management, treasury
executives, legal counsel, auditors, brokers, tax advisers and regulators. Topics covered included: values, culture and leadership; governance and
stakeholder management; Directors’ legal and regulatory duties; anti-money laundering and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings; and
strategy.
2 Directors participated in business strategy, market development and business briefings, which are global, regional and/or market-specific.
Examples of specific sessions held in 2020 included 'Asia growth: build and strengthen in Hong Kong' and 'Strategic priority: growth of UK ring-
fenced bank'.
3 Directors received risk and control training. Examples of specific sessions held in 2020 included 'Governance of climate-related risk', 'Wholesale
and retail credit risk management', 'Forward-looking financial crime risk issues', ’Resolvability assessment framework’ and ‘Technology
terminology’.
4 All Directors received corporate governance training including ‘Senior Managers and Certification Regime’ and ‘Climate and sustainable finance’.
5 Global mandatory training, issued to all Directors, mirrored training undertaken by all employees, including senior management. These included
management of risk under the enterprise risk management framework, with a focus on operational risk; cyber risk and fraud; health, safety and
well-being; data privacy and the protection of data of our customers and colleagues; combating financial crime, including understanding money
laundering, sanctions, and bribery and corruption risks; and our values and conduct, including workplace harassment and speaking up.
Board committees In addition, the Chairman’s Committee is convened to provide
flexibility for the Board to consider ad hoc Board and routine
The Board delegates oversight of certain audit, risk, remuneration,
matters between scheduled Board meetings. It meets with
nomination and governance matters to its committees. Each
attendees determined by the nature of the proposed business to
standing Board committee is chaired by a non-executive Board
be discussed.
member and has a remit to cover specific topics in accordance
with their respective terms of reference. Only independent non-
executive Directors are members of Board committees. Details of
the work carried out by each of the Board committees can be
found in the respective committee reports from page 213.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 207
Corporate
governance
Board
Nomination &
Group
Chairman’s Group Audit Group Risk Corporate
Remuneration
Committee Committee Committee Governance
Committee
Committee
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Relationship between Board and senior management To strengthen accountability and information flow, each principal
subsidiary takes responsibility for the oversight of Group
The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and
companies in its region through the subsidiary accountability
implementation of strategy to the Group Chief Executive. The
framework. The guidance underpinning the framework principles
Group Chief Executive is supported in his day-to-day management
defines how we escalate and cascade information and procedures
of the Group by recommendations and advice from the Group
between the Board, the principal subsidiary boards and their
Executive Committee ('GEC'), an executive forum that he chairs
respective committees.
comprising members of senior management.
During 2020, a subsidiary governance review was undertaken by
The Directors are encouraged to have free and open contact with
the Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer to
management at all levels and full access to all relevant
consider the application of the framework by the principal
information. Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit local
subsidiaries and certain material subsidiaries. This resulted in
business operations and meet local management when they
recommended changes to both the subsidiary accountability
attend off-site Board meetings and when travelling for other
framework principles and their application. All relevant boards will
reasons, although this was not possible during 2020 due to the
consider and implement any recommendations and actions arising
Covid-19 outbreak.
out of this review over the course of 2021. For further details of
Executive governance the subsidiary governance review, see the Nomination &
Corporate Governance Committee report on page 213.
The Group’s executive governance is underpinned by the Group
operating rhythm, which sets out the Board and executive The Group Chairman interacts regularly with the chairs of the
engagement schedule. This was refreshed for 2020 to facilitate principal subsidiaries, including through the Chairman’s Forum,
end-to-end governance flowing up from executive governance to which brings together the chairs of the principal subsidiaries and
the Board. the chairs of the Group's audit, risk and remuneration committees
The Group operating rhythm is characterised by three pillars: to discuss Group-wide and regional matters. From March 2020,
these meetings moved from twice a year to monthly, in response
i. The GEC normally meets every week to discuss current and
to the complex and dynamic environment. The Group Chairman
emerging issues. However, during 2020 it met much more
hosted nine Chairman’s Forums, which were also attended by
frequently as a result of Covid-19.
relevant executive management, to cover sessions on strategy, the
ii. On a monthly basis, the GEC reviews the performance of
economy, regulatory matters, cyber risk and resilience,
global businesses, principal geographical areas and legal
implementation of the subsidiary accountability framework and
entities. These performance reviews are supplemented by
corporate governance.
quarterly performance management review meetings
between the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief The chairs of each of the Group Audit Committee, Group Risk
Financial Officer and each of the chief executive officers of Committee and Group Remuneration Committee also have regular
the global businesses, principal geographical areas and legal dialogues with the respective committees of the principal
entities on an individual basis. subsidiaries to ensure an awareness and coordinated approach to
key issues. These interactions are reinforced through Audit and
iii.The GEC holds a strategy and governance meeting two weeks
Risk Committee Chairs' Forums, and the Remuneration Committee
in advance of each Board meeting.
Chairs' Forum, which are held several times a year. The chairs of
Separate committees have been established to provide specialist
the principal subsidiaries’ committees are invited to attend the
oversight for matters delegated to the Group Chief Executive and
relevant forums to raise and discuss current and future global
senior management, in keeping with their responsibilities under
issues, including regulatory priorities in each of the regions.
the Senior Managers and Certification Regime. Some of these
separate committees are dedicated sub-committees of the GEC, Board members attend principal subsidiary meetings as guests
and some operate under individual accountability. These from time to time. Similarly, principal subsidiary directors are
committees support the Group Chief Executive and GEC invited to attend committee meetings at Group level, where
members in areas such as capital and liquidity, risk management, relevant.
disclosure and financial reporting, restructuring and investment
considerations, transformation programmes, people issues,
diversity and inclusion, and talent and development.
In addition to our regional company secretaries supporting our
principal subsidiaries, we have corporate governance officers
supporting our global lines of business, digital business services
and our larger global functions to assist in effective end-to-end
governance, consistency and connectivity across the Group.
Subsidiary governance
Subsidiaries are formally designated as principal subsidiaries by
approval of the Board.
The designated principal subsidiaries are:
Principal subsidiary Oversight responsibility
The Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation Limited Asia-Pacific
HSBC Bank plc Europe, Bermuda (excluding
Switzerland and UK ring-fenced
activities)
HSBC UK Bank plc UK ring-fenced bank and its
subsidiaries
HSBC Middle East Holdings BV Middle East
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. US
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK)
Limited Mexico and Latin America
HSBC Bank Canada Canada
208 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
approach will allow for a good level of income to shareholders and
Board activities during 2020
a progressive dividend, assuming good levels of economic and
During 2020, the Board focused on resetting the strategic earnings growth.
direction, supporting the Group Chief Executive and overseeing The Group will not be paying quarterly dividends during 2021 but
performance and risk. It considered performance against financial will consider whether to announce an interim dividend at the 2021
and other strategic objectives, key business challenges, emerging half-year results in August. The Group will review whether to
risks, business development, investor relations and the Group’s revert to paying quarterly dividends at or ahead of its 2021 results
relationships with its stakeholders. The end-to-end governance announcement in February 2022. The 2020 interim dividend will be
framework facilitated discussion on strategy and performance by paid in cash with no scrip alternative. The Group has decided to
each of the global businesses and across the principal discontinue the scrip dividend option as it is dilutive, including to
geographical areas, which enabled the Board to support executive dividend per share progression over time.
management with its delivery of the Group’s strategy.
The dividend policy could be supplemented by buy-backs or
The Board's key areas of focus in 2020 are set out by theme special dividends, over time and not in the near term, should the
below. Group find itself in an excess capital position absent compelling
Strategy and business performance investment opportunities to deploy that excess.
Risk, regulatory and legal considerations
In February 2020, the Group’s strategic review and associated
transformation programme was announced. This aimed to reshape The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, promotes a
underperforming businesses, simplify the organisation and reduce strong risk governance culture that shapes the Group’s risk
costs, to position the Group to increase returns for investors, appetite and supports the maintenance of a strong risk
create capacity for future investment and build a sustainable management framework, giving consideration to the
platform for growth. measurement, evaluation, acceptance and management of risks,
In contrast to 2019 when the Board held two dedicated strategy including emerging risks.
sessions, given the evolving external landscape during 2020, the The Board considered the Group’s approach to risk including its
Board engaged in ongoing dialogue with management throughout regulatory obligations. A number of key frameworks, control
the year to progress development of the Group strategy. As part of documents, core processes and legal responsibilities were also
the strategy review, the Board considered organic and inorganic reviewed and approved as required. These included:
opportunities to grow and restructure the business, as well as
• the Group's risk appetite framework and risk appetite
disposal options.
statement;
The Board announced its new climate statement with the Group's
• the individual liquidity adequacy assessment process;
ambition to align financed emissions to net zero by 2050 and
become net zero for its own operations and supply chain by 2030, • the individual capital adequacy assessment process;
its aim to support clients on the road to a net zero carbon
• the Group’s obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and
economy and a focus on sustainable finance opportunities. For
approval of the Modern Slavery Act statement;
further details of our new climate ambitions, see page 44.
• stress testing and capabilities required to meet the PRA’s
The Board received external insights on topics such as the
resolvability assessment framework;
economic implications of the Covid-19 outbreak and ongoing
geopolitical issues at regular intervals throughout the year. • the revised terms of reference for the Board and Board
committees; and
Financial decisions
• delegations of authority.
The Board approved key financial decisions throughout the year
The Board also reviewed and monitored the implications of and approved the Annual Report and Accounts 2019, the Interim
geopolitical developments during the year including US-China
Report 2020 and the first quarter and the third quarter Earnings
relations and the trade talks between the UK and the EU following
Releases.
the UK's departure, including no-deal contingency planning.
The Board approved the annual operating plan for 2020 at the start
Technology
of 2020 and since 31 December 2020 has approved the annual
operating plan for 2021. The Board monitored the Group's Throughout the year, the Board received regular updates on
performance against the approved 2020 annual operating plan, as technology from the Group Chief Operating Officer, including the
well as the operating plans of each of the global businesses. The refreshed technology strategy and restructuring of the technology
Board also approved the renewal of the debt issuance programme. leadership function.
On 31 March 2020, HSBC announced that, in response to a The newly appointed non-executive Directors with deep
written request from the Bank of England through the UK's technology experience have worked in collaboration with the
Prudential Regulation Authority ('PRA'), the Board had cancelled Group Chief Operating Officer to enhance the governance of
the fourth interim dividend for 2019. Similar requests were also technology.
made to other UK incorporated banking groups. We also
The Board received technology training and educational sessions
announced that until the end of 2020 we would make no quarterly
from both internal and external subject matter experts to
or interim dividend payments or accruals in respect of ordinary
understand further the evolving technology landscape.
shares. For further details of the dividend cancellation, see page
256 and our section 172 statement on page 22. People and culture
In December 2020, the PRA announced a temporary approach to The Board continued to spend time discussing people and culture-
shareholder distributions for 2020 in which it set out a framework related topics. The Group Chief Executive led discussions on the
for Board decisions on dividends. After considering the development of a new people strategy to support the Group’s
requirements of the temporary approach, on 23 February 2021 the growth and transformation.
Board announced an interim dividend for 2020 of $0.15 per
During the year, the Board shaped the revision of the Group's
ordinary share.
purpose and values statement, which was approved in December
The Board has adopted a policy designed to provide sustainable 2020. A sub-group of the Board was created to assist the process.
dividends going forward. We intend to transition towards a target It met regularly with management to provide support, guidance
payout ratio of between 40% and 55% of reported earnings per and constructive challenge, seeking to ensure the revised purpose
ordinary share (‘EPS’) for 2022 onwards, with the flexibility to and values remained aligned with the Group's culture and future
adjust EPS for non-cash significant items such as goodwill or strategy. For further details of how stakeholder engagement was
intangibles impairments. The Board believes this payout ratio
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 209
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
used by the Board in setting the revised purpose and values, see Workforce engagement
the section 172 statement on page 22.
The Board reaffirmed, in accordance with the UK Corporate
Governance Governance Code, that it would use ‘alternative arrangements’ in
approaching workforce engagement. This flexible method
The Board continued to oversee the governance, smooth operation
allowed all non-executive Directors to have direct engagement
and oversight of the Group and its principal and material
across a wide network of employees in multiple geographies.
subsidiaries. During 2020, it undertook a review of subsidiary
The virtual working environment during the Covid-19 outbreak
governance. For further details of the review and subsequent
enabled more employees to participate in various workforce
actions, see page 208.
engagement activities. The programme of activities used a
Succession planning was considered by the Board following a variety of interaction styles: more bespoke sessions with smaller
thorough review at the Nomination & Corporate Governance groups; formal presentations; Q&A opportunities; and sessions to
Committee. During the year, Kathleen Casey retired as facilitate engagement across a breadth of experience and
independent non-executive Director and Sir Jonathan Symonds seniority. This enabled open dialogue and two-way discussions
retired as Deputy Group Chairman, Senior Independent Director between non-executive Directors and employees. Non-executive
and the Chair of the Group Audit Committee. The Board appointed Directors met with:
David Nish in the role of Senior Independent Director and Chair of • employees of the innovation teams in Wealth and Personal
the Group Audit Committee, and appointed James Forese, Steven Banking, Commercial Banking and Global Banking and
Guggenheimer and Eileen Murray as independent non-executive Markets where discussions focused on bespoke business-
Directors. The Board, supported by the Nomination & Corporate specific matters;
Governance Committee, will continue to review the skills and
• representatives of global employee resource groups where
experience of the Board as a whole to ensure that it comprises the
wide-ranging issues were discussed such as employee
relevant skills, experiences and competencies to discharge its
sentiment;
responsibilities effectively.
• leaders and talent from Digital Business Services at an
For further details of the changes to the Board, see the employee Exchange session; and
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee report on page
• participants in the Asia talent programme.
213.
The Board received formal updates from the Group Chief
The Board monitored its compliance with the UK Corporate Executive and the Group Chief Human Resources Officer on
Governance Code and the Companies Act 2006 throughout the employee views and sentiment. These include results of
year. employee engagement surveys, benchmarked data, and
additional surveys to understand well-being throughout the
Covid-19 outbreak. The Chairman’s Forum meetings also
discussed employee feedback from the Group's subsidiaries.
As the Board considered the Group’s strategy and strategic
initiatives throughout 2020, themes emerged that directly
impacted the workforce. These helped shape subsequent
workforce engagement sessions. These sessions continue to give
the Board valuable insight on employee perspectives when
reviewing proposals. For further details of how the Board
considered the views of employees and other stakeholders, see
the section 172 statement on page 22.
The Board looks forward to continuing its workforce engagement
programme and holding in-person sessions when possible in
2021.
210 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Board activities in 2020
Main topic Sub-topic Meetings at which topics were discussed1
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Sep Oct Nov Dec
Strategy Group strategy l l ô l l l l l l l l
Regional strategy/Business line strategy l ô ô ô l l l l ô l ô
Environmental, social, governance ô ô ô ô l l ô l l ô ô
Business and Region/Business line l l ô l l l l l l l l
financial
performance Financial performance l l ô l l ô l l l ô l
Financial Results and accounts l l ô l ô ô l ô l ô l
Dividends l l l l ô ô l ô l l l
Group annual operating plan l l ô l ô ô l ô ô ô l
Risk Risk function l l ô l l ô l l l ô l
Risk appetite ô l ô ô l ô l ô ô ô l
Capital and liquidity adequacy l l ô l l ô l l ô ô l
Regulatory Regulatory matters (including resolvability
ô l l l l l l l ô ô l
assessment framework)
Regulatory matters with regulators in
attendance2 ô l ô ô ô ô l l ô ô ô
External External insights ô ô ô l ô ô l ô ô ô l
Technology Strategic and operational l l ô ô l l l l l ô l
People and Purpose, values and engagement
ô l ô ô l ô l l l ô l
culture
Governance Subsidiary governance framework ô l ô ô ô ô l ô ô ô l
Policies and terms of reference ô l ô ô l ô l l ô ô l
Board/committee effectiveness ô l ô ô ô ô ô ô ô ô l
Appointment and succession l l l ô l l ô l ô l ô
1 No formal Board meetings were held during August 2020.
2 Meetings attended by members of the Financial Conduct Authority, Prudential Regulation Authority, Monetary Authority of Singapore, Hong Kong
Monetary Authority.
Board and committee effectiveness, • a clear focus on operational resilience and support for clients,
continuous Board and employee communications, attention to
performance and accountability
employee well-being, and documented lessons learned;
The Board and its committees are committed to regular, • a clear focus on priorities, with sessions on current and
independent evaluation of their effectiveness at least once every dynamic topics as required; and
three years.
• a strong link between culture and remuneration.
Following the externally facilitated review of the Board and
Following Dr Long’s final report, the Group Chairman led a Board
committee effectiveness in 2019, conducted by the external
discussion in January 2021, at which the Board agreed the actions service provider Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited, the
and priorities to be implemented, which will be monitored and
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee again invited Dr
addressed on an ongoing basis. Progress against these actions will
Long to support the Board with its annual evaluation. She was
be included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2021.
invited to conduct a follow-up review on the Board's progress
against the findings and recommendations from her 2019 report, The following table outlines the main findings from the 2019 and
and more broadly on the effectiveness of the Board's operations. 2020 reviews, progress against the 2019 findings and the actions
Dr Long is independent and has no other connection to the Group agreed by the Board to address the areas that were identified as
or any individual Director. requiring improvement.
This external review was complemented by a review of the Board During 2020, a review of the Group Chairman’s performance was
committees led by the Group Company Secretary and Chief led by the Senior Independent Director in consultation with the
Governance Officer. Details of the Board committees’ other independent non-executive Directors. Non-executive
effectiveness reviews, key findings and recommendations can be Directors also undergo regular individual reviews with the Group
found in the respective committee reports on pages 213 to 232. Chairman. The reviews confirmed that the Group Chairman and
each Director were effective and had met their time commitments
Dr Long acknowledged the progress that the Board had made in
during the year.
respect of her 2019 recommendations, with her 2020 review again
focusing on the main themes from the previous review. These The review of executive Directors’ performance, which helps
were: leadership, shared perspective, culture, end-to-end determine the level of variable pay they receive each year, is
governance and future thinking. Qualitative feedback was contained in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 240.
gathered from one-to-one interviews held with members of the
Board and regular Board attendees.
At the December Board meeting, the key findings presented were:
• a strong focus on vision, strategy, and balancing short-term
and long-term objectives;
• a culture of collegiality and inclusion with positive team
dynamics and healthy dialogue;
• an open and transparent communication between the Board
and management and the boards of the principal subsidiaries, a
shared perspective on strategy and risk between the Board and
management, with a focus on clarity of objectives;
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 211
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Summary of Board effectiveness recommendations and actions:
Recommendation from the 2019 and 2020 Progress against 2019 Agreed actions for 2020
evaluations recommendations recommendations
Leadership 2019 The Group Chairman enhanced his The Nomination & Corporate Governance
• Continue to provide strong leadership communication activities with the Board Committee will allocate additional time
through a culture of collaboration, and executive management during 2020. for discussion and debate of external
transparency, open communication and Following the appointment of the new candidates for non-executive Director
cooperation. Group Chief Executive, the Group succession and the internal and external
Chairman established a Board Oversight talent pool for senior management roles
2020
Sub-Group to engage further with including executive Directors.
• Continue to focus on Board succession management and provide a sounding
planning, building on the progress made board.
during 2020 to facilitate and manage
succession for Board and committee
positions, cognisant of diversity in all
aspects and making full use of external
advisers and skills matrix analysis.
• Embed executive succession so that it
translates into a stronger, more diversified
talent pool for future senior leadership.
Shared 2019 The Board adapted the Group operating The Board will continue to enhance the
perspective • Build on the shared perspective by ensuring rhythm and increased the frequency of use of governance practices, such as the
that the Board agenda allows sufficient meetings throughout the Covid-19 Board Oversight Sub-Group and the
time and visibility of longer-term strategic outbreak to provide the opportunity to Group operating rhythm. It will also
perspectives aligned to its appetite for reflect and act in real-time on the continue to use Board committees to
business risk. evolving external factors. underpin and deliver effective decision
making.
2020
• Optimise use of Board information to
enhance testing of the effectiveness of the
strategic and business plans with reference
to the evolving external factors and
competitive landscape across its key
markets.
Culture 2019 Alongside the strategic review, the Board The Group Chairman and Group Chief
• Reflecting the improvement in corporate oversaw work on refreshing the Group’s Executive will monitor progress of
culture, keep culture on the agenda to purpose and values, driving a resetting of strategic decision making at pace.
ensure ongoing transparency and the culture to deliver the strategy. Increased insight into organisational
escalation of issues. Maintain visibility and cultural indicators provided to the Board
insight into cultural initiatives and will support delivering the desired
differences across global businesses. organisational culture in line with
strategy, purpose and values.
2020
• Continue to review and determine the
culture and key behaviours required to
support the delivery of the revised strategy
with a clear focus on pace and execution.
End-to-end 2019 Communications with the principal
governance • Maintain focus on improving the quality of subsidiary chairs was increased by
information and increased communication holding monthly Chairman’s Forums for
channels with subsidiaries and other most of the year. The Board continued to
stakeholders, including the voice of engage with key investors and
employees. regulators, with some of the key
regulators attending a session with the
Board. There were additional
opportunities for employees to engage
throughout the year given the extreme
circumstances brought about by the
Covid-19 outbreak.
Future thinking 2019 The Group Chairman, Group Chief The Group Chairman and Group Chief
• Continue to develop the Board agenda to Executive and Group Company Secretary Executive will sponsor a project to review
provide focus on emerging issues. and Chief Governance Officer met Board reporting in 2021.
regularly throughout the year to plan
2020
Board meeting agendas to focus more
• Maintain and evolve good quality papers effectively on emerging matters and
and presentations to the Board to continue external developments.
providing insight and supporting informed
decision making.
212 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Board committees Membership
Meeting attendance in
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Member since 2020
Mark Tucker (Chair) Oct 2017 9/9
Kathleen Casey1 Apr 2018 4/4
Laura Cha May 2014 9/9
Henri de Castries Apr 2018 9/9
James Forese May 2020 5/5
Steven Guggenheimer May 2020 5/5
Irene Lee Apr 2018 9/9
José Antonio Meade
Kuribreña Apr 2019 9/9
Eileen Murray2 Jul 2020 3/4
Heidi Miller Apr 2018 9/9
David Nish Apr 2018 9/9
Jackson Tai Apr 2018 9/9
Pauline van der Meer Mohr Apr 2016 9/9
"The Committee's priorities in 2021 will continue to be
Sir Jonathan Symonds1 Apr 2017 3/3
composition, succession and development of the Board, as well as
efforts to enhance the Group’s diversity, talent and bench strength 1 Sir Jonathan Symonds stepped down from the Board on 18 February
for key executive positions." 2020. Kathleen Casey stepped down from the Board on 24 April
2020.
Dear Shareholder 2 Eileen Murray was unable to attend one Committee meeting owing
to a prior commitment made before her appointment to the Board
It has been a busy year for the Nomination & Corporate
Governance Committee. This report provides an overview of the Group Chief Executive succession
work of the Committee and its activities during the year.
The choice of Group Chief Executive is a matter of significance,
Priorities during 2020 and it was therefore important that we allowed ourselves the time
to fully assess our options before arriving at our decision, given
Succession planning for both the Board and our senior executive
the potential ramifications on the future success of the Group and
team remained a critical focus of the Committee in line with its
our stakeholders.
responsibilities. In addition to the appointment of Noel as Group
Chief Executive, we appointed three new independent non- We conducted a thorough and robust search process with the
executive Directors during the year. Details of the appointments support of an external search partner, Egon Zehnder, to identify
are set out below. the new Group Chief Executive. The Committee was delighted to
have been able to source an internal candidate, in Noel Quinn, and
In line with our strategic focus on Asia, we considered proposals
believe that we identified the best candidate for the role and for
from management on ways to improve how we support and
the Group. Further information on Noel’s appointment is set out in
develop our talent under the Asia talent programme. Asian
our section 172 statement on page 22. Egon Zehnder provides
representation on the Board remains of critical importance, given
assistance with senior recruitment at HSBC. It has no other
the benefits that having members with deep knowledge and
connection with the Group or members of the Board.
insight into Asian culture and business practices can bring to our
discussions as a Board. Following Noel’s appointment on a permanent basis in March
2020, the Committee agreed a comprehensive induction and
Subsidiary governance has also been an area of focus for the
development plan to best support him to succeed in leading the
Committee, and we have made great progress in this regard
Group through the various challenges we face. The Committee
during the past couple of years. The Subsidiary Governance
monitored this throughout the year, and will continue to support
Review, which is summarised later in this report, has
Noel and his executive team in the delivery of our strategic and
demonstrated the progress made while acknowledging there is
business priorities.
more to do to support our ambition of achieving world-class
governance across the Group. Board composition
Focus for 2021 The composition of both the Board and its Committee continued
to be a key focus during 2020, with progress made in ensuring
The Committee's priorities in 2021 will continue to be
that the Board possesses the necessary expertise to oversee,
composition, succession and development of the Board, as well as
support and monitor management performance based on the
efforts to enhance the Group’s diversity, talent and bench strength
longer-term strategy and developments in the external
for key executive positions. In developing our talent, the
environment.
Committee will continue to focus on the promotion of diverse
candidates to ensure that the Group Executive Committee and In James Forese, Steven Guggenheimer and Eileen Murray, the
other senior management are representative of the customers, Board has added deep experience in the areas of banking,
communities and markets in which we operate. technology and operations, which will remain critical to the
Board’s discussions in the coming years. Further details on skills
As our strategy develops, we know that the skills and capabilities
and previous experience are set out in the Board biographies on
we require will evolve and the Committee has a key role to play.
pages 198 to 201.
Russell Reynolds Associates supported the Board in identifying
prospective non-executive Director candidates. It has also
supported the Committee and the management team in senior
executive succession planning, as part of an integrated approach
Mark E Tucker to talent identification, assessment and development during 2020.
Russell Reynolds also assists with senior recruitment at HSBC.
Chair They have no other connection with the Group or members of the
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Board.
23 February 2021
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 213
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
We refreshed our Board skills matrix in recognition of the Committee has considered and discussed the outcomes of the
changing context in which the Group is now operating and the evaluation and accepts the findings.
strategic priorities. The revised skills matrix places greater
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board
emphasis on the need for competencies in areas such as
and the Committee will track progress on the recommendations
transformation, ESG and climate given the Group’s ambitions in
during 2020.
these areas. The skills matrix will be a key tool in ensuring that the
Board has the necessary range of skills and experience to Subsidiary governance review
discharge its responsibilities, oversee management and respond to
Following the implementation of the subsidiary accountability
emerging trends.
framework in 2019, during 2020 the Committee commissioned a
The Board remains committed to increasing its diversity, and governance review of the Group’s seven principal subsidiaries,
ensuring that it is reflective of the markets and societies in which plus three material subsidiaries in the form of Hang Seng Bank,
we serve. HSBC Global Asset Management and HSBC Private Bank (Suisse).
Board changes The review was led by our Group Company Secretary and Chief
Governance Officer and focused on:
There have been a number of changes to the Board during the
past year. In addition to the appointment of the three new non- • Board size, skills, tenure and fees;
executive Directors referred to above, in February 2020, we saw • governance support; and
the departure of both Sir Jonathan Symonds and Kathleen Casey
• the relationship between the Group and its subsidiaries.
during 2020. David Nish was appointed in the role of Senior
Independent Director and Chair of the Group Audit Committee in Good boardroom practice and adherence to our Group governance
place of Sir Jonathan Symonds. expectations, including under the subsidiary accountability
framework, were observed in the course of the review.
Laura Cha will retire from the Board at the conclusion of our 2021
AGM at the end of May. A number of recommendations were identified to raise the
standard and ensure consistent application of governance across
As mentioned earlier in the report, Dame Carolyn Fairbairn will join
the organisation, and to further improve the transparency and
the Board on 1 September 2021. We are in the process of
engagement between the Group and its subsidiaries. These
concluding a search for suitable candidates to join and further
included:
strengthen the expertise and experience on the Board and its
committees. • Subsidiary accountability framework: a review and update to
the principles under the subsidiary accountability framework to
We have also considered our committee membership and as a
clarify and provide greater guidance on the Group’s
result confirm that David Nish will step down from the Group
expectations;
Remuneration Committee following the publication of the Annual
Report and Accounts 2020. David kindly agreed to remain a • Board composition, size and independence: clarification of the
member throughout 2020 following his appointment as Senior Group’s expectations on the size, composition and
Independent Director and GAC Chair in February 2020 to provide a independence of subsidiary boards and length of board tenure,
strong link through all committees while new Board members to encourage proactive refreshment of subsidiary board
were onboarded. membership. A number of our longer-serving subsidiary
Directors have announced their retirement from the Group as a
Senior executive succession and development
result of this review; and
Following Noel’s appointment as Group Chief Executive on an
• Board reporting and management information: the need for
interim basis in August 2019, he took steps to refresh the
greater consistency in the quality of reporting and management
composition of the then Group Management Board and
information, with work underway to ensure that the Board and
repositioned this as the Group Executive Committee. This included
its committees, as well as individuals on subsidiary boards and
the appointment of new incumbents for seven roles, meaning that
other senior governance forums, receive the information they
we actioned a significant number of our succession plans for our
require to make informed decisions.
most senior executive positions.
Given the success and strong support that the review received at
The Committee has therefore focused on rebuilding this bench
both Group and subsidiary level, including the Group Executive
strength during 2020 to ensure that we have a strong cohort of
Committee, it has been agreed that a review of our governance
potential future leaders of HSBC. We have worked in partnership
practices in our global businesses will be undertaken in 2021.
with Noel and our Group Chief Human Resources Officer to
support an integrated approach to our assessment, development Governance
and external market benchmarking of executive talent.
Our decision to create the Chief Governance Officer role in 2019
The refreshed Group Executive Committee succession plan, which was in recognition of the significance the Board assigns to the
we discussed and approved at our meeting in December 2020, governance agenda and the strategic importance of having best-
reflects the changing shape of the Group and involves greater in-class governance at HSBC, including in the oversight of
diversity, in particular with regard to gender and ethnicity. subsidiaries. This role is held by the Group Company Secretary,
now designated as the Group Company Secretary and Chief
In connection with this, and to ensure we support and develop
Governance Officer, reporting to the Group Chairman.
talent from the Group’s key region, the Committee received an
update on the Asia talent programme. This programme involves Despite the challenges we have faced as an organisation from a
approximately 1,000 employees of high potential talent in the business and geopolitical perspective, we have made good
region and aims to support their development and progression progress in enhancing our overall governance arrangements
both within the region and across the broader Group. during 2020, in particular the areas identified as requiring
improvement in our 2019 Board effectiveness review.
Committee evaluation
This has included our new governance operating rhythm, which
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board committees,
was established to provide robust end-to-end governance and
including the Committee, was internally facilitated for 2020.
more efficient and effective governance meetings across the
Overall the review concluded that the Committee continued to Board, Group Executive Committee and subsidiaries. The new
operate effectively. The review made certain recommendations for Group operating rhythm has resulted in greater alignment
improvement, in particular regarding the time allocated for between our Board and the Group Executive Committee, and has
discussion of key items to ensure that the Committee has driven the sequencing of meetings to allow for our subsidiaries
sufficient opportunity to discuss topics such as senior executive and global business to have input on key matters prior to
succession and development in the required depth. The discussion and approval at the Board. This has been particularly
214 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
pertinent during 2020, given the central role that our subsidiaries At the year-end, at 35% (five out of 14), our Board gender diversity
hold in developing and executing our strategic priorities. met the Hampton-Alexander Review target of 33% female
representation by the end of 2020. We have also met and
In line with the Board’s commitment at the commencement of the
exceeded the Parker Review targets of at least one Director from
UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, the Committee reviewed
an ethnic minority background by 2021, with four members of our
the Board’s choice of an alternative mechanism to engage with
Board self-identifying as 'Directors of colour' in line with the
and understand the views of the wider workforce with reference to
definition set by Parker.
developing market practice. During 2020, the Committee
confirmed that it remained confident that our preferred The Board is also extremely focused on diversity across the wider
mechanism of 'alternative arrangements' remained effective and organisation, and believes that this is a critical component of
believed that this was most appropriate for an organisation of our
HSBC’s future success. Further details on activities to improve
scale and geographical diversity. Engagement with the workforce
diversity across senior management and the wider workforce,
will continue to be a priority for the Board in 2021. Further details
together with representation statistics, can be found on pages 64
on the arrangements we have in place to facilitate workforce
to 65.
engagement can be found on page 210.
Independence of non-executive Directors
Diversity
The Committee has delegated authority from the Board in relation
The Board diversity policy sets out our approach to achieving our
to the assessment of the independence of non-executive Directors.
diversity ambitions, and helps to ensure that diversity and
inclusion factors are taken into account in succession planning. In accordance with the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance
Codes, the Committee has reviewed and confirmed that all non-
In line with our ongoing commitment to diversity, we reviewed our
executive Directors who have submitted themselves for election
Board diversity policy during 2020. This review included
and re-election at the AGM are considered to be independent. This
consideration of developments in best practice as well as
conclusion was reached after consideration of all relevant
regulatory expectations on board diversity, including those
circumstances that are likely to impair, or could appear to impair,
outlined by the PRA.
independence.
A number of minor updates were made to the characteristics that
Laura Cha, who joined the Board in 2011, will not be standing for
the Board will take into account when considering candidates for
re-election at the 2021 AGM. The Committee determined that
future appointment as Directors. These included adding social
Laura, notwithstanding her length of service, continues to be
backgrounds to the Board diversity policy as a factor for
independent when taking into consideration all other relevant
consideration, and making amendments to emphasise the link
circumstances that are likely to impair, or could appear to impair,
between diversity of thought with risk avoidance and improved
independence and that she will continue to be independent up to
decision making. The revised Board diversity policy is available at
the date of the 2021 AGM when she will retire from the Board.
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-governance/board-
responsibilities. The Committee also has oversight of the composition of the
boards of the Group’s regional principal subsidiaries and approves
Our recent non-executive Director searches have prioritised
the appointment of Directors and senior management in those
diversity both in terms of gender and representation from those of
subsidiaries.
Asia-Pacific heritage. These have been identified as areas where
we needed to strengthen in anticipation of retirements from the
Board in the coming years.
Matters considered during 2020
Jan Feb Apr May Jul Sep Dec
Board composition and succession
Board composition, including succession planning and skills
l l l ô ô l l
matrices
Approval of diversity and inclusion policy ô ô l ô ô ô ô
Approval of conflicts of interest policy ô ô ô ô ô ô l
Executive talent and development
Senior executive succession ô l l l l l l
Approval of executive succession plans ô ô ô ô ô ô l
Talent programmes ô ô l ô ô ô ô
Governance
Board and committee evaluation ô ô l l ô ô l
Subsidiary governance ô ô ô ô l ô ô
Subsidiary and executive appointments l l l l l l l
Appointment process – assessment of new non-executive Directors
Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5
The Committee agreed the The Committee considered Meetings were arranged The Committee Outstanding due diligence
desired criteria sought in a long-list of candidates between members of the recommended the and associated procedures
the candidates for and agreed which should Committee and priority non- appointment of the non- completed prior to
appointment to the Board. be prioritised. Relevant executive Director executive Director to the announcement of
An external search partner candidates were candidates. Feedback from Holdings Board for appointment. Director
was engaged. approached by the external the non-executive Directors approval, subject to onboarding and induction
search partner to was discussed alongside completion of outstanding pack issued and completed.
understand their interest. consideration of potential due diligence.
conflicts and other matters
identified through due
diligence.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 215
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Group Audit Committee Membership
Meeting attendance
Member since in 2020
David Nish (Chair) May 2016 13/13
Kathleen Casey1 Mar 2014 5/5
James Forese May 2020 7/7
Eileen Murray2 Jul 2020 5/6
Sir Jonathan Symonds1 Sep 2014 3/3
Jackson Tai Dec 2018 13/13
Pauline van der Meer Mohr Apr 2020 10/10
1 Sir Jonathan Symonds stepped down from the Board on 18 February
2020. Kathleen Casey stepped down from the Board on 24 April
2020.
2 Eileen Murray was unable to attend a meeting in July 2020 due to a
prior commitment made before her appointment.
Key responsibilities
"The Committee spent substantial time in understanding and
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
assessing the effect of the Covid-19 outbreak on expected credit
losses, the Group-wide transformation programme and other • monitoring and assessing the integrity of the financial
related accounting judgements and disclosures." statements, formal announcements and regulatory information
in relation to the Group's financial performance, as well as
Dear Shareholder
significant accounting judgements;
I am pleased to present my first report to you as Chair of the
• reviewing the effectiveness of, and ensuring that management
Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’). The Committee had a busy year,
has appropriate internal controls over, financial reporting;
holding 13 meetings. This report sets out some of the issues
considered during 2020. • reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external
auditor and oversees its appointment, tenure, rotation,
The Committee has strong, but diverse, financial services
remuneration, independence and engagement for non-audit
experience. To strengthen our skill set further, we welcomed
services; and
Pauline van der Meer Mohr, James Forese and Eileen Murray as
new members. Sir Jonathan Symonds and Kathleen Casey • overseeing the work of Global Internal Audit and monitoring
stepped down during the year and I would like to thank them for and assessing the effectiveness, performance, resourcing,
their insightful and significant contributions to the work of the independence and standing of the function.
GAC.
Committee governance
The Committee spent substantial time in understanding and
The Committee keeps the Board informed and advises on matters
assessing the effect of the Covid-19 outbreak on expected credit
concerning the Group's financial reporting requirements to ensure
losses, the Group-wide transformation programme, the impact of
that the Board has exercised oversight of the work carried out by
regulatory change on the control environment, and other related
management, Global Internal Audit and the external auditor.
accounting judgements and disclosures.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group
Given the Committee's role in relation to whistleblowing I regularly
Head of Finance, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group Head of
met with the Group Chief Compliance Officer and the Group Head
Audit, Group Chief Risk Officer and other members of senior
of Whistleblowing Oversight to discuss material whistleblowing
management routinely attended meetings of the GAC. The
cases, enhancements to whistleblowing arrangements and plans
external auditor attended all meetings.
for periodic updates to the Committee.
The Chair held regular meetings with management, Global Internal
To develop a better understanding of the key issues and
Audit and the external auditor to discuss agenda planning and
challenges at the local level, I attended a number of principal
specific issues as they arose during the year outside the formal
subsidiary audit committee meetings throughout the Group. These
Committee process. The Committee also regularly met separately
meetings were complemented by regular Audit and Risk
with the Group Chief Legal Officer, internal and external auditors
Committee Chairs’ Forums throughout the year to ensure
and other senior management to discuss matters in private.
alignment of priorities and to strengthen our relationship with the
principal subsidiaries. The Committee Secretary regularly met with the Chair to ensure
the Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities and to
The Committee received regular updates from the Group Head of
consider input from stakeholders when finalising meeting
Audit on the progress against the audit plan. During the year the
agendas, tracking progress on actions and Committee priorities.
audit plan was adjusted in response to new risks arising from the
Covid-19 outbreak and assurance work in relation to major change Meetings of the Committee usually take place a couple of days
programmes throughout the Group. before the Board meeting to allow the Committee to report its
findings and recommendations in a timely and orderly manner.
Our external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ('PwC'), has
This is done through the Chair who comments on matters of
now completed its sixth audit. PwC continues to provide robust
particular relevance and the Board receives copies of the
challenge to management and provide sound independent advice
Committee agenda and minutes of meetings.
to the Committee on specific financial reporting judgements and
the control environment.
An internal evaluation concluded that the Committee continued to
operate effectively in 2020, and made certain recommendations
for continual improvement.
David Nish
Chair, Group Audit Committee, 23 February 2021
216 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Matters considered during 2020
Jan Feb Apr Jun Jul Sep Oct Dec
Reporting
Financial reporting matters including:
–Review of financial statements, ensuring that disclosures are fair,
balanced and understandable
l l l l l l l l
–Significant accounting judgements
–Going concern assumptions and viability statement
–Supplementary regulatory information and the ESG Update
Regulatory reporting-related matters l l l l ô l ô l
Certificates from principal subsidiary audit committees ô l ô ô l ô ô ô
Control environment
Review of deficiencies and effectiveness of internal financial controls l l l l l l l l
Internal audit
Reports from Global Internal Audit l l l l l ô l l
Annual audit plan, independence and effectiveness l ô l ô l ô ô l
External audit
Reports from external audit, including external audit plan l l l l l ô l l
Appointment, remuneration, non-audit services and effectiveness l l l l ô ô l ô
Compliance
Accounting standards and critical accounting policies l l ô ô ô ô ô l
Corporate governance codes and listing rules ô l ô ô l ô ô ô
Whistleblowing
Whistleblowing arrangements and effectiveness ô l l ô l ô ô l
Compliance with regulatory requirements strategic priorities and ensured that the performance and outlook
statements were fair, balanced and reflected the risks and
The Board has confirmed that each member of the
uncertainties appropriately.
Committee is independent according to the criteria from the
US Securities and Exchange Commission, and the During the year, the Committee received regular updates from
Committee continues to have competence relevant to the management on the additional guidance and disclosures made in
sector in which the Group operates. The Board has relation to the Covid-19 outbreak. The Committee considered and
determined that David Nish, Jackson Tai and Eileen Murray was satisfied with the management response to the Financial
are all ‘financial experts’ for the purposes of section 407 of Reporting Council’s (‘FRC') comments on HSBC’s Annual Report
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant and Accounts 2019 regarding goodwill impairment disclosures,
financial experience for the purposes of the UK and Hong and the industry-wide FRC publications, including the letter to
Kong Corporate Governance Codes. audit committee chairs.
The Committee assessed the adequacy of resources of the In conjunction with the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’), the GAC
accounting and financial reporting function. It also monitored the considered the current position of the Group, along with the
legal and regulatory environment relevant to its responsibilities. emerging and principal risks, and carried out a robust assessment
of the Group’s prospects, before making a recommendation to the
The GAC Chair had regular meetings with the regulators, including
Board on the Group’s long-term viability statement. The GAC also
the UK’s PRA and the FCA. These included trilateral meetings
undertook a detailed review before recommending to the Board
involving the Group’s external auditor PwC. that the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in
How the Committee discharged its preparing the annual and interim financial statements. Further
responsibilities details can be found on page 41.
Connectivity with principal subsidiary audit committees The Committee’s review of the long-term viability statement and
the adoption of the going concern basis factored in additional
During the year the GAC Chair regularly met with the chairs of the guidance issued by the FRC on financial reporting in light of the
principal subsidiary audit committees and attended meetings to Covid-19 outbreak.
enable closer links and deeper understanding on judgements
Following review and challenge of the disclosures, the Committee
around key issues. In addition, there was regular interaction with
recommended to the Board that the financial statements, taken as
committee chairs across the Group through the Audit and Risk
a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable. The financial
Committee Chairs’ Forum (‘ARCC’).
statements provided the shareholders with the necessary
Appointments to the audit committees of the principal subsidiary information to assess the Group’s position and performance,
audit committees were reviewed and endorsed by the GAC. The business model, strategy and risks facing the business.
GAC Chair met with proposed new chairs prior to their
Covid-19 impact on accounting judgements
appointment.
On a half-yearly basis, principal subsidiary audit committees The Committee devoted significant time, including additional
provided certifications to the GAC regarding the preparation of meetings, to the review and challenge of management’s approach
their financial statements, adherence to Group policies and and analysis of IFRS 9 expected credit losses (‘ECL’) in light of the
escalation of any issues that required the attention of the GAC. Covid-19 outbreak and other geopolitical events. In its review, the
GAC gave due regard to the interpretation and application of
Financial reporting
additional guidelines in relation to the Covid-19 outbreak and
The Committee’s review of financial reporting during the year estimating ECL that were issued by various regulators.
included the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Report, quarterly The Committee gave careful consideration to the measurement of
earnings releases, analyst presentations and Pillar 3 disclosures. ECL, in particular the key judgements and management
As part of its review, the GAC evaluated management’s adjustments made in relation to the forward economic guidance,
application of critical accounting policies, significant accounting underlying economic scenarios, reasonableness of the weightings
judgements and compliance with disclosure requirements to and the impact on financial statements and disclosures.
ensure these were consistent, appropriate and acceptable under There was detailed discussion on the risks to ECL models as the
the relevant financial reporting requirements. The Committee gave unprecedented nature of the pandemic meant that the severity of
careful consideration to the key performance metrics related to the economic conditions was outside the bounds of historical data
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 217
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
and experience used to develop IFRS 9 models. The Committee HSBC privately to discuss the continuous audit improvement
challenged management on the approach to modelling ECL, actions.
specifically the use of Credit Risk judgements and invited HSBC’s
The GAC received an update on the partner rotation and
credit experts to present their views to the Committee.
succession for the Group and its principal subsidiaries and the
At the request of the GAC Chair, Global Internal Audit carried out steps taken to ensure effective transitions.
additional verification and assurance regarding the disclosures
The GAC monitored the policy on hiring employees or former
made in quarterly reporting on the range of ECL outlook and
employees of the external auditor, and there were no breaches of
consistency of the ECL disclosures. The Group’s external auditor
the policy highlighted during the year. The external auditor
regularly shared its views with the Committee on the
attended all Committee meetings and the GAC Chair maintains
reasonableness of management assumptions, given the significant
regular contact with the senior audit partner and his team
changes made to the estimation of ECL due to the impact of the
throughout the year.
Covid-19 outbreak on the design, implementation and operation of
ECL controls. The Committee also assessed any potential threats to
independence that were self-identified or reported by PwC. The
Other areas of significant accounting judgements requiring in-
GAC considered PwC to be independent and PwC, in accordance
depth review due to the Covid-19 pandemic included valuation of
with professional ethical standards, provided the GAC with written
financial instruments, goodwill impairment, hedge accounting and
confirmation of its independence for the duration of 2020.
investment in associates. Further details can be found in the
'Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2020' The Committee confirms it has complied with the provisions of the
table on page 220. Competition and Markets Authority Order for the financial
statements. The Committee acknowledges the provisions
Internal controls
contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of
The GAC assessed the effectiveness of the internal control audit tendering. In conformance with these requirements, HSBC
system for financial reporting and any developments will be required to tender for the audit for the 2025 financial year
affecting it. This was in support of the Board’s assessment of end and beyond, having appointed PwC from
internal control over financial reporting, in accordance with 1 January 2015.
section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee believed it would not be appropriate to re-tender
The Committee received regular updates and confirmations that as a change in auditor would have a significant impact on the
management had taken, or was taking, the necessary actions to organisation, including on the Global Finance function. A change
remediate any failings or weaknesses identified through the would lead to disruption and an increase in operational risk given
operation of the Group’s framework of controls. Further details of the ongoing impact from the Covid-19 pandemic and the
how the Board reviewed the effectiveness of key aspects of significant strategic change underway through the Group
internal control can be found on page 260. transformation programme. In addition, the Committee is closely
monitoring the consultations and proposals arising from the
In 2020 the updates provided to the Committee included the
Competition and Market Authority's statutory audit market study,
potential impacts on internal control from the Covid-19 outbreak.
the Kingman Review of the Financial Reporting Council and the
These impacts included both those directly relevant to operational
Brydon Review on the quality and effectiveness of audit on the
processes and controls, such as where new or amended controls
future of the UK external audit market. The Committee will
were required to administer government relief packages, and more
consider its audit tendering strategy in line with the outcomes of
indirect impacts such as from colleagues working under
the UK audit reform and well in advance of re-tendering in 2025.
contingency arrangements. A number of additional assurance
procedures were performed across the lines of defence to monitor, The Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC should
assess and mitigate these impacts, with results regularly reported be reappointed as auditor. Resolutions concerning the
to the Committee. reappointment of PwC and its audit fee for 2021 will be proposed
to shareholders at the 2021 AGM.
External auditor
Non-audit services
The Group’s external auditor is PwC, which has held the role
for six years, and the senior audit partner is Scott Berryman The Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and
who has been in the role since 2019. The Committee monitoring the appropriateness of the provision of non-audit
reviewed the external auditor’s approach and strategy for the services by the external auditor. It also applies the Group’s policy
annual audit and also received regular updates on the impact on the award of non-audit services to the external auditor. During
on the control environment from the Covid-19 outbreak and the year, GAC reviewed changes made to the Group’s policy
the Group transformation programme. Principal matters resulting from the implementation of ‘The Financial Reporting
discussed with PwC are set out in its report on page 267. Council Revised Ethical Standard 2019’ (effective in 2020) and
changes to internal governance. The key change in the revised
PwC discussed the impact from the Covid-19 outbreak on the
standard is the introduction of a ‘whitelist of services’ that the
execution and delivery of the audit and the plans to deliver the
principal accountant can provide. All services not prescribed in the
audit through remote working and mitigating actions being taken.
whitelist are prohibited. The non-audit services are carried out in
These included accelerating aspects of planning and performing a
accordance with the external auditor independence policy to
number of areas of audit earlier to factor in expected delays due to
ensure that services do not create a conflict of interest. All non-
remote working. There was also discussion on additional relevant
audit services are either approved by the GAC, or by Group
work in relation to significant accounting judgements, such as
Finance when acting within delegated limits and criteria set by the
expected credit losses, and the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak
GAC.
on the basis for determining materiality.
The non-audit services carried out by PwC included 45
During the year, the GAC assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the
engagements approved during the year where the fees were over
Group's external auditor, using a questionnaire that focused on the
$100,000 but less than $1m. Global Finance, as a delegate of GAC,
overall audit process, its effectiveness and the quality of output.
considered that it was in the best interests of the Group to use
The Committee gave particular focus to the actions being taken by
PwC for these services because they were:
PwC in response to the findings from the HSBC effectiveness
review and the PwC firm-wide Audit Quality Review by the • audit-related engagements that were largely carried out by
Financial Reporting Council. PwC highlighted the continuing members of the audit engagement team, with the work closely
investment in both additional resources and new technologies to related to the work performed in the audit;
improve the quality and consistency of the audit. The Committee
• engagements covered under other assurance services that
Chair also met the PwC engagement quality control partner for
require obtaining appropriate audit evidence to express a
conclusion designed to enhance the degree of confidence of
218 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
the intended users other than the responsible party about the work continue to be strategy, governance and culture, financial
subject matter information; or crime, conduct and compliance, financial resilience, and
operational resilience. During 2021, a quarterly assessment of key
• other permitted services to advisory attestation reports on
risk themes will form the basis of thematic reporting and plan
internal controls of a service organisation primarily prepared for
updates and will ultimately drive the 2022 planning process. The
and used by third-party end users.
annual audit plan and material plan updates are approved by the
Eight engagements during the year were approved where the fees GAC. Based on regular internal audit reporting to the GAC, private
exceeded $1m. These were mainly engagements required by the sessions with the Group Head of Audit, the Global Professional
regulator and incremental fees related to previously approved Practices annual assessment and quarterly Quality Assurance
engagements. One new engagement outside the scope of the pre- updates, the GAC is satisfied with the effectiveness of the Global
approved services related to preliminary advanced audit Internal Audit function and the appropriateness of its resources.
procedures for the adoption of IFRS 17 in 2023.
Global Internal Audit maintains a close working relationship with
2020 2019 HSBC’s external auditor, PwC. The external auditor is kept
Auditors‘ remuneration $m $m informed of Global Internal Audit’s activities and results, and is
Total fees payable 130.2 110.7 afforded free access to all internal audit reports and supporting
Fees for non-audit services 37.3 25.5 records.
Principal activities and significant issues
Global Internal Audit
considered during 2020
The primary role of the Global Internal Audit function is to help the
Board and management protect the assets, reputation and Collaborative oversight by GAC and GRC
sustainability of the Group. Global Internal Audit does this by The GAC and GRC worked closely to ensure there were
providing independent and objective assurance on the design and procedures to manage risk and oversee the internal control
operating effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk framework. They also worked together to ensure any
management and control framework and processes, prioritising common areas of responsibility were addressed
the greatest areas of risk. appropriately with inter-committee communication or joint
The independence of Global Internal Audit from day-to-day line discussions with the Chairs.
management responsibility is critical to its ability to deliver The Chairs are members of both committees and engage on the
objective audit coverage by maintaining an independent and agendas of each other’s committees to further enhance
objective stance. Global Internal Audit is free from interference by connectivity, coordination and flow of information. This is further
any element in the organisation, including on matters of audit complemented with significant overlap in membership of the GAC
selection, scope, procedures, frequency, timing, or internal audit and GRC to ensure deeper understanding and informed challenge
report content. Global Internal Audit adheres to The Institute of at both meetings.
Internal Auditors' mandatory guidance.
During 2020, the GAC and GRC Chairs reviewed and challenged
The Group Head of Audit reports to the Chair of the GAC and there management’s proposals to transition the responsibility for
are frequent meetings held between them. Results of audit work, oversight of entity level controls from the GAC to the GRC. The
together with an assessment of the Group’s overall governance, Chairs considered whether there was the suitable level of
risk management and control framework and processes are management seniority for ownership of entity level controls and
reported regularly to the GAC, GRC and local audit and risk whether there was regular and appropriate reporting to both
committees, as appropriate. This reporting highlights key themes committees to fulfil their oversight responsibilities.
identified through audit activity, business and regulatory
developments, and provides an independent view of emerging and In 2020, five ARCC Forums were held with the chairs of principal
horizon risk, together with details of audit coverage. and regional subsidiaries’ audit and risk committees, together with
senior management from these subsidiaries. The purpose of these
Audit coverage is achieved using a combination of business and ARCC Forums was to discuss mutual priorities, improvement and
functional audits of processes and controls, risk management remediation programmes and forward-looking issues in relation to
frameworks and major change initiatives, as well as regulatory the management of risk and the internal control framework. The
audits, investigations and special reviews. In addition to the topics discussed at the ARCC Forums can be found in the GRC
ongoing importance of regulatory-focused work, key risk theme report on page 226.
categories for 2020 audit coverage were strategy, governance and
culture, financial crime, conduct and compliance, financial Three areas of joint focus for the GAC and GRC during 2020 were:
resilience and operational resilience. In April 2020, in response to Sustainable control environment
the Covid-19 outbreak, Global Internal Audit completed a risk-
With oversight from the GAC, the Group Executive Committee
based review to revise the 2020 annual audit plan to create
continued a programme to ensure there is clear understanding,
capacity for real-time audits targeted at key risks arising from the
accountability and ownership for internal controls and end-to-end
pandemic. Real-time audits provide real-time, independent
processes to deliver operational quality and consistent outcomes
ongoing observations to management responding to the Covid-19
for customers and simpler operation of controls for colleagues.
outbreak. Issues are raised for significant observations that are not
addressed in a timely manner. In addition, in response to the The GAC provided constructive challenge to management
business update in February 2020, Global Internal Audit focused proposals and received regular progress updates on the work
on governance over the transformation programme and performed streams. Improvements were measured and tracked through a
project audit activity for selected complex and high-priority new enterprise-wide non-financial risk forum with escalation paths
business cases. into the GAC and GRC.
Executive management is responsible for ensuring that issues Financial reporting
raised by the Global Internal Audit function are addressed within
The GAC reviewed and provided feedback on the assurance work
an appropriate and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect
and management’s opinion on internal controls over financial
must be provided to Global Internal Audit, which validates closure
reporting, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In conjunction
on a risk basis.
with the GRC, the GAC monitored the remediation of significant
Consistent with previous years, the 2021 audit planning process deficiencies and weaknesses in entity level controls raised by
includes assessing the inherent risks and strength of the control management and the external auditor. The GAC will continue to
environment across the audit entities representing the Group. monitor the progress of remediation as well as efforts to integrate
Results of this assessment are combined with a top-down analysis requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act with the operational risk
of risk themes by risk category to ensure that themes identified are
addressed in the plan. Risk theme categories for the 2021 audit
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 219
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
framework as part of the sustainable control environment The Group’s Chief Compliance Officer provides periodic
programme. reporting to the GAC on the efficacy of the whistleblowing
arrangements, providing an assessment of controls and
In 2020, the GAC and the GRC reviewed the risks arising from
detailing the results of internal audit assessments. The
models used for the estimation of expected credit losses under
Committee is also briefed on culture and conduct risks and
IFRS 9, particularly given the economic backdrop of the Covid-19
associated management actions arising from whistleblowing
outbreak. The committees challenged the underlying economic
cases. The Chair of the GAC acts as the Group’s
scenarios, additional scenarios added by management and the
whistleblowers’ champion, with responsibility for ensuring
reasonableness of the weightings applied to each scenario in order
and overseeing the integrity, independence and effectiveness
to understand the impact on the financial statements.
of HSBC’s policies and procedures on whistleblowing and
Monitoring changes to regulatory requirements the protection of whistleblowers. The Chair met with the
The GAC approved an annual priorities plan to review Group Head of Whistleblowing Oversight throughout the
management’s response to current and future changes in year for briefings on material whistleblowing cases and
regulatory requirements affecting financial reporting. In 2020, this assessments of the whistleblowing arrangements.
included interpretation of new accounting standards, industry- The Committee has requested updates on a number of key areas
wide regulatory reform programmes and their impact on during 2020, including an assessment of the timeliness of
accounting judgements. The GAC will continue to monitor specific whistleblowing investigations. The arrangements were subject to
accounting issues identified during the year and future regulatory an internal audit review during 2020, which rated the design,
items that will impact the integrity of financial reporting, the Group control and management oversight of the arrangements as
and its relationships with regulators. satisfactory. As part of the ongoing assessment of the end-to-end
arrangements, the Committee has requested a deeper review in
There continues to be an increased focus on the quality of
key markets of the employee investigation function in which the
regulatory reporting by the PRA and other regulators globally. The
whistleblowing arrangements have a dependency. An external
GAC will review the steps taken by management to strengthen the
benchmarking assessment was presented to the GAC in
controls over regulatory reporting and as we strengthen our
December 2020. This provided an overview of the overall
processes and controls, there may be impacts on some of our
effectiveness of whistleblowing arrangements and investigations
regulatory ratios.
processes against a number of industry peers, and best practice
In conjunction with the GRC, the GAC continued to oversee the guidance issued by external consultancy and legal firms as well as
progress of management’s proposals and implementation of the the UK charity, Protect. The assessment reflected the significant
Basel III Reforms and the Ibor transition. The GAC focused on the progress made during 2020 such as the implementation of a new
operational and control environment impacts from Basel III whistleblowing platform (Navex), the enhanced global minimum
Reforms and Ibor transition on HSBC’s financial reporting and standards and improvements observed in the ‘speak up’ culture. In
interdependencies with other Group transformation programmes. addition, governance was improved with a particular focus on key
Whistleblowing and ‘speak up’ culture emerging conduct themes to enable timely management action,
and a mechanism was introduced for whistleblowers to provide
Whistleblowing is a key element of ‘speak up’ culture, with feedback post-investigation. The assessment also identified further
the Group’s whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, opportunities for 2021 as part of the Group’s fit for the future
offering a variety of ways for our people to raise programme with updates to be provided to the whistleblowing
whistleblowing concerns (see page 68 for further champion and the GAC throughout 2021.
information). The GAC is responsible for the oversight of the
effectiveness of the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2020
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Key financial metrics and strategic priorities In exercising its oversight, the Committee assessed management's assurance and
The GAC considered the key judgements in relation preparation of external financial reporting disclosures. The Committee was
to external reporting to track the key financial particularly focused on the ongoing Covid-19-related uncertainty and how
metrics and strategic priorities and to review the management addressed and reflected the impact of the pandemic in external
forecast performance and outlook. reporting and disclosures. The Committee reviewed the draft external reporting
disclosures and provided feedback and challenge on the top sensitive disclosures,
including key financial metrics and strategic priorities to ensure HSBC was
consistent and transparent in its messaging.
Environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) The GAC reviewed the approach to combining the ESG Update into the Annual
reporting Report and Accounts for the 2020 reporting period. This included consideration of
Financial and The Committee considered management's efforts to the steps taken by management to address findings from Global Internal Audit
regulatory embed and enhance ESG reporting to demonstrate regarding the controls and assurance processes for ESG content. The Committee
reporting strong controls, operation and governance, will review the steps taken by management in developing the target operating
including key performance indicators and assurance model to deliver integrated reporting in 2021.
plans.
Regulatory reporting assurance programme The Committee reflected on the continued focus on the quality and reliability of
The GAC monitored the progress of the regulatory regulatory reporting by the PRA and other regulators globally. The GAC reviewed
reporting assurance programme to enhance the management’s efforts to strengthen and simplify the end-to-end operating model,
Group’s regulatory reporting, impact on the control including commissioning independent external reviews of various aspects of
environment and oversee regulatory reviews and regulatory reporting. The Committee discussed and provided management’s
engagement. engagement plans with the Group’s regulators, including any potential impacts on
some of our regulatory ratios such as CET1 and LCR. We continue to keep the
PRA and other relevant regulators informed of our progress.
Expected credit losses The actions taken are summarised above in the 'Covid-19 impact on accounting
The measurement of expected credit losses involves judgements' section of this report.
significant judgements, particularly under current
Significant economic conditions. There remains an elevated
accounting degree of uncertainty over ECL estimation under
judgements current macroeconomic, political and
epidemiological uncertainties. Further details are
provided in the 'Covid-19 impact on accounting
judgements' section of this report.
220 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2020 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Long-term asset return assumptions in PVIF The GAC reviewed the assumptions determined by management under existing
Market volatility during 2020 resulted in further insurance governance processes, which involve significant expert judgement, and
review of the long-term investment assumptions concluded that they were supportable given internal and external benchmarks and
used in the measurement of the present value of in- information reviewed.
force business ('PVIF') intangible assets recorded on
the balance sheet in relation to shareholder returns
expected from long-term insurance contracts.
Other Hedge accounting The GAC noted that the effect of Covid-19 payment deferrals on hedge
accounting Significant judgements relating to hedge accounting was limited and no additional actions were required. Additionally the
judgements accounting matters under current economic GAC was informed about the mitigation actions management has taken to reduce
conditions include the impact of Covid-19 payment the risk associated with floored hedged items, such as designating new hedge
deferrals on the highly probable cash flow forecasts accounting relationships.
required by macro cash flow programmes; and
whether hedge accounting relationships, where
hedged items include interest rate floors and the
hedging instrument does not, would be highly
effective over the hedged horizon.
Transformation and sustainable control The Committee received regular updates on the Group transformation programme
environment to review the impact on the risk and control environment and to oversee progress
The GAC will oversee the impact on the risk and of the Group transformation programme.
control environment from the Group transformation In these updates the Committee monitored the development of management’s
programme. approach to structuring and governing the Group transformation programme and
risk management processes. This oversight helped satisfy the Committee of the
appropriateness of these processes and associated benefits delivery.
Management kept the Committee apprised of the changes and adjustments made
to the Group transformation programme in response to Covid-19, and associated
impact on the financial performance.
Management’s updates were supplemented by significant focus and assurance
work from Global Internal Audit where a dedicated team continuously monitored
and reviewed the Group transformation programme. This included carrying out a
number of targeted audit reviews, in addition to audits of significant programmes.
These reviews focused on key elements of change management.
Global Finance transformation The Committee has oversight for the adequacy of resources and expertise, as well
The Committee reviewed the proposals for the as succession planning for the Global Finance function. During 2020, the
Global Finance organisational design, the migration Committee dedicated significant time to the review and progress of the multi-year
to Cloud and the impact on financial controls. Global Finance transformation programme, with the overall objectives being to
Group improve the control environment and customer outcomes and to leverage
transformation technology to increase overall efficiency. In particular, the Committee discussed
the challenges to Global Finance operations, including financial reporting, from
the Covid-19 pandemic and sought assurance that controls were in place to
maintain standards and quality.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the key change programmes and
delivery milestones and tracked the progress of the deliverables. In particular, the
Committee considered the impact from the Global Finance transformation on the
Group transformation programme, regulatory change programmes and where
there were interdependencies and concentrations risks through key programmes
such as Finance on the Cloud. There were frequent discussions with management
with input from Global Internal Audit on the impact on key risks and controls,
including steps taken to mitigate these risks. Management regularly updated the
Committee on the approach and plans for regulatory engagement, including
follow-up on the outcomes and actions to be taken post-meetings with regulators.
The Group Chief Financial Officer had private sessions with the Committee to
share his perspectives on the progress of the Global Finance transformation, areas
of strategic priorities and where additional focus was required. The private
sessions included discussion on succession planning and resourcing and areas
where GAC members could support and guide management by leveraging
members’ experience.
IFRS 17 'Insurance Contracts' Management provided an update on the final standard amendments that were
The Committee will oversee the transition to IFRS issued in June 2020 and discussed the impact on the transition programme
17 and consider the wider strategic implications of necessitated by the one-year delay to the effective date, both from a policy
the change on the insurance business. implementation and model build perspective. The discussions highlighted the
significant uncertainty that remained in the interpretation of key areas and the
working assumptions adopted by management to enable design solutions,
Regulatory investment in technology and data infrastructure to proceed.
change The Committee discussed the impact from IFRS 17 on HSBC’s reported numbers
in the financial statements and management will continue to consider how to
appropriately apply the standard to HSBC’s insurance business, as well as
monitoring insurance industry developments on disclosures. Management will
continue to keep the Committee updated on plans for the investor narrative,
taking into account the relevant disclosure requirements applicable to HSBC, and
ongoing presentation of insurance results up to the time of the transition.
222 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2020 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Basel III Reform The Committee received an update on the progress and impact of the Basel III
The GAC considered the implementation of the Reform programme on the Group. Management discussed the uncertainty over
Basel III Reform and the impact on the capital the final definition of the rules and the actions taken to ensure sufficient flexibility
requirements and RWA assurance. This was to make changes and mitigate risks from legislation being finalised at a later date.
considered in the context of the strategy and The discussion highlighted the dependencies of the Basel III Reform programme
structure of the balance sheet. with other Group transformation programmes, in particular the dependency on
adoption of the Finance on the Cloud solution and the impact on data delivery and
storage.
The Committee reviewed and challenged management on the findings from an
audit on the programme structure, governance and the significant cost increase
year on year. Management explained the actions being taken in response to the
audit findings and the reasons for the increase in costs, which included delays to
implementation dates caused by Covid-19.
Interest rate benchmark replacement The GAC noted management’s early adoption of ‘Interest Rate Benchmark Reform
Regulatory The financial reporting risks of interest rate – Phase 2’ amendments to IFRSs in relation to benchmark reform, including the
change benchmark transition include the potential for disclosures necessary to support adoption of the reliefs.
volatility arising from financial instruments The Committee considered the risks and financial reporting impacts arising from
valuation, contract modification and hedge the Ibor transition. Management discussed actions being taken to mitigate the
accounting. The transitions involve significant risks, which included new product development and a client outreach programme
operational complexity for financial institutions, and to ensure readiness to migrate and explain the changes and outcomes arising
industry approaches to transition continue to from the transition to clients. Management advised about the operational
develop. challenges such as the updates to current systems and processes that were
required to support the accounting for the Ibor transition and our external
dependency on market and client readiness. In particular, management drew
attention to the potentially material impact on hedge accounting programmes
from the Ibor transition and the substantial costs and risks involved in the
redocumentation of hedges.
The Committee discussed the approach being taken across the industry with
management and PwC and potential impacts on the control environment relevant
to financial reporting from the Ibor transition.
Committee evaluation and effectiveness Focus of future activities
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board At the beginning of each year the Committee discusses its key
committees, including the GAC, was conducted internally in priorities for the year ahead. In 2021, the Committee will continue
2020. Overall the review concluded that the GAC continued to monitor execution of the Group transformation programme and
to operate effectively, and highlighted improvements made its impact on the risk and control environment. In monitoring the
in 2020 in relation to Committee structure and focus. The Group transformation programme, the Committee will consider
review also made certain recommendations for continuous the interdependencies between the Group transformation
improvement, including in relation to further enhancing the programme and implementation of large-scale regulatory change
quality of information presented to the meeting through programmes such as Basel III Reforms, the Ibor transition and
revised executive governance oversight. The Committee has IFRS 17 'Insurance Contracts'. A major area of focus is also
considered and discussed the outcomes of the evaluation expected to be the GAC’s engagement with the UK Government’s
and accepts the findings. consultation and proposals for the future of the UK external audit
market.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board
and the Committee will track progress on the recommendations
during 2021.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 223
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Group Risk Committee Membership
Meeting attendance
Member since in 2020
Jackson Tai (Chair) Sep 2016 8/8
Kathleen Casey1 Jan 2020 3/3
Steven Guggenheimer May 2020 4/4
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña May 2019 8/8
Heidi Miller Sep 2014 8/8
Eileen Murray Jul 2020 3/3
David Nish Feb 2020 7/7
Sir Jonathan Symonds1 Apr 2018 2/2
Pauline van der Meer Mohr Apr 2018 8/8
1 Sir Jonathan Symonds stepped down from the Board on 18 February
2020. Kathleen Casey stepped down from the Board on 24 April
2020.
Key responsibilities
“Geopolitical developments, civil unrest, the UK's trade negotiation The Group Risk Committee has overall non-executive responsibility
with the EU and the Covid-19 outbreak introduced new challenges for oversight of risk-related matters and the risks impacting the
for our organisation, customers and people. The Group Risk Group. The GRC’s key responsibilities includes:
Committee responded by working closely with management to
• advising the Board on risk appetite-related matters, and key
understand and appropriately challenge scenario stress testing,
regulatory submissions, including the ICAAP and ILAAP, as well
early warning indicators and management of information."
as recovery and resolution planning;
• overseeing and advising the Board on all risk-related matters,
Dear Shareholder
including financial risks, non-financial risks and the
I am pleased to present the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) report. effectiveness of the Group’s conduct framework;
Geopolitical developments, civil unrest in Hong Kong, the UK’s • undertaking a review and challenge of the Group’s stress
trade negotiations with the EU and the Covid-19 outbreak testing exercises; and
introduced new challenges for our organisation, customers and • reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s enterprise risk
people. The GRC responded by working closely with management management framework and internal controls systems (other
to understand and appropriately challenge scenario stress testing than internal financial controls overseen by the GAC).
results, early warning indicators and key management metrics.
Committee governance
Importantly, we monitored heightened capital and liquidity risks
against the prospect of greater market volatility, large customer In carrying out its responsibilities, the GRC is supported by the
financing needs, rapid credit deterioration and lapses in fair participation of senior management, including Noel Quinn who
outcomes for our customers. We reviewed and challenged the attended six GRC meetings in 2020.
impact of forward economic growth assumptions on our markets The Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group
and credit exposures. We maintained close watch over people and Head of Audit, Group Chief Compliance Officer and Global Head of
operational risks arising from fatigue, the health impact of the Risk Strategy are standing attendees and regularly attend GRC
virus, and government-imposed restrictions. meetings to contribute their subject matter expertise and insight.
They facilitate GRC members' review and challenge of current and
The GRC continued to strengthen its composition and skills to
forward-looking risk issues, working together with business,
promote proactive risk governance. During the year we welcomed
functional and regional leaders across all three lines of defence.
seasoned technology and operations experts Steven
The Chair also regularly meets with the Group Chief Risk Officer,
Guggenheimer and Eileen Murray to the GRC. We also extended
the Group Head of Audit and external auditor, PwC, without
deep appreciation to Sir Jonathan Symonds and Kathleen Casey
management present.
for their valuable insight and contribution upon their retirement
from the GRC and the Board. The Chair also has regular meetings with members of senior
management to discuss specific risk matters that arise during the
The GRC convened eight formal meetings plus seven special
year outside formal meetings. The Chair consults regularly with
sessions to review and challenge our most important
the Committee Secretary to ensure the GRC meets its governance
responsibilities, including Group internal stress testing, internal
responsibilities and to consider input from stakeholders when
liquidity adequacy assessment process ('ILAAP'), and internal
finalising meeting agendas, tracking progress on actions and
capital adequacy assessment process ('ICAAP'). We also
Committee priorities.
organised timely education sessions, including a full-day training
on sanctions in Hong Kong for non-executive Directors and
management in Asia-Pacific.
Throughout 2020, the GRC and GAC coordinated closely our
respective agendas, as evident in our five jointly organised
regional Audit and Risk Committee Chairs’ Forums, which featured
discussion on key audit and risk issues with our principal
subsidiaries, ensuring alignment of priorities between the Group
and its subsidiaries.
Jackson Tai
Chair
Group Risk Committee
23 February 2021
224 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Matters considered by the GRC in 2020
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Sep Oct Nov Dec
Financial risk ô l l l l ô l l ô l ô
Credit risk ô ô ô ô l ô l l ô l ô
IT and operational risk including
outsourcing, third-party risk l l ô l l ô l l ô l ô
management, cyber risk
Model risk l ô ô l ô ô ô l ô ô ô
People and conduct risk l l ô ô ô ô l l ô l ô
Risk appetite ô l ô ô ô ô l ô ô l ô
Financial crime risk l l ô l l l l l l l ô
Regulatory compliance ô l ô l ô ô l l ô l l
Legal risk l l ô ô ô ô l ô ô l ô
How the GRC discharges its responsibilities Monitoring changes to regulatory requirements
During 2020, the GRC reshaped its meeting agenda to place During 2020, the GRC undertook review and challenge of a
greater emphasis on a regular review of the Group’s risk number of risk areas for which the Group has regulatory
landscape and to track the management of information and obligations or is facing regulatory change. These included
desired outcomes for our most important risk areas. Each meeting operational resilience, climate risk and sanctions. The Committee
now commences with a review of our enterprise risk landscape received updates on regulators’ rules and guidance relating to
through the Group Chief Risk Officer’s update of the Group risk operational resilience, which is designed to protect customers and
profile followed by a comprehensive review of critical maintain economic stability by preventing incidents leading to
management information, led by the Group Chief Risk Officer, and intolerable consumer harm, market disruption, and impact to the
supported by the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief safety and soundness of firms. To reinforce continued emphasis
Operating Officer, Group Chief Compliance Officer and Group and visibility on financial crime and sanctions compliance, the
Human Resources Officer. GRC organised a full-day training session on international
sanctions early in the year in Hong Kong for our Asia-Pacific non-
The GRC also reviewed internal and external audit reports and
executive Directors and management.
regular risk reports, which provided deeper reporting on the
Group’s risk profile and highlighted the material current and The GRC also considered the PRA’s latest requirements and
forward-looking risks and issues, such that the GRC could expectations relating to evidencing of the embedding of climate
effectively identify any areas that required more of the GRC's risk management capabilities within regulated firms.
attention. A summary of coverage is set out in the table above.
Activities outside formal meetings
Throughout the year, the GRC adhered to an agenda that sought
The GRC organised a number of activities outside of its regular
to regularly address topics and oversight responsibilities set out in
meeting cycle to facilitate more effective oversight of the risks
the Group risk taxonomy, while being flexible to undertake
impacting the Group. In particular, the GRC’s formal meetings
informed review and appropriate challenge of timely risk issues
continue to be supported by training and ‘walk-through’ sessions
that have economic, commercial, regulatory and reputational
to raise the GRC’s understanding of the underlying domain issues,
implications for the Group’s franchise.
ensuring the GRC is well prepared in its informed review and
Three thematic risk areas are described below to illustrate the constructive challenge. The chairs of principal subsidiary risk
GRC’s focus during the year. committees were also invited. Activities included, among others:
Sustainable control environment • a Directors' education session, held in October 2020, focusing
on the increasingly complex international sanctions and export
During 2020, the GRC undertook in-depth reviews of a number of
control landscape, including key sanctions challenges facing
topics relating to the Group’s internal controls and the necessary
the Group with the imposition of new US sanctions following
culture change needed to improve the control environment. The
the US Hong Kong Autonomy Act. This education session was
GRC reviewed model enhancements needed as a result of changes
attended by 27 non-executive Directors from across the Group;
in the economy due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The GRC also
continued its review of the Group’s approach to operational • a Directors' education session, held in November 2020, led by
resilience and identified improvements from a pilot study to senior leaders in Group Treasury on the implementation of the
identify areas for further enhancements. The GRC also reviewed internal liquidity metric, which is designed to provide an
the effectiveness of the Group’s anti-fraud controls. At the internal view of liquidity risk and to ensure the Group holds
November meeting of the Committee, it was agreed the ultimate enough liquidity to meet and recover from a defined stress;
oversight for all of the Group’s entity level controls move from the
• GRC Chair’s Working Sessions on a range of topics including
GAC to the GRC. This change supports the Committee’s
financial crime developments, progress on FCA conduct
responsibility for review and oversight of the risk management
remediation matters (May 2020), the Wealth and Personal
culture, framework and internal control systems.
Banking conduct programme (May 2020), progress on
Financial risk regulatory remediation programmes (January and December
2020), the outcomes and implications of the 2020 Group
The GRC provided informed review and constructive challenge to
internal stress test (November 2020), and progress on the 2020
the Group’s regulatory submissions of ICAAP and ILAAP. It also
ICAAP and ILAAP submissions (November 2020); and
monitored progress on the Group’s liquidity risk management
improvement plan, including the development of the internal • three cybersecurity consultation sessions and regular updates
liquidity metric. It reviewed work by the Global Finance function on cyber developments such as cyber-crime, legislation and
on strengthening recovery planning. technology led by the GRC’s independent cybersecurity adviser.
The GRC continued to maintain oversight of the Group’s regulatory Connectivity with principal subsidiary risk committees
and internal stress testing programmes, particularly in light of the
The risk committees of principal subsidiaries provided half-yearly
impact of the Covid-19 outbreak with specific review and
confirmations to the GRC. These certifications confirmed that the
challenge of the key assumptions, strategic management actions
principal subsidiary risk committees had challenged management
and outcomes of the principal tests conducted. Through these
on the quality of the information provided, reviewed the actions
reviews, the GRC assessed risks facing the Group to determine the
proposed by management to address any emerging issues or
principal risks to its long-term viability, including those that would
trends and that the risk management and internal control systems
threaten its solvency and liquidity.
in place were operating effectively.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 225
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Throughout 2020, the GRC proactively encouraged principal Focus of future activities
subsidiary risk committee chairs to participate in regular GRC
The GRC’s focus for 2021 will include the following activities. It
meetings and special review or learning sessions, leading to
will:
improved connectivity between the Group and principal subsidiary
risk committees. In addition the GRC Chair participated in the • provide oversight of the execution risk arising from the Group
meetings of principal subsidiary risk committees for Asia, the UK, transformation programme;
Europe, the US, Latin America, Canada and the Middle East, with
• oversee enhancements to our risk appetite statement so that it
the aim of ensuring strong alignment, information sharing and
is more regular, forward-looking and risk responsive;
connectivity between the GRC and principal subsidiaries.
• ensure the risk appetite statement is closely linked to our
Collaboration between the GRC and GAC
strategic goals, our annual operating plan, stress testing, ILAAP
The GRC worked closely with the GAC to ensure that there are no and ICAAP exercises, and our recovery and resolution planning;
gaps in risk oversight, and that any areas of significant overlap are • monitor and appropriately challenge management’s plans to
appropriately addressed by inter-committee coordination or joint manage and mitigate the impacts of geopolitical risks on our
meetings where appropriate. The GRC and GAC Chairs are operations and portfolios in Asia, the Middle East and the rest
members of both committees to further enhance connectivity, of the world;
coordination and flow of information.
• monitor the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak on the Group’s
Audit and Risk Committee Chairs' Forum customer franchise as well as on the capital and liquidity risk,
The Audit and Risk Committee Chairs' ('ARCC') Forum meetings credit risk, market risk, people and operational risk for the
continue to be one of the more collaborative GRC and GAC Group;
exercises. The forum meetings promote shared risk and audit • monitor continued progress in financial crime compliance,
subject matter expertise, align Group and subsidiary priorities, including enhancements in our transaction monitoring
support the subsidiary accountability framework and promote programme and the application of new analytical tools and
two-way connectivity between the Group and principal subsidiary applications to improve our fraud detection and prevention;
risk and audit committees. The meetings are jointly hosted by the
• continue to monitor developments and enhancements in the
GAC and GRC Chairs and attended by members of the GAC and
Group’s management of conduct and culture, as well as people
GRC, the Group Executive Committee (more than half of whom
risk management;
attended at least one meeting), several Group non-executive
Directors, the chairs of principal and regional subsidiary audit and • continue to review and challenge management’s progress in
risk committees, together with non-executive Directors and senior developing and implementing our operational resilience
management from those subsidiaries. strategy;
In May, the ARCC Forum provided updates through video calls • oversee the Group’s approach to climate risk management and
with the Asia-Pacific region and a combined call with the Europe, climate risk appetite;
Middle East and Americas regions. This was followed by three
• review plans, jointly with the GAC, to strengthen the Group’s
ARCC Forum calls for each of the Asia-Pacific, UK, Europe and
data strategy and management so that we can better serve our
Middle East, and Americas regions in September and November.
customers, protect customer data as well as strengthen model
The ARCC Forums provided an important opportunity for the GRC risk management, credit risk management and risk appetite,
to understand locally-specific issues and priorities with potential including climate risk appetite; and
read-across to other areas and regions of the Group. They also
• track progress regularly in remediating outstanding, unresolved
served to help the GRC hear the observations, concerns and
regulatory actions across the Group and principal subsidiaries,
achievements from subsidiary risk and audit chairs, with a
including progress in closing-out any regulatory consent orders
particular focus on pressing issues or concerns (such as the
or matters requiring attention.
Covid-19 outbreak, business restructuring, or macroeconomic
issues); where Group initiatives need to be recalibrated to reflect Committee evaluation
regional constraints; cross-regional dependencies; and where the
The GRC is committed to regular, independent evaluation of its
Group can progress faster. In light of the Covid-19 pandemic and
own effectiveness. During 2020, the GRC undertook an internal
highly uncertain macroeconomic environment, the ARCC Forum
GRC effectiveness exercise, which concluded that the GRC
meetings included discussion on:
continued to operate effectively and in line with regulatory
• reinforcing the control environment and embedding of non- requirements.
financial risk management;
The effectiveness exercise highlighted improvements made in
• sustaining operational integrity and resilience during a Covid-19 2020 to anchor meetings with the regular review of the Group’s
and restructuring environment; risk landscape and management information. Progress made in
relation to the Committee’s operation and engagement with
• need for even stronger risk appetite, credit, counterparty and
principal subsidiaries was acknowledged. The review also made
conduct risk management during a Covid-19 and
certain recommendations for enhancement, including in relation to
macroeconomic-sensitive environment;
rebalancing the breadth of the GRC agenda, and increasing the
• strengthening model risk management and our portfolio of use of alternative mechanisms to allow the GRC to efficiently
models at the Group level and in the regions; exercise oversight of risk matters through additional education and
supplementary sessions. The Committee has considered and
• subsidiaries’ role and responsibilities in our Group recovery and
discussed the outcomes of the evaluation and accepts the
resolvability planning in a more macroeconomic-sensitive
findings.
environment; and
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board
• understanding the perspectives and feedback from regional
and the Committee will track progress on the recommendations
subsidiaries.
during 2020.
226 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2020
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
The Group risk appetite statement defines the The GRC undertook its biannual risk appetite review and recommended the Group’s
Group’s risk appetite and tolerance thresholds and 2020 risk appetite statement to the Board with enhancements to both financial and
forms the basis of the first and second lines of non-financial risk metrics. It then continued to work closely with Group Risk Strategy
defence’s management of risks, our capacity and to enhance the 2021 risk appetite statement including a climate risk qualitative
capabilities to support our customers, and the statement and quantitative measures that focus on the Group's exposure and risk
pursuit of the Group’s strategic goals profile to high transition risk sectors, as well as improvements to the suite of
Risk appetite resilience risk metrics. The GRC also raised the importance of strengthening the
granularity risk appetite statements to be forward-looking and risk-responsive at
GRC meetings and at regional ARCC Forums. In the process, the GRC has reinforced
the importance of stronger linkage of the risk appetite statements to the Group’s
annual operating plan, strategic planning, stress testing exercises, annual capital
adequacy and liquidity management exercises, and to the Group’s recovery and
resolution planning.
Geopolitical developments and risks continue to The GRC reviewed the Group’s readiness to address major geopolitical
present significant challenges for the Group’s developments, including the short- and longer-term impact of civil unrest in Hong
Geopolitical customer franchise and for the resilience of our Kong and heightened trade tensions between the US and China on our Asia and
developments operations. global franchise, as well as our ability to maintain our high service levels in our
and risks multi-channels to serve our customers. The GRC also monitored the Group’s
preparedness for financial market, operational and commercial disruptions arising
out of protracted UK trade negotiations with the EU.
Managing operational risk and counterparty credit The GRC reviewed how the Group leveraged its capital and liquidity strength, robust
risk to enable the Group’s support of our credit standards, and digital capabilities to assist customers during the Covid-19
Managing customers, communities and the local economy outbreak and to maintain market strength. In doing so, the Committee closely
through the throughout the Covid-19 outbreak. assessed credit trends, economic outlook and the impact on portfolio credit quality.
Covid-19
The GRC also reviewed the operational, reputational and conduct challenges in
outbreak
implementing government support schemes across different geographies and
regulatory jurisdictions, including associated risks, controls and oversight.
Management’s operational resilience programme The GRC maintained its focus on the Group’s policies, programmes and practices for
is being redesigned to enable our priority business strengthening and prioritising our ability to test, detect, resolve and recover from
services to continue to serve our customers in the unforeseen operational disruptions in our key markets. With the goal of minimising
event of unforeseen disruptions in our key harm to our customers and to the local financial markets, the GRC continued its
markets. review of the Group’s approach to operational resilience, which incorporates
learnings from the Group's response to the Covid-19 outbreak across our franchise.
The GRC’s oversight activities included:
• the review and challenge of progress on the formulation of a comprehensive
operational resilience strategy including working with the Group Chief Control
Officer on the programme to comply with regulatory standards for operational
Operational resilience;
resilience
• the planned 'operationalisation' of critical business services and impact
tolerances, and risk and control mapping to strengthen the ability to prevent,
respond to, recover, and learn from operational disruptions, such as Covid-19;
• the embedding of ownership with first line business and function leaders to
deliver operational resilience outcomes for customers, for the Group’s own safety
and soundness, and to avoid disruptions to market integrity and financial stability;
and
• the review and challenge of management’s progress in managing third-party risk
in the context of an increasing reliance on technology services provided by third
parties and growing regulatory scrutiny.
Technology resilience is the risk of unmanaged The GRC reviewed the Committee’s approach to governance of technology risk and
Technology
resilience disruption to any IT system within HSBC, as a Cloud adoption, which was a high priority area under regulatory scrutiny. The GRC
including result of malicious acts, accidental actions or poor also continued its oversight and challenge of the Group’s cybersecurity strategy and
cybersecurity IT practice or IT system failure. management of cyber risks.
and Cloud
strategy
The Group promotes a culture that is effective in The GRC continued to exercise oversight in the area of people risk and employee
managing risk and leads to fair conduct conduct, supported by the Group Chief Human Resources Officer and Group
outcomes. business heads, including:
• regular monitoring of the Group’s progress in remediating the market conduct
It seeks to actively manage the risk of adverse
issues underlying the 2018 deferred prosecution agreement with the US
impact due to not having the right people with
Department of Justice and the related 2017 Federal Reserve Bank Consent Order;
People, conduct the right skills doing the right thing, including
• informed review and challenge of the alignment of risk and reward, satisfying
and culture risks associated with employment practices and
itself that risk and compliance objectives and outcomes were reflected in the
relations.
Group variable pay pool;
• discussion of the people risk issues arising due to the impact of the Covid-19
outbreak; and
• the review of workplace harassment data and insights, action taken and 2020
focus areas.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 227
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2020 (continued)
Areas of focus Key issues Conclusions and actions
Successful delivery of HSBC’s climate ambition The GRC recognises the Group’s regulatory commitments due in 2021 and the
will be determined by our ability to measure and Group’s own publicly stated climate risk targets, as well as the need to manage
Climate risk manage all components of climate risk. climate risk of the Group’s existing portfolios and future business. The GRC reviewed
the Group’s approach to climate risk management and climate risk appetite
including associated stress testing and scenario analysis.
The GRC oversees the Group’s management of its The GRC reviewed the Group’s capability to track environmental and
financial risk, particularly in the context of the macroeconomic headwinds through early warning indicators and scenario stress
challenges of the Covid-19 outbreak. testing. It also oversaw the Group’s progress in developing a range of strategic
management actions capable of timely execution and the development of recovery
and resolution capabilities that meet PRA and local regulatory expectations. The
GRC also maintained oversight of the Group’s liquidity risk management with
Capital and particular emphasis on the outlook, lessons learned from the Covid-19 outbreak,
liquidity risk
metric development, systems and controls, and regulatory feedback.
including ICAAP
and ILAAP
The GRC reviewed and challenged the assessment of the Group ICAAP and ILAAP
programmes and engaged with Group management in overseeing and evaluating
the Group’s forward-looking capital and liquidity strategies and capabilities,
including the Group’s liquidity risk management improvement programme.
Additionally, the GRC Chairs participated in several subsidiary risk committees’
review of ICAAP, leading up to final GRC review, challenge and recommendation of
ICAAP to the Board.
The Group is committed to closely monitoring and Throughout 2020, the GRC reviewed the Group’s approach to managing its financial
managing the risk of knowingly or unknowingly crime risk across a number of important areas. This included:
helping parties to commit or to further potentially • the Group’s progress in enhancing its transaction monitoring framework;
illegal activity, including both internal and external
• the fraud landscape, particularly against heightened Covid-19 conditions, the
fraud.
Group’s fraud risk profile and the impact of regulatory developments; and
• the nature and scale of insider risk and the Group’s strategies for managing
insider risk.
The GRC also maintained oversight of the ever-changing and increasingly complex
Financial crime international sanctions landscape in which the Group and its customers operate, as
risk well as the Group’s approach to managing its compliance with sanctions regimes
globally. The GRC held a full-day training session on sanctions in Hong Kong in
January for our Asia-Pacific non-executive Directors and management. A further
education session on sanctions was held for Group-wide non-executive Directors in
October to address the US government imposition of sanctions in connection with
its Hong Kong Autonomy Act.
Following the organisational restructuring of Financial Crime Compliance, the GRC
requested the Committee’s independent financial crime advisers to examine the
effectiveness of the financial crime function in the Group’s subsidiaries.
HSBC faces risk from the inappropriate or The GRC raised awareness of progress and importance of models at a number of its
incorrect business decisions arising from the use meetings and at the regional Audit and Risk Committee Chairs’ Forums. It reviewed
of models that have been inadequately designed, progress under the Group’s model risk transformation programme. The Committee
Model risk implemented or used, or from models that do not oversaw the development and embedding of improved model risk management
perform in line with expectations and predictions. controls and oversight in the first line of defence, as well as enhancements to model
risk governance. The GRC also considered the adverse impact of the Covid-19
outbreak on model uncertainty including the need for enhancements as necessary.
HSBC is required to show how its resolution The GRC monitored the Group’s progress in demonstrating that it has developed
strategy could be carried out in an orderly way, capabilities to support its own resolution, in line with the Group’s resolution strategy
including identification of any risks to successful in order to meet new requirements from the Bank of England under its resolvability
resolution. assessment framework by 1 January 2022, including the requirement to comply with
the valuation in resolution requirement by 1 April 2021, to submit a self-assessment
Resolvability to the PRA/Bank of England by 1 October 2021 and to publicly disclose HSBC’s
resolvability in June 2022. Together with the Group Chief Financial Officer, the GRC
and GAC programmed our five regional Audit and Risk Committee Chairs' Forums to
raise the importance of Boards and management of principal subsidiaries in
upgrading their awareness and compliance with new regulatory standards for
recovery and resolution.
228 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
cancel the final 2019 dividend and suspend dividend payments for the most vulnerable people. Our executive Directors also
until the end of 2020. decided to voluntarily forgo any annual cash bonus for 2020 due
to the impact of the suspension of dividends on our shareholders.
While it is appropriate that the pool is significantly lower this year,
the Committee was cognisant of the extraordinary effort and Executive Director annual performance assessment
performance of many of our colleagues in 2020. Equally, it is
With regard to performance-based pay for 2020, the financial
critical we retain talent for the long-term interests of our
measures in the executive Directors’ annual scorecards were
stakeholders. This is of particular importance in growth markets
aligned to the delivery of profit before tax, our strategic priority of
and our areas of strategic focus, and is most acute for our high
reducing RWAs in low-return franchises and, for the Group Chief
performers who are helping us restore the business to our
Financial Officer, effective management of Group costs. Following
expected performance levels. As a result, the variable pay accrual
careful consideration, these targets were not revised for the
was increased in the fourth quarter in response to financial
significant economic impact of the Covid-19 outbreak to reflect
performance and market pay challenges.
the Committee’s view that reward for our executive Directors
Review of workforce remuneration should align with the experience of our shareholders.
Remuneration outcomes Non-financial performance measures were linked to customer
satisfaction, employee engagement and diversity, environmental
In allocating the pool, the Committee decided that while the
stewardship, risk and compliance, and organisational
variable pay outcomes for junior colleagues should reflect Group
simplification. The Committee noted strong non-financial
performance, they should receive better outcomes with less
performance as our commitment to delivering responsibly for our
differentiation relative to our senior employees. Overall, total
stakeholders remained unchanged throughout the pandemic. In
compensation for our junior members of staff was broadly flat,
addition to the actions noted to support our customers and the
which we felt was important given their significant efforts in a
wider economy, customer and digital satisfaction scores increased
challenging year. Higher paid employees had an overall decrease
in some of our scale markets, employee engagement scores
in total compensation. We also made limited fixed pay increases
improved, we met our diversity goal of having at least 30%
for 2021 and targeted these towards our junior colleagues. As part
women in senior management roles, and we achieved carbon
of the year-end pay review, the Committee reviewed results of
reduction and sustainable finance and investment targets. We
remuneration outcomes to ensure they were in line with our pay
were also recognised by Euromoney for ‘Global Excellence in
principles and the approach decided by the Committee for 2020.
Leadership during the Covid-19 pandemic’ in its Awards for
Support for our employees Excellence 2020.
Throughout 2020, the well-being of our people was our paramount Executive Director annual incentive scorecard outcome
concern. Many employees had to juggle personal and professional
The above resulted in an overall outcome of 64.50% for the Group
priorities, while adapting to new and unfamiliar ways of working.
Chief Executive and 63.75% for the Group Chief Financial Officer
In March 2020, we temporarily paused the redundancy
(further details of performance are provided on page 240). The
programme intended to deliver the reduction in headcount that we
Committee reviewed this outcome in the context of a number of
set out in the transformation programme announced in February
internal and external considerations to determine whether it
2020. The Board was conscious of the impact of proceeding with
should exercise its discretion to reduce the outcome, including:
redundancies, particularly at the outset of the crisis given the
significant stress for our people and communities, and the need to • overall share price performance in the year, which was
protect our capacity to serve our customers. The Board lifted the significantly impacted by both the Covid-19 outbreak and the
pause on the redundancy programme in June 2020 while impact of the PRA’s request to suspend dividend payments;
continuing the freeze on the vast majority of external recruitment • the impact of the bonus pool reduction on the total
to make every effort to fill vacancies internally. We maintained a compensation for our wider workforce;
regular flow of communication and listened closely to our
• profit before tax and return on tangible equity ('RoTE')
colleagues' needs, providing the support and flexibility required to
performance; and
help them manage their lives during the pandemic, and
maintained their full pay without applying for government support • the positive actions taken by the Board to support our
packages. customers, colleagues and communities in these uncertain
times.
We ran a mid-year employee survey to determine how the
Covid-19 outbreak was impacting our colleagues and how we The Committee determined the 2020 formulaic scorecard
could support them through this period. More than 50% of our outcomes appropriately reward the executive Directors for their
total employee population responded, of which more than 89% performance within the context of overall stakeholder experience.
said they were getting the information they needed from the With the voluntary waiver of cash bonuses by executive Directors,
organisation, 86% reported that they were getting the support the Group Chief Executive's effective payout was reduced to
they needed from their line manager and 86% of the respondents 32.25% of its maximum, and the Group Chief Financial Officer's
reported they felt confident in leadership. In addition, 75% of was reduced to 31.88%. The effective payouts are 51.43% and
employees that participated in our 2020 Snapshot survey said they 58.86% below their respective outcomes compared with 2019.
believed HSBC values their well-being.
2020 long-term incentive ('LTI') for executive Directors
For our departing colleagues, we took steps to offer them support
To reflect the Group’s strategy, and after listening to our
on searching and applying for jobs and preparing for interviews.
shareholders, the Committee has agreed that the 2020 LTI will be
We also maintained a dedicated advice website, offered virtual
based on four equally weighted measures.
workshops and provided access to career development tools to set
them up for success outside HSBC. • RoTE: We have retained a key measure of our financial
performance and how we generate returns that deliver value
Key remuneration decisions for Directors
for our shareholders.
Voluntary decisions made by executive Directors
• Capital reallocation to Asia: We have set a new metric to assess
Reflecting on the severity of the impact of Covid-19 at the outset, a key lever of our strategy and business transformation plan.
our two executive Directors made personal contributions to the • Environment and sustainability: We have set a new measure to
fight against the pandemic by donating to charity a quarter of their align with the Group’s climate ambition to bring our own
base salaries for six months, and our Group Chairman donated his operations to net zero by 2030 and support our customers in
entire fee for 12 months to charity. Additionally, as an their transition to a more sustainable future.
organisation, we provided $25m in charitable donations, which
went toward immediate medical relief, access to food, and care • Relative total shareholder return: We have retained this metric,
which rewards executive Directors based on comparison of the
230 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration. All
Group Remuneration Committee
members of the Committee are independent non-executive
Directors of HSBC Holdings. A copy of the Committee’s terms of
The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the reference can be found on our website at www.hsbc.com/our-
overarching principles, parameters and governance of the Group's approach/corporate-governance/board-committees.
remuneration framework for all employees, and the remuneration
The Committee met five times during 2020. James Forese was
of executive Directors, the Group Chairman and other senior
appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 May 2020. David
Group employees. The Committee regularly reviews the
Nish stepped down as a member of the Committee on 23 February
framework in the context of consistent and effective risk
2021. The following is a summary of the Committee’s key
management, and the regulatory requirements of multiple
activities during 2020.
jurisdictions.
Matters considered during 2020
Jan May Jul Sep Dec
Remuneration framework and governance
Group variable pay pool, workforce performance and pay matters, Gender Pay Gap report, and employee surveys l l l l l
Executive Director remuneration policy implementation, scorecards and pay proposals l l l l l
Remuneration for other senior executives of the Group l l ô ô l
Non-executive Director compensation ô l ô ô l
Shareholder consultation and proxy adviser views ô l ô l l
Directors’ remuneration report l ô ô l l
Regulatory, risk and audit
Information on material risk and audit events, and performance and remuneration impacts for individuals involved l l l l l
Regulatory updates and filings, including approach and outcomes for the identification of Material Risk Takers l l l l l
Corporate governance briefings ô l ô ô l
Principal subsidiaries
Matters from subsidiary committees l l l l l
Advisers • Jonathan Calvert-Davies, Group Head of Audit; and
The Committee received input and advice from different advisers • Aileen Taylor, Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance
on specific topics during 2020. Deloitte LLP’s engagement with Officer.
the Committee was extended during 2020. The Committee’s The Committee also received feedback and input from the Group
decision reflected the quality and objectivity of the independent Risk Committee and Group Audit Committee on risk, conduct and
advice that Deloitte had provided to the Committee on compliance-related matters relevant to remuneration.
remuneration matters. Deloitte provided benchmarking data on
Review of workforce remuneration and related
remuneration policy matters and independent advice to the
Committee. Deloitte also provided tax compliance and other policies
advisory services to the Group.
In light of the year's challenging circumstances, the Committee's
The Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson review and approval of the workforce remuneration strategy was
on market data and remuneration trends for senior management. particularly focused on ensuring protection for our junior
Willis Towers Watson was appointed as remuneration adviser by employees and delivering appropriate pay differentiation for those
management after considering invited proposals from similar areas of the business that performed well.
consultancy firms. It provides actuarial support to Global Finance
The Committee also reviewed the results of remuneration
and benchmarking data and services related to benefits
outcomes across the Group to ensure they were in line with our
administration for our Group employees. To ensure the advice
pay principles (as set out on page 233). This included details of
from Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson was objective, the
variable remuneration adjustments and information on reward
Committee required the advice to be independent and distinct
outcomes by performance and behaviour ratings. The Committee
from any internal review and analysis on remuneration policy
uses this information to assess the effectiveness of our
matters. The Committee was satisfied the advice provided by
remuneration framework and whether our framework aligns
Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson was objective and independent
employee rewards with our values.
in 2020. Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration
We measure our employees’ sentiment on performance and pay
Consultants Group and voluntarily operates under the code of
matters through our annual pay review surveys. In the first half of
conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the
2020, the Committee reviewed the results of the most recent
UK.
survey. A significant proportion of the respondents’ comments
For 2020, total fees of £173,900 and £68,289 were incurred in
indicated improved sentiment towards our pay review process.
relation to remuneration advice provided by Deloitte and Willis
The majority of employees believed their year-end ratings were a
Towers Watson, respectively. This was based on pre-agreed fees
fair reflection of their performance and behaviour, and felt
and a time-and-materials basis.
motivated to perform at their best following their performance
Attendees and interaction with other Board review.
committees Committee effectiveness
During the year, Noel Quinn as the Group Chief Executive provided The annual review of the effectiveness of the Board committees
regular briefings to the Committee. In addition, the Committee was internally facilitated during 2020. Overall, the review
engaged with and received updates from the following: concluded that the Group Remuneration Committee continued to
• Mark Tucker, Group Chairman; operate effectively, with a number of positive aspects of the
operation and practices highlighted by the review. There were also
• Elaine Arden, Group Chief Human Resources Officer;
areas of improvement identified, including the engagement
• Alexander Lowen, Group Head of Performance Management, dynamic with advisers. The Committee has considered and
Reward, Human Resources Transformation and People discussed the outcomes of the evaluation, and accepts the
Analytics; findings with a number of actions to address them already in
• Pam Kaur, Group Chief Risk Officer; progress. The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to
the Board and the Committee will track progress against the
• Colin Bell, Group Chief Compliance Officer;
recommendations during 2021.
232 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Our approach to workforce remuneration
Remuneration principles
Our performance and pay strategy aims to reward competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance by attracting,
motivating and retaining the very best people, regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance
or experience. It supports our people to perform their roles in the long-term interests of our stakeholders, which includes the customers
and communities we serve, our shareholders and our regulators. The strategy is underpinned by:
• decisions that are fair, appropriate and free from bias;
• a culture supportive of continuous feedback through manager and employee empowerment;
• reward and recognition of sustainable performance and values-aligned behaviour; and
• a balanced, simple and transparent total reward package that supports employee well-being.
Spotlight on 2020: Our response to the Covid-19 outbreak
These principles were key to facilitating the agile approach we took to pay and performance in response to the Covid-19 outbreak. In
response to the challenging circumstances our colleagues faced, we offered them increased practical support, recognised them for their
exceptional response to our customers and each other, and helped to ensure fair and appropriate treatment.
Appropriate practical support for our colleagues
• We took a country-based approach to our response to ensure that what we provided to our employees was appropriate for the
conditions and restrictions in place in their location.
• Our priority was to support the well-being of our employees using a range of initiatives focusing on:
– enabling employees to work flexibly to support additional caring responsibilities;
– ensuring employees could purchase the equipment they needed to work from home wherever possible;
– providing financial assistance to employees who may have incurred additional costs, for example where normal commuting or
onsite catering services were disrupted; and
– supporting mental and physical well-being with employee assistance programmes, access to Covid-19-related private medical
treatment and flu vaccination initiatives.
• More than 50% of our total employee population responded to our mid-year employee survey. Of those who responded, 86% of
employees reported they were getting the support they needed from their line manager, and 83% said they believed HSBC valued
their well-being.
Recognising the exceptional response
• We ran a ‘Spotlight’ campaign within our ‘At Our Best Recognition’ points programme that focused on recognising our Covid-19
Heroes.
• There were over 169,000 colleague recognitions made over a three-month period, a threefold increase in recognitions compared
with previous Spotlight campaigns that we have run.
Helping managers to make fair decisions
• The majority of our people underwent a change in working pattern and/or location as a result of the Covid-19 outbreak. We
wanted to ensure our people are always recognised against relevant and achievable objectives with allowance for barriers to
performance outside of their control.
• In response to the Covid-19 outbreak, we issued specific guidance for managing performance under some of the most common
scenarios our people found themselves in, to support our managers in continuing to make performance decisions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 233
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Our approach to performance and pay in 2020 for the broader workforce was underpinned by our remuneration principles.
Principle Our approach in 2020
Fair, • Our communications to managers encouraged them to challenge their assessments by questioning whether they
appropriate were objective and based on fact. Managers in similar roles then came together to complete fairness reviews of the
and free from
performance and behaviour ratings of their team and make any necessary adjustments based on the review of the peer group to
bias
mitigate the risk of bias and take a broader view of team performance.
• We supported managers, particularly the less experienced ones, to make informed, consistent and fair pay
decisions. Managers of 96% of our junior employees are supported by simplified or guided decision making.
• As part of our annual performance and pay review process, we undertook analytical reviews to check for and identify bias,
and provide these reports to our senior management and Group Remuneration Committee as part of their review of annual pay
review outcomes.
• We made pay and performance reporting tools available to our managers for the purpose of undertaking an analytical review of
pay decisions for their team. We continue to enhance these based on manager feedback to make these tools useful and
increase usage.
• We regularly review our pay practices and in 2020 worked with independent third parties to review equal pay.
• If pay differences are identified that are not due to an objective reason such as performance or skills and
experience, we made adjustments.
A culture of • We seek to create a culture where our people can fulfil their potential, gain new skills and develop their careers for the
continuous future.
feedback • In 2020, we enhanced our continuous feedback culture, Everyday Performance and Development, which supported our
through people to have regular conversations with their line managers about items such as their performance, pay, development and well-
manager and being throughout the year.
employee
• We launched our Continuous Performance Management tool, including on mobile, to make it easier for our people as
empowerment
team members and as managers to share activities, feedback, achievements and progress regularly to drive conversations.
• We encouraged colleagues to use our online career planning tools to help them with their thinking about future roles and
the capabilities they require.
• Line managers were provided with clear guidance materials to support them in making fair and appropriate decisions at key stages
in the performance and pay decision-making process. We were clear on the decisions that managers are empowered to
own and provided them with principles to support such decision making.
• Employees also received notifications and guidance throughout the performance and pay review period to support their
understanding of what is expected of them and what they can expect.
Reward and • We have a robust performance management process that underpins our approach to reward and drives clear pay
recognition of differentiation.
sustainable • Group and business unit performance is used in determining the Group variable pay pool and its allocation to each
performance business unit. Where performance in a year is weak, as measured by both financial and non-financial metrics, this will impact
and values- the relevant pool, while the final pool also considers the external operating environment and expectation of our stakeholders.
aligned
• Assessment of individual performance is made with reference to a balanced scorecard of clear and relevant financial and
behaviour
non-financial objectives, including appropriate risk and compliance objectives.
• We believe it is important to recognise our people not just for results, but also for upholding our values. As such,
subject to local law, employees receive a behaviour rating as well as a performance rating to ensure performance is assessed not
only on what is achieved, but also on how it is achieved.
• We undertake analytical reviews to ensure there is clear pay differentiation across both performance and behaviour
ratings, which are provided to senior management and the Group Remuneration Committee as part of their oversight of the
remuneration outcomes for the Group’s workforce.
• We recognise examples of exceptional positive conduct through an increase in variable pay, and apply a reduction in
variable pay for misconduct or inappropriate behaviour that exposes us to financial, regulatory or reputational risk.
• Our global ‘At Our Best’ recognition programme allows our people to recognise their colleagues for demonstrating
our values, with an award of recognition points that can be redeemed against a wide range of goods. Over one million peer-to-
peer recognitions were made globally in 2020.
• We promote employee share ownership through variable pay deferral or voluntary enrolment in an all-employee share plan, which
assists with incentivising long-term sustainable performance.
Balanced, • We maintain an appropriate balance between fixed pay, variable pay and employee benefits, taking into consideration
simple and an employee’s seniority, role, individual performance and the market. We are informed, but not driven, by market position and
transparent practice.
total reward • For the 2020 pay review process, we have prioritised fixed pay increases for our global career bands 6 to 8 population,
packages, where it represents a higher proportion of total compensation, and towards locations and business areas which are particularly
which support integral to the execution of the Group’s strategy.
employee well-
• We are committed to employee well-being and offer employee benefits that support the mental, physical and financial health
being
of a diverse workforce.
• All HSBC employees that work in a jurisdiction with a legal minimum wage are paid at or above this amount. In 2014,
HSBC in the UK was formally accredited by the Living Wage Foundation for having adopted the ‘Living Wage’ and the ‘London
Living Wage’.
234 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Provision Approach
Clarity • The Committee regularly engages and consults with key shareholders to take into account
shareholder feedback and to ensure there is transparency on our policy and its
Remuneration arrangements should be transparent and
implementation.
promote effective engagement with shareholders and the
workforce. • Our employees were informed about the Directors' remuneration policy approved by our
shareholders at our 2019 AGM. Details of our remuneration practices and our remuneration
policy for Directors are published and available to all our employees.
Simplicity • Our Directors' remuneration policy has been designed to achieve simplicity while
complying with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the
Remuneration structures should avoid complexity and their
remuneration rules of the UK's Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct
rationale and operation should be easy to understand.
Authority, as well as meeting the expectations of our shareholders. The objective of each
remuneration element is explained and the amount paid in respect of each element of pay
is clearly set out.
Risk • In line with regulatory requirements, our remuneration practices promote sound and
effective risk management while supporting our business objectives (see page 252).
Remuneration structures should identify and mitigate
against reputational and other risks from excessive • Risk and conduct considerations are taken into account in setting the variable pay pool,
rewards, as well as behavioural risks that can arise from from which any executive Director variable pay is funded.
target-based incentive plans. • Executive Directors' annual and LTI scorecards include a mix of financial and non-financial
measures. Financial measures in the scorecards are subject to a CET1 underpin to ensure
CET1 remains within risk tolerance levels while achieving financial targets. In addition, the
overall scorecard outcome is subject to a risk and compliance underpin.
• The deferred portion of any awards granted to executive Directors is subject to a seven-
year deferral period during which our malus policy can be applied. All variable pay awards
that have vested are subject to our clawback policy for a period of up to seven years from
the award date (extending to 10 years where an investigation is ongoing).
Predictability • The charts set out on page 7 of our Directors’ remuneration policy show how the total
value of remuneration and its composition vary under different performance scenarios for
The range of possible values of rewards to individual
executive Directors. The Directors' remuneration policy can be found at www.hsbc.com/
Directors and any other limits or discretions should be
our-approach/corporate-governance/remuneration.
identified and explained at the time of approving the policy.
Proportionality • The annual incentive scorecard rewards achievement of our annual operating targets and
the LTI scorecard rewards achievement of long-term financial and shareholder value
The link between individual awards, the delivery of strategy
creation targets.
and the long-term performance of the Group should be
clear and outcomes should not reward poor performance. • The Committee retains the discretion to reduce (to zero if appropriate) the annual incentive
and LTI payout based on the outcome of the relevant scorecards, if it considers that the
payout determined does not appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of
the Group during the performance period.
Alignment with culture • In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve
Incentive schemes should drive behaviours consistent with a required behaviour rating, which is assessed by reference to the HSBC Values.
the Group's purpose, values and strategy. • Annual incentive and LTI scorecards contain non-financial measures linked to our wider
social obligations. This includes measures related to reducing the environmental impact of
our operations, improving customer satisfaction, diversity and employee engagement.
• Annually, senior employees participate in a 360 degree survey which gathers feedback on
values-aligned behaviours.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 237
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Remuneration policy – non-executive Directors 2020, when David Nish was appointed as Senior Independent
Director.
Non-executive Directors are not employees. They receive base
fees for their service and further fees for additional Board duties, In addition, and in light of the increasingly significant role of
including but not limited to chairmanship, membership of a technology in the Group’s strategy, operations and growth
committee, or acting as the Senior Independent Director and/or prospects, the Board approved the establishment of a Technology
Deputy Chairman. Governance Working Group for a period of 12 months. The
working group has been tasked with developing recommendations
Non-executive Directors also receive a travel allowance of £4,000
to strengthen the Board’s oversight of technology strategy,
towards the additional time commitment required for travel.
governance and emerging risks.
Any other taxable or other expenses incurred in performing their
The working group will be jointly chaired by Eileen Murray and
role are reimbursed, as well as any related tax cost on such
Steven Guggenheimer, given their expertise and experience in this
reimbursement.
area. Jackson Tai, the Group Risk Committee Chair, will be a
All non-executive Directors are expected to satisfy a shareholding member, with other non-executive Directors members from our
guideline of 15,000 shares within five years of their appointment. US, UK, European and Asian principal subsidiaries.
There have been no changes to the non-executive Directors' fees The time commitment expected of the co-Chairs will be up to 30
from the remuneration policy approved at the AGM in 2019, with days, reflective of the complexity and profile of the subject matter.
the exception of a revised fee for the Senior Independent Director. As a result, the Group Remuneration Committee have determined
This change was approved by the Committee following Sir a fee of £60,000. Members will not receive fees.
Jonathan Symonds' retirement from the Board and as Deputy
Accordingly, the following table sets out the fees for 2021.
Group Chairman and Senior Independent Director in February
2021 fees
Position £
Non-executive Group Chairman1 1,500,000
Non-executive Director (base fee) 127,000
Senior Independent Director2 200,000
Group Risk Committee Chair 150,000
Member 40,000
Group Audit Committee and Group Remuneration Committee Chair 75,000
Member 40,000
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Chair ––
Member 33,000
Technology Governance Working Group Co-Chair 60,000
1 The Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fee in respect of chairing of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
2 For the period to 18 February 2020, a fee of £375,000 was paid in respect of the combined role of Deputy Group Chairman and Senior
Independent Director.
Service contracts are set out on pages 198 to 203, and include those directorships
provided for under the Capital Requirements Regulation II.
Executive Directors
Non-executive Directors
The length of service and notice periods of executive Directors are
set at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account market Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not
practice, governance considerations, and the skills and experience exceeding three years, which may be renewed subject to their re-
of the particular candidate at that time. election by shareholders at AGMs. Non-executive Directors do not
have service contracts, but are bound by letters of appointment
Notice period issued for and on behalf of HSBC Holdings, which are available for
Contract date (rolling) (Director and HSBC) inspection at HSBC Holdings’ registered office. There are no
Noel Quinn 18 March 2020 12 months obligations in the non-executive Directors’ letters of appointment
Ewen Stevenson 1 December 2018 12 months that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for
loss of office.
Service agreements for each executive Director are available for
inspection at HSBC Holdings’ registered office. Consistent with Non-executive Directors’ current terms of appointment will expire
the best interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to as follows:
minimise termination payments. Directors may be eligible for a
payment in relation to statutory rights. The Directors’ biographies
2021 AGM 2022 AGM 2023 AGM
Mark Tucker Irene Lee David Nish
Heidi Miller José Antonio Meade Kuribreña Jackson Tai
Laura Cha Pauline van der Meer Mohr
James Forese1 Henri de Castries
Steven Guggenheimer1
Eileen Murray1
1 James Forese, Steven Guggenheimer and Eileen Murray were appointed following the 2020 AGM and therefore their initial three-year
appointment terms are subject to approval of their election by shareholders at the 2021 AGM. Their initial three-year term of appointment will end
at the conclusion of the 2024 AGM, subject to shareholders' approval at the relevant AGMs.
238 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Determining executive Directors’ performance considerations to determine whether it should exercise its
discretion to reduce the outcome, including:
(Audited)
• overall share price performance in the year, which was
Awards made to executive Directors reflected the Committee’s
significantly impacted by both the Covid-19 outbreak and the
assessment of performance against scorecard objectives which
impact of the regulator’s request to suspend dividend
were developed with consideration for the Group’s strategic
payments;
priorities and risk appetite. The targets for financial measures were
set at the start of the financial year. They were not revised for the • the impact of the bonus pool reduction on the total
significant economic impact of the Covid-19 outbreak due to the compensation for our wider workforce;
Committee’s desire that reward for our executive Directors should • profit before tax and RoTE performance; and
reflect the experience of our shareholders in the year. For non-
• the positive actions taken by the Board to support our
financial objectives, the performance assessment involved
customers, colleagues and communities in these difficult and
considering targets set in line with our disclosed commitments,
uncertain times.
such as carbon emissions reduction, diversity, survey results for
employee experience and customer satisfaction measures, as Taking the above into account, the Committee determined that the
detailed in the non-financial performance assessment table. 2020 formulaic scorecard outcome appropriately rewards the
Performance achieved against each measure was applied to the executive Directors for their performance within the context of
weighting of each objective to determine the outcome percentage. overall stakeholder experience. With the voluntary waiver of cash
As part of this assessment, the Committee consulted the Group bonuses by the executive Directors, the effective payout was
Risk Committee and took into consideration its feedback in reduced to 32.25% of the maximum for the Group Chief Executive
determining outcomes for the executive Directors' risk and (2019: 66.40%) and 31.88% for the Group Chief Financial Officer
compliance measures. It also considered whether any discretion (2019: 77.50%).
should be exercised with respect to the risk and compliance
In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each
underpin.
executive Director must achieve a minimum behaviour rating,
As set out in the scorecard assessment table below, the target for which is assessed by reference to the HSBC Values. For 2020,
profit before tax was not met. However, good progress was made both executive Directors met this requirement.
against the targets set for RWA optimisation and cost-savings
The maximum 2020 annual incentive opportunity for Noel Quinn
measures, and strong progress was made on the non-financial
was set at 195% of salary and for Ewen Stevenson at 191% of
metrics, as our commitment to delivering responsibly for our
salary.
stakeholders remained unchanged throughout the pandemic.
Overall, this level of performance resulted in a payout of 64.50% of
the maximum for the Group Chief Executive and 63.75% for the
Group Chief Financial Officer. The Committee reviewed these
outcomes in the context of a number of internal and external
Annual assessment
Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer
Minimum Maximum
(25% (100% Weighting Assessment Outcome Weighting Assessment Outcome
payout) payout) Performance (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%)
Grow profit before tax1 ($bn) 19.91 23.38 14.77 30.0 — — 20.0 — —
RWA optimisation2 ($bn) 35.00 44.90 51.50 20.0 100.0 20.00 20.0 100.0 20.00
Cost savings ($bn) 1.00 1.60 1.04 — — — 10.0 30.0 3.00
Customer satisfaction 10.0 80.0 8.00 10.0 80.0 8.00
Employee experience 10.0 95.0 9.50 10.0 95.0 9.50
See following section for non-
Environment 10.0 85.0 8.50 10.0 85.0 8.50
financial performance commentary
Risk and compliance 10.0 85.0 8.50 10.0 85.0 8.50
Personal objectives 10.0 100.0 10.00 10.0 62.5 6.25
Total 100.0 64.50 100.0 63.75
Maximum annual incentive opportunity
(£000) £2,478 £1,412
Annual incentive pre-cash waiver
(£000) £1,598 £900
Annual incentive post-cash waiver
(£000) £799 £450
1 Profit before tax, as defined for Group annual bonus pool calculation. This definition excludes business disposal gains and losses, debt valuation
and goodwill adjustments and variable pay expense. However, it takes into account fines, penalties and costs of customer redress, including
provisions, which are excluded from the adjusted profit before tax. Other significant items are included or excluded in line with the principles
underpinning the definition. The adjusted profit before tax as per adjusted results is found on page 2.
2 As set out in our February 2020 business update, our objective is to reduce RWAs in low-return franchises (in particular the US and the non-ring-
fenced bank in Europe and the UK) and redeploy capital in areas of faster growth and higher returns. Our target is to achieve a $100bn reduction
by 2022, with a $35bn RWA reduction target for 2020. We achieved a reduction of $51.5bn during 2020, which included a reduction of $37.4bn
in GBM, mainly in our non-ring-fenced bank and in the US, and $12.9bn in CMB, primarily in our ring-fenced bank.
240 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Non-financial performance
Shared objectives for the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer
Objectives Performance
Customer satisfaction • In our Wealth and Personal Banking business, our retail customer satisfaction scores in six of seven scale markets
Re-engineer the business (excluding SABB) were ranked in the top three or improved at least two ranks against the benchmark, and three markets
with digital technology to improved their digital satisfaction scores. Our private banking business did not meet either of its improvement targets.
improve customer service • In our Commercial Banking business, four of seven scale markets (excluding SABB) improved their customer satisfaction
scores and six improved their digital satisfaction scores.
• Our Global Banking and Markets business met the target of improving on its 2019 net promoter score of 38, with a global
net promoter score of 48 (compared with a global competitor score of 40). The global digital satisfaction score of 64% also
exceeded the global competitor digital satisfaction score of 36%.
• In Hong Kong, we launched a fully remote, digital account opening solution for business customers, while in the UK, we
launched HSBC Kinetic, our new app-only digital banking offering for small and medium-sized business customers. In
China, we launched Pinnacle, our new digital platform for wealth planning and insurance services.
• During the Covid-19 outbreak, we enhanced our digital capabilities to serve more customers remotely, with faster access
and improved security. We also engaged with regulators to help customers gain better access to a broad range of banking
products and services from their homes, including through remote consultations and sales.
• We maintained a high level of business continuity and customer support with 85% of colleagues equipped to work from
home, all of our customer contact centres fully operational, and between 70% and 90% of our branches open for business.
• We worked with governments to support national schemes, granting over 720,000 payment holidays to our personal
customers and 237,000 loans to our wholesale customers. We provided more than $26bn in customer relief to our
personal customers during the initial stages of the pandemic and more than $52bn in lending to wholesale customers,
many of whom still require our support.
• We helped our clients raise over $1.89tn in capital markets financing, and we retained a top-three position in green, social
and sustainable finance bonds, according to Dealogic’s rankings. Our Global Banking and Markets business helped
arrange more than $125bn of financing for our clients through social and Covid-19 relief bonds.
Employee experience Employee engagement
Improve engagement, • Our Employee Engagement Index, which measures employee survey sentiment on pride, advocacy, intent to stay,
diversity and succession motivation and feeling of accomplishment questions, increased by five percentage points to 72%, meeting our target to
improve the metric.
• During the Covid-19 outbreak, extra steps were undertaken to maintain a healthy culture, including: a regular dialogue
with our colleagues through regular leadership calls and communications; listening closely to their needs; and providing
the support and flexibility to manage their lives during the pandemic. A culture of ‘looking out for each other’ was
encouraged and employee networks held regular support calls for employees, specifically those experiencing mental
health challenges and those with caring responsibilities.
• We ran a mid-year employee survey to determine how the Covid-19 outbreak was impacting our colleagues and how we
could support them through this period. More than 50% of our total employee population responded, of which more than
89% said they were getting the information they needed from the organisation, 86% reported that they were getting the
support they needed from their line manager, and 86% of the respondents reported they felt confident in leadership. In
addition, 75% of employees that participated in our 2020 Snapshot survey said they believed HSBC values their well-being.
Diversity and inclusion
• We met our aspirational target of achieving at least 30% women holding senior leadership positions by 2020.
• Several components of the global diversity and inclusion strategy were reprioritised throughout 2020 in direct response to
the Black Lives Matter movement and the Covid-19 outbreak. Good progress was made, with key achievements including
the design and launch of the global ethnicity inclusion programme, progression of the global disability confidence
programme and the appointment of new executive sponsors for the ‘Embrace’ and ‘Balance’ employee resource groups.
• We delivered phase one of the global diversity data project, which collected and reported employee ethnicity data in 21
countries and territories through a self-identification campaign.
Group Executive Committee succession planning
• Succession plans have been updated for all Group Executive Committee roles and approved by the Group Nomination &
Corporate Governance Committee.
• The Group also identified a number of enterprise critical roles across the organisation and succession plans have also been
updated for these roles with approval from the Group Executive Committee.
• The majority of ‘ready now’ and ‘develop in role’ successors on these plans have undergone leadership assessments with
our third-party specialist provider, with all development plans documented. A global executive coaching panel is utilised
and executive development solutions have been designed to be implemented in 2021.
Environment • We reduced our carbon emission tonnes to 1.76 per full-time equivalent employee (‘FTE’), beating the target of 2.0 tonnes
Sustainable operations and per FTE we had set for 2020. It was recognised that reduced travel and increased working from home due to the Covid-19
sustainable finance outbreak impacted this outcome, and as a result, the performance assessment for this metric was revised down.
• We exceeded our sustainable finance and investment target of $24bn by facilitating, financing and investing in the
development of clean energy, lower-carbon technologies and projects that contribute to the delivery of the Paris
Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
• We were recognised as 'The World's Best Bank for Sustainable Finance’ by Euromoney in its Awards for Excellence 2020.
• Awareness of climate change impacts across the organisation continued to increase, with 93% of relationship managers
completing their required sustainability training modules.
Risk and compliance • In spite of the additional stress due to the operational challenges of the Covid-19 outbreak, enabled by the non-financial
Achieve effective risk optimisation programme outcomes, the organisation maintained fair customer outcomes and a stable non-financial
management of non- risk profile while implementing new products and adapting to significantly different ways of working.
financial risk Group-wide • In 2020, we completed our financial crime risk operational effectiveness exercise programme, with all countries having
and fulfilment of regulatory passed the Global Standards exit criteria and assurance. While there was year-on-year improvement in performance
obligations. against a number of specific financial crime risk metrics, it was recognised that some further work is still required. The
Achieve sustained delivery executive Directors demonstrated strong commitment to the conduct framework, maintaining focus on fair outcomes for
against the Global Conduct our customers and market integrity. In 2020, this included initiatives to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 crisis and
framework and effective protect the business with rapid introduction of initiatives and mitigation against unacceptable levels of conduct risk.
financial crime risk
management.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 241
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Personal measures for the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer
Objectives Performance
Group Chief Executive • As part of the Group transformation programme, we commenced work on 'organisation simplification and design'
Simplify the Group operating model by defining roles with clear accountabilities and decision rights, simplifying and minimising matrix reporting and
realising transformation objectives through the redesign of certain structures across businesses and functions.
• The programme successfully delivered all key milestones in 2020, including: the establishment of design principles
to shape the future organisation model and structures; the creation of the Group Organisational Design Authority
to drive consistent design thinking; the simplification of the Group Executive Committee and the introduction of a
clear operating rhythm to increase discipline and focus on strategy and performance delivery; the redesign of the
majority of top leadership structures; the definition of a consistent role taxonomy across business and functions;
and the identification of reductions in FTEs and cost, principally at senior levels.
Group Chief Financial Officer • The Finance on the Cloud programme will transform the way the Global Finance function operates by rationalising
• Deploy Cloud technologies in operational processes, automation of data production and providing faster delivery of comprehensive data to our
Global Finance function internal and external stakeholders. The programme has progressed into the execution phase in 2020, with the
programme design, scope and implementation approach approved.
• Reduce Finance function costs
and number of full-time • The first phase of implementation, which relates to the risk-weighted assets reporting process for our UK entities,
equivalents was successfully implemented in November 2020. Execution plans are in place for the further extension of Cloud
technologies within the UK pilot in 2021, followed by a global deployment.
• The target of reducing Finance function costs to $0.8bn was met, but the target number of full-time equivalent
staff in the function was not achieved.
2017 long-term incentive performance
The 2017 LTI award was granted to Marc Moses (former Group Chief Risk Officer) and Iain Mackay (former Group Finance Director)1.
Assessment of the LTI award in respect of 2017 (granted in 2018)
Minimum Target Maximum
Measures (with weighting) (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) Actual Assessment Outcome
Average return on equity
9.0% 10.0% 11.0% 7.3% 0.0% 0.00%
(with CET1 underpin)2 (20%)
Cost-efficiency ratio (20%) 60.0% 58.0% 55.5% 62.4% 0.0% 0.00%
Relative total shareholder return3 Straight-line vesting
At median of At upper quartile of
(20%) between minimum Rank 11th 0.0% 0.00%
peer group peer group
and maximum
Risk and compliance4 (25%)
• Achieve and sustain compliance with
Global Financial Crime Compliance
policies and procedures. Performance assessed by the Committee based on a number of
• Achieve a sustainable adoption of qualitative and quantitative inputs such as Group Financial Crime Risk
Group operation risk management assessment against Financial Crime Compliance objectives, outcome
65.0% 65.0% 16.25%
framework, along with its policies and of assurance and audit reviews, and achievement of long-term Group
practices. objectives and priorities during the performance period, with input
and approval from the Group Risk Committee.
• Achieve and sustain delivery of global
conduct outcomes and compliance
with conduct of business regulatory
obligations.
Strategy (15%)
Sustainable finance ($bn)5 30.0 34.0 37.0 93.0 100.0% 5.00%
Employee confidence6 65.0% 67.0% 70.0% 62.0% 0.0% 0.00%
Customer Improvement in Improvement in
(based on customer recommendation in recommendation in recommendation in Improvement in Improvement
top five markets by revenue) three of top five four of top five recommendation in all in three of 25.0% 1.25%
of top five markets for top five
markets for WPB, markets for WPB,
WPB, CMB and GBM. markets
CMB and GBM. CMB and GBM.
Total7 22.50%
1 Based on the scorecard outcome, 29,655 shares will vest with Iain Mackay and 86,491 shares will vest with Marc Moses (determined by pro-
rating their awards for time in employment during the performance period of 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2020). The awards will vest in five
equal annual instalments commencing in March 2021. Using the average daily closing share prices over the three months to 31 December 2020
of £3.604 the value of awards to vest with Iain Mackay and Marc Moses is £106,877 and £311,714, respectively.
2 Significant items are excluded from the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the company for the purpose of computing adjusted return
on equity.
3 The peer group for the 2017 award is: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche
Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
4 The performance outcome was reviewed and approved by the Group Risk Committee taking into account evidence of progress made during the
three-year performance period. Specifically, it noted a steady improvement in financial crime risk related audit outcomes, a significant reduction of
overdue and re-opened high and medium risk assurance issues and stabilisation of the global residual risk for anti-money laundering, sanctions,
and anti-bribery and corruption. The non-financial risk optimisation programme made significant progress during 2020 to demonstrate operational
risk management maturity in areas of focus. There was also a steady improvement in conduct ratings with significant improvement seen in Global
Banking and Markets since 2018. The Group Risk Committee also noted the need for ongoing enhancements in certain areas and the need for
further improvement in approach to conduct management.
5 Assessed based on cumulative financing and investment made to develop clean energy, lower-carbon technologies and projects that contribute to
the delivery of the Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
6 Assessed based on results of the latest employee Snapshot survey question, ‘I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy’.
7 Taking into consideration the overall performance of the Group using a number of internal and external measures, including profit before tax,
RoTE, share price and total shareholder returns, the Committee considered that the scorecard outcomes reflected the performance achieved.
242 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Long-term incentive awards operations to net zero by 2030 and support our customers in the
(Audited) transition to a more sustainable future with financing, facilitation
and investments of $750bn to $1tn over the same time period.
Long-term incentive in respect of 2020
Scorecard targets are linked to this climate ambition and
After taking into account performance for 2020, the Committee performance will be assessed based on the reduction in our
decided to grant Noel Quinn and Ewen Stevenson LTI awards of carbon footprint and the financing we provide to our clients in
£3,718,000 and £2,118,000, respectively. These awards will be their net zero transition.
subject to 'windfall gain' adjustments, as set out below. As the
Relative TSR was retained as a metric in the scorecard as it
awards are not entitled to dividend equivalents in accordance with
rewards executive Directors based on comparison of the total
regulatory requirements, the number of shares to be awarded will
shareholder return performance of the Group and a relevant peer
be adjusted to reflect the expected dividend yield of the shares
group. No changes were made to the peer group used for this
over the vesting period.
purpose. Given the planned strategic shifts in our geographical
The 2020 LTI awards will have a three-year performance period and business mix, notably future growth investment in Asia and
starting 1 January 2021. During this period, performance will be wealth business, we will review our peer group for any relative
assessed based on the 2020 LTI scorecard comprising four TSR measure to be used for the 2021 LTI scorecard. The updated
equally-weighted measures: two financial measures to incentivise peer group will be set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2021.
value creation for our shareholders; a measure linked to our
The LTI continues to be subject to a risk and compliance modifier,
climate ambitions; and a measure for relative total shareholder
which gives the Committee the discretion to adjust down the
return ('TSR').
overall scorecard outcome to ensure that the Group operates
RoTE was retained as a metric as it remains a key measure of our soundly when achieving its financial targets. For this purpose, the
financial performance and how we generate returns that deliver Committee will receive information including any risk metrics
value for our shareholders. Given the uncertainty from the outside of tolerance for a significant period of time and any risk
economic impact of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Committee management failures that have resulted in significant customer
determined it was most appropriate to assess RoTE at the end of detriment, reputational damage and/or regulatory censure.
the performance period. This element of the award will continue to
To the extent performance conditions are satisfied at the end of
be subject to a CET1 underpin.
the three-year performance period, the awards will vest in five
Capital reallocation to Asia was added as a new metric as this is equal annual instalments commencing from around the third
one of the key levers of our strategy and business transformation anniversary of the grant date. On vesting, shares equivalent to the
plan. This measure will be assessed based on the share of Group net number of shares that have vested (after those sold to cover
tangible equity allocated to Asia at the end of the performance any income tax and social security payable) will be held for a
period and is also subject to the CET1 underpin. retention period of up to one year, or such period as required by
The environment and sustainability scorecard measure was added regulators.
to align to our new climate ambition. Announced in October 2020,
we set out how we aim to bring carbon emissions in our own
Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2020
Minimum Target Maximum Weighting
Measures (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) %
RoTE (with CET1 underpin)1 8.0% 9.0% 10.0% 25.0
Capital reallocation to Asia (with CET1
45.0% 47.0% 50.0% 25.0
underpin)2
Carbon reduction 42.0% 48.0% 51.0%
Environment and
sustainability3 Sustainable finance 200.0 240.0 260.0 25.0
and investment $bn
Straight-line vesting between At upper quartile of peer Relative TSR4 At median of the peer group 25.0
minimum and maximum group
1 To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period. The measure will also be subject to a CET1 underpin. If the CET1 ratio at the
end of the performance period is below the CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the assessment for this measure will
be reduced to nil.
2 To be assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December
2023. This metric will be measured on an organic basis and will exclude changes in Group tangible equity allocation resulting from acquisitions
and disposals (and also part-acquisitions or part-disposals) of businesses and is subject to the CET1 underpin outlined above.
3 Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2023 using
2019 as the baseline. A sustainable finance and investment metric will assess cumulative financing provided over the period commencing on
1 January 2020 and ending on 31 December 2023.
4 The peer group for the 2020 award is: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche
Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
5 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2020 LTI grant size performance over the performance period. While the share price
to be used for the 2020 LTI award is not known at this stage, the
The Committee is conscious of the external commentary on
Committee agreed that, in line with investor expectations, if the
'windfall gains' from LTI awards given the impact of the Covid-19
2020 LTI grant share price experiences a greater than 30% decline
outbreak. The Committee is also aware that a number of investors
since the previous grant, this would be considered a material fall
have expressed their preference that, where executives may
in share price (based on review of historical share price volatility
benefit from 'windfall gains', the Committee is proactive in
and the impact of significant external macroeconomic events). In
considering award levels at the time of grant. Based on the above
such an event, an adjustment percentage equal to half the share
and discussions with investors and proxy voting agencies, the
price percentage decline will be applied to the awards to mitigate
Committee agreed that the 2020 LTI awards should be subject to a
the potential for 'windfall gains'. This approach will apply to the
'windfall gain' adjustment at grant if the share price falls
2020 LTI award to be granted in 2021.
significantly relative to the grant price of the 2019 LTI. This is to
ensure reward for our executive Directors aligns with the
experience of our shareholders and is reflective of management
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 243
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
2018 long-term incentive award Sustainalytics has since revised its methodology and replaced
'performer' ratings with low, medium and high risk ratings. In
The LTI granted in respect of 2018 included an ESG measure
2020, the Committee approved a revised assessment approach
based on our objective disclosed in the Strategy Update in June
and targets that aim for HSBC to 'outperform' a set of peers using
2018 to achieve an 'Outperformer' rating from ratings provider
Sustainalytics' revised risk-based rating as detailed in the table
Sustainalytics. Our 2018 Directors' remuneration report noted that
below. The Committee is comfortable that the proposed targets
in the event Sustainalytics changed its rating approach, the
are no more or less difficult to achieve than the original proposed
Committee retained the discretion to review and modify the
targets.
assessment approach and targets to ensure the assessment
approach achieved its original purpose.
Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2018
Minimum Target Maximum Weighting
Measures (25% payout) (50% payout) (100% payout) %
Average RoTE (with CET1 10.0% 11.0% 12.0% 75.0
underpin)1
Employer advocacy2 65.0% 70.0% 75.0% 12.5
Environmental, social and At median of the peer group Straight-line vesting between At upper quartile of peer group 12.5
governance rank3 minimum and maximum
1 If the CET1 ratio at the end of performance period is below the CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the assessment for
this measure will be reduced to nil.
2 To be assessed based on results of the latest employee Snapshot survey question: 'I would recommend this company as a great place to work'.
3 Peer group (in line with TSR peer group for the 2017 LTI, including three additional peers): Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup,
Credit Suisse Group, Deutsche Bank, DBS Group Holdings, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, Standard Chartered, UBS Group,
ICBC, Itau and Santander.
Scheme interests awarded during 2020 report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests
during the financial year.
(Audited)
The table below sets out the scheme interests awarded to
Directors in 2020, as disclosed in the 2019 Directors’ remuneration
Scheme awards in 2020
(Audited)
Percentage
Face value receivable for Number of
Type of interest Basis on which awarded1 minimum shares End of performance
awarded award made Date of award £000 performance awarded period
Ewen Stevenson LTI deferred shares2 % of salary 2 24 February 2020 2,680 25 476,757 31 December 2022
Noel Quinn Deferred shares 3 Annual incentive 24 February 2020 1,134 — 201,702 31 December 2019
Deferred cash 3 Annual incentive 24 February 2020 886 — N/A 31 December 2019
1 The face value of the award has been computed using HSBC's closing share price of £5.622 taken on 21 February 2020. LTI awards are subject to
a three-year forward-looking performance period and vest in five equal annual instalments, between the third and seventh anniversary of the
award date, subject to performance achieved. On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period. Awards are subject to malus
during the vesting period and clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award.
2 In line with regulatory requirements, scheme interests awarded during 2020 were not eligible for dividend equivalents. In accordance with the
remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2019 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 290% of salary for Ewen Stevenson and the
number of shares to be granted was determined by taking into account a share price discounted based on HSBC’s expected dividend yield of 5%
per annum for the vesting period (i.e. £4.393). Noel Quinn did not receive the 2019 LTI award that was granted on 24 February 2020, as he was in
the Group Chief Executive role in an interim capacity during 2019.
3 2019 annual incentive award received by Noel Quinn for his role as Chief Executive Officer of Commercial Banking and interim Group Chief
Executive. As noted in the Annual Report and Accounts 2019, 60% of his annual incentive award was deferred and in line with regulatory
requirements split between cash and shares. The awards will vest in five equal annual instalments between the third and seventh anniversary of
the award date. On vesting, the deferred shares will be subject to a one-year retention period. As the deferred share awards are not eligible for
dividend equivalents, the number of shares to be granted was determined by taking into account a share price discounted based on HSBC’s
expected dividend yield of 5% per annum for the vesting period (i.e. £4.393).
The above table does not include details of shares issued as part of the fixed pay allowance and shares issued as part of the 2020 annual
incentive award that vested on grant and were not subject to any further service or performance conditions. Details of the performance
measures and targets for the LTI award in respect of 2019 are set out on the following page.
244 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Non-executive Directors
(Audited)
The following table shows the total fees and benefits of non-executive Directors for 2020, together with comparative figures for 2019.
Fees and benefits
(Audited) Fees1 Benefits2 Total
(£000) Footnotes 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
Kathleen Casey (retired on 24 April 2020) 3,4 78 223 27 9 105 232
Laura Cha 5 587 298 — — 587 298
Henri de Castries 202 194 1 4 203 198
James Forese 6 160 — — — 160 —
Steven Guggenheimer 7 134 — — — 134 —
Irene Lee 8 546 454 — 3 546 457
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña 202 157 4 2 206 159
Heidi Miller 9 632 625 7 2 639 627
Eileen Murray 10 120 — — — 120 —
David Nish 11 480 230 8 16 488 246
Sir Jonathan Symonds (retired on 18 February 2020) 86 638 20 21 106 659
Jackson Tai 12 355 398 12 57 367 455
Mark Tucker 13 1,500 1,500 52 231 1,552 1,731
Pauline van der Meer Mohr 14 312 265 2 8 314 273
Total (£000) 5,394 4,982 133 353 5,527 5,335
Total ($000) 6,919 6,390 171 453 7,090 6,843
1 The Directors' remuneration policy was approved at the 2019 AGM and the new fees became effective from 13 April 2019. Fees include a travel
allowance of £4,000 for non-UK based non-executive Directors and for all non-executive Directors effective from 1 June 2019. Given the travel
restrictions in place, the Board was unable to travel to attend meetings in person. Therefore, the travel allowance available to all non-executive
Directors was pro-rated to reflect the travel required of the Board during 2020.
2 Benefits include taxable expenses such as accommodation, travel and subsistence relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC
Holdings' registered offices. Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant.
3 Appointed as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 17 January 2020.
4 Stepped down as a member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee on 17 January 2020 when the Committee was demised.
5 Includes fees of £423,800 (2019: £104,000) for her role as non-executive Chair and member of the Nomination Committee of The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking Corporation. Following approval of the non-executive Chair fee by the Group Remuneration Committee in 2020, Laura also
received a pro-rated additional Chair fee of HK$201,639 paid in respect of the period from 6 December to 31 December 2019.
6 Appointed to the Board and a member of the Group Audit Committee, Group Remuneration Committee and Nomination & Corporate Governance
Committee on 1 May 2020.
7 Appointed to the Board and as a member of the Group Risk Committee and Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee on 1 May 2020.
8 Includes fees of £344,000 (2019: £260,000) in relation to her roles as a Director, Remuneration Committee Chair, Audit Committee member and
Risk Committee member of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited. Fees in relation to her role as a Director, Risk Committee
Chair and Audit Committee member, and from 28 December 2020 as a member of the Nomination Committee, of Hang Seng Bank Limited.
9 Includes fees of £430,000 (2019: £431,000) in relation to her role as Chair of HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
10 Appointed to the Board and as member of the Group Audit Committee, Group Risk Committee and Nomination & Corporate Governance
Committee on 1 July 2020.
11 Appointed as Senior Independent Director, Chair of the Group Audit Committee and member of the Group Risk Committee on 18 February 2020.
12 Stepped down as Chair of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee on 17 January 2020 when the Committee was demised.
13 The Group Chairman donated 100% of his 2020 fee to charities in the UK and Hong Kong supporting vulnerable people and in the local response
to Covid-19.
14 Appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 19 February 2020.
Non-executive Directors’ interests in shares shareholding guidelines within five years of the date of their
appointment. All non-executive Directors who had been appointed
(Audited)
for five years or more at 31 December 2020 met the guidelines
The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in except Irene Lee, who has committed to acquiring the remaining
2020, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at shares as soon as possible, and no later than the conclusion of the
31 December 2020, or date of cessation as a Director if earlier, are 2021 AGM.
set out below. Non-executive Directors are expected to meet the
Shares
Shareholding guidelines Share interests
(number of shares) (number of shares)
Kathleen Casey (retired on 24 April 2020) 15,000 15,125
Laura Cha 15,000 16,200
Henri de Castries 15,000 19,251
James Forese (appointed to the Board on 1 May 2020) 15,000 115,000
Steven Guggenheimer (appointed to the Board on 1 May 2020) 15,000 15,000
Irene Lee 15,000 11,904
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña 15,000 15,000
Heidi Miller 15,000 15,700
Eileen Murray (appointed to the Board on 1 July 2020) 15,000 75,000
David Nish 15,000 50,000
Sir Jonathan Symonds (retired on 18 February 2020) 15,000 43,821
Jackson Tai 15,000 66,515
Mark Tucker 15,000 307,352
Pauline van der Meer Mohr 15,000 15,000
248 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Voting results from Annual General Meeting
2020 Annual General Meeting voting results
For Against Withheld
Remuneration report 96.47 % 3.53 % ––
(votes cast) 8,842,653,970 323,238,790 36,605,397
Remuneration policy (2019) 97.36% 2.64% ––
(votes cast) 9,525,856,097 258,383,075 47,468,297
2021 annual incentive scorecards stakeholder experience, to ensure alignment between executive
reward and the broader stakeholder experience.
The 2021 annual incentive scorecard measures for our executive
Directors have been set against the backdrop of the continuing The weightings and performance measures for the 2021 annual
impact of the Covid-19 outbreak on the global economy; incentive award for executive Directors are disclosed below. The
geopolitical risks, particularly those relating to trade and other performance targets are commercially sensitive and it would be
tensions; and expectations that global interest rates will remain detrimental to the Group’s interests to disclose them at the start of
lower for longer. In this context, the Committee determined the the financial year. Subject to commercial sensitivity, we will
scorecard measures should incentivise adapting our business disclose the targets for a given year in the Annual Report and
model to a protracted, low interest-rate environment; reducing our Accounts for that year in the Directors‘ remuneration report.
operating costs; and transforming the Group. Executive Directors will be eligible for an annual incentive award
Therefore, the 2021 annual incentive scorecard includes financial of up to 215% of base salary.
measures linked to the reduction of the Group's cost base, the The 2021 annual incentive scorecards for our Group Managing
reduction of assets in low-return areas and the creation of Directors include similar measures as the executive Directors to
opportunities in our high-growth areas. The scorecard also drive performance in each of our businesses, functions and
includes non-financial measures linked to delivering against our regions that contribute to the overall success of the Group. Their
customer and employee objectives. annual incentive scorecards will also include RoTE and
The Committee will continue to retain discretion to adjust down environmental measures, which are aligned with achieving the
the formulaic outcomes of scorecards, taking into account factors three-year forward-looking performance targets in the 2020 LTI.
such as Group profits, wider business performance and
2021 annual incentive scorecards measures and weightings
Group Chief Group Chief
Executive Financial Officer
Measures % %
Adjusted costs 20.0 20.0
Revenue growth in Asia 20.0 15.0
RWA reduction in legacy assets/low-return areas 20.0 15.0
Customer satisfaction 15.0 15.0
Employee experience 15.0 15.0
Personal objectives1 10.0 20.0
Total 100.0 100.0
1 For the Group Chief Executive, this includes the launch of our refreshed purpose and values, and the delivery of strategy at pace (equally weighted
at 5% each). For the Group Chief Financial Officer, this includes Finance Cloud deployment, resolvability assessment framework attestation,
climate stress tests, and Group Finance costs and FTE (equally weighted at 5% each).
The 2021 annual incentive scorecard is subject to a risk and Payments to past Directors
compliance modifier, which allows the Committee the discretion
(Audited)
to adjust down the overall scorecard outcome to ensure that the
Group operates soundly when achieving its financial targets. For Details of the 2017 LTI outcome, in which Marc Moses (former
this purpose, the Committee will receive information including any Group Chief Risk Officer) and Iain Mackay (former Group Finance
risk thresholds outside of tolerance for a significant period of time Director) participated, are outlined on page 242. No payments
and any risk management failures that have resulted in significant were made to, or in respect of, former Directors in the year in
customer detriment, reputational damage and/or regulatory excess of the minimum threshold of £50,000 set for this purpose.
censure. Payments for loss of office
2021 long-term incentives
(Audited)
Details of the performance measures and targets for LTI awards to No payments for loss of office were made to, or in respect of,
be made in 2021, in respect of 2020, are provided on page 243. former or current Directors in the year.
The performance measures and targets for awards to be made in
External appointments
respect of 2021, granted in 2022, will be provided in the Annual
Report and Accounts 2021. During 2020, executive Directors did not receive any fees from
external appointments.
Total pension entitlements
(Audited)
No employees who served as executive Directors during the year
have a right to amounts under any HSBC final salary pension
scheme for their services as executive Directors or are entitled to
additional benefits in the event of early retirement. There is no
retirement age set for Directors, but the normal retirement age for
employees is 65.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 249
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Remuneration structure for our Group employees We set out below the key features and design characteristics of
our remuneration framework, which apply on a Group-wide basis,
Total compensation, which comprises fixed and variable pay, is
subject to compliance with local laws:
the key focus of our remuneration framework, with variable pay
differentiated by performance and adherence to the HSBC Values.
Overview of remuneration structure for employees
Remuneration components
and objectives Application
Fixed pay • Fixed pay may include salary, fixed pay allowance, cash in lieu of pension and other cash allowances in accordance with
Attract and retain local market practices. These pay elements are based on predetermined criteria, are non-discretionary, are transparent and
employees by paying are not reduced based on performance.
market competitive pay for • Fixed pay represents a higher proportion of total compensation for more junior employees.
the role, skills and • Elements of fixed pay may change to reflect an individual’s position, role or grade, cost of living in the country, individual
experience required for the skills, competencies, capabilities and experience.
business.
• Fixed pay is generally delivered in cash on a monthly basis.
Benefits • Benefits may include, but are not limited to, the provision of a pension, medical insurance, life insurance, health assessment
Provided in accordance and relocation support.
with local market practice.
Annual incentive1 • All employees are eligible to be considered for a discretionary variable pay award. Individual awards are determined against
Incentivise and reward a balanced scorecard for performance in excess of that required to fulfil an employee's job description.
performance based on • Annual incentives represent a higher proportion of total compensation for more senior employees and will be more closely
annual financial and non- aligned to Group and business performance as seniority increases.
financial measures • Variable pay awards for all Group employees identified as Material Risk Takers ('MRTs') under European Union Regulatory
consistent with the Technical Standard ('RTS') 604/2014 are limited to 200% of fixed pay.2
medium- to long-term
• Awards are generally paid in cash and shares. For MRTs, at least 50% of the awards are in shares and/or where required by
strategy, stakeholder
regulations, in units linked to asset management funds.
interests and adherence to
HSBC Values. • A portion of the annual incentive award may be deferred and vest over a period of three to eight years.
Deferral • A Group-wide deferral approach is applicable to all employees. A portion of annual incentive awards above a specified
Alignment with the threshold is deferred in shares vesting annually over a three-year period with 33% vesting on the first and second
medium- to long-term anniversaries of grant and 34% on the third anniversary. Local employees in France are granted deferred awards that vest
strategy, stakeholder 66% on the second anniversary and 34% on the third anniversary.
interests and adherence to • For MRTs identified in accordance with the UK's PRA and FCA remuneration rules, awards are generally subject to a
the HSBC Values. minimum 40% deferral (60% for awards of £500,000 or more) over a minimum period of three years3. A longer deferral
period is applied for certain MRTs as follows:
– five years for individuals identified in a risk-manager MRT role under the PRA and FCA remuneration rules. This reflects
the deferral period prescribed by both the PRA and the European Banking Authority for individuals performing key
senior roles with the Group; or
– seven years for individuals in PRA-designated senior management functions, being the deferral period mandated by the
PRA as reflecting the typical business cycle period.
• Individuals based outside the UK who have not been identified at the Group level as an MRT, but who are identified as
MRTs under local regulations, are generally subject to a three-year deferral period. In Germany, a deferral period of up to
eight years is applied for members of the local management board and individuals in managerial roles reporting into the
management board. In Malta, a five-year deferral period is applied for executive committee members. In Australia, local
MRTs are subject to a four-year deferral period in respect of deferred cash awards. Local MRTs are also subject to the
minimum deferral rates discussed above, except in China (where a minimum deferral rate of 50% is applied for the Chief
Executive Officer), Germany (where a minimum deferral rate of 60% is applied for members of the local management board
and individuals in managerial roles reporting into the management board) and Oman (where a minimum deferral rate of
45% is applied).
• Where an employee is subject to more than one regulation, the requirement that is specific to the sector and/or country in
which the individual is working is applied, subject to meeting the minimum requirements applicable under each regulation.
• All deferred awards are subject to malus provisions, subject to compliance with local laws. Awards granted to MRTs on or
after 1 January 2015 are also subject to clawback.
• HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees, which prohibits employees from entering into any personal
hedging strategies in respect of HSBC securities.
Deferral instruments • Generally, the underlying instrument for all deferred awards is HSBC shares to ensure alignment between the long-term
Alignment with the interest of our employees and shareholders.
medium- to long-term • For Group and local MRTs, excluding executive Directors where deferral is typically in the form of shares only, a minimum
strategy, stakeholder of 50% of the deferred awards is in HSBC shares and the balance is deferred into cash. In accordance with local regulatory
interests and adherence to requirements, for local MRTs in Brazil and Oman 100% of the deferred amount is delivered in shares or linked to the value
the HSBC Values. of shares.
• For some employees in our asset management business, where required by the regulations applicable to asset
management entities within the Group, at least 50% of the deferred award is linked to fund units reflective of funds
managed by those entities, with the remaining portion of deferred awards being in the form of deferred cash awards.
250 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Link between risk, performance and reward We set out below the key features of our remuneration
framework, which help enable us to achieve alignment between
Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk
risk, performance and reward, subject to compliance with local
management while supporting our business objectives.
laws and regulations:
Alignment between risk and reward
Framework
elements Application
Variable pay The Group variable pay pool is expected to move in line with Group performance. We also use a countercyclical funding methodology,
pool and with both a floor and a ceiling, with the payout ratio generally reducing as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality. The floor
individual recognises that even in challenging times, remaining competitive is important. The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance
performance it is not always necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive
scorecard financial performance.
The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include:
• Group and business unit financial performance, including capital requirements;
• current and future risks, taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite statement (‘RAS’), annual operating plan and
global conduct outcomes;
• fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress, which are automatically included in the Committee’s definition of profit; and
• assessment of individual performance with reference to a balanced scorecard of clear and relevant objectives. Objectives included in
the performance scorecards of senior management take into account appropriate measures linked to sustainability risks, such as:
reduction in carbon footprint; facilitating financing to help clients with their transition to net zero; employee diversity targets; and risk
and compliance measures. A mandatory global risk objective is included in the scorecard of all other employees. All employees receive
a behaviour rating as well as a performance rating, which ensures performance is assessed not only on what is achieved but also on
how it is achieved.
Remuneration • The performance and reward of individuals in control functions, including risk and compliance employees, are assessed according to a
for control balanced scorecard of objectives specific to the functional role they undertake. This is to ensure their remuneration is determined
function staff independent of the performance of the business areas they oversee.
• The Committee is responsible for approving the remuneration recommendations for the Group Chief Risk Officer and senior
management in control functions.
• Group policy is for control functions staff to report into their respective function. Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles are
led by, and must carry the approval of, the global function head.
• Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
Variable pay • Variable pay awards may be adjusted downwards in circumstances including:
adjustments – detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute;
and conduct
– involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause
recognition
significant harm to HSBC; and
– non-compliance with the HSBC Values and other mandatory requirements or policies.
• Rewarding positive conduct may take the form of use of our global recognition programme, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to
variable pay awards.
Malus Malus can be applied to unvested deferred awards granted in prior years in circumstances including:
• detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
• past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
• restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
• improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 for a period of seven years, extended to
10 years for employees under the PRA's Senior Managers Regime in the event of ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of
the seven-year period. Clawback may be applied in circumstances including:
• participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
• failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
• reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract of
employment; and
• a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk-management standards,
policies and procedures.
Sales • We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans.
incentives
Identification • We identify individuals as MRTs based on the qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the RTS. We also identify MRTs based on
of MRTs additional criteria developed internally. The following key principles underpin HSBC’s identification process:
– MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank (consolidated) and HSBC UK Bank level.
– MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as required by the regulations.
– When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers an employee’s role within its matrix management structure. The global business and
function that an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
• In addition to applying the qualitative and quantitative criteria specified in the RTS, we also identify additional MRTs based on our own
internal criteria, which include compensation thresholds and individuals in certain roles and grades who otherwise would not be
identified as MRTs under the criteria prescribed in the RTS.
• The list of MRTs, and any exclusions from it, is reviewed by chief risk officers and chief operating officers of the relevant global
businesses and functions. The overall results are reviewed by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
• The Group Remuneration Committee reviews the methodology, key decisions regarding identification, and the results of the
identification exercise, including proposed MRT exclusions.
252 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Directors’ interests table, no further interests were held by Directors, and no Directors
or their connected persons were awarded or exercised any right to
Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and
subscribe for any shares or debentures in any HSBC corporation
according to the register of Directors’ interests maintained by
during the year.
HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 352 of the Securities and
Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the Directors of HSBC Holdings No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities
at 31 December 2020 had certain interests, all beneficial unless and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares or debentures
otherwise stated, in the shares or debentures of HSBC Holdings of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations.
and its associated corporations. Save as stated in the following
Directors’ interests – shares and debentures
At 31 Dec 2020 or date of cessation, if earlier
At 1 Jan Child Jointly with
2020, or date of Beneficial under 18 another Total
Footnotes appointment, if later owner or spouse person Trustee interests
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Kathleen Casey (retired on 24 April 2020) 1 15,125 15,125 — — — 15,125
Laura Cha 16,200 16,200 — — — 16,200
Henri de Castries 19,251 19,251 — — — 19,251
James Forese (appointed to the Board on 1 May 2020) 1 — 115,000 — — — 115,000
Steven Guggenheimer (appointed to the Board on 1 May
2020) 1,4 — — — 15,000 — 15,000
Irene Lee 11,904 11,904 — — — 11,904
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña 1 — 15,000 — — — 15,000
Heidi Miller 1 15,700 15,700 — — — 15,700
Eileen Murray (appointed to the Board on 1 July 2020) 1 — 75,000 75,000
David Nish 50,000 — 50,000 — — 50,000
Noel Quinn 2 441,925 778,958 — — — 778,958
Ewen Stevenson 2 233,972 545,731 — — — 545,731
Sir Jonathan Symonds (retired on 18 February 2020) 43,821 38,823 4,998 43,821
Jackson Tai 1, 3 66,515 32,800 11,965 21,750 — 66,515
Mark Tucker 307,352 307,352 — — — 307,352
Pauline van der Meer Mohr 15,000 15,000 — — — 15,000
1 Kathleen Casey has an interest in 3,025, James Forese has an interest in 23,000, Steven Guggenheimer has an interest in 3,000, José Antonio
Meade Kuribreña has an interest in 3,000, Heidi Miller has an interest in 3,140, Eileen Murray has an interest in 15,000 and Jackson Tai has an
interest in 13,303 listed ADS, which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong.
Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
2 Executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK)
and the HSBC Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Scheme interests in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 229. At 31 December 2020, the
aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, including interests arising
through employee share plans and the interests above were: Noel Quinn – 1,333,514; and Ewen Stevenson – 1,751,278. Each Director’s total
interests represents less than 0.01% of the shares in issue and 0.01% of the shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
3 Jackson Tai has a non-beneficial interest in 11,965 shares of which he is custodian.
4 On 19 May 2020, Steven Guggenheimer reported to HSBC that he had acquired 5,000 shares on 1 May 2020. Prior clearance was not obtained as
required pursuant to the standards set out in the Hong Kong Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers. Enhancements
have been made to the Directors' onboarding process, along with communication throughout the year, to highlight share dealing obligations.
There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the Corporate Governance Committee report sets out further detail on
Directors from 31 December 2020 to the date of this report. the Board selection process. The number of Directors (other than
any alternate Directors) must not be fewer than five nor exceed 25.
Listing Rule 9.8.4 and other disclosures
The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director,
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts 2020 forms part of either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board. The
and includes certain disclosures required in the Report of the Board may appoint any Director to hold any employment or
Directors incorporated by cross-reference, including under Listing executive office, and may revoke or terminate any such
Rule 9.8.4 and otherwise as applicable by law. appointment.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year
Content Page references
term and, subject to continued satisfactory performance based
Long-term incentives 243
upon an assessment by the Group Chairman and the Nomination
Dividend waivers 256
& Corporate Governance Committee, are proposed for re-election
Dividends 256
by shareholders at each AGM. They typically serve two three-year
Change of control 260
terms. The Board may invite a Director to serve additional periods
Emissions 46
but any term beyond six years is subject to review with an
Energy efficiency 53, 55
explanation to be provided in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Section 172 and stakeholder engagement 22
Principal activities of HSBC 12, 30, 85, 335 Shareholders vote at each AGM on whether to elect and re-elect
Business review and future developments 12–41, 43, 109, 118, 362 individual Directors. All Directors that stood for election and re-
election at the 2020 AGM were elected and re-elected by
Directors’ governance
shareholders.
Appointment and re-election None of the Directors who retired during the year or who are not
A rigorous selection process is followed for the appointment of offering themselves for re-election at the 2021 AGM have raised
Directors. Appointments are made on merit and candidates are concerns about the operation of the Board or the management of
considered against objective criteria, having regard to the benefits the company.
of a diverse Board. Appointments are made in accordance with No executive Director is involved in deciding their own
HSBC Holdings' Articles of Association. The Nomination & remuneration outcome.
258 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Commitments human rights, and anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters are
included in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts
The terms and conditions of the appointments of non-executive
2020.
Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the
expectations of them and the estimated time required to perform Shareholder engagement
their role. Letters of appointment of each non-executive Director
The Board is directly accountable to, and gives high priority to
are available for inspection at the registered office of HSBC
communicating with, HSBC’s shareholders. Information about
Holdings. The current anticipated time commitment, which is
HSBC and its activities is provided to shareholders in its Interim
subject to periodic review, is 75 days per year. Non-executive
Reports and the Annual Report and Accounts as well as on
Directors who chair a Board committee are expected to devote up
www.hsbc.com.
to 100 days per year to the Group. The Chair of the Group Risk
Committee is expected to commit up to 150 days per year, To complement regular publications, there is continual dialogue
reflecting the complexity of the role and responsibilities of this between members of the Board and institutional investors
committee. All non-executive Directors confirm that they can meet throughout the year. For examples of such engagement see the
this requirement, taking into account any other commitments they Group Chairman's letter on page 196 and the Remuneration
have. Committee Chair's letter on page 229.
Board approval is required for any non-executive Directors’ Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the
external commitments, with consideration given to time views of shareholders. Enquiries from individuals on matters
commitments and conflicts of interest. relating to their shareholdings and HSBC’s business are
welcomed.
Conflicts of interest
Any individual or institutional investor can make an enquiry by
The Board has an established policy and set of procedures to
contacting the investor relations team, Group Chairman, Group
ensure that the Board’s management of the Directors’ conflicts of
Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Company
interest policy operates effectively. The Board has the power to
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Our Senior Independent
authorise conflicts where they arise, in accordance with the
Director is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that
Companies Act 2006 and HSBC Holdings' Articles of Association.
cannot be resolved or for which the normal channels would not be
Details of all Directors’ conflicts of interest are recorded in the
appropriate. He can be contacted via the Group Company
register of conflicts, which is maintained by the Group Company
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer at 8 Canada Square,
Secretary and Chief Governance Officer's office. Upon
London E14 5HQ.
appointment, new Directors are advised of the policy and
procedures for managing conflicts. Directors are required to notify Annual General Meeting
the Board of any actual or potential conflicts of interest and to The AGM in 2021 is planned to be held in London at 11:00am on
update the Board with any changes to the facts and circumstances Friday, 28 May 2021. Information on how to participate, both in
surrounding such conflicts. The Board has considered, and advance and on the day, can be found in the Notice of the 2021
authorised (with or without conditions) where appropriate, AGM, which will be sent to shareholders on 24 March 2021 and
potential conflicts as they have arisen during the year in be available on www.hsbc.com/agm. A live webcast will be
accordance with the said policy and procedures. available on www.hsbc.com. A recording of the proceedings will
Directors' indemnity be available on www.hsbc.com shortly after the conclusion of the
AGM. Due to the current environment these arrangements may
The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings contain a qualifying
change. Shareholders should monitor our website and
third-party indemnity provision, which entitles Directors and other
announcements for any updates. Shareholders may send enquiries
officers to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings
to the Board in writing via the Group Company Secretary and Chief
against claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities.
Governance Officer, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London
HSBC Holdings has granted, by way of deed poll, indemnities to E14 5HQ or by sending an email to
the Directors, including former Directors who retired during the shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
year, against certain liabilities arising in connection with their
General meetings and resolutions
position as a Director of HSBC Holdings or of any Group company.
Directors are indemnified to the maximum extent permitted by Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting
law. other than an AGM, as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. A
valid request to call a general meeting may be made by members
The indemnities that constitute a 'qualifying third-party indemnity
representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings
provision', as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006,
as carries the right of voting at its general meetings (excluding any
remained in force for the whole of the financial year (or, in the
paid-up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the
case of Directors appointed during 2020, from the date of their
general nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and
appointment). The deed poll is available for inspection at the
may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved
registered office of HSBC Holdings.
and is intended to be moved at the meeting. At any general
Additionally, Directors have the benefit of Directors’ and officers’ meeting convened on such request, no business may be
liability insurance. transacted except that stated by the requisition or proposed by the
Board.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to
the Trustees of the Group's pension schemes, which were in force Shareholders may request the Directors to send a resolution to
for the whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the shareholders for consideration at an AGM, as provided by the UK
date of this report. Companies Act 2006. A valid request must be made by (i)
members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC
Contracts of significance
Holdings as carries the right of voting at its general meetings
During 2020, none of the Directors had a material interest, directly (excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares), or (ii) at
or indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC least 100 members who have a right to vote on the resolution at
company. During the year, all Directors were reminded of their the AGM in question and hold shares in HSBC Holdings on which
obligations in respect of transacting in HSBC securities and there has been paid up an average sum, per member, of at least
following specific enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they £100. The request must be received by the company not later than
have complied with their obligations. (i) six weeks before the AGM in question; or (ii) if later, the time at
Additional non-financial disclosures which the notice of AGM is published.
A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and
Additional non-financial disclosures detailing HSBC’s policies and
must be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A
practices in relation to the workforce, environment, social matters,
request may be made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 259
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
address, referred to in the paragraph above or by sending an email values, strategy and risk management principles, guiding us to do
to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. the right thing and treat our customers and our colleagues fairly at
all times.
Events after the balance sheet date
Risk management framework
For details of events after the balance sheet date, see Note 36 on
the financial statements. The risk management framework provides an effective and
efficient approach to how we govern and oversee the organisation
Change of control
as well as how we monitor and mitigate risks to the delivery of our
The Group is not party to any significant agreements that take strategy. It applies to all categories of risk, covering core
effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the governance, standards and principles that bring together all of the
Group. The Group does not have agreements with any Director or Group’s risk management practices into an integrated structure.
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or Delegation of authority within limits set by the Board
employment resulting from a takeover bid.
Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group Chief
Branches
Executive has been delegated authority limits and powers within
The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the Group, including the
through branches and offices in the UK and overseas. right to sub-delegate those limits and powers. Each relevant Group
Executive Committee member or executive Director has delegated
Research and development activities
authority within which to manage the day-to-day affairs of the
During the ordinary course of business the Group develops new business or function for which he or she is accountable.
products and services within the global businesses. Delegation of authority from the Board requires those individuals
Political donations to maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment of significant
responsibilities and to oversee the establishment and maintenance
HSBC does not make any political donations or incur political of systems of control that are appropriate to their business or
expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words. We have function. Authorities to enter into credit and market risk exposures
no intention of altering this policy. However, the definitions of are delegated with limits to line management of Group companies.
political donations, political parties, political organisations and However, credit proposals with specified higher-risk
political expenditure used in the UK Companies Act 2006 are very characteristics require the concurrence of the appropriate global
wide. As a result, they may cover routine activities that form part function. Credit and market risks are measured and reported at
of the normal business activities of the Group and are an accepted subsidiary company level and aggregated for risk concentration
part of engaging with stakeholders. To ensure that neither the analysis on a Group-wide basis.
Group nor any of its subsidiaries inadvertently breaches the UK
Risk identification and monitoring
Companies Act 2006, authority is sought from shareholders at the
AGM to make political donations. Systems and procedures are in place to identify, assess, control
and monitor the material risk types facing HSBC as set out in the
HSBC provides administrative support to two political action
risk management framework. The Group‘s risk measurement and
committees ('PACs') in the US funded by voluntary political
reporting systems are designed to help ensure that material risks
contributions by eligible employees. We do not control the PACs,
are captured with all the attributes necessary to support well-
and all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of
founded decisions, that those attributes are accurately assessed
contributions are directed by the respective steering committee of
and that information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks
each PAC, which are comprised of eligible employees. The PACs
to be successfully managed and mitigated.
recorded combined political donations of $100,750 during 2020
(2019: $119,600). Changes in market conditions/practices
Charitable contributions Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes
in market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which
For details of charitable contributions, see page 50.
could expose the Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational
damage. The Group employs a top and emerging risks framework,
Internal control which contains an aggregate of all current and forward-looking
risks and enables it to take action that either prevents them
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the
materialising or limits their impact.
effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems,
and for determining the aggregate level and types of risks the During 2020 unprecedented global economic events led to banks
Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives. playing an expanded role to support society and customers. The
Covid-19 outbreak and its impact on the global economy have
To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under
impacted many of our customers’ business models and income,
the FCA Handbook and the PRA Handbook, procedures have been
requiring significant levels of support from both governments and
designed: for safeguarding assets against unauthorised use or
banks.
disposal; for maintaining proper accounting records; and for
ensuring the reliability and usefulness of financial information used To meet the additional challenges, we supplemented our existing
within the business or for publication. approach to risk management with additional tools and practices.
We increased our focus on the quality and timeliness of the data
These procedures provide reasonable assurance against material
used to inform management decisions, through measures such as
misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. They are designed to provide
early warning indicators, prudent active risk management of our
effective internal control within the Group and accord with the
risk appetite, and ensuring regular communication with our Board
Financial Reporting Council‘s guidance for Directors issued in
and other key stakeholders.
2014, on risk management, internal control and related financial
and business reporting. The procedures have been in place Responsibility for risk management
throughout the year and up to 23 February 2021, the date
All employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk
of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts 2020.
within the scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence
The key risk management and internal control procedures include model. This is an activity-based model to delineate management
the following: accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the
control environment. The second line of defence sets the policy
Global principles
and guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides advice
The Group's Global Principles set an overarching standard for all and guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the first line of
other policies and procedures and are fundamental to the Group’s defence (the risk owners) on effective risk management.
risk management structure. They inform and connect our purpose,
260 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
The Board delegated authority to the Group Audit Committee Financial reporting
('GAC') and it reviewed the independence, autonomy and
The Group’s financial reporting process is controlled using
effectiveness of the Group's policies and procedures on
documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported
whistleblowing, including the procedures for the protection of staff
by detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements,
who raise concerns of detrimental treatment.
issued to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each
Strategic plans reporting period end. The submission of financial information from
each reporting entity is supported by a certification by the
Strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global
responsible financial officer and analytical review procedures at
functions and geographical regions within the framework of the
reporting entity and Group levels.
Group’s overall strategy. Annual operating plans, informed by
detailed analysis of risk appetite describing the types and quantum Disclosure Committee
of risk that the Group is prepared to take in executing its strategy,
Chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Disclosure
are prepared and adopted by all major Group operating companies
Committee supports the discharge of the Group’s obligations
and set out the key business initiatives and the likely financial
under relevant legislation and regulation including the UK and
effects of those initiatives.
Hong Kong listing rules, the UK Market Abuse Regulation and US
The effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk management and Securities and Exchange Commission rules. In so doing, the
internal control is reviewed regularly by the Board, the Group Risk Disclosure Committee is empowered to determine whether a
Committee ('GRC') and the GAC. new event or circumstance should be disclosed, including the
form and timing of such disclosure, and review certain material
During 2020, the Group continued to focus on operational
disclosures made or to be made by the Group. The membership
resilience and invest in the non-financial risk infrastructure. There
of the Disclosure Committee consists of senior management,
was a particular focus on material and emerging risks and areas
including the Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief Legal
undergoing strategic growth.
Officer and Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance
The GRC and the GAC received confirmation that executive Officer. The Group's brokers, external auditors and its external
management has taken or is taking the necessary actions to legal counsel also attend as required. The integrity of disclosures
remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the is underpinned by structures and processes within the Global
operation of the Group's framework of controls. In response to the Finance and Global Risk functions that support rigorous analytical
Covid-19 outbreak, our business continuity responses have been review of financial reporting and the maintenance of proper
successfully implemented and the majority of service level accounting records. As required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the
agreements continue to be maintained. Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer have
Internal control over financial reporting certified that the Group's disclosure controls and procedures
were effective as at the end of the period covered by this Annual
HSBC is required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanes- Report and Accounts 2020.
Oxley Act of 2002 and assess its effectiveness of internal control
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of
over financial reporting at 31 December 2020. In 2014, the GAC
risk management and internal control over financial reporting was
endorsed the adoption of the COSO 2013 framework for the
conducted with reference to the COSO 2013 framework. Based on
monitoring of risk management and internal control systems to
the assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the
satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
year ended 31 December 2020, the Group's internal control over
The key risk management and internal control procedures over financial reporting was effective.
financial reporting include the following:
PwC has audited the effectiveness of HSBC's internal control over
Entity level controls financial reporting and has given an unqualified opinion.
The primary mechanism through which comfort over risk Going concern
management and internal control systems is achieved is through
assessments of the effectiveness of controls to manage risk, and The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, is satisfied that the
the reporting of issues on a regular basis through the various risk Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue operations
management and risk governance forums. Entity level controls are for a period of at least 12 months from the date of this report, and
a defined suite of internal controls that have a pervasive influence it therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in
over the entity as a whole and meet the principles of the preparing the financial statements. For further details, see page
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 41.
Commission ('COSO') framework. They include controls related to
the control environment, such as the Group's values and ethics, Employees
the promotion of effective risk management and the overarching
governance exercised by the Board and its non-executive At 31 December 2020, HSBC had a total workforce equivalent to
committees. The design and operational effectiveness of entity 226,000 full-time employees compared with 235,000 at the end of
level controls are assessed annually as part of the assessment of 2019 and 229,000 at the end of 2018. Our main centres of
the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. If employment were the UK with approximately 40,000 employees,
issues are significant to the Group, they are escalated to the GRC India with 39,000, Hong Kong with 29,000, mainland China with
and also to the GAC, if concerning financial reporting matters. The 27,000, Mexico with 15,000, the US with 8,000 and France with
suite of entity level controls was updated in 2020 to simplify and 7,000.
align with the Group’s refreshed risk management framework. Our people span many cultures, communities and continents. By
Process level transactional controls focusing on employee well-being, diversity, inclusion and
engagement, as well as building our peoples’ skills and
Key process level controls that mitigate the risk of financial
capabilities for now and for the future, we aim to create an
misstatement are identified, recorded and monitored in
environment where our people can fulfil their potential. We use
accordance with the risk framework. This includes the
confidential surveys to assess progress and make changes. We
identification and assessment of relevant control issues against
want to have an open culture where our people feel connected,
which action plans are tracked through to remediation. Further
supported to speak up and where our leaders encourage
details on HSBC’s approach to risk management can be found on
feedback. Where we make organisational changes, we support
page 107. The GAC has continued to receive regular updates on
our people throughout the change and in particular where there
HSBC’s ongoing activities for improving the effective oversight of
are job losses.
end-to-end business processes and management continued to
identify opportunities for enhancing key controls, such as through
the use of automation technologies.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 261
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
Employee relations entirely online with more than 100 leaders and graduate alumni
welcoming approximately 650 graduates.
We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee
representative bodies where we have them. It is our policy to Supporting self-development
maintain well-developed communications and consultation We have a range of tools and resources to help colleagues take
programmes with all employee representative bodies. There have ownership of their development and career.
been no material disruptions to our operations from labour
disputes during the past five years. • HSBC University is our one-stop shop for learning delivered via
an online portal, network of global training centres and third-
We are committed to complying with the applicable employment party providers.
laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
HSBC’s global employment practices and relations policy provides • Our My HSBC Career portal offers career development
the framework and controls through which we seek to uphold that resources and information on managing change and on giving
commitment. back to the organisation and the communities in which we
operate. Over 100,000 of our colleagues made use of it in 2020.
Diversity and inclusion
• We launched a global mentoring system in 2020 to enable
Our customers, suppliers and communities span many cultures colleagues to match with a mentor or mentee. At 31 December
and continents. We believe this diversity makes us stronger, and 2020, we had in excess of 6,800 mentors and mentees in 58
we are dedicated to building a diverse and connected workforce countries and territories.
where everyone feels a sense of belonging.
Developing core skills
Our Group People Committee, which is made up of Group
Our managers are the critical link in supporting our colleagues. In
Executive Committee members, governs our diversity and
2020, we redesigned our suite of training and resources for
inclusion agenda. It meets regularly to agree actions to improve
managers so they can focus on the most important skills including
diverse representation and build a more inclusive culture where
leading and supporting teams through change.
our colleagues can bring the best of themselves to work and
deliver more equal outcomes for our stakeholders. Members of Risk management remains central to development and is part of
our Group Executive Committee are held to account for the actions our mandatory training. Those at higher risk of exposure to
they take on diversity via aspirational targets contained within financial wrongdoing experience more in-depth training on
their performance scorecards. Our people managers also have a financial risks, such as money laundering, sanctions, bribery and
component of their performance assessed on the degree to which corruption. Other programmes and resources address specific
they create team environments that are inclusive, motivating and areas of risk, like management of third-party suppliers.
nurturing. Every colleague at HSBC must treat each other with
Our Cyber Hub brings together training, insights, events and
dignity and respect, creating an inclusive environment. Our
campaigns on how to combat cyber-crime. We are also supporting
policies make clear we do not tolerate unlawful discrimination,
those who develop models and senior leaders with training to help
bullying or harassment on any grounds.
them understand and apply our Principles on the Ethical Use of
To align our approach to inclusion best practice, we participate in Big Data and Artificial Intelligence.
global diversity benchmarks, which help us to identify
A learning and feedback culture
improvement opportunities. We also track a large number of
diversity and inclusion metrics, which enable us to pinpoint We want our colleagues to be well prepared for changing
inclusion barriers and take action where required. workplace requirements and so have developed a flagship Future
Our gender diversity statistics are set out on page 64. Skills programme to support them. We identified nine key
behaviours we believe are necessary future skills for colleagues
Further details of our diversity and inclusion activity, together with our Gender
and built a curriculum of resources to support learners to develop
and Ethnicity UK Pay Gap Report 2020, can be found at www.hsbc.com/
these.
diversitycommitments.
More than 1,000 colleagues now act as Future Skills Influencers,
Employment of people with a disability
supporting their businesses and teams to invest in learning. In
We believe in providing equal opportunities for all employees. The November 2020, we ran a week-long MySkills festival, which
employment of people with a disability is included in this helped colleagues explore future skills through virtual events,
commitment. The recruitment, training, career development and interactive workshops and online resources. Demand to join
promotion of people with a disability are based on the aptitudes sessions surpassed our expectations with more than 45,000
and abilities of the individual. Should employees become disabled registrations for events.
during their employment with us, efforts are made to continue Senior succession planning
their employment and, if necessary, appropriate training and
reasonable equipment and facilities are provided. Developing future leaders is critical to our long-term success. The
Group Executive Committee dedicates time to articulate the
Employee development
current and future capabilities required to deliver the business
A workforce capable of meeting the challenges of today and strategy, and identify successors for our most critical roles.
tomorrow requires significant support to develop the right skills. Successors undergo robust assessment and participate in
Whatever our colleagues’ career paths, we have a range of tools executive development. Potential successors for senior roles also
and resources to help them. benefit from coaching and mentoring and are moved into roles
A rapid shift to virtual learning that build their skills and capabilities.
The Covid-19 outbreak resulted in a halt to classroom training and Health and safety
rapid expansion in virtual learning. We prioritised the transition to
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working
remote working and helping people manage their well-being. The
environment for everyone. We strive to ensure we adopt best
shift from physical classroom training to shorter virtual equivalents
health and safety management practices across the organisation
and online resources resulted in a total of 5.2 million hours and 2.9
and aim for standards that reflect our core values.
days per FTE in training in 2020. For further details on training
hours and days by gender, region and seniority, see the ESG Data Chief operating officers have overall responsibility for ensuring
Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg. that global policies, procedures and safeguards are put into
practice locally, and that all legal requirements are met.
We converted or rebuilt technical, professional and personal
classroom programmes to deliver online. New joiners to HSBC To put our commitment into practice, we delivered a range of
experienced an immersive virtual induction programme and virtual programmes in 2020 to help us understand and manage
internships. Our global graduate induction programme moved
262 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
effectively the risks we face and improve the buildings in which unrelated to performance or experience with the Group, while
we operate: performing their role in the long-term interests of our stakeholders.
• Based on expert medical advice, we created safe workplaces For further details of the Group’s approach to remuneration, see page 233.
globally, designed to protect our employees, contractors and
Employee share plans
customers from the risks of Covid-19. We carried out
approximately 1,700 Covid-19-related workplace enhancements Share options and discretionary awards of shares granted under
globally, with measures involving: enhanced cleaning; training HSBC share plans align the interests of employees with the
and awareness; public hygiene; and track and trace. creation of shareholder value. The following table sets out the
particulars of outstanding options, including those held by
• We updated our advice on working from home, providing more
employees working under employment contracts that are regarded
awareness and best practices on good ergonomics and well-
as ‘continuous contracts’ for the purposes of the Hong Kong
being to be adopted during these unprecedented times.
Employment Ordinance. The options were granted at nil
• We delivered an improved health and safety training and consideration. No options have been granted to substantial
awareness programme to 245,000 of our employees and shareholders and suppliers of goods or services, nor in excess of
contractors globally, ensuring roles and responsibilities were the individual limit for each share plan. No options were cancelled
clear and understood. by HSBC during the year.
• We completed the annual safety inspection on all of our A summary for each plan of the total number of the options that
buildings globally, subject to local Covid-19 restrictions, to were granted, exercised or lapsed during 2020 is shown in the
ensure we were meeting our standards and continuously following table. Further details required to be disclosed pursuant
improving our safety performance. to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on
• We continued to focus on enhancing the safety culture in our The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited are available on our
supply chain through our SAFER Together programme, website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/leadership-and-
covering the five key elements of best practice safety culture, governance/remuneration and on the website of The Stock
including speaking up about safety, and recognising Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at www.hkex.com.hk, or can be
excellence. Our 2020 safety climate survey results showed a obtained upon request from the Group Company Secretary and
continued year-on-year increase in safety culture, and Chief Governance Officer, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
significantly above the industry average. Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out on
• Our Eat Well Live Well programme continued through page 245.
educating and informing our colleagues on how to make Note 5 on the financial statements gives details of share-based payments,
healthy food and drink choices. We enhanced the programme including discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans.
to provide digital educational and information resources, All-employee share plans
including a suite of videos and recipe ideas. The programme
HSBC operates all-employee share option plans under which
was runner up in the 2020 Global Healthy Workplace Awards.
options are granted over HSBC ordinary shares. Subject to leaver
• We put in place effective storm preparation controls and provisions, options are normally exercisable after three or five
processes to ensure the protection of our people and years. During 2020, options were granted by reference to the
operations. In 2020, there were 41 named storms, which average market value of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the
passed over 2,316 of our buildings and resulted in no injuries or five business days immediately preceding the invitation date, then
business impact. applying a discount of 20%. The closing price for HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange on
Employee health and safety
23 September 2020, the day before the options were granted and
Footnotes 2020 2019 2018 as derived from the Daily Official List, was £2.9025.
Number of workplace fatalities — 1 1
The HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK) will
Number of major injuries to employees 1 15 29 27
expire on 24 April 2030, by which time the plan may be extended
All injury rate per 100,000 employees 88 189 189
with approval from shareholders, unless the Directors resolve to
1 Fractures, dislocation, concussion, loss of consciousness, overnight terminate the plan at an earlier date.
admission to hospital.
The HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan was
Remuneration introduced in 2013 and now includes employees based in
27 jurisdictions, although no options are granted under this plan.
HSBC’s pay and performance strategy is designed to reward
During 2020, approximately 171,000 employees were offered
competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable
participation in these plans.
performance and attract and motivate the very best people,
regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor
HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK)
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Dates of awards Exercise price Usually exercisable At Granted Exercised Lapsed At
from to from to from to Footnotes 1 Jan 2020 during year during year during year 31 Dec 2020
(£) (£)
20 Sep 2013 24 Sep 2020 2.6270 5.9640 1 Nov 2018 30 Apr 2026 1 65,060,681 111,469,393 1,387,599 44,189,936 130,952,539
1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £5.2014.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 263
Corporate
governance
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
oversight of internal control, other than internal control over
Statement of compliance
financial reporting, and risk management systems. This is
The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages permitted under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
195 to 265 and the information referred to therein constitutes the Notwithstanding that Laura Cha has served on the Board for more
'Corporate governance report' and 'Report of the Directors' of than nine years, the Board has determined that she continues to
HSBC Holdings. The websites referred to do not form part of this be independent when taking into consideration all other relevant
report. circumstances that are likely to impair, or could appear to impair,
independence. Laura will not be standing for re-election at the
Relevant corporate governance codes, role profiles and policies 2021 AGM.
UK Corporate Governance www.frc.org.uk HSBC Holdings has codified obligations for transactions in Group
Code securities in accordance with the requirements of the UK Market
Hong Kong Corporate www.hkex.com.hk Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of securities
Governance Code (set out in on HKEx, save that the HKEx has granted waivers from strict
Appendix 14 to the Rules compliance with the rules that take into account accepted
Governing the Listing of practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share
Securities on the Stock plans. During the year, all Directors were reminded of their
Exchange of Hong Kong obligations in respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities and,
Limited) except as disclosed on page 258, following specific enquiry all
Directors have confirmed that they have complied with their
Descriptions of the roles and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
obligations.
responsibilities of the: leadership-and-governance/
board-responsibilities
– Group Chairman
– Group Chief Executive
– Senior Independent Director
– Board
Board and senior management www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance
Roles and responsibilities of the www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
Board's committees leadership-and-governance/
board-committees On behalf of the Board
Board’s policies on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
Mark E Tucker
leadership-and-governance/
– diversity and inclusion
board-responsibilities Group Chairman
– shareholder communication
HSBC Holdings plc
– human rights
Registered number 617987
– remuneration practices and
23 February 2021
governance
Global Internal Audit Charter www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
leadership-and-governance/
corporate-governance-codes/
internal-control
HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both the
UK and Hong Kong. During 2020, save to the extent referred to
below, HSBC complied with the provisions and requirements of
both the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
Following the UK Government’s introduction of social distancing
measures and prohibition on non-essential travel and public
gatherings, it was not possible for shareholders to attend the 2020
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) in person. The Board was fully
informed of all relevant AGM and shareholder matters but only a
limited number of Directors and essential personnel attended the
AGM to ensure the meeting was quorate and to enable the
business of the meeting to be conducted. Shareholders were
advised to vote by submitting a proxy in advance of the AGM and
that they should only appoint the Chairman of the AGM to act as
their proxy. To ensure that shareholders did not lose the
opportunity to raise questions, shareholders were encouraged to
submit questions for the Board via email in advance of the AGM.
Responses to the most frequent questions across key themes
were published on the HSBC website after due consideration by
the Board. None of the questions submitted covered a topic that
required consideration by the auditor. Given these measures, not
all of the persons set out in paragraphs A.6.7 and E.1.2 of the
Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code were able to attend the
AGM.
Under the Hong Kong Code, the audit committee should be
responsible for the oversight of all risk management and internal
control systems. HSBC’s Group Risk Committee is responsible for
264 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Disclosure of information to auditors
Directors’ responsibility statement
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Directors’ report includes a statement, in the case of each Director
Accounts 2020, the Directors’ remuneration report and the in office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved,
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and that:
regulations.
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
statements for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors
• they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a
have prepared the parent company (‘Company’) and Group
Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant
financial statements in accordance with International Financial
audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union.
are aware of that information.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also
elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). Under company law, the
Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company and Group, and of the profit or loss of the
Company and Group for that period. In preparing these financial
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
On behalf of the Board
consistently;
Mark E Tucker
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent; Group Chairman
• state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European HSBC Holdings plc
Union and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed, subject to
Registered number 617987
any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial
statements; and 23 February 2021
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and
Group will continue in business.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the Company and the Group enabling
them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’
remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the Annual Report and Accounts 2020 as they appear on the
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2020,
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the
Company’s position, performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the
‘Report of the Directors: Corporate governance report’ on pages
198 to 201 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2020, confirms that,
to the best of their knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or
loss of the Group; and
• the management report represented by the Report of the
Directors includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the Group,
together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that it faces.
The Group Audit Committee has responsibility, delegated to it
from the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external
financial reporting. The Group Audit Committee report on page
216 sets out how the Group Audit Committee discharges its
responsibilities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 265
Corporate
governance
Financial
statements
267 Independent auditors’ report to the members
of HSBC Holdings plc
278 Financial statements
288 Notes on the financial statements
Supporting our customers
through transition finance
We are supporting our customers to make progress
towards their commitments to cut greenhouse gas
emissions, in line with the goals of the Paris
Agreement on climate change. We played a key role
in the world’s first ‘transition’ Islamic bond, known as
a sukuk, to help reduce carbon emissions in the
aviation industry. Etihad Airways will use the $600m
proceeds for energy-efficient aircraft and research
and development into sustainable aviation fuel.
This sukuk included a commitment from Etihad to
purchase a set amount of carbon offsets if it fails to
meet its short-term target to reduce the carbon
intensity of its passenger fleet.
We acted as joint global coordinator and joint
sustainability structuring agent on the deal, as well
as joint bookrunner and dealer manager.
266 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion
In our opinion, HSBC Holdings plc’s (‘HSBC’) group financial statements1 and company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’):
• give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2020 and of the group’s and
company’s profit and the group’s and company’s cash flows for the 12 month period (the "year") then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’).
Separate opinion in relation to international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union
As explained in note 1.1(a) to the financial statements, the group, in addition to applying international accounting standards in
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, has also applied international financial reporting standards adopted
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union.
In our opinion, the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards
adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1.1(a) to the financial statements, the group, in addition to applying international accounting standards in
conformity with the requirements of Companies Act 2006, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board (IASB).
In our opinion, the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (‘ISAs (UK)’) and applicable law. Our
responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of
our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence
We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial
statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided
to the group.
Other than those disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group in the period under
audit.
Our audit approach
Overview
This was the second year that it has been my responsibility to form this opinion on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ('PwC'), who
you first appointed on 31 March 2015 in relation to that year’s audit. In addition to forming this opinion, in this report we have also
provided information on how we approached the audit, how it changed from the previous year and details of the significant discussions
that we had with the GAC.
Given the impact of Covid-19, substantially all of our interactions were undertaken virtually, including those between the engagement
team, with the teams for Significant Subsidiaries and Operations Centres, and with HSBC Board members and management. Similarly,
substantially all of our audit testing was performed remotely. For further details around the impact of Covid-19 on our audit, please see
the ‘Impact of Covid-19’ key audit matter below.
Materiality
• Overall group materiality: $900m (2019: $1,000m) based on 5% of an adjusted profit before tax for the last three years.
• Overall company materiality: $855m (2019: $900m) being an amount capped below the overall group materiality.
1 We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the ‘Annual Report’), which comprise: the
consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 December 2020, the consolidated and company income statements and the consolidated
and company statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended, the consolidated and company statements of cash flows for the
year then ended, the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended, and the notes to the financial
statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Certain notes to the financial
statements have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2020, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These
are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as ‘(Audited)’. The relevant disclosures are included in the Risk review
section on pages 113 to 194 and the Directors' remuneration report disclosures on pages 239 to 249.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 267
Financial
statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Expected credit losses - Impairment of loans and advances (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
Determining expected credit losses (‘ECL’) involves management judgement and is subject to a high degree of estimation uncertainty, both of which have
significantly increased as a result of Covid-19.
Management makes various assumptions when estimating ECL. The significant assumptions that we focus on in our audit included those with greater
levels of management judgement and for which variations had the most significant impact on ECL. Specifically these included,
• forward looking economic scenarios and their likelihoods;
• customer risk ratings (‘CRRs’), and probability of defaults; and
• the recoverability of credit impaired wholesale exposures.
The modelling methodologies that use these assumptions, as well as other data, to estimate ECL are complex and not standardised. The modelling
methodologies are developed using historical experience, which can result in limitations in their reliability to appropriately estimate ECL. These limitations
are often addressed with adjustments, which are inherently judgemental and subject to estimation uncertainty.
The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in unprecedented economic conditions that vary across countries and industry sectors. Covid-19
related government support programmes and regulatory interventions have impacted economic factors such as GDP and unemployment, and
consequently the extent and timing of customer defaults.
These factors have increased the uncertainty around judgements made in determining the severity and likelihood of macroeconomic variable (‘MEV’)
forecasts across the different economic scenarios used in ECL models. Furthermore, these conditions are outside the bounds of historical experience used
to develop the models and where models produce plausible results, resulting in significantly greater limitations in their reliability to estimate ECLs.
Management has made significant adjustments to ECL to address these limitations through management judgemental adjustments to modelled
outcomes. The nature and extent of these limitations and the resulting changes to ECL varies across retail and wholesale portfolios globally. In addition,
certain models have been redeveloped during 2020.
The determination of CRRs is based on quantitative scorecards, with qualitative adjustments for relevant factors. The extent of qualitative adjustments has
increased due to Covid-19. The uncertainty caused by Covid-19 also increases judgement involved in estimating expected cash flows and collateral
valuations for specific impairments on credit impaired wholesale exposures.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We held discussions with the GAC covering governance and controls over ECL, with a significant focus on the impact of Covid-19. We also discussed a
number of other areas, including:
• the severity and likelihood of MEV forecasts in economics scenarios, across countries for the impact of Covid-19, and specifically for the UK and Hong
Kong in relation to the geopolitical risks relating to the UK’s withdrawal from the EU and US-China relations;
• the determination and migration of customer risk ratings;
• assumptions around the recoverability of significant wholesale exposures;
• the identification and assessment of model limitations and resulting changes and adjustments to ECL, in particular for approaches adopted in response
to Covid-19;
• models that were redeveloped during the year;
• model validation and monitoring; and
• the disclosures made to explain ECL, in particular the impact of Covid-19 on determining ECL and the resulting estimation uncertainty.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We assessed the design of governance and controls over the estimation of ECLs, as well as testing how effectively they operated. We observed
management’s review and challenge governance forums for (1) the determination of MEV forecasts and their likelihood for different economic scenarios,
and (2) the assessment of ECL for Retail and Wholesale portfolios, including the assessment of model limitations and approval of any resulting
adjustments to modelled outcomes.
We also tested controls over:
• model validation and monitoring;
• credit reviews that determine CRRs for wholesale customers;
• the input of critical data into source systems and the flow and transformation of critical data from source systems to the impairment models; and
• the calculation and approval of management judgemental adjustments to modelled outcomes.
We involved our economic experts in assessing the reasonableness of the severity and likelihood of MEV forecasts. These assessments considered the
sensitivity of ECLs to variations in the severity and likelihood of MEVs for different economic scenarios.
We involved our modelling experts in assessing the appropriateness of modelling methodologies that were redeveloped during the year, and for a sample
of those models, we independently reperformed the modelling for certain aspects of the ECL calculation. We also assessed the appropriateness of
modelling methodologies that did not change during the year, giving specific consideration to Covid-19 and whether management judgemental
adjustments were needed. In addition, we performed testing over:
• the compliance of ECL methodologies and assumptions with the requirements of IFRS9;
• a sample of critical data used in the year end ECL calculation and to estimate management judgemental adjustments;
• critical data, assumptions and discounted cash flows for a sample of credit impaired wholesale exposures; and
• a sample of CRRs applied to wholesale exposures, including our credit experts assessing a sample by comparing to external sources.
We evaluated and tested the Credit Risk disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts 2020.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2020
• Credit risk disclosures, page 119.
• GAC Report, page 220.
• Note 1.2(d): Financial instruments measured at amortised cost, page 292.
• Note 1.2(i): Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets, page 293.
270 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in unprecedented economic conditions, impacting the performance of HSBC in both 2020 and the
outlook into 2021 and beyond. This is considered by management to be an indicator of impairment.
An impairment test was performed by management, with supporting sensitivity analysis, using the higher of value in use (‘VIU’) and fair value less cost to
sell. Management predominantly used VIU in its impairment tests, unless it believed that fair value less cost to sell would result in a higher recoverable
amount for any cash generating unit (‘CGU’). The impairment test resulted in impairment charges of $1.3bn and $41m for software intangibles and
goodwill being recognised respectively for certain CGUs. For the remaining CGUs, where the recoverable amount was higher than the carrying value, no
impairment was recorded. The remaining goodwill and software intangibles on the balance sheet at 31 December 2020 are $5.9bn and $4.5bn
respectively.
The methodology in the models is dependent on various assumptions, both short term and long term in nature. These assumptions, which are subject to
estimation uncertainty, are derived from a combination of management’s judgement, experts engaged by management and market data. The significant
assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater levels of management judgement and for which variations had the most significant
impact on the recoverable amount. Specifically, these included HSBC’s annual operating plan (AOP) for 2021 to 2025 including revenue forecasts and cost
reduction targets, regulatory capital requirements, long term growth rates and discount rates.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We discussed the appropriateness of methodologies used and significant assumptions with the GAC, giving consideration to the macroeconomic
environment, as well as Covid-19 and HSBC’s strategy. We considered reasonably possible alternatives for significant assumptions. We also discussed
the disclosures made in relation to goodwill and software intangibles, including the use of sensitivity analysis to explain estimation uncertainty and the
conditions that would result in an impairment being recognised.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We tested controls in place over significant assumptions and the model used to determine VIUs and fair values. We assessed the appropriateness of the
CGUs and the methodology used, and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, to estimate the recoverable amounts. In respect of the significant
assumptions, our testing included the following:
• challenging the achievability of management’s AOP and the prospects for HSBC’s businesses;
• obtaining and evaluating evidence where available for critical data relating to significant assumptions, from a combination of historic experience and
external market and other financial information;
• assessing whether the cash flows included in the model were in accordance with the relevant accounting standard;
• assessing the sensitivity of the VIU to reasonable variations in significant assumptions, both individually and in aggregate; and
• determining a reasonable range for the discount rate used within the model, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and comparing it to the
discount rate used by management.
We evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts 2020 in relation to goodwill and software intangibles.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2020
• GAC Report, page 221.
• Note 1.2(a): Critical accounting estimates and judgements, page 290.
• Note 1.2(n): Critical accounting estimates and judgements, page 299.
• Note 21: Goodwill and intangible assets, page 338.
Valuation of financial instruments (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
The financial instruments held by the group range from those that are traded daily on active markets with quoted prices, to more complex and bespoke
positions. The valuation of financial instruments can require the use of prices or inputs which are not readily observable in the market. Where significant
pricing inputs are unobservable, the financial instruments are classified as Level 3 (L3), per the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy. Determining unobservable
inputs in fair value measurement involves management judgement and is subject to a high degree of estimation uncertainty.
The most material L3 financial instruments which are dependent on unobservable inputs are the group’s holding of $11.0bn of private equity (PE)
investments held by the Global Banking and Markets and the Insurance businesses. The group also holds $758m of similar investments in the pension
scheme assets for HSBC (UK) Bank plc. Covid-19 has resulted in markets being more volatile. The level of judgement surrounding the valuation of PE
investments increases in times of heightened market volatility.
Fair value of the group’s PE investments is estimated using commonly accepted valuation methodologies, which are set out in the International Private
Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines and includes the use of net asset value (NAV) statements from fund managers, the price of recent
investments, the use of market comparables or discounted cash flow models. The fair value of most PE investments are based on NAV statements
provided by fund managers.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We discussed with the GAC the appropriateness of the PE valuation approaches for PE investments. We also discussed the governance and controls over
determining fair values, in particular, when markets are more volatile.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
We tested controls in place, including those relating to the assessment of valuations based on NAV statements and the fund managers that provide them.
For fair values based on NAV statements from fund managers, we inspected NAV statements and engaged our valuation experts to test management’s
assessment of the reliability of those valuations. For these valuations, we also:
• compared fair value movements to movements in relevant market information, such as industry indices;
• agreed NAV statements from fund managers to audited fund financial statements where they were available; and
• performed back testing of fair values to any recent transactions.
We evaluated the adequacy and extent of disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts 2020 in relation to valuation of L3 financial instruments.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2020
• GAC Report, page 221.
• Note 1.2(c): Critical accounting estimates and judgements, page 292.
• Note 12: Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value, page 314.
272 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
IT access management (group)
Nature of the key audit matter
HSBC has operations across a number of countries supporting a wide range of products and services, resulting in an IT environment that is large, complex
and increasingly reliant on third parties. HSBC’s financial reporting processes rely upon a significant element of this IT environment, both within Finance
and the business and operations more broadly.
Access management controls are an important part of the IT environment to ensure both access and changes made to systems and data are appropriate.
Our audit approach planned to rely extensively on the effectiveness of IT access management controls.
As part of our audit work in prior periods, control deficiencies were identified in relation to IT access management for systems and data relevant to
financial reporting. Management has an ongoing remediation programme to address these matters.
Matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee
The significance of IT access management to our audit was discussed at GAC meetings during the year, as well as progress on management’s
remediation programme, control deficiencies identified and our related audit responses.
How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
IT access management controls were tested for systems and data relevant to financial reporting that we planned to rely upon as part of our audit.
Specifically we tested controls over:
• authorising new access requests;
• the timely removal of access rights;
• periodic monitoring of the appropriateness of access rights to systems and data;
• restricting highly privileged access to appropriate personnel;
• the accuracy of information about IT users to facilitate access management;
• segregation of access across IT and business functions;
• changes made to systems and data; and
• understanding and assessing reliance on third parties, including Service Organisation controls reports.
We also independently assessed password policies and system configurations, and performed substantive audit procedures in relation to access right
removal, privileged access, IT user information and segregation of duties.
We performed further testing where control deficiencies were identified, including:
• where inappropriate access was identified, we understood and assessed the nature of the access, and obtained additional evidence on the
appropriateness of activities performed; and,
• we identified and tested compensating business controls and performed other audit procedures where IT compensating controls were not sufficient to
address the audit risk.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2020
• Effectiveness of internal controls, page 260.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These,
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both
individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Financial statements - group Financial statements - company
Overall materiality $900m (2019: $1,000m). $855m (2019: $900m).
How we determined it 5% of a three year average of adjusted profit before tax. 0.75% of total assets. This would result
in an overall materiality of $1.9bn and
was therefore reduced below this
materiality for the group.
Rationale for benchmark We believe a standard benchmark of 5% of adjusted profit before tax is an A benchmark of total assets has been
applied appropriate quantitative indicator of materiality, although certain items could also used as the company’s primary purpose
be material for qualitative reasons. This benchmark is standard for listed entities is to act as a holding company with
and consistent with the wider industry. investments in the group’s subsidiaries,
We selected adjusted profit because, as discussed on page 77, management not to generate operating profits and
believes it better reflects the performance of the group. We excluded the therefore a profit based measure is not
adjustments made by management on page 311 for certain customer redress relevant.
programmes and fair value movements of financial instruments, as in our opinion
they are recurring items that form part of ongoing business performance.Whilst
adjusted profit before tax is still considered the most suitable benchmark, we have
used a three year average to reflect the significant impact Covid-19 has had on
performance in 2020.
We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected
misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the
nature and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes.
Our performance materiality was 75% of overall materiality, amounting to $675m (2019: $750m) for the group financial statements and
$641m (2019: $675m) for the company financial statements. In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of
factors - the history of misstatements, our risk assessment and aggregation risk, and the effectiveness of controls.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality. The range
of materiality allocated across components was between $60m and $855m. Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit
materiality that was less than the materiality we allocated them.
We agreed with the GAC that we would report to them misstatements identified during our group and company audit above $45m
(2019: $50m), as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
274 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as
a whole, reflecting the structure of the group and the company, the processes and controls relevant to financial reporting, and the
industry in which they operate. Our audit approach incorporated a number of key aspects:
(1) Audit approach to HSBC’s global businesses
We designed audit approaches for the products and services that substantially make up HSBC’s global businesses, such as lending,
deposits and derivatives. These global business approaches were designed by partners and team members who are specialists in the
relevant businesses. These approaches were provided to the audit partners and teams around the world that contributed to the group
audit.
(2) Audit work for Significant Subsidiaries:
Through our risk assessment and scoping we identified certain entities (collectively the Significant Subsidiaries) for which we obtained
audit opinions. We obtained full scope audit opinions for Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC
UK Bank plc, HSBC North America Holdings Ltd, HSBC Bank Canada and HSBC Mexico S.A. We obtained audit opinions over specific
balances for HSBC Global Services (UK) Limited and HSBC Group Management Services Limited and HSBC Bank Middle East Limited -
UAE Operations. The audits for HSBC Bank plc, HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Global Services (UK) Limited and HSBC Group Management
Services Limited were performed by other PwC teams in the UK. All other audits were performed by other PwC network firms.
We worked with the Significant Subsidiaries in 2020 to develop an approach for rotating certain smaller locations in and out of scope
over a number of reporting periods. These locations, which are subject to local external audits, are individually relatively small compared
to the group. Notwithstanding their size, the rotational approach is designed to ensure that over time these locations are subject to audit
work as part of the group audit. India was removed from the scope of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation audit for 2020
and Singapore was included.
We asked the partners and teams reporting to us on the Significant Subsidiaries to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size
of the operations they audited. The performance materiality levels ranged from $45m to $641m. Certain Significant Subsidiaries were
audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was less than our overall group materiality.
We were in active dialogue throughout the year with the partners and teams responsible for the audits of the Significant Subsidiaries.
This included consideration of how they planned and performed their work, including their use of the global business approaches. We
attended Audit Committee meetings for some of Significant Subsidiaries. We also attended meetings with management in each of these
Significant Subsidiaries at the year-end.
The audit of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation in Hong Kong relied upon work performed by other teams in Hong Kong
and the PwC network firms in Malaysia, mainland China and Singapore. Similarly, the audit of HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc in
the UK relied upon work performed by other teams in the UK and the PwC network firms in France and Germany. We considered how
the audit partners and teams for the Significant Subsidiaries instructed and provided oversight to the work performed in these locations.
Collectively, PwC network firms completed audit procedures covering 88% of assets and 73% of total operating income.
(3) Audit work performed at Operations Centres
A significant amount of the operational processes and controls which are critical to financial reporting are undertaken in operations
centres run by Digital Business Services ('DBS') across 12 different locations. Financial reporting processes are performed in HSBC’s
four Finance Operations Centres. We coordinated and provided oversight on the audit work performed by PwC teams in the UK, Poland,
China, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, India and the Philippines. This work was relied upon by us, as well as the PwC teams auditing the Significant
Subsidiaries.
(4) Audit procedures undertaken at a group level and on the company
We ensured that appropriate further work was undertaken for the HSBC group and company. This work included auditing, for example,
the impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, the consolidation of the group’s results, the preparation of the financial
statements, certain disclosures within the Directors' remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures, taxation, and
management’s entity level and oversight controls relevant to financial reporting. Subsidiaries' balances that were not identified as part of
a Significant Subsidiary were subject to procedures which mitigated the risk of material misstatement, including testing of entity level
controls, information technology general controls, testing at the Operations Centre, analytical review procedures and understanding and
assessing the outcome of local external audits.
(5) Using the work of others
We continued to make use of evidence provided by others. This included testing of controls performed by Global Internal Audit and
management themselves in some low risk areas. We used the work of PwC experts, for example, valuation experts for our work around
the assumptions used in the impairment assessment over goodwill and actuaries on the estimates used in determining pension
liabilities. An increasing number of controls are operated on behalf of HSBC by third parties. We rely on audit evidence that is scoped
and provided by other auditors that are engaged by those third parties. For example, we obtain a report evidencing the testing of
external systems and controls supporting HSBC’s payroll and HR processes.
Conclusions relating to going concern
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group's and the company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting included:
• Performing a risk assessment to identify factors that could impact the going concern basis of accounting, including the impact of
Covid-19 and geopolitical risks.
• Understanding and evaluating the group’s financial forecasts and the group’s stress testing of liquidity and regulatory capital,
including the severity of the stress scenarios that were used.
• Reading and evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements in relation to going concern.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that,
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group's and the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a
period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 275
Financial
statements
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the group's and the
company's ability to continue as a going concern.
In relation to the group's and the company’s reporting on how they have applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing
material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether the directors
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this
report.
Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report
thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any
form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of
this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors', we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK
Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain opinions and
matters as described below.
Strategic Report and Report of the Directors
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of the
Directors' for the year ended 31 December 2020 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with
applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we
did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors.
Directors’ Remuneration
In our opinion, the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.
Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the
corporate governance statement relating to the company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code
specified for our review. Our additional responsibilities with respect to the corporate governance statement as other information are
described in the Reporting on other information section of this report.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate governance
statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit and we have nothing
material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
• The directors’ confirmation that they have carried out an assessment of the emerging and principal risks;
• The disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts that describe those principal risks, what procedures are in place to identify
emerging risks and an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;
• The directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s and company’s ability to continue
to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements;
• The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the group's and company’s prospects, the period this assessment covers and
why the period is appropriate; and
• The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any
necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term viability of the group was substantially less in scope than an audit and
only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statement; checking that the statement is in
alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering whether the statement is consistent with
the financial statements and our knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course
of the audit.
In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
• The directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides
the information necessary for the members to assess the group’s and company's position, performance, business model and
strategy;
• The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems; and
• The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the GAC.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when the directors’ statement relating to the company’s compliance
with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing Rules for review
by the auditors.
276 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Notes on the financial statements
Balances from 2019 have been re-presented to disclose a consistent application of the levelling methodology. The result of this is an
increase in ‘Financial investments reflected through OCI’ and ‘Financial asset designated and mandatorily measured at fair value
reflected in profit or loss’ of $59m and $86m respectively.
The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval.
Methodologies take account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of observable
proxy and historical data.
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most
favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments
The following table lists key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments and provides the range of those inputs at 31 December
2020.
Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations
Fair value 2020 2019
Valuation Key unobservable Full range Full range
Assets Liabilities techniques inputs of inputs of inputs
$m $m Lower Higher Lower Higher
Private equity including strategic
investments 11,905 4 See below See below
Asset-backed securities 1,834 —
Market proxy Prepayment rate 0% 9% 0% 9%
– collateralised loan/debt obligation 59 —
Market proxy Bid quotes 0 100 0 100
– other ABSs 1,775 — Market proxy Bid quotes 0 101 0 101
Loans held for securitisation — —
Structured notes — 5,330
Model – Option model Equity volatility 6% 115% 5% 90%
– equity-linked notes — 4,069
Model – Option model Equity correlation (4)% 88% 9% 93%
– FX-linked notes — 608 Model – Option model FX volatility 0% 36% 1% 23%
– other — 653
Derivatives with monolines 68 — Model – Discounted cash flow Credit spread 2% 2% 0% 2%
Other derivatives 2,602 4,187
– interest rate derivatives 1,300 1,414
securitisation swaps 285 707 Model – Discounted cash flow Prepayment rate 6% 6% 6% 7%
long-dated swaptions 529 370 Model – Option model IR volatility 6% 28% 8% 22%
other 486 337
– FX derivatives 468 466
FX options 152 194 Model – Option model FX volatility 0% 43% 1% 25%
other 316 272
– equity derivatives 754 2,244
long-dated single stock options 583 1,091 Model – Option model Equity volatility 0% 120% 0% 89%
other 171 1,153
– credit derivatives 80 63
other 80 63
Other portfolios 3,891 135
– structured certificates — — Model – Discounted cash flow Credit volatility — — 4% 4%
– repurchase agreements 872 128 Model – Discounted cash flow IR curve 0% 5% 1% 8%
– other1 3,019 7
At 31 Dec 2020 20,300 9,656
1 ‘Other’ includes a range of smaller asset holdings.
Private equity including strategic investments
Given the bespoke nature of the analysis in respect of each private equity holding, it is not practical to quote a range of key
unobservable inputs.
Prepayment rates
Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date. They
vary according to the nature of the loan portfolio and expectations of future market conditions, and may be estimated using a variety of
evidence, such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historical prepayment rates and
macroeconomic modelling.
Market proxy
Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument when specific market pricing is not available but there is evidence from instruments
with common characteristics. In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider
range of instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence.
Volatility
Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price. It varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike
and maturity of the option. Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable and are estimated from
observable data. The range of unobservable volatilities reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price. The core
range is significantly narrower than the full range because these examples with extreme volatilities occur relatively rarely within the
HSBC portfolio.
320 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Interest rate benchmark reform: Amendments to IFRS 9 and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments’
The first set of amendments (‘Phase 1’) to IFRS 9 and IAS 39, published in September 2019 and endorsed in January 2020, primarily
allows the assumption that interbank offered rates (‘Ibors’) are to continue unaltered for the purposes of forecasting hedged cash flows
until such time as the uncertainty of transitioning to near risk-free rates (‘RFRs’) is resolved. The second set of amendments (‘Phase 2’),
issued in August 2020 and endorsed in January 2021, allows the modification of hedge documentation to reflect the components of
hedge relationships that have transitioned to RFRs on an economically equivalent basis as a direct result of the Ibor transition.
While the application of Phase 1 amendments is mandatory for accounting periods starting on or after 1 January 2020, the Group chose
to early adopt the Phase 2 amendments from the beginning of 2020. Significant judgement will be required in determining when Ibor
transition uncertainty is resolved and therefore decide when Phase 1 amendments cease to apply and when some of the Phase 2
amendments can be applied.
The notional value of the derivatives impacted by the Ibors reform but which are not used in designated hedge accounting relationships
is disclosed on page 113 in the section ‘Financial instruments impacted by the Ibor reform’.
The Group has cash flow and fair value hedge accounting relationships that are exposed to different Ibors, predominantly US dollar
Libor, sterling Libor and Euribor, as well as overnight rates subject to the market-wide benchmarks reform such as the European
Overnight Index Average rate (‘Eonia’). Existing financial instruments (such as derivatives, loans and bonds) designated in relationships
referencing these benchmarks are expected to transition to RFRs in different ways and at different times. External progress on the
transition to RFRs is being monitored, with the objective of ensuring a smooth transition for the Group’s hedge accounting relationships.
The specific issues arising will vary with the details of each hedging relationship, but may arise due to the transition of existing products
included in the designation, a change in expected volumes of products to be issued, a change in contractual terms of new products
issued, or a combination of these factors. Some hedges may need to be de-designated and new relationships entered into, while others
may survive the market-wide benchmarks reform.
The hedge accounting relationships that are affected by Phase 1 and Phase 2 amendments are presented in the balance sheet as
‘Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through other comprehensive income’, ‘Loans and
advances to customers’, ‘Debt securities in issue’ and ‘Deposits by banks’.
The notional amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in hedge accounting relationships represent the extent of the risk exposure
managed by the Group that is expected to be directly affected by market-wide Ibors reform and in scope of Phase 1 and Phase 2
amendments. The cross-currency swaps designated in hedge accounting relationships and affected by Ibor reform are not significant
and have not been presented below:
Hedging instrument impacted by Ibor reform
Hedging instrument
Impacted by Ibor reform Not impacted Notional
€ £ $ Other Total by Ibor reform amount1
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Fair value hedges 17,792 3,706 32,789 10,128 64,415 57,157 121,572
Cash flow hedges 8,344 2,522 8,705 6,797 26,368 9,495 35,863
At 31 Dec 2020 26,136 6,228 41,494 16,925 90,783 66,652 157,435
Fair value hedges 20,378 4,533 41,274 13,435 79,620 43,133 122,753
Cash flow hedges 5,724 6,594 15,750 15,979 44,047 10,206 54,253
At 31 Dec 2019 26,102 11,127 57,024 29,414 123,667 53,339 177,006
1 The notional contract amounts of interest rate derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of
transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk.
During 2019, the main market event in scope of Ibor reform was the change to the calculation of Eonia to be calculated as the euro
short-term rate (‘€STR’) plus a fixed spread of 8.5 basis points. This event had no material impact to the valuation of components of
designated hedge accounting relationships and there were no discontinuations of existing designated relationships. The main market
events in scope of Ibor reform during 2020 were the changes applied by central clearing counterparties to remunerating euro and US
dollar collateral. While there was a minimal valuation impact to the derivatives in scope that are used for hedge accounting, these
changes had no discontinuation impact to any of the designated relationships affected.
For further details of Ibor transition, see ‘Areas of special interest’ in the Risk review on page 116.
Hedging instrument impacted by Ibor reform held by HSBC Holdings
Hedging instrument
Impacted by Ibor reform Not impacted Notional
€ £ $ Other Total by Ibor reform amount
$m $m $m $m $m $m $m
Fair value hedges 4,290 5,393 21,081 3,242 34,006 — 34,006
At 31 Dec 2020 4,290 5,393 21,081 3,242 34,006 — 34,006
Fair value hedges 3,928 5,222 24,500 3,119 36,769 — 36,769
At 31 Dec 2019 3,928 5,222 24,500 3,119 36,769 — 36,769
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 327
Financial
statements
Shareholder information
Page
Interim dividend for 2020 371
Interim dividends for 2021 371
Other equity instruments 371
2020 Annual General Meeting 371
Earnings releases and interim results 372
Shareholder enquiries and communications 372
Stock symbols 373
Investor relations 373
Where more information about HSBC is available 373
Taxation of shares and dividends 374
Approach to ESG reporting 375
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 375
Certain defined terms 376
Abbreviations 377
A glossary of terms used in this Annual Report and Accounts can be found in the Investors section of www.hsbc.com.
Interim dividend for 2020
The Directors have approved an interim dividend for 2020 of $0.15 per ordinary share. Information on the currencies in which
shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 24 March 2021. The interim dividend will
be paid in cash with no scrip alternative, as it is dilutive. The timetable for the interim dividend is:
Footnotes
Announcement 23 February 2021
Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong and Bermuda and American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’) quoted ex-dividend
in New York 11 March 2021
Record date – London, Hong Kong, New York, Bermuda 1 12 March 2021
Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2020 and/or Strategic Report 2020 and dividend documentation 24 March 2021
Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing instructions
for dividend elections 15 April 2021
Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars 19 April 2021
Payment date 29 April 2021
1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date.
Interim dividends for 2021
In December 2020, the PRA announced that it intends to transition back to its standard approach to capital setting and shareholder
distributions through 2021. In the meantime, for 2021 dividends the PRA is content for appropriately prudent dividends to be accrued but
not paid out and the PRA aims to provide a further update ahead of the 2021 half-year results of large UK banks. As a result, the Group
will not be paying quarterly dividends during 2021 but will consider whether to announce an interim dividend at the 2021 half-year results
in August.
The Group will review whether to revert to paying quarterly dividends at or ahead of its 2021 results announcement in February 2022.
The Board has adopted a policy designed to provide sustainable dividends going forward. We intend to transition towards a target payout
ratio of between 40% and 55% of reported earnings per ordinary share (‘EPS’) for 2022 onwards, with the flexibility to adjust EPS for non-
cash significant items such as goodwill or intangibles impairments. The dividend policy could be supplemented by buy-backs or special
dividends, over time and not in the near term, should the Group find itself in an excess capital position absent compelling investment
opportunities to deploy that excess.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars,
pounds sterling and Hong Kong dollars. The Group has decided to discontinue the scrip dividend option as it is dilutive, including to
dividend per share progression over time.
Other equity instruments
Additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities
HSBC continues to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRR II-compliant additional tier 1
capital securities. For further details on these securities, please refer to Note 31 on the financial statements.
In 2020, HSBC issued $1,500m 4.600% Perpetual Contingent Convertible Securities on 17 December 2020.
2020 Annual General Meeting
All resolutions considered at the 2020 Annual General Meeting held at 11:00 am on 24 April 2020 at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ,
UK were passed on a poll.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 371
Additional
information
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less number, certifies that no loss of exemption from backup
than 61 days, and subject to a foreign corporation being withholding has occurred and otherwise complies with the
considered a ‘qualified foreign corporation’ (which includes not applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules. Holders
being classified for US federal income tax purposes as a passive that are not US taxpayers generally are not subject to information
foreign investment company), certain dividends (‘qualified reporting or backup withholding tax, but may be required to
dividends’) received by an individual US holder generally will be comply with applicable certification procedures to establish that
subject to US taxation at preferential rates. Based on the they are not US taxpayers in order to avoid the application of such
company’s audited financial statements and relevant market and information reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to
shareholder data, HSBC Holdings was not and does not anticipate payments received within the US or through certain financial
being classified as a passive foreign investment company. intermediaries.
Accordingly, dividends paid on the shares or ADSs generally
should be treated as qualified dividends. Approach to ESG reporting
Taxation of capital gains
The information set out in the ESG review on pages 42 to 75,
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of taken together with other information relating to ESG issues, aims
shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless to provide key ESG information and data relevant to our operations
at the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a for the year ended 31 December 2020. In this context, we have
trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency also considered our obligations under the Environmental, Social
or permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have and Governance Reporting Guide contained in Appendix 27 to The
been used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of
profession, vocation, branch or agency or permanent Hong Kong Limited (‘ESG Guide’). We comply with the ‘comply or
establishment. Such gains will be included in income for US tax explain’ provisions in the ESG Guide, save with respect to the
purposes, and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs following:
were held for more than one year. A long-term capital gain
• A1(b) on emissions laws/regulations: we are fully compliant
realised by an individual US holder generally will be subject to US
with our publication of information regarding scope 1 and 2
tax at preferential rates.
carbon emissions, but we only partially publish information on
Inheritance tax scope 3 carbon emissions, as the data required for that
publication is not yet fully available. Our progress on publishing
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is
information with respect to scope 3 is referenced on page 45;
determined to be the US for the purposes of the United States –
United Kingdom Double Taxation Convention relating to estate • A1.3 on total hazardous waste produced, A1.6 on the handling
and gift taxes (the ‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, A2.2 on water
purposes a national of the UK will not, provided any US federal consumption and A2.5 on packaging material: taking into
estate or gift tax chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK account the nature of our business, we do not consider these to
inheritance tax on the individual’s death or on a lifetime transfer of be material issues for our stakeholders; and
shares or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or ADSs
• A2.1 on direct energy consumption: taking into account the
(i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at the time of the
nature of our business, we do not consider this to be a material
settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a
issue for our stakeholders. We report on what we consider to
national of the UK), (ii) are part of the business property of a UK
be our most relevant operational sustainability KPIs as set out
permanent establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) pertain to a UK
on page 47.
fixed base of an individual used for the performance of
independent personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax This is aligned with the materiality reporting principle that is set
Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability for out in the ESG Guide. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ on
the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or page 43 for further information on how we determine what issues
ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal are material to our stakeholders.
estate or gift tax. We will continue to develop and refine our reporting and
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – ADSs disclosures on ESG issues in line with feedback received from our
investors and other stakeholders, and in view of our obligations
If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American
under the ESG Guide.
Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will include a transfer of
shares to the depositary) under the current published HMRC Cautionary statement regarding forward-
practice, UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax will be
looking statements
payable. The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally
payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the This Annual Report and Accounts 2020 contains certain forward-
aggregate rate of 1.5%. looking statements with respect to HSBC’s financial condition;
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer results of operations and business, including the strategic
will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the priorities; 2021 financial, investment and capital targets; and ESG
same transfer. targets/commitments described herein.
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to Statements that are not historical facts, including statements
transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate about HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking
instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at statements. Words such as ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘targets’,
all times outside the UK, and provided further that any such ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’,
transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK. ‘potential’ and ‘reasonably possible’, variations of these words and
No stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking
agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR. statements. These statements are based on current plans,
information, data, estimates and projections, and therefore undue
US backup withholding tax and information reporting
reliance should not be placed on them. Forward-looking
Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale statements speak only as of the date they are made. HSBC makes
of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain no commitment to revise or update any forward-looking
financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to information statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing
reporting and may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax. after the date of any forward-looking statements.
General exceptions to this rule happen when the US holder:
Written and/or oral forward-looking statements may also be made
establishes that it is a corporation (other than an S corporation) or
in the periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange
other exempt holder; or provides a correct taxpayer identification
Commission, summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 375
Additional
information
Additional information
statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign
and other written materials, and in oral statements made by ownership; the UK’s exit from the EU, which may result in a
HSBC’s Directors, officers or employees to third parties, including prolonged period of uncertainty, unstable economic conditions
financial analysts. and market volatility, including currency fluctuations; passage
of the Hong Kong national security law and restrictions on
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and
telecommunications, as well as the US Hong Kong Autonomy
uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a number of factors
Act, which have caused tensions between China, the US and
could cause actual results to differ, in some instances materially,
the UK; general changes in government policy that may
from those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking
significantly influence investor decisions; the costs, effects and
statement. These include, but are not limited to:
outcomes of regulatory reviews, actions or litigation, including
• changes in general economic conditions in the markets in any additional compliance requirements; and the effects of
which we operate, such as continuing or deepening recessions competition in the markets where we operate including
and fluctuations in employment and creditworthy customers increased competition from non-bank financial services
beyond those factored into consensus forecasts (including, companies; and
without limitation, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic); the
• factors specific to HSBC, including our success in adequately
Covid-19 pandemic, which is expected to continue to have
identifying the risks we face, such as the incidence of loan
adverse impacts on our income due to lower lending and
losses or delinquency, and managing those risks (through
transaction volumes, lower wealth and insurance
account management, hedging and other techniques); our
manufacturing revenue, and lower or negative interest rates in
ability to achieve our financial, investment, capital and ESG
markets where we operate, as well as, more generally, the
targets/commitments, which may result in our failure to
potential for material adverse impacts on our financial
achieve any of the expected benefits of our strategic priorities;
condition, results of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital
model limitations or failure, including, without limitation, the
position and credit ratings; deviations from the market and
impact that the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic have
economic assumptions that form the basis for our ECL
had on the performance and usage of financial models, which
measurements (including, without limitation, as a result of the
may require us to hold additional capital, incur losses and/or
Covid-19 pandemic or the UK's exit from the EU); potential
use compensating controls, such as overlays and overrides, to
changes in dividend policy; changes in foreign exchange rates
address model limitations; changes to the judgements,
and interest rates, including the accounting impact resulting
estimates and assumptions we base our financial statements
from financial reporting in respect of hyperinflationary
on; changes in our ability to meet the requirements of
economies; volatility in equity markets; lack of liquidity in
regulatory stress tests; a reduction in the credit ratings
wholesale funding or capital markets, which may affect our
assigned to us or any of our subsidiaries, which could increase
ability to meet our obligations under financing facilities or to
the cost or decrease the availability of our funding and affect
fund new loans, investments and businesses; geopolitical
our liquidity position and net interest margin; changes to the
tensions or diplomatic developments producing social
reliability and security of our data management, data privacy,
instability or legal uncertainty, such as the unrest in Hong
information and technology infrastructure, including threats
Kong, the continuing US-China tensions and the emerging
from cyber-attacks, which may impact our ability to service
challenges in UK-China relations, which in turn may affect
clients and may result in financial loss, business disruption and/
demand for our products and services and could result in
or loss of customer services and data; changes in insurance
(among other things) regulatory, reputational and market risks
customer behaviour and insurance claim rates; our dependence
for HSBC; the efficacy of government, customer, and HSBC's
on loan payments and dividends from subsidiaries to meet our
actions in managing and mitigating climate change and in
obligations; changes in accounting standards, which may have
supporting the global transition to net zero carbon emissions,
a material impact on the way we prepare our financial
which may cause both idiosyncratic and systemic risks
statements; changes in our ability to manage third-party, fraud
resulting in potential financial and non-financial impacts;
and reputational risks inherent in our operations; employee
illiquidity and downward price pressure in national real estate
misconduct, which may result in regulatory sanctions and/or
markets; adverse changes in central banks’ policies with
reputational or financial harm; changes in skill requirements,
respect to the provision of liquidity support to financial
ways of working and talent shortages, which may affect our
markets; heightened market concerns over sovereign
ability to recruit and retain senior management and diverse and
creditworthiness in over-indebted countries; adverse changes
skilled personnel; and changes in our ability to develop
in the funding status of public or private defined benefit
sustainable finance products and our capacity to measure the
pensions; societal shifts in customer financing and investment
climate impact from our financing activity, which may affect
needs, including consumer perception as to the continuing
our ability to achieve our climate ambition. Effective risk
availability of credit; exposure to counterparty risk, including
management depends on, among other things, our ability
third parties using us as a conduit for illegal activities without
through stress testing and other techniques to prepare for
our knowledge; the expected discontinuation of certain key
events that cannot be captured by the statistical models it uses;
Ibors and the development of near risk-free benchmark rates,
and our success in addressing operational, legal and regulatory,
which may require us to enhance our capital position and/or
and litigation challenges; and other risks and uncertainties we
position additional capital in specific subsidiaries; and price
identify in ‘Top and emerging risks’ on pages 110 to 116.
competition in the market segments we serve;
• changes in government policy and regulation, including the
Certain defined terms
monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and
other regulatory authorities in the principal markets in which
Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ means
we operate and the consequences thereof (including, without
HSBC Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’
limitation, actions taken as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic);
refer to HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this
initiatives to change the size, scope of activities and
document the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the
interconnectedness of financial institutions in connection with
People’s Republic of China is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’. When
the implementation of stricter regulation of financial institutions
used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total shareholders’
in key markets worldwide; revised capital and liquidity
equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC Holdings ordinary
benchmarks, which could serve to deleverage bank balance
shares and those preference shares and capital securities issued
sheets and lower returns available from the current business
by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The abbreviations ‘$m’,
model and portfolio mix; imposition of levies or taxes designed
‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ represent millions, billions (thousands of millions)
to change business mix and risk appetite; the practices, pricing
and trillions of US dollars, respectively.
or responsibilities of financial institutions serving their
consumer markets; expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation
376 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020
Abbreviations
Currencies ECB European Central Bank
ECL Expected credit losses. In the income statement, ECL is
£ British pound sterling recorded as a change in expected credit losses and other
CA$ Canadian dollar credit impairment charges. In the balance sheet, ECL is
€ Euro recorded as an allowance for financial instruments to which
only the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
HK$ Hong Kong dollar
MXN Mexican peso EEA European Economic Area
RMB Chinese renminbi Eonia Euro Overnight Index Average
SGD Singapore dollar EPS Earnings per ordinary share
$ United States dollar ESG Environmental, social and governance
€STR Euro short-term rate
A
EU European Union
ABS¹ Asset-backed security Euribor Euro interbank offered rate
ADR American Depositary Receipt EVE Economic value of equity
ADS American Depositary Share
F
AGM Annual General Meeting
AI Artificial intelligence FAST-Infra Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable Transition-
Infrastructure
AIEA Average interest-earning assets
ALCM Asset, Liability and Capital Management FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee FFVA Funding fair value adjustment estimation methodology on
derivative contracts
AML Anti-money laundering
FPA Fixed pay allowance
AML DPA Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012 FRB Federal Reserve Board (US)
ARCC Audit and Risk Committee Chairs’ Forum FRC Financial Reporting Council
AT1 Additional tier 1 FSB Financial Stability Board
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
B
FTE Full-time equivalent staff
Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange index
Basel II¹ 2006 Basel Capital Accord FVOCI¹ Fair value through other comprehensive income
Basel III¹ Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and FVPL¹ Fair value through profit or loss
liquidity rules
FX DPA Three-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US
BoCom Bank of Communications Co., Limited, one of China’s largest Department of Justice, entered into in January 2018
banks
G
BoE Bank of England
Bps¹ Basis points. One basis point is equal to one-hundredth of a GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles
percentage point GAC Group Audit Committee
BVI British Virgin Islands GBM Global Banking and Markets, a global business
GDP Gross domestic product
C
GDPR General Data Protection Regulation
CAPM Capital asset pricing model
GEC Group Executive Committee
CDS¹ Credit default swap
GLCM Global Liquidity and Cash Management
CEA Commodity Exchange Act (US)
Global Markets HSBC’s capital markets services in Global Banking and
CET1¹ Common equity tier 1 Markets
CGUs Cash-generating units GMP Guaranteed minimum pension
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business GPSP Group Performance Share Plan
CMC Capital maintenance charge GRC Group Risk Committee
CODM Chief Operating Decision Maker Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
COSO 2013 Committee of the Sponsors of the Treadway GTRF Global Trade and Receivables Finance
Commission (US)
H
CP¹ Commercial paper
CRD IV¹ Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks
CRR¹ Customer risk rating HKEx The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
CRR II¹ Revised Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive, as HKMA Hong Kong Monetary Authority
implemented HMRC HM Revenue and Customs
CSA Credit support annex HNAH HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
CVA¹ Credit valuation adjustment Holdings ALCO HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee
D Hong Kong Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s
Republic of China
Deferred Shares Awards of deferred shares define the number of HSBC
HQLA High-quality liquid assets
Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become
entitled, generally between one and seven years from the HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
date of the award, and normally subject to the individual HSBC Bank HSBC Bank plc, also known as the non-ring-fenced bank
remaining in employment HSBC Bank HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
Dodd-Frank Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Middle East
(US) HSBC Bank USA HSBC Bank USA, N.A., HSBC’s retail bank in the US
DoJ US Department of Justice HSBC Canada The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company
DPD Days past due Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada and HSBC
Securities Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes
DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and
investment contracts HSBC HSBC Continental Europe
Continental
DVA¹ Debt valuation adjustment
Europe
E HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance
EAD¹ Exposure at default company (formerly Household International, Inc.)
EBA European Banking Authority HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC
EC European Commission
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020 377
Additional
information
Additional information
HSBC Private HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in Repo¹ Sale and repurchase transaction
Bank (Suisse) Switzerland Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell
HSBC UK HSBC UK Bank plc, also known as the ring-fenced bank RFB Ring-fenced bank
HSBC USA The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of RFR Risk-free rate
HSBC Bank USA) and HSBC Bank USA, consolidated for RMBS Residential mortgage backed security
liquidity purposes
RMM Group Risk Management Meeting
HSI HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.
HSSL HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg) RNIV Risk not in VaR
HTIE HSBC International Trust Services (Ireland) Limited RoE Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
RoTE Return on average tangible equity
I
RWA¹ Risk-weighted asset
IAS International Accounting Standards
S
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
IBA ICE Benchmark Administration SABB The Saudi British Bank
Ibor Interbank offered rate SAPS Self-administered pension scheme
ICAAP Internal capital adequacy assessment process SDG United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards SE¹ Structured entity
ILAAP Internal liquidity adequacy assessment process SEC Securities and Exchange Commission (US)
IRB¹ Internal ratings-based ServCo group Separately incorporated group of service companies planned
in response to UK ring-fencing proposals
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association
Sibor Singapore interbank offered rate
K
SIC Securities investment conduit
KMP Key Management Personnel SID Senior Independent Director
L SME Small and medium-sized enterprise
SOFR Secured Overnight Financing Rate
LCR Liquidity coverage ratio
LFRF Liquidity and funding risk management framework Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed
by HSBC
LGBT+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender. The plus sign
denotes other non-mainstream groups on the spectrums of Sonia Sterling Overnight Index Average
sexual orientation and gender identity SPE¹ Special purpose entity
LGD¹ Loss given default T
Libor London interbank offered rate
T1 Tier 1
LTI Long-term incentive
T2 Tier 2
LTV¹ Loan-to-value ratio
TCFD¹ Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
M TLAC¹ Total loss-absorbing capacity
Mainland China People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong and Macau TRLibor Turkish Lira interbank offered rate
MENA Middle East and North Africa TSR¹ Total shareholder return
MREL Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities U
MRT¹ Material Risk Taker
UAE United Arab Emirates
N UK United Kingdom
Net operating Net operating income before change in expected credit UN United Nations
income losses and other credit impairment charges/Loan impairment US United States of America
charges and other credit provisions, also referred to as
V
revenue
NII Net interest income VaR¹ Value at risk
NIM Net interest margin VIU Value in use
NSFR Net stable funding ratio W
NYSE New York Stock Exchange WPB Wealth and Personal Banking, a global business
O
1 A full definition is included in the glossary to the Annual Report and
OCI Other comprehensive income Accounts 2020 which is available at www.hsbc.com/investors.
OECD Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development
OFAC Office of Foreign Assets Control
OTC¹ Over-the-counter
P
PACTA Paris Agreement Capital Transition Assessment
PBT Profit before tax
PD¹ Probability of default
Performance Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee
shares¹ share plans that are subject to corporate performance
conditions
Ping An Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the
second-largest life insurer in the PRC
POCI Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
PPI Payment protection insurance
PRA Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
PRC People’s Republic of China
Principal plan HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business and
long-term investment contracts with DPF
PwC The member firms of the PwC network, including
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
R
RAS Risk appetite statement
378 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2020