Supporting
our purpose
Lloyds Banking Group ESG Report 2021
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 01
Welcome Inside this report Key to ESG E Environmental | S Social | G Governance
During 2021 the Group Introduction Expand the availability of affordable
Scope of this report 02 and quality housing E S 26
About Lloyds Banking Group 03 Accelerate the transition
focused on Helping Britain to a low carbon economy E S G 29
Our purpose
Build an inclusive society
Group Chief Executive’s statement 05
and organisation S 46
Recover supporting customers Our Group strategy and purpose 06
Conducting our
2021 Performance: business responsibly G S 56
Helping Britain Recover 17
and communities across the Help rebuild households’
financial health and wellbeing S 18
Support businesses to
UK as they continued to deal
recover, adapt and grow S 22
with the pandemic.
Our reporting In addition to this ESG Report, please also refer to:
Lloyds Banking Group’s reports for 2021
Our 2021 Climate Report: including details of our
bring together the Group’s financial, non-financial,
progress on our climate strategy and our reporting
risk and sustainability performance for the year. As
well as this ESG Report, it includes our Annual Report against the requirements of the Task Force on
and Accounts, our 2021 Climate Report, Financial Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
I am very proud of the positive impact that we have been Results Announcement, and Pillar 3 disclosures report.
Our 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
able to make in supporting customers and communities
Access the full set of reports online at Gender Pay Gap Report
across the UK as they continued to deal with the pandemic. www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/investors.html
Ethnicity Pay Gap Report
The dedication of colleagues and their ongoing support for
This ESG Report complements the Annual Report Pillar 3 disclosures
customers, communities and businesses across the UK in and Accounts by providing further information on our
2021 ESG Performance Datasheet
these unique and challenging times is impressive. 2021 ESG performance and our progress against our
Helping Britain Recover commitments.
Additional links:
We will continue this support through our new mission Further information about our approach to ESG,
policies, sector positions, performance ratings The 2021 Deloitte Non-Financial
and strategy in 2022 being lead by our clear purpose and benchmarks can be found online at Assurance Opinion
of Helping Britain Prosper, creating a more sustainable our Responsible Business Downloads Centre. Lloyds Banking Group Principles for
and inclusive future for people and businesses – shaping Responsible Banking Reporting and
finance as a force for good. Self-Assessment Template
Lloyds Banking Group SASB Index
Lloyds Banking Group GRI Index
Lloyd’s Banking Group International Business
Council of the World Economic Forum’s Stakeholder
Financing a Capitalism Metrics Index
green future Our 2021 Reporting Criteria
Lloyds Banking Group Climate Report 2021
Introduction
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 02
Scope of this report
The data and examples in this report reflect activities
undertaken during the 2021 fiscal year (1 January
to 31 December 2021) and, where relevant to
performance, refers to activities and events
before and after this period. The report includes
information about Lloyds Banking Group and
its subsidiaries’ ESG performance.
Assurance
Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance over
selected environmental and social key performance
indicators. The assurance statement can be found :Helping Britain E Environmental S Social G Governance
on the Responsible Business Downloads Centre.
Prosper
The transition to a low carbon economy – a The social aspects of our ESG performance Robust governance practices form the
Indicator is subject to limited ISAE 3000 (revised) In line with our longstanding purpose to ‘green’ economy – supports the UK’s recovery relate to the contribution of the Group to our foundation of the Group’s licence to operate
assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2021 ESG reporting.
Deloitte’s 2021 assurance statement and the 2021 Help Britain Prosper, our 2021 near-term and promotes long-term prosperity, while communities through the various forms of and the practices that allow us to conduct
Reporting Criteria are available on the Responsible focus of Helping Britain Recover allowed helping to make our planet more resilient. Our relationships which the Group has with society. our business responsibly. Our governance
Business Downloads Centre the Group to focus our business strategy indicators reflect our climate strategy, including Our social indicators relate to the management of indicators relate to areas of policies,
and harness our expertise to make an the management of our operations, as well as issues experienced by our employees, suppliers, programmes and performance that support
impactful contribution to addressing our lending and investment portfolios, products customers and local communities. and demonstrate the good governance
some of the issues highlighted in the and services. practices of the Group as a diversified
UN Sustainable Development Goals financial sector company.
(SDGs), and assist in building a more
inclusive and sustainable economy.
See pages 16 and 56 to 63, and further
See pages 29 to 45 and, further information about disclosures related to the Group’s
our climate strategy and risk management activities governance practices can be found in the
See pages 06 to 08 can be found in the 2021 Climate Report See pages 18 to 28, and 46 to 55 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
Introduction
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 03
How we create value, and what sets us apart
About Lloyds Our vision UK customer-focused Purpose-driven and All-channel distribution Operating at scale
customer focused culture focus with digital leadership with cost discipline
digital leader and integrated financial
Banking Group Our strategy is directly aligned and trusted brands Our scale and efficiency enables
services provider, capitalising on to our purpose of Helping Britain Operating through a range of us to operate more effectively.
Prosper and we believe this will distribution channels ensures our
new opportunities at scale. enable delivery of sustainable long customers can interact with us when Financial strength and
term returns. Customers remain and how they want. Operating a range disciplined risk management
at the heart of our strategy. of leading, trusted, brands enables We have a strong capital position
us to address the needs of different and continue to take a disciplined
Leading UK customer franchise customer segments more effectively. approach to risk, as reflected
Our purpose Our trusted brands
with deep customer insight through the quality of our portfolio
Offering our services through a number of recognised brands enables Our scale and reach across the UK Differentiated business model, and underwriting criteria.
Helping Britain Prosper us to address the needs of different customer segments more effectively. means that our franchise extends meeting all consumer and business
to over 26 million customers financial needs in one place Dedicated colleagues
The Group has a clear ongoing purpose with 18.3 million digitally active. We have a unique customer proposition, with strong values
of Helping Britain Prosper. Extensive customer data and analysis serving all our customers’ banking and We have a highly engaged, customer
ensures we can meet the needs of these insurance needs in one place through a focused, diverse, workforce with
2
Read more on pages 4 to 8 customers more effectively. comprehensive product range. significant expertise and experience.
Our mission
We help Britain prosper by creating a more
sustainable and inclusive future for people and
businesses, shaping finance as a force for good.
Our culture
Transforming to This will set the Group on a higher
The Group is strengthening the connection create higher and more We will look to deepen relationships with growth trajectory with more diversified
between our purpose, culture and strategy, with our existing customers, both consumers revenues, focused on a number of
refreshed values to help us move to the future sustainable value and businesses of all sizes, and meet strategic priorities. At the same time we
culture we need. Building on our strong foundations more of their financial needs, by making will retain our strong focus on cost and
and distinct competitive strengths our it easier for them to access our great capital discipline and our strategy will be
Our values set out what’s important to us and how purpose of Helping Britain Prosper products and by making our channels enabled through maximising the
we work together, so it’s been important to work forms the basis of our new strategy simpler and more personalised to use. potential of our dedicated people,
with colleagues over the past 18 months to to profitably deliver for all of our technology and data capabilities.
Our business areas Our products
understand our culture deeply and shape what stakeholders.
we need for the future. Our refreshed values Our business areas are structured Lending; mortgages, credit cards,
will be launched in 2022. according to the products and the personal and business loans
2 services we provide to best serve our Deposit taking; current accounts, Responding to emerging – Step-change in ways of working – Using technology to deliver step-
Read more on page 80 of the Lloyds Banking customers’ financial needs. We have savings accounts change in efficiency and agility
Group Annual Report and Accounts 2021 three business areas: Insurance; home, motor and protection trends that are shaping Read more about external challenges – Attracting, developing and retaining
our industry
we face on 10 to 13 of our Lloyds the best talent to respond to new ways
Retail Investment; pensions and investment
products As a large, UK-focused financial services Banking Group Annual Report of working
Commercial Banking
provider we face several external and Accounts 2021
Insurance and Wealth Commercial financing; term lending, challenges to our business We regularly review the associated
debt capital markets, private equity model and strategy: We also face a number risk implications, to enhance our
Risk management; interest rate – Unprecedented societal change of internal challenges: sustainability over the longer term.
Read more on our divisional financial hedging, currency, liquidity – Challenging and uncertain – Repositioning and growing the
performance on pages 56 to 61 of the macroeconomic environment business to deliver revenue Read more on pages 37 to 43 of our
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report – Accelerated shift to generation and diversification Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report
and Accounts 2021 digital and new capabilities – Meeting demand for more and Accounts 2021
personalised value-added solutions
Introduction
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 04
Group CEO Statement 05
Our Group strategy and purpose 06
Our
purpose
Our
purpose
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 05
Statement from our
Group Chief Executive
Delivering for Building on these and the Group’s other strong To be a truly purpose-driven organisation, we
foundations and distinct competitive strengths, we are have embedded delivery of broader stakeholder
all stakeholders, launching our new strategy to deliver for all our outcomes in our strategy and the way we
stakeholders. Our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper create value. Our strategy includes a number
profitably forms the basis of this strategy to profitably deliver for of specific stakeholder outcomes to help our
all of our stakeholders. Core to our purpose and customers finance their own transition to net
strategy is our focus on building a more inclusive zero, through green mortgages, electric vehicle
society and supporting the transition to a low carbon financing, sustainable finance for businesses
Since joining the Group in August economy as this is where we can make the biggest and investments in climate aware investment
difference, whilst creating new avenues for our future strategies through Scottish Widows. We have
2021, I have been impressed by the
growth. It is only by doing right by our customers, also included specific measures aligned to
Group’s purpose-driven culture, real colleagues and communities that we can achieve our environmental sustainability and diversity
customer focus, its commitment to higher, more sustainable returns for investors, whilst ambitions in our senior executive performance
meeting the needs of our broader stakeholders. measures in our Group Balanced Scorecard.
sustainability and diversity, as well as its
disciplined risk management. I’m very Our efforts to build an inclusive society will be Our new strategy is a crucial step in becoming a truly
focused on improving access to quality housing purpose-driven organisation, one that creates value
proud of the positive impact we have
and promoting financial inclusion and education. for all of our stakeholders and allows Lloyds Banking
made over the past year as we focused In addition, we see an opportunity to help more Group to play its part in Helping Britain Prosper. We
customers in the UK have access to simple and helpful are excited to be embarking on this journey.
on Helping Britain Recover. The
investment and protection solutions to build their
dedication of our colleagues and their financial resilience. Through our Commercial Bank
£3.4bn
We will continue this ongoing support for customers, we will support regional development by helping
businesses in target sectors across the UK. We will also
communities and businesses across
support through our new lead by example by reiterating our ambitious targets in new funding to the social housing sector
the UK in these unique and to create a more inclusive and diverse workforce.
mission and strategy in challenging times is impressive. To support the transition to a low carbon economy £16.3bn
we’re reinforcing our prior commitments, targeting net
2022 being led by our It’s thanks to their efforts that we have delivered a zero for the activities we finance by 2050 or sooner, by
strong performance against our Helping Britain working with our customers, the market and the of lending for people to buy their first home
clear purpose of Helping Recover commitments. Highlights include expanding Government. We have also raised our ambition in
the availability of affordable and quality homes by several areas where we can make more of an impact in >£6.9bn
Britain Prosper lending more than £16 billion to over 80,000 first-time the shorter-term, having now set 2030 sector-based
buyers (target: £10 billion) and helping over 193,000 ambitions covering power, thermal coal, oil and gas
small businesses to boost their digital capability and Retail (motor) vehicles. As part of our Net-Zero of ESG-related finance to businesses
Charlie Nunn (target: 185,000). We also expanded the funding Banking Alliance (NZBA) commitment, we will develop
Group Chief Executive available under the Group’s discounted green finance additional sector ambitions in 2022 for parts of our
initiatives from £3 billion to £5 billion and introduced remaining carbon-intensive sectors and we will publish £25.5m
Scottish Widows’ flagship fossil fuel-free fund to transition plans in line with the timelines stipulated by
support green growth. These are just a few of our the NZBA and standards set by the UK Government.
achievements from the past year and you can find Our focus will also enable us to access fast growing contribution to our independent charitable
more detail on our ESG performance in this report. areas linked to sustainability such as infrastructure Foundations
finance and electric vehicle financing. In addition, we
intend our own operations to be net zero by 2030.
Our
purpose
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 06
Our Group strategy Our mission Our decision- Our Strategy
making principles
and purpose
Our mission is everything. We are Helping Britain Prosper by creating a Drive revenue
more sustainable and inclusive future for people
It’s what drives us, what makes us
and businesses, shaping finance as a force for growth and
different and defines how we
good. By following our principles, we will meet
profitably grow. It’s how we’ll create the needs of all our stakeholders: customers, diversification
a future where our planet is cared colleagues, communities and shareholders,
today and for generations to come.
for, people feel safe and included, See more in our 2021 Annual Report
and businesses and communities and Accounts on pages 16–19
More pioneering
can thrive.
We will always challenge ourselves SDGs
to do things differently, working hard to
We serve millions of individuals, improve how we serve our customers
and create long-term, profitable
families and businesses, big and small,
growth.
every day. This means we’re better
placed than anyone to make the way More sustainable Strengthen cost and
We will always consider the direct
that we spend, save, borrow, invest and
and indirect impact of our decisions capital efficiency
protect what matters, a force for good. on nature and Britain’s transition to net
zero.
See more in our 2021 Annual Report
We will lead in the bold decisions we More inclusive and Accounts on pages 20
make as a business, from where and We will always shape what we do
how we invest, to the products and and what we offer around people’s SDG
different needs and circumstances.
services we offer, to the workplace we
create. We will search for new ways to More secure
We will always look for ways to help
work with people, communities and
We Help Britain people, communities and businesses
businesses, to always evolve with their feel more supported, in control and Maximise the
Prosper by creating needs. And we will never stop confident about their future.
innovating to make sustainable, potential of people,
Our mission and principles provide a lens
a more sustainable
ethical choices easy and rewarding. through which to assess the key choices technology and data
we face when considering the future
and inclusive future
shape of the Group.
With restless energy for positive
for people and change, we are reshaping financial We know that becoming a truly purpose-driven See more in our 2021 Annual Report
and Accounts on pages 21
services so they’ll work for Britain, organisation will take time, and a key element of
businesses, shaping
our strategy will be to build ambition
for generations to come. SDGs
progressively, and to embed our purpose into
finance as a force decision-making, culture and capabilities.
for good
Our
purpose
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 07
Our Group strategy and purpose
Every great journey Putting our To ensure our mission is active and can guide our The Group is focusing on SDGs with the highest
day-to-day business, as well as the strategic direction materiality to our business and sector, based on
purpose to work of the Group, we challenged ourselves to identify a commercial exposure, the sphere of the Group’s
set of simple yet powerful principles to define what impact, and those of the highest materiality to
needs a purpose. we stand for, and how we make decisions. our key stakeholders (based on our research
In developing our purpose-driven Recognising the strong strategic connection to our and insights).
mission, we adopted a highly purpose that already exists, and the Group’s role in
society, the principles were designed to express the Some of the areas of activity guided by our
Ours is Helping Britain collaborative approach, developing type of organisation we are and want to be, as well as purpose include, but are not limited to, action and
initial ideas, then testing and refining our unique role in shaping a vision for the UK that we initiatives around the following topics in support of
would like to help build. the achievement of specific SDGs:
them with our internal and external
Prosper
stakeholders. Supporting the UN SDGs
With our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper firmly
By co-creating our mission with colleagues at in mind, the UN Sustainable Development Goals
different levels across the Group, we were able to (SDGs) have provided a sound framework for
consider their unique perspectives and views, as well identifying how we can play a more active role in the
as their insight from engaging with different external sustainable development of UK society. They also
stakeholders, capturing how they might view our help frame how we use our operating model,
We believe that a company which Our purpose is, and remains, Helping Britain purpose-driven mission. We also tested our thinking resources and skillsets, to respond to some of the
embeds its purpose into business Prosper. It has already made a real difference to with business and personal customers, seeking to societal challenges faced by the UK.
our UK customers and with our new strategy, we understand their expectations of Lloyds Banking
culture and day-to-day operations are taking further decisive steps to be a truly Group as one of the largest financial services
and makes it the driving force of its purpose-driven organisation. providers in the country, and how our purpose could
help us better meet their needs.
strategy, will have a stronger financial To ensure that our purpose is at the heart of our Promoting financial inclusion and education Inclusive and diverse business
Financial inclusion, wellbeing and Building an inclusive business and promoting
position, through finding better ways business, our strategy and our culture, we have
resilience of our customers to support colleague and customer wellbeing, improving
developed a clear and ambitious mission, which
to create sustainable and more reduced inequalities access to decent living, to support good health
defines what it means to Help Britain Prosper. Our
profitable growth and greater mission will frame our plans, shape current and and wellbeing
future decisions and drive impact beyond our
long-term value for all its business-as-usual activities. It exists to guide the SDG SDGs
stakeholders. actions of every colleague across the Group,
every day.
Enabling regional development and improving Supporting the transition to a low carbon
access to quality housing economy
Helping businesses of all sizes around the Climate and green finance opportunities,
country, and funding more inclusive and emissions reduction and risk management, to
diverse businesses, to thrive and create support global and national climate action
quality jobs to support gender equality
SDGs SDGs
Our
purpose
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 08
Our Group strategy and purpose We are committed to making our presence around To ensure our strategy delivers value for all our We recognise that helping our colleagues
the country count and leveraging our expertise in stakeholders, the Group has engaged its different understand how to deliver our purpose in their day-
key sectors, such as infrastructure, manufacturing, stakeholder groups, to better understand their to-day jobs is essential. Connecting Helping Britain
and housing, to support communities and needs and expectations. We conduct regular Prosper to colleagues’ roles with credibility and
businesses in all of the UK’s regions to thrive. consumer and business research and seek feedback relevance was a priority identified in our most recent
from our customers to identify areas for engagement surveys and one of the reasons why we
Our Group In recent years, we have witnessed more frequent improvement and development, so that we can involved colleagues at every level of the organisation
and material impacts of climate change, and so the continuously provide the best service and in shaping our future direction and our purpose-
need for businesses, and governments to act on propositions, addressing their near-term driven mission. We will continue to work closely
strategy
their emissions reduction commitments has become requirements, as well as anticipating long-term with colleagues from across the Group to ensure
even more urgent. Our strategy recognises this needs. We maintain regular and proactive dialogue we embed our purpose into everything we do.
Our new strategy is framed by our need with its strong focus on sustainability and with our regulators, and civil society organisations,
actions to support the UK in its transition to a and our strategy seeks to address their feedback, To be a truly purpose-driven organisation, we have
purpose and mission, with our four
sustainable net zero economy, in line with the Paris through, for example, our increased focus on fair embedded delivery of broader stakeholder
We are ambitious about the role we can play in
principles providing guardrails around Climate Agreement. We believe we have the right, customer treatment, evolving our business culture outcomes in our strategy and the way we create
shaping a more inclusive future for people and
as well as the obligation, to play a leading role in and addressing climate risks and opportunities. With value. Our new strategy is a crucial step in achieving
how we make business decisions. Our businesses across the UK. Our strategy builds on our
supporting the UK’s net zero transition across a one of the largest shareholder registers in the UK, our longer-term vision to become a truly purpose-
strategy is therefore in alignment with leadership as a top UK employer for inclusion and number of sectors, including greening of the UK we take our commitment to delivering sustainable driven organisation. We are excited to embark on
diversity. Looking ahead, our focus will be on making
our selected SDGs, as we are aiming housing stock and real estate, facilitating the shift to returns seriously. We engage with all our investors, this journey and to create a more sustainable and
inclusion even more central to our business and
a low carbon transportation system, helping British institutional as well as retail, on a regular basis and inclusive future for people and businesses – shaping
not only to respond to our customers’ decision making, ensuring our products, processes
farming adopt more sustainable practices, increasingly, our investors focus on a wide range of finance as a force for good.
and services are accessible and inclusive by design,
evolving expectations, changes in accelerating the low carbon energy transition and ESG topics, such as climate change, inclusion and,
promoting financial inclusion and resilience of our
promoting sustainable investing. diversity and governance issues, which we also
operating environment and our customers, and supporting and championing
address through increased dedicated disclosures
competitive position, but also to positive change beyond our organisation in such as the 2021 Climate Report and 2021 Annual
communities we serve. Our strategy sets out the
Report and Accounts.
address some of the key issues ways we can improve access quality housing for
in UK society. people across the UK – whether they rent, own their
home or are trying to get on the property ladder.
We have a strong starting
point at Lloyds Banking Group
to build a truly purpose-driven
organisation, with long-term
sustainability, that defines the
future of what great financial
services looks like for our
customers, but also for
our people to work in.
Further information on the development of our
purpose driven strategy can be found in our 2021
Charlie Nunn
Annual Report and Accounts on pages 06 to 21
Group Chief Executive
Our
purpose
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 09
Our performance Our approach to being a responsible business 10
Our long-term focus is supported by our
memberships and performance 11
Memberships and ESG Indices 11
Engaging with our stakeholders 12
Understanding the issues that matter to our
stakeholders 14
Responsible business, governance and
accountability 16
Our 2021 Helping Britain Recover commitments 17
Helping
Britain
Recover
2021
performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 10
Helping Britain Recover
Our 2021 Helping Britain Recover focus areas were underpinned by our ESG performance
Our approach to being a
responsible business during 2021
Given our clear purpose of Helping Britain
Prosper and our unique position at the
Help rebuild Support businesses Expand availability Accelerate the Build an inclusive
heart of the UK economy we embraced our
households’ financial to recover, adapt of affordable and transition to a low society and
responsibility to help address some of the
health & wellbeing and grow quality housing carbon economy organisation
biggest economic, social and environmental
challenges the UK faces.
Material ESG topics and disclosures in this report
S S E S E S G S
– Supporting our customers – Supporting businesses to – Supporting home – Our climate strategy and Our organisation
Our approach to being a purpose-driven and These goals, targets and commitments enabled the to rebuild their financial recover from the pandemic ownership and first-time initiatives – Ethnic diversity
responsible business includes the management of Group to continue to support the achievement of health and wellbeing – Helping businesses to start buyers – The environmental impact – Our Race Action Plan
our ESG performance. We believe it is only by doing selected UN Sustainable Development Goals. – Helping people save for the up and grow – Supporting the of our own operations progress
right by our customers, colleagues and communities future – Supporting businesses to development of housing – Natural capital – Gender diversity
– Collaborating with external transition to net zero standards – ESG due diligence on loans – Sexual orientation and
that we can deliver higher, more sustainable returns to Our 2021 Annual Report and Accounts provides
partners – Supporting Black-owned – Supporting skills and the Equator Principles gender identity
investors, and generate value for all our stakeholders. further commentary on our progress against our – Supporting customer’s businesses development in the housing – Responsible investment and – Supporting disability
2021 strategic priorities mental health – Supporting regional sector stewardship activities
Our colleagues
The management of ESG issues in our day-to-day – Building digital skills development – Supporting the UK rental
– Colleague engagement
business activities supports the delivery of a You can read more about our performance against our – Promoting financial – Supporting apprenticeships sector – Colleague health and
inclusion – Strategic partnerships and
business model and strategy that addresses broader Helping Britain Recover priorities on page 17 – Providing access to banking collaboration wellbeing
societal issues, supports our customers, generates – Supporting victims of – Performance management
sustainable returns for our shareholders, and attracts domestic and economic – Colleague learning and
development
and retains best-in-class employees. abuse
– Apprenticeships
– Supporting financial
– Colleague remuneration
Our near-term focus of Helping Britain Recover capability – Executive rewards
during 2021 allowed the Group to set commitments outcomes
in five areas, contained in our Helping Britain Our communities
Recover priorities on page 17, where we could – Our Foundations
make the most difference and continue to underpin – Key partnerships
– Lloyds scholars
these commitments with our ongoing ESG risk
– Colleague volunteering
management, performance and business practices.
Key
E Environmental Underpinned by a foundation – Ethics – Human rights and modern slavery – Economic crime
of Conducting our Business – Culture – Whistleblowing/Speak Up – Responsible sourcing
S Social Responsibly – Conduct – Cyber security & resilience – Public affairs and policy
– Responsible product development – Customer complaints – Tax
G Governance S G
2021
performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 11
Helping Britain Recover
Our long-term focus is supported by our memberships and performance
The finance sector has an important
Key memberships which support our ESG approach Our performance on ESG indices
role to play in addressing some of
the biggest challenges facing the
We continue to review our scores and ratings, enhancing our disclosures and actively engaging with
UK. We want to play our part, by
ratings agencies, ESG indices and investors to address their data and disclosure needs.
learning from our partners and peers,
sharing our experiences and ESG index and scoring 2019 2020 2021
expertise, and collaborating with MSCI
them to find solutions. Scale: AAA to CCC, AAA as a best possible score BBB AA AA
Sustainalytics
By participating in global and regional commitments
Scale: 0–100, 0 as a best possible score 24.4 23.3 20.6*
and partnerships we collaborate with peers on
industry initiatives to create positive change.
ISS ESG Corporate rating
In September 2019, the United Nations Environment Scale: AAA to CCC, AAA as a best possible score C C C+
Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) launched the
Principles for Responsible Banking. Lloyds Banking S&P Global CSA/DJSI
Group is a founding signatory of the Principles for Scale: Ranking of companies, 100 as a best possible score 45 43 49
Responsible Banking, joining banks from around
the world to build a more sustainable future. The FTSE4Good
Principles for Responsible Banking are a framework Scale: 0–5, 5 as a best possible score 4.4 4.6 4.5
for ensuring that signatory banks’ strategy and
practice align with the vision that society has set out Bloomberg ESG Disclosure
for its future in the Sustainable Development Goals Scale: 0–00, 100 as a best possible score 57 58 58
and the Paris Climate Agreement. The framework
consists of six principles designed to bring purpose, Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index
vision and ambition to sustainable finance. As a Scale: 0%–100%, 100% as a best possible score 83% 87% 85%
signatory bank, we have committed to embedding
these principles across all business areas, at the Workforce Disclosure Initiative
strategic, portfolio and transactional levels. Scale: Number of questions with a meaningful response
expressed as a percentage, 100% as a best possible score 75% 85% 92%
CDP
Scale: A to F, A as a best possible score A A- A-
Responsibility100 Index (Tortoise)
Net-Zero
Lloyds Banking Group undertakes an annual review of the
Banking Alliance research in March 2021.
Taskforce on Nature-related Scale: Ranking of FTSE 100 listed companies,
Financial Disclosures 1st as a best possible score 17th 8th 4th
* as at February 2022.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 12
Helping Britain Recover
Colleagues Suppliers
Engaging with our
Due to the pandemic, our colleagues experienced We value our suppliers because they enable us to
stakeholders major shifts in the way we work. The onset of provide the best products and services to our
COVID-19 not only affected colleague health customers. This extends to working with our
but altered how we engaged with each other suppliers to continually improve our performance in
and changed our ways of working. In 2021, relation to social, ethical and environmental issues.
colleagues continued to engage around issues We welcome suggestions from suppliers on how we
We considered and consulted our
related to flexible working arrangements; can collaborate on responsible business initiatives.
stakeholders when developing our supporting colleague mental and physical Engagement topics in 2021 included: the impact of
purpose and strategy. We maintain wellbeing; talent retention and competitive COVID-19 on supply chains and business continuity;
remuneration; climate change and environmental and social sustainability; and our
an open dialogue with our broad
sustainability; and inclusion and diversity. supply chain’s carbon footprint.
range of stakeholders, enabling us to
How we engage How we engage
understand and respond to their
• Colleague surveys (census and pulse) • Supplier reviews and surveys
evolving expectations and concerns.
• Internal social media platforms • Meetings
We use these insights to inform the • Intranet • Assessment of the suppliers against our Code of
assessment of the issues that most • Colleague focus groups and interviews Supplier Responsibility and Financial Supplier
materially impact our ability to • Executive engagement sessions Qualification System (FSQS)
create long-term value for all • Trade unions • Our third-party supplier policies
our stakeholders.
Investors
It is important for us to proactively engage with How we engage
our shareholders and fixed income investors on a • Annual Report and Accounts
range of topics such as our strategic progress and
• Quarterly results announcements
ambitions, and financial performance and targets,
as well as our progress on key ESG topics like • ESG Report
climate change and inclusion and diversity. • Climate Report
• Proactive investor engagement programme
Engagement topics in 2021 included the (including ESG Analysts)
Group’s financial performance, our purpose • Annual General Meeting
and strategic performance, the competitive
• Retail shareholder events
environment, capital return, the impact of
COVID-19, management of climate risks and net • Investor Relations webpage
zero commitments. • News releases and other electronic
shareholder communications
Key decisions taken by the Board to reflect the needs
of our stakeholders can be found on pages 26 to 29 of
our 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 13
Helping Britain Recover
Communities ESG ratings agencies
Engaging with our stakeholders
The Group has made a number of public We acknowledge the role that ESG ratings agencies
commitments to support our local communities, play in assisting institutional investors to consider
engaging them and ensuring that they positively ESG disclosures in their investment processes and
benefit from our societal ambitions. We portfolios. We engage with the key ratings agencies
encourage colleagues to volunteer their time with the aim of ensuring that all information on
and expertise to support our programmes, many which our rankings are based is accurate, transparent
of which involve local charities and community and consistent.
organisations as well as social enterprises. Key
topics of engagement with communities related
How we engage
to: customer vulnerability; financial education;
climate change; financial capability; education • ESG investor presentations and meetings
and young people; and employability. • Proactive engagement
How we engage • Annual reporting
Regulators • Social media • ESG index responses
• Ongoing dialogue with community partners
As part of one of the most regulated sectors in • Supporting community organisations NGOs
the UK, it is important that the Group has ongoing
• Lloyds Banking Group’s Foundations
dialogue with local and national government and
supervisory bodies. We engage in conversations • Colleague volunteering The Group maintains a close dialogue with a number
about our operations and the sector, and • Colleague fundraising of organisations and charities. During 2021, we have
have regular meetings to discuss issues that engaged with various non-governmental organisations
are relevant to our business. We engage with (NGOs) on issues related to our net zero ambitions and
elected representatives at every level, including climate strategy, fossil fuel financing, biodiversity loss, and
Parliament, the devolved institutions and local Customers human rights initiatives.
government, as well as civil servants, regulators, How we engage
trade associations and think tanks, and we do
We value learning from the thoughts and perspectives of • Ongoing written correspondence
so in a way that is consistent with our values
our customers and a fundamental part of meeting their • NGO participation in industry meetings
and that meets the expectations of society.
needs is getting the basics right first time. From time to time
• Virtual meetings
How we engage we do make mistakes, but when this happens, we work hard
to fix the issue quickly for the customers involved and learn
• Meetings
from any mistakes. Engagement topics with customers in
• Regulatory reporting 2021 included: support to address recovery from the
• Policy and trend analysis pandemic; customer financial hardship; customer service;
• Industry forums accessibility to services; climate change and biodiversity;
• Responding to consultation papers data privacy; scams and fraud; lending fees and charges;
and accessible banking.
• Political stakeholder briefings
• Virtual events with MPs and How we engage
Ministers on key topics • Customer feedback and complaints
• Client events
• Social media
• Email and post
• Face-to-face via branches
• Our mobile banking app
• Customer surveys including Net Promoter Score
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 14
Helping Britain Recover
Understanding the issues
that matter to our stakeholders
Our approach to materiality Our material topics Reporting frameworks and standards
We conduct a dedicated materiality assessment Through our insight-driven materiality assessment The following frameworks and standards guide
every year to help inform our strategic and ongoing stakeholder engagement, we identify our reporting. For more detailed mapping to
thinking and shape our corporate reporting. the opportunities and challenges relating to our these frameworks and standards, see our appendix
Engaging and responding to stakeholders is This year we used insights gathered from business that matter most to our stakeholders. of this report, available to download at our
stakeholders including customers, colleagues, As we seek to further integrate our financial and Responsible Business Downloads Centre.
fundamental to being a responsible business.
investors, industry bodies and NGOs. non-financial disclosures, commentary on these
topics is covered in both our 2021 Annual Report
Each year, we gather a wide range of views
In addition to the views of our stakeholders, the and Accounts and this report, with further detail on
through our materiality assessment, which Group acknowledges the growing focus on the material topic of climate change in our
materiality in reporting frameworks, accounting standalone 2021 Climate Report.
guides our purpose, strategy and reporting. standards and regulations. We reviewed industry
developments related to the identification of material Emerging topics
ESG-related topics in the finance sector to ensure that We closely monitor emerging reporting
the information needs of our investors and broader developments and best practices, including the
stakeholders as indicated through reporting Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
standards such as the GRI, SASB, the World Economic (TFND), and developments in the UK Modern
Forum Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, the UN Slavery Act and human rights initiatives.
Sustainable Development Goals, and the UNEP FI
Principles for Responsible Banking are considered. We have identified biodiversity and human rights
as emerging topics for the Group through this
year’s materiality assessment, and we anticipate
Our annual materiality
they will continue to become more prominent
assessment comprises four stages:
for the Group and our stakeholders in the future.
• issue identification In 2022, we will be further exploring these topics
• prioritisation and our capabilities, as we develop our response
and take action on these emerging issues.
• refinement
• review
Through this process, a wide range of ESG issues
specifically relating to the financial services
sector and Lloyds Banking Group are identified.
We prioritised material topics based on the
strategic importance of the issue to the Group,
the importance of the issue to our stakeholders
as well as the social, economic and environmental
impact of each topic in relation to the core activities,
products and services provided by the Group.
The findings of the materiality assessment were
discussed and approved with key internal audiences.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 15
Helping Britain Recover
Understanding the issues that matter to our stakeholders
Our 2021 material issues and stakeholders impacted
Material topic Why this topic is material to the Group Stakeholders Our response
Assisting businesses and customers As one of the UK’s largest financial services company’s, and with millions of customers, we’re supporting them in times of recovery, and we Pages 18 to 28 of this report
to recover from the pandemic continue to assist businesses and clients to grow by providing solutions that address complex societal and economic issues. 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
Biodiversity and natural capital We recognise the important role that financial services in particular can play in helping to preserve natural ecosystems, minimise nature- Pages 36 to 39 of this report
related risks, and channel capital towards protection and restoration of natural capital stocks.
Climate change As one of the UK’s largest financial institutions, we have an important role in managing the impact of our activities, products and services Pages 30 to 35 of this Report
on climate change, and the risks and opportunities to the growth of our business as a result of climate change. 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
2021 Climate Report
Customer support, digital capability Customers expect a digital banking experience that is easy, simple and efficient. At the same time, customer needs are becoming more Pages 18 to 21 of this report
and financial inclusion complex, and our ability to support them in times of hardship and anticipate when they are vulnerable allows us to help when it matters 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
most.
Governance, conduct, culture and We are continuously working to strengthen our management of risk, culture and governance, as well as improving our processes to Pages 16 and 56 to 63 of this report
customer data security deliver better customer and employee outcomes in a responsible way. This includes ensuring that, as a business, we continue to protect 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
the money and data of our customers through the deployment of technology to mitigate against breaches of our systems.
Health and wellbeing of our Pages 50 to 53 of this report
As a major employer in the UK and a people-based organisation, providing a safe, flexible and supportive workplace with fair
colleagues, new working 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
remuneration policies helps us attract, retain and develop our colleagues.
arrangements
Inclusion and Diversity As a large employer, we aim to create a fully inclusive environment that is representative of modern Britain, where everyone can reach Pages 47 to 49 of this report
their potential. As a UK-focused financial institution, we believe that economic and social recovery should be truly inclusive and involve 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
communities across the UK’s nations and regions.
Modern slavery and human rights Through our lending and investment processes, we aim to respect and positively impact human rights and mitigate modern slavery in Pages 57 to 58 and 62 of this report
our value chain through our role as a financial services provider, lender, purchaser of goods and services, employer and supporter of our
communities.
Colleagues Investors Customers Communities Regulators and Suppliers ESG ratings ESG analysts NGOs Industry bodies
governances agencies
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 16
Helping Britain Recover
Lloyds Banking Group Board
Responsible
business, governance
Responsible Business Committee
“The breadth of responsible business
and accountability
practice is increasingly intrinsic to the Amanda Mackenzie Robin Budenberg CBE Lord Lupton
way the best businesses operate. Non-Executive Director, Group Chair Non-Executive Director
Committee Chair
Fairness and sustainability being at the
heart of how decisions are made.”
Amanda Mackenzie
Non-Executive Director, Committee Chair
The Responsible Business Committee The Committee is composed of Non-Executive
Directors, ensuring a broad range of differing
(RBC), a sub-committee of the Board, Alan Dickinson Sarah Legg Stuart Sinclair
perspectives, insight and experience, with executive
oversees and monitors the Group’s Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
representatives from Group Internal Audit and
plans for delivering the Group’s the Chief Operating Office attending meetings
aspiration to be a trusted and as
appropriate.
responsible business as part of our
purpose of Helping Britain Prosper. Committee changes in 2021
Sara Weller served nine years as a Non-Executive
The Board has overall oversight of ESG matters with Director up to February 2021, and retired as
our Board-level RBC overseeing the Group’s Chair of the RBC and a Non-Executive Director
The RBC supports the Board in overseeing the • Providing oversight and challenge on those • Reporting to the Board on the matters for
performance as a responsible business, including at the AGM in May 2021. Amanda Mackenzie,
Group’s policies, performance and priorities as a activities which impact on the Group’s which the RBC is responsible, escalating
the delivery of our sustainability strategy. Both the a Non-Executive Director since October 2018,
responsible business by: behaviour and reputation as a trusted, issues and making recommendations to the
Board and RBC are supported by the Group has taken on the role as Chair of the RBC
Executive Committee (GEC). following Sara’s retirement from the Board. responsible business Board where appropriate to do so
• Meeting quarterly and providing regular • Considering in detail and recommending to
The RBC’s purpose is to support the Board in Sarah Legg, a Non-Executive Director since updates to the Board, the RBC oversees the Board for approval the Group’s ESG
overseeing the Company’s policies, performance and December 2019 and Chair of the Audit Committee, and supports the Group’s strategy and Report
priorities as a responsible business and to oversee the was appointed as a member of the RBC with effect plans for delivering the Company’s
Company’s activities on all stakeholders including from 1 February 2021. aspirations to be a trusted and responsible
customers, shareholders, colleagues, suppliers, the business, as part of the Company’s purpose
wider community and the environment. Climate governance of Helping Britain Prosper
Climate governance is integrated in existing
During 2021, the RBC regularly discussed updates on committees and builds on their areas of
The Responsible Business Committee Report can be found on page 100 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts.
our Helping Britain Recover commitments, our responsibility and expertise. Details of the Further information on our governance and Group Board can be found on page 69 of our 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
community activity, our sustainability strategy and our governance of climate risks and opportunities, and
culture and workforce engagement, while providing management’s role in assessing and managing
oversight and challenge on those activities that climate-related risks and opportunities can be found
impact our stakeholders. in our 2021 Climate Report.
The RBC’s terms of reference can be found Group Executive Committee
online here.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 17
Helping Britain Recover
Help rebuild Support businesses Expand the availability Accelerate the Build an inclusive
Our 2021 households’ financial to recover, adapt of affordable and transition to a low society and
health & wellbeing and grow quality housing carbon economy organisation
Helping Britain
Through the course of 2021, we remained We continue to remain by the side of UK As the UK recovers from the pandemic, We want to play our part in supporting We believe that economic and social
Recover committed to supporting our customers businesses as they recover, supporting we aspire to a UK in which all households the transition to net zero, and remain recovery should be truly inclusive and
to become more financially resilient, and them to adapt and grow, and create have access to stable, affordable and committed to working with customers, involve communities across the UK’s
commitments to plan and save for the future. We quality jobs across all of the UK. safe homes in places they want to live. government and the market to help nations and regions.
provided practical support, and flexibility We have committed to broadening reduce the carbon emissions that we
where possible, to help customers facing access to home ownership and exploring finance by more than 50 per cent by
financial difficulty get back on track, and opportunities to increase our support to 2030 on the path to net zero by 2050
As a result of the pandemic and we helped as many customers as we the UK rental sector. or sooner.
our unique position at the heart could to stay in their own home.
of the UK economy, our priority What we achieved in 2021 What we achieved in 2021 What we achieved in 2021 What we achieved in 2021 What we achieved in 2021
• Continued to invest in supporting • Helped our business customers to plan for • Provided £16.3 billion of lending to help • Expanded the funding available under the • Progressed against our new aspirations for
for 2021 was to focus on Helping
customers facing financial difficulties, with their recovery, supported by over 1,100 people buy their first home in 2021, Group’s discounted green finance our leadership team to reflect the society that
Britain Recover. We committed 6,500 specially trained colleagues who have business specialists. We delivered extensive exceeding our target of £10 billion by the initiatives2 from £3 billion to £5 billion to we serve through our targets of 50 per cent
successfully helped customers become colleague training to ensure we can end of the year support businesses as they transition to a women, 13 per cent Black, Asian and Minority
to working with our stakeholders more financially resilient understand and best support our • Delivered £3.4 billion of new funding, of low carbon economy Ethnic colleagues and 3 per cent Black
in five areas where we could • Achieved accreditation as Mental Health customers’ individual needs which £2.4 billion is related to sustainability • More than £6.9 billion of green/ESG related heritage colleagues in senior roles by 2025,
Accessible for Halifax and the Bank of • We have supported over 93,000 small improvements, in support of the social finance3 was delivered in 2021 achieving progress to 37.7 per cent , 8.8 per
make the most difference to the Scotland in addition to our existing businesses1 and start-ups, by providing our housing sector. In addition, we have actively • Launched our new goal to ensure our own cent and 1 per cent respectively
Lloyds Bank accreditation customers with online support, business supported our clients to raise debt in the operations are net zero by 2030 and in • Maintained our £25.5 million contribution
recovery of the UK. • Partnered with independent debt advice advice and business banking accounts, capital market through Green, Sustainable support of the goal, we have also joined the to our independent charitable Foundations
organisations to ensure customers had exceeding our initial commitment of 75,000 or other ESG linked bonds UK Green Building Council Net Zero with the Lloyds Bank Foundation for
access to practical support by the end of 2021 • Supported the creation of national Carbon Buildings Commitment England and Wales, focusing 23 per cent of
• Helped over 193,000 small businesses to sustainability standards for housebuilding • Became the first major pensions and its support on Black, Asian and Minority
boost their digital capability and finance through becoming a member of the insurance provider to target halving the Ethnic led charities. In 2021, our total
technology adoption in 2021 through the NextGeneration Executive Committee carbon footprint of our investments by 2030 community investment was £46 million ,
Lloyds Bank Academy, and our partnerships alongside Homes England and the UK on our path to net zero by 2050 and which includes our colleagues’ time, direct
with Small Business Britain and the UK Green Building Council, and are published the Scottish Widows Climate donations, leverage,management costs
Government’s Help to Grow scheme contributing to the development of a Action Plan and in-kind giving
I a n s d su ic r a a t n o c r e is b s y u D bj e e l c o t i t t t o e l L im LP it e fo d r I t S h A e E 2 3 0 0 2 0 1 0 E ( S re G v i r s e e p d o ) rting. checklist and further benchmarking to • Introduced a flagship fossil fuel-free fund to • Supported regional regeneration by
Deloitte’s 2021 assurance statement and the 2021 support the delivery of sustainable finance support green growth and allow pension launching the Regional Housing Growth
Reporting Criteria are available online at https://www. tailored towards the scale of the savers to choose to invest in UK companies Initiative, helping small and medium-sized
lloydsbankinggroup.com/our-group/responsible- housebuilder pursuing a positive environmental impact housebuilders create more homes in the
business/reportingcentre. • Assessed the energy retrofit requirements North of England, the Midlands and the
of around 240,000 social homes owned and regions of Scotland
managed by our customers in the social 2 Funding provided by Commercial Banking since • Supported financial inclusion by providing
2016 under the Clean Growth Finance Initiative
housing sector (CGFI) and Commercial Real Estate Green Lending banking for groups of people experiencing
1 This figure comprises both for-profit enterprises (CRE GL). homelessness and financial abuse, and those
and not-for-profit enterprises, such as charities. 3 Includes CGFI, CRE GL, Renewable Energy who are victims of modern slavery and
Not-for-profit enterprises comprise approximately Financing, Sustainability Linked Loans and Green/ supporting the prisoner banking programme
10% of this figure. ESG/Social Bond facilitation.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 18
Helping Britain Recover Supporting our customers in challenging times 19
Helping people save for the future 19
Mental health and debt 20
The digital skills gap 20
Access to banking 21
Domestic and economic abuse 21
Building financial capability 21
Help rebuild
households’
financial health
& wellbeing
Supporting the achievement of the
following SDGs
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 19
Helping Britain Recover Empowering our colleagues As well as offering practical customer support Helping people save for the future
We acknowledge the importance of a culture which measures, we’re working together with a number of We recognise the importance of savings to help
Help rebuild households’ empowers our frontline colleagues to respond to organisations, such as Mental Health UK, Surviving build financial resilience and to help tackle
customers’ changing needs and to provide more Economic Abuse, and independent debt charities to disadvantage. We want to make saving for the future
financial health & wellbeing flexibility. We have made it easier for colleagues to support the financial wellbeing of our customers, as easy as possible and we continue to improve
record and access vital customer support helping them to plan for the future and to increase choice, flexibility and control for customers who are
information while servicing our customers. We have their financial resilience. investing, saving or planning for the future.
We remain committed to supporting our also helped colleagues further develop their skills On top of the £45.6 billion* open book growth from
and grow their confidence and ability to provide Through our brands, we signpost 2018–2020 (market movements and net flows), 2021
customers to become financially resilient and to both in-the-moment and ongoing support to our our customers to a number of saw growth of £20.3 billion over the period, driven
customers. We have also made it easier online for organisations including: by strong net flows in Workplace and Stockbroking
plan and save for the future. We will provide our customers to tell us what support they need – for businesses alongside positive market movements.
practical support, and flexibility where possible, example, customers can let us know if they have PayPlan This gives a total open book growth across the four-
difficulty with speech. A free, confidential advice service is year period from 2018–2021 to £65.9 billion.
to help our customers facing financial difficulty
available to anyone worried about money,
We enhanced the support we give our colleagues * Growth in assets under administration on our front books.
and can help reduce the amount people
get back on track and help as many customers as when they help customers in challenging
pay towards their debts each month
circumstances – for example, we ran a pilot to give
we can to stay in their own home.
colleagues access to a professional counsellor to
debrief after a challenging customer interaction.
We continued to invest in supporting customers
facing financial difficulties, and at the beginning StepChange Debt Charity
Lloyds Banking Group is committed to improving Supporting our customers
of the year we had over 6,500 colleagues trained The UK’s leading debt advice charity,
the financial wellbeing and resilience of our
in challenging times to support customers to build their financial they help more than 635,000 people each
customers, colleagues and communities through
The Group is committed to providing meaningful resilience. We strengthened our relationships with year deal with their money worries with
the work we do. We recognise the impact of the
support to meet the needs of our customers, aiming free independent debt advice organisations by free, impartial and non-judgmental advice
pandemic and the need to support our customers in
to provide positive outcomes, and working to building these connections into our digital journeys
rebuilding, by ensuring not only access to the right
mitigate or reduce the risk of financial harm that and colleague tools, providing over 133,000 of our
financial services and products, but pairing this with
customers in vulnerable circumstances can face. The customers with easy access to additional practical
investment in financial education and upskilling,
pandemic has magnified existing challenges faced support. In doing so, we have helped over 267,000
allowing for their effective use. This combination
will play a central role in improving the financial by many customers, and brought new challenges customers by putting in place plans and treatments, Turn2us
wellbeing of individuals, households and society affecting health, income and relationships. By bespoke to their circumstances across both Helps people in financial need gain access
as we continue to recover and plan for the future. adapting our support, proactively contacting unsecured and secured lending, supporting them in to welfare benefits, charitable grants and
customers, and using insight to understand their their long and short-term financial wellbeing needs. other financial help – online, by phone and
needs, we continue to help our customers as we face-to-face through our partner
start to learn to live with the legacy of the virus. Working with our charity partners organisation
Working with partners across the third sector, we
We have helped over have also deepened our support for customers,
providing them with more holistic options; we are
267,000
offering access to support that a bank would not
traditionally offer. Working with partners such as
Grief Encounter, to offer emotional support
customers across both
following a bereavement, or Turn2us, to support
unsecured and secured lending customers in identifying and claiming welfare
benefits, has allowed us to support customers
during the new challenges the pandemic has
brought and offer a level of care far greater than
their banking needs.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 20
Helping Britain Recover Recognising the link between Our benchmark indexes Influencing the inclusion agenda
In 2021, the Group produced two benchmark Lloyds Banking Group is a founding organisation
Help rebuild households’ financial health & wellbeing mental health and debt
indexes detailing the digital state of the nation: of FutureDotNow, a coalition of leading
Like many disabilities or long-term health conditions,
companies in the UK dedicated to accelerating
a mental health condition is different for every
The Essential Digital Skills Report the UK’s digital skills at scale, with a focus on the
individual. Throughout 2021 we have continued in
This report benchmarks the UK’s digital skills in employees and customers of large organisations.
addressing the stigma that still exists around mental
partnership with the Department for Education and As a Group we ensure that we partner for
health, and have strived to offer support to our
In focus explores the digital skills that are needed to access progress – helping us to avoid duplication
customers in the right way for them. We have
the online world, and most essentially for everyday and expand our influence and reach.
reviewed our support and created new offerings to
life and for work. Key outcomes of the report:
Money and Mental Health help our customers focus on their mental health and • 41.9 million adults in the UK today have the These partnerships include:
Policy Institute essentials wellbeing. These include reviewing our money essential digital skills they need for everyday life • The UK Government through contributing data
worries support service, which recognises the link • The biggest change we have seen, and the most and expertise to the 2017 Digital Strategy and
between mental health and debt. Additionally, we
level accreditation positive, is that 5.6 million more adults now have creating the Digital Skills Partnership
have also reviewed and redesigned our accessibility essential digital skills for work, meaning 20.9 • Local government and combined authorities,
pages across Lloyds Bank, Halifax, and Bank of
million working adults have the skills to thrive in a including the Greater Manchester Combined
Following our Lloyds Bank accreditation in 2020, Scotland to improve our customer journey and make
workplace Authority, where we have worked with local
we were delighted to have received the Money it easier for customers to find the support they want. • The UK still has 10 million adults who can’t do the digital skills partnerships
and Mental Health Policy Institute (MMHPI)
digital basics – connect to Wi-Fi or even turn on a • Through our relationship with Be The Business,
essentials level accreditation for Halifax and Bank The digital skills gap device independently we help businesses understand and adopt
of Scotland. This demonstrates our continuing
Lloyds Banking Group has long been an advocate technology to increase productivity
ambition to ensure that the services we offer our
and activator of digital skills and inclusion in the UK, The Consumer Digital Index
customers are right for them, and that we are
and while much progress has been made, there is In our sixth report, 2021 data illustrates that the UK We have worked with partners internationally,
continuing to challenge ourselves on where
still much more to do. has truly accelerated and is now at the levels of including Bank of New Zealand to share learnings on
improvements could be made.
digital engagement that it was expected to reach in best practice research into digital skills.
This has been done with an end-to-end approach; 2025, which means that there are now 1.5 million
leveraging our data to provide market-leading more people online. However, despite the necessity Helping people build their digital confidence and
insight, supporting colleagues with their own to access digital-only services and products, 2.6 get digital access: Digital Helpline
capabilities, open-sourcing our internal training and million people are still offline, and for many in this In April 2020, the Group delivered a new dedicated
expertise for the benefit of our customers and clients group, digital exclusion has exacerbated their phone line which provides guidance and remote
and influencing beyond our organisation. The existing vulnerabilities. training to customers less able to see us in branch,
Group has one of the largest registered Digital to help them stay connected with everyday digital
Champions programmes, and colleagues engage Lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland Academy activities, including online banking. Customers
with friends, families and communities across the To facilitate the shift to a more digital economy, the were contacted and able to access free and
country to provide help and support with digital Group has developed the Lloyds Bank and Bank of practical support to help them stay connected
skills and online access. Scotland Academy. The Academy teaches essential online. With guidance from agents from We Are
digital and workplace skills through online and Digital, a social impact company, users learn
face-to-face courses, aiming to provide support skills to help with everyday tasks such as online
where, when and how people need it. During 2020 shopping, booking a doctor’s appointment using
and continuing into 2021, these courses shifted to the NHS website, connecting virtually with family
online webinars due to lockdown restrictions. The and friends, as well as online banking. The service
Academy curriculum continues to expand, having provides not just remote help via a telephone, but
a breadth of content and partners, including large also allows for customers and charities in need to
corporates, charities, credit unions and job seekers. be provided with a basic tablet device. To date,
We have worked closely with our internal experts we have provided over 1,700 devices and data,
to create a suite of online training, helping people and helped 14,800 callers to the helpline. The
1,700 navigate and avoid online harms, and we will launch Digital Helpline will continue to operate in 2022,
new, dedicated financial capability training in the supporting our customers and communities.
first months of 2022. This will help people to manage
their money in an increasingly digital world.
devices and data provided
to customers
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 21
Helping Britain Recover Access to banking In April 2021, the UK saw an increase in reports of Building financial capability
Help rebuild households’ financial health & wellbeing Lloyds Banking Group is committed to supporting domestic and economic abuse, particularly following Supporting our communities through our
access to mainstream banking for those who may the national and local lockdowns, as a result of colleague volunteering enables our colleagues
be excluded, often due to the lack of availability COVID-19. to connect across the UK to help children and
of standard identification documents, such as young adults understand the value of money
those who have been experiencing homelessness, We are proud of the support we have made available and manage their money day-to-day as they
victims of modern slavery, those fleeing domestic to victims and survivors. Our engagement with the transition to financial independence.
In focus abuse or ex-offenders. We have worked with charity Surviving Economic Abuse has been critical to
a number of local charities to ensure accounts achieving this, and working with them, we have been As highlighted by the recent independent report
Working with Calico to can be opened for people across the UK by able to support victims to separate their financial for the UK Strategy for Financial Wellbeing, the
developing flexible processes. The benefit for affairs quickly and, where appropriate, show leniency pandemic is amplifying the need for financial
help homeless customers such customers can be transformational. regarding debt incurred as a result of coercion. wellbeing across the UK. Over the past year, our
financial capability and education reach have
access banking services
Domestic and economic abuse “Surviving Economic Abuse is proud to support increased through the following main areas in order
Lloyds Banking Group in delivering an informed to maintain a more sustainable proposition.
As a Group, we’re here to support our customers
and high-quality service to customers who may be
and colleagues through difficult times. That’s
Working with Calico, a group of social businesses He’s recently moved into his new flat and why we’ve introduced a Domestic and Economic experiencing economic abuse. Financial services Virtual guides have been developed enabling
which deliver products and housing to local accessed Universal Credit; the main benefit is Abuse team to support victims and survivors of have a crucial role to play in tackling economic colleagues to deliver financial capability content
communities to make a difference in people’s lives, that he now has a safe place for his children to financial and economic abuse, offering support abuse and this is a brilliant example of the work across the UK including in deprived areas.
being rolled out across the industry.”
Lloyds Banking Group has been able to support visit. He sees all of this as a stepping stone to to help them regain control of their finances. The
homeless customers who were previously getting back into employment. It looked like introduction of this team is an important next Dr. Nicola Sharp-Jeffs OBE In order to support our communities and to Help
unbanked to not only open accounts but also to he was stuck in a situation he couldn’t get step in both raising awareness and supporting Director of Surviving Economic Abuse Britain Recover from the ongoing pandemic,
gain access to welfare benefits and housing. out of but, with just a little help, that’s all our customers. It’s essential that our customers content is also available to everyone via our
changed for him.” know they can speak to us and that we can Charitable partnerships Lloyds Bank Academy.
“As part of our work with Calico, I met a man who provide specialist support for their personal We work closely with Safe Lives, Surviving Economic
had found himself homeless. He was given Andrew Ferguson situation. The service provided includes financial Abuse and Tender to provide the right support We have worked with Young Enterprise to ensure
emergency accommodation in one of the rooms Bank Manager, Lloyds Bank guidance as well as directing customers to at the right time, and have actively brought their that learning outcomes are in line with
above a pub, and was told, with the help of the specialist charities for emotional and practical insight and expertise into several internally run recommendations from the Money and Pensions
local council and Calico, that he was eligible for support. It provides assistance to customers Group-wide webinars. Through these relationships, Service. Providing a curriculum that is relevant for a
his own flat as well as Universal Credit to help him experiencing various financial issues, including we have also trained our colleagues to support digital society, and is quality marked, gives
get up and running. But he had no bank account how to manage or separate joint accounts, how to customers experiencing domestic and economic educators confidence that the financial education
and without it he could not apply for either. open new accounts, provides advice on dealing abuse. Training on this topic is part of an ongoing material is of the highest quality. Content has been
programme which is delivered to all customer- designed inclusively to reach the most vulnerable in
with debts such as loans or mortgages and helps
I looked at his ID with him which had been an customers to gain control of their own finances. facing colleagues. In addition, we have engaged society, providing equal access to quality education
issue every time he’d previously tried to open a with a number of local charities to refer victims for all. This enables charities such as the National
bank account. We were able to help with a letter In April 2021, the UK Domestic Abuse Act 2021 and survivors to our Domestic and Economic Deaf Children’s Society within the communities to
of introduction from his support worker and a commenced, which defines a statutory definition Abuse team for support with their finances. build our content into their youth programmes.
tenancy agreement from the council for his of domestic abuse including economic abuse.
emergency accommodation and so he now had The law provides great protection to individuals In 2021, the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England Employers can also use the content to build
access to banking that he needs to secure a more experiencing domestic abuse, and strengthening and Wales supported 116 charities helping people it into their apprenticeship and graduate
permanent place to call home. measures to tackle perpetrators. Paired with affected by domestic abuse across England and enrichment programmes. Our material is
Wales. Through these charities, we know that many available for all our colleagues to support their
national news stories it has resulted in an
victims and survivors face huge challenges when it own families, friends and communities.
increased focus on women’s safety, in particular.
comes to accessing and separating finances. That’s
why it’s vital to bring these charities, which have
116
invaluable insight, together with Lloyds Banking
Group to explore how services can be improved.
charities supported helping people
To learn more about how we support our colleagues
affected by domestic abuse across experiencing domestic and economic abuse please
England and Wales in 2021 refer to page 52 of this report.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 22
Helping Britain Recover Supporting business to recover 23
Helping business to start up and grow 23
Supporting business to transition to net zero 23
Strategic partnerships 24
Supporting Black-owned businesses 24
Apprenticeship support 25
Regional development 25
Support
businesses to
recover, adapt
and grow
Supporting the achievement
of the following SDGs
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 23
Helping Britain Recover Helping business to start up and grow Further information on our green finance initiatives
In focus
In 2021, we supported over 93,000 small can be found within our 2021 Climate Report.
Support businesses businesses1 and start-ups, by providing our customers
with online support, business advice and business Sector-specific initiatives: Boosting small businesses’
to recover, adapt banking accounts, bringing the total number of small We are also working on sector-specific initiatives,
businesses and start-ups we have supported to more helping whole industries transition to net zero. digital skills – Axe Valley Accountancy
and grow than 300,000 since 2018.
Agriculture Amanda Hines founded Axe Valley Accountancy in “When COVID-19 hit last year I was made
For over six years, Lloyds Banking Group has We’ve made a commitment to support the July 2020 after she was unexpectedly made redundant, and the market was looking grim. I
demonstrated how crucial technology is for small agriculture sector to meet its net zero target, redundant due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Initially, decided to take a leap of faith and start up on my
We will be by the side of businesses as businesses and the digital economy through the through our brands – Lloyds Bank, Bank of Scotland the business focused on working with local outfits own. When it comes to the accountancy and
Business Digital Index and Transformation with Tech and the Agricultural Mortgage Corporation. such as electricians, estate agents, retail owners financial side of the business, I’m completely in
they recover, supporting UK business reports. We’ve supported over 193,000 small The sector generates 10 per cent of the UK’s and psychologists to offer book keeping, my comfort zone. But as this is the first business
to adapt and grow, and create quality businesses to boost their digital capability and carbon emissions, and we have an important accountancy and self-assessment support. Now, it I’d set up myself, I needed extra support in areas
technology adoption in 2021 through the Lloyds role to play as the largest lender to the sector. counts 65 clients on its books and has expanded I’d not previously had experience of. The Lloyds
jobs across the UK.
Bank and Bank of Scotland Academy, and our Our package of measures includes lowering the its services across the UK. Bank Academy has changed the way I operate
Supporting the fast recovery of UK business is partnerships with Small Business Britain and the minimum lending amount to access green funding, entirely. Balancing my life between the business
fundamental to our purpose of Helping Britain Government’s Help to Grow Scheme. We have broadening what we finance, and promoting To continue to grow her business, Amanda sought and my 10-year-old daughter means time
Prosper. Our focus for 2021 has been helping UK broadened our focus of support with new modules and facilitating the use of three market-leading support to complement her two decades of management can be a challenge, but there were
businesses recover quickly from the COVID-19 crisis, in the Academy to address challenges that carbon measurement tools. In 2021 we published experience working in the financial sector by lots of practical hints and tips in the Academy’s
enabling them to adapt and grow, creating quality businesses will face in 2022 and beyond, including our research ‘Shaping agriculture’s transition attending the Lloyds Bank Academy’s free digital course to help with this.”
jobs across all of the UK. sustainability, online harms and growth. to a net zero future’, which identified seven skills training course: The Secrets of Ultimate
recommendations for the sector. We’ve supported Confidence & Resilience when Running a Small
Supporting business to recover Supporting business to our clients with practical advice on each of these Business. On the back of this venture, the firm’s
recommendations through monthly webinars and productivity increased by 15 per cent, resulting
The Group has actively supported our clients during transition to net zero our specialist trained Relationship Managers. in the business taking on 25 new clients in
the pandemic with c.£13 billion of lending through Supporting businesses to transition to a low carbon three months. Plans are now in place for an
government-backed schemes, comprising over economy is of strategic importance to us. We have Real estate development ambitious expansion.
340,000 Bounce Back Loans (including 24,000 expanded the funding available under the Group’s
In the real estate and housing sector, we have
top-ups), 10,500 Coronavirus Business Interruption discounted green finance initiatives2 from £3 billion
supported the creation of national sustainability
Loans and 84 Coronavirus Large Business to £5 billion to support businesses as they transition
standards for housebuilding finance through
Interruption Loans (with the UK Government closing to a low carbon economy. More than £6.9 billion of
becoming a member of the NextGeneration
these schemes at the end of March 2021). green/ESG related finance3 was delivered in 2021,
Executive Committee alongside Homes England
including supporting 42 clients with £3.4 billion of
and the UK Green Building Council, and are
We have helped our business customers to plan for new sustainability and ESG linked loans in 2021, a
contributing to the development of a checklist and
their recovery, supported by over 1,100 business four-fold increase in clients supported from 2020.
further benchmark to support the delivery of
specialists in communities across Britain, and
sustainable finance tailored towards the scale of the
delivered extensive colleague training to ensure we £6.9bn
housebuilder. To help support this move towards
can understand and best support our customers’
sustainable buildings, our customers have access to
individual needs.
our Green Buildings Tool – a digital insights
of green/ESG related finance2 provided
calculator that helps to identify, evaluate and
We have continued our support by taking part in the
in Commercial Banking in 2021 understand the estimated outcomes of potential
government-backed Recovery Loan Scheme
investments to make properties greener. In 2021,
launched in April 2021. As our customers approach
around 240,000 social housing buildings have been
their payment anniversaries we have been focused
assessed by our Green Buildings Tool to help the
on providing additional support, with
1 This figure comprises both for-profit enterprises and not-for-profit sector continue on its decarbonisation journey.
communication and outreach campaigns, the launch enterprises, such as charities. Not-for-profit enterprises comprise
of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme (BBLS) – Pay As approximately 10% of this figure.
2 Funding provided by Commercial Banking since 2016 under the
You Grow online and our new Business Banking Clean Growth Finance Initiative and Commercial Real Estate
Financial Assistance team supporting over 2,500 Green Lending. Indicator is subject to limited ISAE3000 (revised) assurance by
inbound calls per week. 3 Includes Clean Growth Finance Initiative, Commercial Real Estate Deloitte LLP for the 2021 ESG reporting. Deloitte’s 2021 assurance
Green Lending, Renewable Energy Financing, Sustainability statement and the 2021 Reporting Criteria are available online at
Linked Loans and Green/ESG/Social Bond facilitation. our Responsible Business Downloads Centre.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 24
Helping Britain Recover
In focus
Support businesses to recover, adapt and grow
Supporting Black-owned business:
BeGenio
Strategic partnerships Report 2021. The research, conducted by Black
Be The Business: We continue to support our Business Network alongside research specialist
strategic partner Be The Business with its ambition Savanta, reflects over 800 voices from Black
to support one million UK small businesses. communities, including business owners, employees
Our annual contribution has helped Be The and students. Our report spotlights the role that BeGenio is an early stage social impact Further, BeGenio are creating a subscription-
Business to deliver a £45 million boost to UK SME banks and other institutions should play in breaking business creating inclusive products to make based augmented-reality App digitising
productivity, unlocking a further £4.5 million of down the barriers to growth for Black entrepreneurs maths fun for families using EdTech, play- Race To Infinity and combining the physical
funding for Be The Business to allow it to test, and identifies 10 key recommendations. learning and creative, innovative teaching and digital world making maths enjoyable
trial and scale its work with small businesses. methodologies to increase confidence and through games and tournaments globally
Joint thought leadership and research activities In response to the recommendations, we have eradicate mathematical anxiety. for children aged 4–13 years; artificial
include the 2021 Be The Business Digital Trial in launched a number of collaborative initiatives that intelligence will detect weaknesses in maths
which 176 clients participated to help assess the we hope will help pave the way to a more equitable Founder of BeGenio Dr. Grace Olugbodi said: skills and help with measured progress.
role that financial institutions play in encouraging future for British Black-owned businesses. Working “Too many children dislike maths and don’t BeGenio estimates its addressable market
small businesses to adopt new technologies. with our Black Business Advisory Committee, we believe they can be good at it. They cannot size to be £7.2 billion globally.
have hosted national and regional Community relate maths to real life and have no effective,
Foundervine: Our multi-year, strategic partnership Conversation events, providing networking fun methods of practising maths. These Grace said: “Lloyds Bank has been incredible
through the Foundervine Immerse programme opportunities and practical advice. We partnered issues can lead to low self-esteem, low in the support offered, particularly the
supports its mission to build opportunities to access with Black Business Network to create the Black self-confidence and maths anxiety, Foundervine Investment Readiness
entrepreneurship in underserved communities. Business Resource Hub – a directory of business adversely affecting futures. Accelerator and the mentoring I have
Foundervine aims to accelerate learning and resources, including funding, networking, received. I was a winner on the Foundervine
investment support through access to networks mentoring, events and marketplaces. In partnership COVID-19 has amplified this. The Education Pitch Day and very lucky to receive
as well as advocating underestimated leaders by with Mentor Black Business, we have committed to Endowment Foundation (EEF) found that mentoring from Lloyds Bank’s Head of
acting as a voice in the UK and beyond. In 2022, connecting 100 colleagues with Black-owned primary school pupils eligible for free Propositions and Channel Development.
our partnership will aim to reach thousands of businesses, to provide support across a six-month school meals have been worst hit and fallen
current or aspiring entrepreneurs through an period to help the businesses progress. behind more than the three months their The work that Lloyds Bank is doing is so
ecosystem of programmes and support, including classmates fell behind during lockdown. important because inclusivity is such a barrier
finance and marketing accelerators, networking Our multi-year partnership with Foundervine, We need to act to avoid a ‘catastrophe for in business. BeGenio recognises the
events and an educational video content series. announced in 2021, began with an Investment disadvantaged children.’ challenges of running an enterprise as a
Readiness Accelerator and Pitch Day aimed at Black female entrepreneur, especially when
Supporting Black-owned businesses getting early-stage businesses investment-ready. BeGenio’s games are designed with seeking investment and supply chain
And an ambitious set of programmes to deliver an attributes: re-playability, deep play value and distribution in the UK. The support of Lloyds
In 2021, in line with the Group’s Race Action
ecosystem of support, education and engagement directly link to the three key aims of the Bank can be the difference between success
Plan (page 48 of this report), the Group set
for the Black business community is being National Curriculum. Our games are truly and failure for a small business. Lloyds Bank’s
up the Black Business Advisory Committee,
developed for 2022. fun! BeGenio helps kids learn without commitment to inclusivity is highly
chaired by Claudine Reid MBE. The Committee
them realising.” commendable and the Race Action Plan
helps steer our programme of support,
Visit the Lloyds Bank Black Business Hub to find out shines a light and is a safe haven for
ensuring Black-owned businesses have the best
more about the initiatives for Black-owned BeGenio’s flagship and multiple award- businesses like BeGenio.”
opportunity to start, grow, adapt and thrive.
businesses. Further information on the Group’s winning board game Race To Infinity sold over
progress on the Race Action Plan can be found on 10,000 copies internationally and a further four
Further key developments during 2021 included the
page 48 of this report. games are ready to launch.
publication of a landmark report exploring the full
entrepreneurial journey for Black business owners
in Britain – the Black. British. In Business & Proud Read more in the: Black. British. In Business
& Proud Report
Learn more about the Foundervine Immerse Download resources at the Black Business Network
programme Resource Hub
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 25
Helping Britain Recover
Support businesses to recover, adapt and grow
Apprenticeship support service By sharing our apprenticeship levy we have already
We have continued to promote the importance of committed over £5.4 million of this funding, helping In focus
bringing new skills into industry and we have 230 businesses and 450 apprentices with the costs
Driving regional
supported apprenticeships by launching a new of training and development of critical science,
apprentice support service in conjunction with the technology, engineering and maths (STEM) and development in Leeds
Advanced Manufacturing Training Centre (AMTC) digital skills in London, West Midlands and Greater
for manufacturing companies across England. Manchester, contributing towards the UK’s recovery.
Established in 2015, the Lloyds Bank AMTC is a state- Regional development
of-the-art training centre designed to create a new Lloyds Banking Group is committed to helping
generation of engineers and technicians to help the all of Britain recover. We are particularly focused
In Leeds, one of our three pilot regions for our regional
UK realise its potential in advanced manufacturing. on the challenges and needs of businesses
development programme, deep engagement with
The Lloyds Bank AMTC connects apprentices with and communities in need of regeneration. In
Leeds City Council has enabled us to better
high-calibre manufacturing and engineering 2021, regeneration pilots were initiated in three
understand the priorities of the region, and to explore
employers who are looking to employ the best talent cities – Liverpool, Leeds and Birmingham –
new ways to support its economic development.
in the industry. During 2021, the Group has testing a new approach to driving investment in
continued with its long-term investment of these areas. Engaging and developing strong
Discussions centred on looking at different ways to
£10 million over 10 years, which is on track to relationships with local stakeholders have allowed
support housing and related infrastructure in the city
support the training and upskilling of around 3,500 us to identify opportunities for Lloyds to support
centre. By moving away from a transaction-led
apprentices, graduates and engineers by the end of activity; that will have a real impact in these cities,
approach, and instead focusing on the needs of the
2024. Through our annual investment in the AMTC, leveraging our expertise in key sectors including
place as a whole, we have been able to identify new
we have trained over 2,500 apprentices, graduates manufacturing, housing, and infrastructure.
financing options. This will accelerate project delivery
and engineers in manufacturing since 2015.
and drive cohesion between an otherwise disparate
Throughout 2021 in these three regions, we have:
group of stakeholders in order to better address
Lloyds Banking Group and AMTC apprenticeships • Supported around 300 businesses to improve
local needs.
have teamed up to create a new partnership to their digital skills through the Lloyds Bank Digital
deliver fully funded high-value engineering events in West Yorkshire
Tom Riordan, CEO of Leeds City Council, said:
apprenticeships to SMEs in Coventry, Warwickshire • Developed over 460 people through our
and the surrounding areas. The Group has agreed apprenticeship programmes and our partnership
“We see great potential for working with financial
£9 million of support over three years to help SMEs with Regeneration Brainery
institution partners to activate regeneration projects
to invest in apprenticeships through our Levy
in Leeds given that the sustainable funding of
Transfer initiative. Furthermore, we believe that financial institutions
projects with social as well as economic value is
have a role to play in acting as a convener in these
critical to their success.”
places to drive change. In November 2021, we
£10m
launched the Building Strong Places report, which
explores the role of financial institutions in driving
regional development.
of investment in the AMTC over 10 years
3,500 £5.4m
apprentices, graduates and funding, helped 230 businesses
engineers trained by the end of 2024 and 450 apprentices
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 26
Helping Britain Recover Helping people access quality, affordable homes 27
Supporting standards development 27
Supporting skills development 27
Affordable housing 27
The rental market 28
Home ownership 28
Expand the
availability of
affordable and
quality housing
Supporting the achievement
of the following SDGs
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 27
Helping Britain Recover
In focus
Expand the availability of affordable and quality housing
Sustainable funding to housebuilders: Hill
Hill is an award-winning family-owned and The funding links the loan margin to a series of
As we recover from the pandemic, we aspire to contribute Affordable housing
operated housebuilder and one of the leading ESG targets, including net biodiversity gain,
to a UK in which all households have access to stable, In response to a lack of affordable housing which developers in London and the South-East of Scope 1 and 2 emission targets and the
we recognise can be a potential barrier to tackling England, delivering both private for sale and sustainability standards of new homes. Hill is
affordable and safe homes in places they want to live. We social disadvantage, we have worked with more affordable homes, with a diverse portfolio of one of the UK’s most sustainable housebuilders
than 200 housing associations across the UK. Over schemes ranging from landmark mixed-use based on the NextGeneration Sustainability
are committed to broadening access to home ownership the last four years, we have provided over £12 regeneration schemes and inner-city apartments, Benchmark, which ranks the ESG performance of
and exploring opportunities to increase our support to billion of funding to the social housing sector and, to homes in rural communities. Hill has committed the nation’s largest housebuilders. The funding
to further support housing associations, we have to reaching net zero carbon status by 2030 as well arrangement includes targets based on the
the UK rental sector. become early adopters of the new Sustainability as leaving a positive environmental legacy by ongoing improvement of Hill’s performance
Reporting Standards which aim to standardise achieving Biodiversity Net Gain (BNG) across against the NextGeneration benchmark.
ESG reporting in the social housing sector by its portfolio.
Helping people to access quality, We have supported the new Future Homes Task providing housing associations with a framework Hill’s overarching goal is to be a leader and
Force and are signatories to frameworks that for implementation and reporting of their ESG In 2021, Lloyds Bank supported Hill with a £220 exemplar sustainable homes and sustainable
affordable homes endorse industry-wide standards. We also continue performance, as well as unlocking investment. million sustainable funding arrangement to further business practice. Among other initiatives, the
As Britain’s largest financial services group, we to drive the Housing Growth Partnership (HGP), We have also secured colleague representation boost Hill’s plans to advance its ESG strategy and funding arrangement will provide Hill with the
recognise our responsibility in addressing some of providing financial support and mentoring to small on the Board of Sustainability for Housing Limited net zero status by 2030. The new sustainability- opportunity to pursue further opportunities such
the issues that affect the residential sector. To and mid-sized housebuilders with over 2,500 HGP- which is responsible for the reporting standards. linked funding will support Hill as it looks to as donating 200 fully equipped modular homes
support the transition to a sustainable low carbon supported homes built across the UK to date, with a become a £1 billion turnover business by 2025, over the next five years to single homeless people
economy, we are committed to remaining by the total pipeline of almost 5,000 homes. During 2021, We recognise the challenge residential landlords developing a portfolio of zero-carbon homes from as part of a £15 million pledge through its
side of housebuilders, developers and landlords as HGP 2 was launched to support the construction and housing associations face of retrofitting across construction through to operation. Lloyds Bank Foundation 200 programme and to ensure Hill’s
they increase housing supply across all tenures. of a wider tenure of homes to meet the diverse and their portfolios to reduce their environmental acted as sustainability coordinator on the new long-term financial strategy fully aligns with its
evolving UK housing need. The Regional Growth impact and generate significant economic and funding arrangement, with the £220 million objectives for the next decade to grow sustainably
We understand the need for housebuilders to create Initiative was also introduced to provide additional societal benefits. To support the retrofit challenge provision split between four banks. as it looks to play its part in addressing the UK’s
great places to live while delivering more sustainable longer-term equity to accelerate the growth of in social housing, in 2021 we have provided £3.4 housing demands.
homes that work for both the environment and billion of new funding, of which £2.4 billion is
the most ambitious regional housebuilders.
the homeowner. Our specialist Real Estate, sustainable (green or social use of proceeds)
Housing and Sustainability and ESG Finance or sustainability-linked (including ESG key
Supporting skills development
teams have supported housebuilders across the performance indicators) and have partnered with
UK to understand the scale of the challenge and, To support closing the future skills gap in UK sustainability consultancy CFP Green Buildings to
importantly, to help them transition their businesses. housing, in 2021, alongside Homes England, give clients access to a new tool to help identify,
we announced a three-year partnership with evaluate and understand the estimated outcomes
Regeneration Brainery that encourages school of potential investments to make properties
Supporting standards development leavers from socially and economically deprived more sustainable and energy efficient.
To support the sector transition and deepen areas into real estate, construction and regeneration.
relationships between housebuilders of all sizes, To date, we have supported 50 school leavers Using the Green Buildings Tool, we have mapped
we have supported the creation of national with two Braineries held in Manchester with the energy efficiency of around 240,000 social
sustainability standards for housebuilding more Braineries in plan across the UK in 2022. homes owned and managed by our customers, so
finance through becoming a member of the they can calculate the investment required to
NextGeneration Executive Committee alongside improve EPC ratings.
Homes England and UK Green Building Council,
and are contributing to the development of a
checklist and further benchmark to support
the delivery of sustainable finance tailored
towards the scale of the housebuilder.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 28
Helping Britain Recover
Expand the availability of affordable and quality housing
The rental market In 2021, we lent over £16.3 billion to first-time
In focus The Group is aiming to improve quality in the buyers, and across the last three years have lent over
private rented sector. To help boost the supply £43.6 billion.
Supporting housing of high-quality homes in this market, the Group
has launched Citra Living, which aims to increase Through our family of brands we offer savings
associations: Home Group new housing supply and the availability of tools and provide a range of deposit saving
affordable, quality homes while supporting options. We also provide a range of first-time buyer
Home Group, a Newcastle-based social our regional regeneration ambitions. and home mover mortgages as well as options
for later life lending. For those aspiring to own
housing provider with homes in England and their own home but struggling to find a deposit,
£3.4bn
Scotland, is one of the UK’s largest housing intergenerational options such as our Lend a Hand
mortgage from Lloyds Bank allows a family member
associations with a vision to improve the
to put down 10% of the purchase price of a home
sustainability and quality of its 55,000-home of new funding in support of into a three-year, fixed term savings account.
portfolio, addressing the ongoing housing social housing We also support a range of government-sponsored
affordable housing initiatives, including Right to Buy,
shortage as well as supporting its local
The intention is to work with leading housebuilders Shared Ownership and the Help to Buy: equity loan.
communities. through strategic partnerships to identify sites We have signed up to support the government-led
and support the building of additional housing, First Homes initiative, which aims to help young
In 2021, Lloyds Bank supported Home Group with a with Citra Living buying the rental element of people and key workers get on the housing ladder.
sustainability-linked funding. The £125 million revolving these new developments. As well as ensuring We successfully launched the Mortgage
credit facility includes a range of environmental and social continued support for the housebuilding sector, Guarantee Scheme in April 2021 for
targets that Home Group will need to meet to secure margin this will also help to address the increase in lending amounts up to £570,000.
discounts on its funding. These include enhancing the
demand for rental properties at the same time.
energy efficiency of its stock to help tackle fuel poverty and The properties will provide modern, good-quality We continue to offer the guarantee for non-
decarbonise its homes, building over 4,000, energy efficient homes to meet the demands of a growing rental new build properties and will monitor industry
homes in the next five years and offering at least 120 market, and they will be within easy reach of participation and assess whether it is suitable
apprenticeships a year across its communities. local transport, amenities and leisure facilities. to extend to new build in due course.
Home Group has set out a 30-year sustainability roadmap in The Group launched our Green Living and Eco
Home ownership
support of its, and the Government’s support for the UN’s Home Hub for Halifax and Lloyds customers,
goal to stabilise the amount of human-induced greenhouse As the UK’s largest mortgage lender, we’re including an online tool that provides a tailored
gases. Among other initiatives, Home Group has led a supporting more and more of our customers to action plan on energy efficiency improvements that
pioneering project in Gateshead looking at the most buy their first home. We currently support one in customers can make. This was complemented for
sustainable ways to construct and heat homes at scale. It is five first-time buyers get on the housing ladder. Halifax customers by a £500 cashback Green Living
also a founding partner of the Greener Futures Partnership Reward to support the cost of improvements.
– set up with four other housing associations – based on the We recognise the importance of buying a home in
shared ambitions to lower emissions, reduce fuel poverty customers’ lives and we are making that process as In a challenging market environment, we have
and improve living conditions for residents by creating simple and easy as possible, however people supported customers with payment holidays,
sustainable, affordable, healthier and safer homes. choose to engage with us. adapting our policies to reflect customers’ different
incomes including accepting furlough income, and
increasing the manual underwriting assessment
£16.3bn
to apply to individual customer decisions.
lent to first-time buyers in 2021
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 29
Helping Britain Recover Delivering our net zero ambitions across
our key areas of focus, enabled by our
sustainability strategic pillars 30
Reducing our financed emissions and our own
operations and supply chain emissions 31
Summary of TCFD recommendations
and progress 32
Environmental impact of our own operations 34
Natural capital 37
ESG due diligence in lending 40
Responsible investment and stewardship 42
Accelerate
the transition
to a low carbon
economy
Supporting the achievement
of the following SDGs
2021
performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 30
Helping Britain Recover Net zero ambitions Enabled by our
sustainability strategic pillars
Accelerate the
Financed emissions
transition to a low Own operations4
Our net zero ambitions and key associated areas of focus are
Bank financed emissions
underpinned by four pillars of our environmental
carbon economy sw Scottish Widows financed emissions
sustainability strategy that will help us to achieve our
ambitions in a manner that engages the whole of our
Bank financed emissions: Work with customers, Net zero carbon operations by 2030
organisation and our wider stakeholder network.
Delivering our net zero ambitions government and the market to help reduce the
carbon emissions we finance by more than Reduce total energy consumption
across our key areas of focus,
50% by 2030 on the path to net zero by 2050 by 50% by 2030
enabled by our sustainability or sooner¹
Maintain travel carbon emissions
strategic pillars
sw Scottish Widows financed emissions: Target below 50% of pre-COVID-19 levels Identify, manage and disclose material
1
halving the carbon footprint² of all of sustainability and climate-related risks
Our climate strategy our investments by 2030 on the path to net
and opportunities
At Lloyds Banking Group we believe that the zero by 2050³
transition to a low carbon economy represents
an opportunity to build a resilient future, creating See page 32 of our 2021 Climate Report See pages 34 to 36 See pages 13 to 15 of our 2021 Climate Report
new businesses and jobs for the UK. 1 From a 2018 baseline.
2 Carbon footprint is a measure of carbon intensity calculated as absolute Support our customers with responding
The transition will require transformation of every value of emissions applicable to an investment divided by the value of 2
investment. to the opportunities and risks associated
sector at scale. According to the UK Climate 3 From a 2019 baseline. 4 All from a 2018/19 baseline.
Change Committee (CCC) recommendations for with climate change and the transition to
the UK’s Sixth Carbon Budget, there is a
Key areas of focus a low carbon economy
requirement for carbon investments in the UK to
reach £50 billion annually by 2030.
See pages 16 to 23 of our 2021 Climate Report
At Lloyds Banking Group, we continue We recognise that the process for Greening the built
We want to play our part as the UK’s largest
to progress towards our net zero measuring and establishing these environment
financial services provider in supporting the ambitions across our business lines ambitions is complex. Therefore, our 3 Embed sustainability into the way we
transition to net zero and we support the aims of
and our own operations. We have ambitions represent an initial set of do business and manage our own
the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement, the UK Supporting the
identified our priority areas of focus, outcomes that we will continue to
Government’s net zero target, the Ten Point Plan operations in a more sustainable way
which form a fundamental part of monitor and assess for enhancement. energy transition
for the Green Industrial Revolution and the
the overall approach to net zero
recommendations of the TCFD. See pages 24 to 26 of our 2021 Climate Report
and represent where we see the We will look to report additional sector Low carbon
greatest challenge and opportunity ambitions in 2022 for parts of our
Prioritising our activities where to help accelerate the transition to a remaining carbon-intensive sectors, transportation Use our scale and reach to help
it matters most – net zero ambitions low carbon economy for the UK. including residential mortgages, 4
To outline how best we can support the drive progress towards a sustainable
transportation and automotive activity Sustainable farming
decarbonisation of the UK economy, we have As signatories to the Net-Zero Banking beyond Retail (Motor) vehicles. In and resilient UK economy through
prioritised our activities around net zero and natural capital
Alliance (NZBA), which is part of the addition, we will be developing
ambitions associated with achieving net zero in engagement with customers,
broader Glasgow Financial Alliance for further ambitions and a transition
our own operations by 2030 and for the activities Net Zero, we have committed to setting plan in accordance with the timelines Sustainable communities, industry, government
of those we finance by 2050, with interim
sector-based ambitions across our stipulated by the NZBA. Our sector investments and and suppliers
ambitions set for 2030.
highest emitting sectors. In this report, ambitions for our banking activities
pensions
we have included our sector ambitions complement our Scottish Widows See pages 27 to 30 of our 2021 Climate Report
covering Power, Thermal Coal, Oil Climate Action Plan, which covers our
& Gas and Retail (Motor) vehicles. approach for our Insurance business.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 31
Helping Britain Recover
Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy
Reducing our financed emissions and our own operations and supply chain emissions
Reducing our own operations
Reducing our financed emissions
and supply chain emissions
Bank financed emissions sw Scottish Widows financed emissions Our own operations Our supply chain
In 2021, we announced a new set of operational For our suppliers, we have focused our efforts on
For our banking activities, as part of our work in For our Scottish Widows investments portfolio, our climate pledges, including a commitment to understanding the carbon emissions generated
this area we are developing a clear and strategic position as a large investor presents us with achieve net zero carbon operations across Scope 1 through our sourcing activities and how we can
portfolio alignment approach across our key opportunities to participate in and influence the and 2 by 2030, against a 2018/19 baseline, while at positively influence a sustainable supply chain. We
sectors. It is clear that the challenges facing each transition for the long-term benefit of our customers the same time halving our energy consumption and know that we cannot achieve our net zero ambitions
of our sectors vary considerably and that each and society. maintaining travel-related carbon emissions from without the support of our suppliers and in 2021
sector is at varying scales of maturity in their business travel and commuting below 50% of a we have been developing our methodology for
transition journey. Our immediate focus is to work We are supporting investments that back climate pre-COVID-19 baseline. We are also embedding measuring our supply chain emissions. We are
closely with our most heavy-emitting sectors to solutions for real-world impact by incorporating our response to natural capital preservation as part building our programme to further enhance
support their progressive decarbonisation. We climate objectives into our strategic asset allocation of our approach to sustainable operations by sustainability considerations in our sourcing
believe that a pure divestment strategy is not in and increasing discretionary investment into climate- protecting our operational green spaces, through approach and to engage those suppliers that have
line with our purpose. We want to finance the aware investment strategies. We are also using restoring natural ecosystems, decreasing human the biggest impact on our carbon emissions with the
changes needed to live and do business more our engagement and shareholder voting power to intervention, and encouraging native species. aim of developing specific ambitions for reducing
sustainably, in line with a just transition. drive companies to make the changes necessary supply chain emissions and working collaboratively
to align with a 1.5°C pathway and excluding high For more on our own operations and work on natural to achieve them.
The sectors where we have to focus the most to carbon investments that run the risk of becoming
capital see pages 34 to 38
help ensure they can transition are agriculture, stranded assets through our Exclusions Policy.
energy, housing and transportation. This has
been informed by detailed sector reviews we
have conducted over the past 18 months on the
carbon-intensive sectors where we have lending
to customers that are likely to be higher carbon
emitters or be exposed to higher levels of
physical or transition risks. Further information
can be found in our 2021 Climate Report.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 32
Helping Britain Recover
Progress against TCFD recommendations
Accelerate the transition to
a low carbon economy
Recommendation Recommended disclosures Reference Summary of progress
Summary of TCFD recommendations Strategy D po is t c e l n o t s i e al t i h m e p a a c c t t u s a o l a f nd A D op e p sc o r r ib tu e n t it h ie e s c t li h m e a o t r e g -r a e n l i a s t a e t d io r n is h k a s s a i n d d e n tified 2 p 0 a 2 g 1 e s C 7 lim to a 1 te 5 R eport • W ac e h i h e a v v in e g p n ri e o t r z it e is r e o d in o o u u r r a o c w tiv n it o ie p s e a r r a o t u io n n d s n b e y t 2 z 0 e 3 ro 0 a a m nd b f i o tio r n th s e a a s c so ti c v i i a ti t e e s d o w f t i h th o se
and our progress against these climate-related risks and over the short, medium and long term we finance by 2050, with interim ambitions set for 2030
opportunities on the • We have defined four sustainability strategic pillars that will help us to achieve
We have been continually making progress against organisation's business, our ambitions in a manner that engages across the whole of our organisation
strategy and financial
the TCFD recommendations and enhancing our and also across our wider stakeholder network
planning where such
climate-related financial disclosures since our 2018 information is material B Describe the impact of climate-related 2021 Climate Report • We have described the key climate-related risks and opportunities identified
Annual Report and Accounts. We comply with the risks and opportunities on the organisation's pages 13 to 15 to date and defined our short, medium and long-term time horizons
FCA’s Listing Rule 9.8.6R(8) and make disclosures business, strategy and financial planning • In preparing the Group‘s financial statements, we have considered the impact
consistent with the 2017 TCFD recommendations of climate-related risks on our financial position and performance
a T n C d F D re p co ill m ar m s: e S n tr d a e te d g d y i ; s G cl o o v s e u r r n e a s n a c c e ro ; s R s is a k l l four of the C D st e ra s t c e r g ib y e , t t a h k e in r g es i i n li t e o n c c o e n o s f i d th e e ra o t r io g n a n d i i s f a fe ti r o e n n ’ t s 2 p 0 a 2 g 1 e s C 6 lim 6 t a o te 7 R 0 eport • I k n e 2 y 0 c 2 li 1 m , a th te e r G is r k o s u a p n s d t a o r p te p d o r to tu i n n i c ti o e r s p a o s r p at a e r t i n o i f t i o al u c r o fi n n s a i n d c e i r a a l t p io la n n o n f i n th g e p G ro ro c u es p s ’s
Management; and Metrics and Targets. climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or • We are continuing to develop climate modelling and scenario analysis
lower scenario capabilities to quantify climate risk
We will continue to assess and develop our • We participated in the Bank of England’s Climate Biennial Exploratory
disclosures against the TCFD recommendations and Scenario, which created a foundation capability that we are extending further
recommended disclosures in 2022, taking into as we embed climate into risk management and other processes
account relevant TCFD guidance and materials and • We have developed initial climate scenario analysis quantitative insights for key
evolving best practice. sectors
Key areas of focus in 2022 include the following:
Disclose the metrics and 2021 Climate Report • We have developed several initial metrics to measure our progress against our
Metrics & Targets A Disclose the metrics used by the organisation
Strategy targets used to assess to assess climate-related risks and pages 32 to 46 net zero ambitions, which include measures related to our financed emissions,
• We explored the resilience of our credit portfolios a cl n im d a m te a - n r a e g la e t e re d l e ri v s a k n s t a nd o m p a p n o a r g t e u m ni e ti n e t s p in r o li c n e e s w s ith its strategy and risk • s W u e st h a a in v a e b p le ro fi v n id an e c d e d a e n t d ai l o s w o n f o o u p r e S r c a o ti p o e n s 1, 2 and 3 emissions for our own
under three different climate scenarios as a result opportunities where such
operations, calculated an initial 2019 financed emissions baseline for Scottish
of our participation in the Bank of England’s information is material
Widows and provided both an updated 2018 financed emissions baseline and
Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario (CBES), as
2019 financed emissions for our banking activity
well as undertaking other internal activity
developing initial quantitative insight for key B Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and if appropriate, 2021 Climate Report • We have specific sector ambitions for our banking activity related to power1, oil
sectors. We will undertake further climate S an co d p th e e 3 r g e r la e t e e n d h r o is u k s s e gas (GHG) emissions, p 45 ag to e s 4 3 6 5 to 40, & C l g im as a , t e th A e c rm tio a n l c P o la a n l1 ( a p n u d b U lis K h m ed o F to e r b , a ru n a d r y S c 2 o 0 t 2 ti 2 s ) h Widows has developed its first
scenario analysis in 2022 that leverages learnings
• We have introduced new 2024 sustainable finance strategic outcomes across
from the CBES exercise and access to improved
the Group2
data and analytical capabilities. This will allow us
• More than £6.9 billion of green and ESG related finance3 was delivered in 2021
to better understand the resilience of the Group’s
• We also estimate that through Scottish Widows we will make discretionary
b ai u m s i i n s e to ss s m up o p d o e r l t t o th c e l i d m e a v t e e l o ri p sk m s. e I n n t p o a f r n ti e c w ul ar, the C D to e m sc a r n ib a e g e th c e l i t m ar a g te e - t r s e u la s t e e d d b r y is t k h s e a o n r d g anisation 2 p 0 a 2 g 1 e s C 3 li 2 m t a o te 3 R 4 e , p ort investment of £20-25 billion into climate-aware investment strategies by 2025,
business plans and sector ambitions to achieve opportunities and performance 41 to 46 with at least £1 billion invested in climate solutions investments
• We developed three new operational climate pledges in 2021 that are
the Group’s net zero ambitions and examining the against targets
designed to accelerate our plan to achieve net zero carbon operations and we
resilience of these to physical and transition risks.
continue to measure progress against those and our wider environmental
ambitions for our own operations
1 Our power sector ambition was set prior to us joining the NZBA and will be updated in 2022 to align with NZBA guidance. Our thermal coal ambition is a commitment to exit all entities that operate thermal coal facilities by 2030 (see 2021 Climate Report, page 32) and will currently be
tracked through lending exposure to the sector as opposed to annual emissions estimates.
2 See page 41 of our 2021 Climate Report for more detail on our 2024 sustainable finance strategic outcomes.
3 Includes Clean Growth Finance Initiative, Commercial Real Estate Green Lending, Renewable Energy Financing, Sustainability Linked Loans and Green/ESG/Social Bond facilitation.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 33
Helping Britain Recover
Progress against TCFD recommendations
Accelerate the transition to
a low carbon economy
Recommendation Recommended disclosures Reference Summary of progress
Governance D or i g sc a l n o i s s e a t t i h o e n 's governance A c D li e m sc a r t i e b - e re t l h a e te b d o r a is rd ks 's a o n v d e o rs p ig p h o t r o tu f n ities 2 p 0 a 2 g 1 e s C 4 lim 8 t a o te 4 R 9 eport • O Gr u o r u g p o ’s v e e r n n v a ir n o c n e m s e tr n u t c a t l u s r u e s p ta r i o n v a i b d i e li s t y c l s e t a ra r t o e v g e y r s a i n g d h t m a a n n d a o g w em ne e r n sh t o ip f o cl f i m th a e t e risk
around climate-related at Board and Executive levels
risks and opportunities • The Board is engaged on a regular basis on our sustainability agenda and in
M • e W tr e ic h s a a v n e d d t e a v r e g l e o t p s ed metrics to assess climate- B a D n e d s c m ri a b n e a m gi a n n g a c g l e im m a e te nt - ' r s e r la o t l e e d in r i a s s k s s e ssing 2 p 0 a 2 g 1 e s C 5 lim 0 t a o te 5 R 1 eport • 2 In 0 2 2 0 1 2 r 1 e , c w e e iv e e d st a tr b a l i i n s i h n e g d t o th c e o G nt r i o n u u p e N to e d t e Z v e e ro lo C p o u m nd m e i r t s te ta e n t d o i n p g ro o v f i d c e lim Ex a e te c u ri t s i k ve
related risks and opportunities that include and opportunities direction and oversight of the Group environmental sustainability strategy
current and projected financed emissions, • Key committee decisions include approval of our sector ambitions and
emissions intensity, sustainable finance and external sector statements
sectors with increased climate risk (exposure, limit,
maturity). We have evolved our Group Balanced
Scorecard so that it now includes two ESG
measures that are aligned to climate change to
reflect our net zero ambitions. The additional
climate scenario analysis we will conduct in 2022
will lead to enhancements to the physical and
transition risk assessment of our high carbon
sectors and clients within these that will allow for Disclose how the 2021 Climate Report • We have continued to embed climate risk into our activities and Enterprise Risk
Risk A Describe the organisation's process for
improved management information and Management organisation identifies, identifying and assessing climate-related risks pages 54 to 55 Management Framework, through consideration of climate risk as its own
reporting to the Board as well as NZBA sector assesses, and manages principal risk, and integration into other principal risks materially impacted
target setting. climate-related risks • In 2021, we introduced the Group Climate Risk Policy to provide an
• We have disclosed our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions B Describe the organisation's process for 2021 Climate Report overarching framework for the management of climate risks and opportunities
for our own operations, along with our initial managing climate-related risks pages 56 to 64 across the Group
Scope 3 financed emissions for most of our • We have undertaken detailed analysis of our portfolios and the pathways
banking and Scottish Widows activity. Our future required to reduce emissions, including deep dives into sectors at increased
focus will be on disclosing our Scope 3 supply C Describe how processes for identifying, 2021 Climate Report risk from impacts of climate change
chain emissions and extending the coverage of assessing, and managing climate-related page 53 • Ongoing development of climate risk assessment tools and methodologies,
Scope 3 financed emissions by including risks are integrated into the organisation's including our qualitative climate risk assessment tool in Commercial Banking
additional asset classes where data and overall risk management
methodologies exist and engaging across the
industry on calculation approaches for asset
classes where methods do not exist.
• We have developed ambitions to achieve net zero
for our own operations by 2030 and for the
activities of those we finance by 2050, with interim
ambitions set for 2030. We have also developed
2030 ambitions for our operational energy, water
and waste and an initial set of our highest emitting
sectors. We are on track to disclose further
ambitions for high emitting sectors in line with our
NZBA commitments, along with a net zero
transition plan that further communicates our
decarbonisation strategy.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 34
Helping Britain Recover Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy
Environmental impact of own operations Achieving these goals will not be easy, and we will Further operational sustainability
need to invest in our buildings over the next decade,
and environmental ambitions
Our own environmental footprint supporting the UK in the transition towards a
We have broader environmental ambitions for our
greener future. We will continue to deploy energy
Since 2020, we have been tracking own operations, which focus on reducing waste and
efficient technology including LED lighting and
improving water efficiency. We aim to:
against three operational climate pledges, improved building controls. We will remove all use
of natural gas from our estate, replacing gas boilers
which were announced early in 2021. with low carbon heating technologies and create Reduce our operational waste by
more sustainable branches in communities across
They are designed to accelerate our the UK. Many of the technologies we will need to use 80%
plan to tackle climate change and are still new and we will work closely with our
partners and supply chain to innovate.
apply across our own operations. by 2025, from a 2014/15 baseline
We proudly remained Carbon Trust Standard
certification holders for carbon reduction for
Reduce water consumption by
the twelfth year in a row. We are also members
of the UK Green Buildings Council and have 40%
recently renewed our commitment to the
World Green Building Council Net Zero Carbon
Buildings Commitment. This includes the new by 2030, from a 2009 baseline
embodied carbon reduction requirement for new
builds and major refurbishments by 2030. This
renewed commitment, along with those we’ve
already made by joining The Climate Group’s
ALL IMAGES TBC
campaigns on renewable electricity (RE100),
energy productivity (EP100) and electric vehicles
Net zero and operational climate pledges
(EV100), underpins our new climate pledges.
We will achieve net zero We will maintain travel carbon We will reduce our total energy
carbon operations by 2030. emissions below 50 per cent of consumption by 50 per cent by
Financing a
We plan to reduce our direct pre-COVID-19 (2018/19) levels, 2030 (compared to 2018/19). While green future
emissions (known as Scope 1 embedding for the long-term the we already procure 100 per cent Lloyds Banking Group Climate Report 2021
and 2 emissions) by at least reduced levels of commuting and renewable electricity, it remains
75 per cent (compared to business travel seen during the crucial that we reduce the amount Further information on operational carbon and
We also achieved certification to the
2018/19 levels) pandemic and supporting of power we consume to support Carbon Trust Standard for Waste for sustainability performance can be located in our
2021 Climate Report; see pages 24, 25 and 42 - 46.
colleagues to switch to low the UK in meeting an increasing the first time in 2021. The standard
recognises organisations that follow
carbon transport demand for renewable energy best practice in measuring, managing,
and reducing their waste impact.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 35
Helping Britain Recover
Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy These measures not only align to our
operational climate pledges, they also create an
opportunity to engage with our customers and
In focus
demonstrate our commitment to a greener
future. Oxford Street in London is the busiest
Net zero carbon operations:
high street in Europe, and our branch extends
nearly 1,000 sqm, therefore creating a vast reach
Oxford Street branch
to connect and engage.
Sustainability information is presented around the
branch through interactive videos, static and
In 2021 we refurbished our Lloyds Bank rotating posters, along with internal and external
living walls, creating an immersive experience for
Oxford Street, London branch to make our visitors. Additionally, it allows our colleagues,
who have undergone specialist sustainability
training, to engage in conversations with our
it net zero carbon operations. We
customers on Lloyds Banking Group’s path
towards a greener future and showcase our
integrated sustainability at the design
sustainability-focused products, such as our
Greener Home proposition.
stage of the project, and created an
immersive sustainability experience for
both our customers and colleagues.
For this refurbishment project thermal modelling These alterations saw the Energy Performance
was undertaken to optimise the heating and Certificate (EPC) rating for this branch improve
cooling energy demand, and an efficient heat from a D to a B, and helped us move a step
pump system, with heat recovery, was installed. closer to achieving our 2030 Net Zero Carbon
As a result, the embedded carbon content of Operations pledge.
the refrigerant gas in the heating and cooling
system has reduced by 33 tonnes, energy A new Building Management System (BMS) has
efficiency has improved, and the reliance on been installed to ensure that energy performance
natural gas has been completely removed. can be closely monitored and maintained over time.
Additionally, the lighting throughout the branch has The refurbishment wasn’t only focused on energy
been fully upgraded to LED, resulting in expected and carbon. We also fitted ultra-low flush toilets,
savings of around 10,000 kWh per year – equivalent which use around 80 per cent less water than the
to the electricity required to power three average previous toilets. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)
UK homes. certified wood was used for joinery items, and we
partnered with external companies passionate
about sustainability to provide furniture made from
recycled materials wherever possible. These include
items such as worktops, coffee tables and chairs
made from recycled plastics and textile waste.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 36
Rewilding
Helping Britain Recover
Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy
In focus
The Mound
Main Edinburgh office
Lloyds Banking Group recognises
that taking action to restore nature
and protect biodiversity is crucial in
The Scottish Wildlife Trust designed a meadow
helping to address the twin crises of with a mix of plants to create a habitat and
provide a food resource for the northern brown
climate change and biodiversity loss. argus, and other locally rare invertebrates such as
the stonecrop fanner, a nationally scarce moth.
Lighting is managed to avoid interfering with
moths and butterflies feeding in the garden,
To tackle this, we’ve been transforming our The Nature Network, developed by the Scottish and we consulted with Butterfly Conservation
approach to green spaces across our estate. Wildlife Trust in collaboration with over 40 Scotland and Historic Environment Scotland to
For example, our main Edinburgh office in the city multidisciplinary organisations, provides a strategic ensure the correct mix of plants was chosen for
centre, known as ‘The Mound’, is surrounded by approach to prioritise actions to tackle the threats of the site.
green spaces and also houses our free ‘Museum on climate change and biodiversity loss in the city. It
the Mound’ which welcomed 18,560 visitors in 2021. also highlights opportunities for nature-based This work demonstrates how corporations like
solutions, habitat network development and Lloyds Banking Group, local authorities, and
We approached the Scottish Wildlife Trust for help in environmental enhancements that will provide environmental NGOs can work together
developing a site-specific habitat creation and multiple benefits for both people and wildlife. towards a positive outcome for nature. We
management plan to enhance biodiversity. hope that The Mound will be the first of many
In Edinburgh, the northern brown argus is only stepping stone habitats throughout the city
Working with them, we learned through the found in Holyrood Park; however, there is a perfect and that residents in Edinburgh can also play
Edinburgh Nature Network that The Mound is a very habitat at the nearby Calton Hill. Unfortunately, this their part to help us connect northern brown
important location for creating stepping stone butterfly cannot reach Calton Hill as the distance is argus habitats from Holyrood to Calton Hill and
habitats for species to travel around the city, too far with no suitable habitat to bridge the gap. As beyond. The stepping stone habitats can be as
including pollinators and rare species such as the The Mound is at the centre of several larger sites small as windowsill planters with nectar-rich
northern brown argus butterfly, as well as more designated for natural heritage, such as Calton Hill, flowering plants, meaning that everyone can
common species such as bats, foxes and badgers. Holyrood Park and Princes Street Gardens, it is in a play a small part to help connect habitats
prime location to put the Nature Network into action across built-up areas in the city, naturalising the
and create stepping stone habitats to help the spaces and contributing to nature’s recovery.
northern brown argus reach Calton Hill.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 37
Helping Britain Recover Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy Our work to date We are also planning to use our stewardship
Our financing activities reach to work with our partner asset managers
At Lloyds Banking Group we recognise the and engage with companies in our portfolio,
interconnectedness of climate and nature and the and as such we look forward to Nature Action
imperative of protecting the resilience of natural 100 being set up so that we can add our voice to
stocks. Our ambition is to support our clients to the voices of many other investors calling for the
Natural capital In response, Lloyds Banking Group is developing Key concepts navigate their impacts and dependencies on protection, preservation and restoration of the
Importance of natural capital an approach to natural capital as part of our wider nature, to help build their resilience and have natural world that we are all an inalienable part of.
to Lloyds Banking Group sustainability strategy. As nature and climate are a positive impact on our wider economy. We
At Lloyds Banking Group we recognise that intrinsically linked, we believe in an integrated and Natural capital will continue to expand our work programme Our own operations
biodiversity, and the variation and interaction among holistic approach to managing environmental The world’s stock of natural on natural capital throughout 2022. For an The green spaces across our operational
all life on earth, is under threat. This is a significant risks and opportunities, that includes both climate example of how we are supporting clients, please estate are relatively small; however, we aim to
issue in the UK and globally and is identified as one and nature-related activities. As an initial phase assets (e.g. plants, animals, see our Grange Farm case study overleaf. make a big difference by managing our large
of the top risks to society by the World Economic of our work, we plan to complete a natural capital air, water, soils, minerals)3 number of small spaces differently. Through
Forum Risk Review1. As the 2021 Dasgupta Review2 assessment across our loan book to help us identify In addition, we have external sector statements restoration of natural ecosystems, decreasing
highlighted, the concept of natural capital needs our key dependencies and impacts on nature, across in place to guard against certain activities that human intervention, encouraging native species
to become embedded into economic decision- the sectors we finance. This will then enable us to are known to accelerate degradation of the and inspiring our colleagues, we can help to
making. Currently, the true value of natural capital assess where nature-related physical and transition environment. In 2021, we updated our external restore and protect these green spaces.
stocks and the ecosystem services they provide are risks could manifest across our financing activities. sector statements to cover palm oil and soya,
rarely reflected in organisations’ decision-making Once we have a clear understanding of our current which outline our expectations for sustainable In 2020, we worked with The Wildlife Trusts at three
processes; similarly, we often bear little to no state we will look to engage in the development production and zero deforestation achieved by test sites to support the re-establishment of resilient
cost for the impacts we have on natural capital. of our sector-specific nature strategies. 2030 at the latest. As part of our work to protect and UK wildlife habitats to benefit diverse local flora and
preserve nature and biodiversity, we will continue fauna by adopting a more sustainable approach
Biodiversity
This lack of recognition of the importance of healthy Impacts and dependencies leading to risk to review – and where appropriate to update – our to the management of our property estate.
natural ecosystems is the fundamental problem that We recognise that we need to understand the The biological variety and sector statements through a natural capital lens.
is driving the biodiversity crisis we are witnessing natural capital impacts and dependencies of the variability among living organisms Following the trial, with the support of our
today – and is a fundamental driver of the climate sectors we finance because these translate into Our investment activities facilities partner, Mitie, we selected a further nine
crisis. If we do not act in order to reverse the current financial risks that should be managed and from all sources including It is imperative that we understand the risks that sites with green spaces to rewild throughout
nature and biodiversity crisis, the world could mitigated. Similar to climate change, nature-related terrestrial, and other aquatic companies in our portfolio face due to the impacts 2021 by transforming our approach to land
e n x a p tu e r r e ie -r n e c la e t e ra d p r i i d s k a s n t d h , a i t n c m ou a l n d y i m ca p se a s c , t i u rr s e f v r e o r m si b a l n e r r i i s s k k s s . c F a o n r b e e xa c m la p ss le ifi , e a d ss a e s s s e i i n th g e o r u p r h d y e si p c e al n o d r e t n ra c n ie s s it o io n n ecosystems and the ecological o al f s b o i o th d e iv r e o r l s e i t t y h e lo s s e s c a o n m d p n a a n tu ie ra s l p c l a a p y i i t n a l c d re e a p t l i e n t g io b n o , t b h u t m an a d n b ag io e d m iv e e n rs t. i t W y- e e n im ha p n le c m ing e n s t o e l d ut r io es n t s o , r c a h t a io n n g ed
environmental, economic and societal perspective. ecosystem services across the sectors we finance will complexes4 of which they are part positive and negative impacts on nature. Weakening mowing approaches, undertook pond restoration,
give us a view of the potential physical risks that may of biodiversity could have large economic and social and introduced wildflower meadows, pollinator-
We also recognise the important role that financial impact our clients. Likewise, identifying the negative implications and, what is more, nature has a key role friendly planting and natural log pile bug hotels.
services in particular can play in helping to preserve impacts our sectors may have on natural capital to play in helping the world achieve net zero. Oceans
natural ecosystems, minimise nature-related risks, stocks will indicate transition risks that could occur. and forests are effective natural carbon collectors, Learnings from working with The Wildlife Trusts
and channel capital towards protection and Ecosystem services providing over a third of the carbon removal needed have enabled us to evolve our approach to
restoration of natural capital stocks. for the world to hit 2030 emission reduction targets. land management, incorporating biodiversity-
The benefits to people enhancing and wildlife-friendly measures into
provided by ecosystems, such We are acutely aware that more action needs all aspects of our landscaping and grounds
to be taken to protect our natural capital. maintenance programmes. Minimising machinery
as pollination, water regulation, This is why Scottish Widows is committing to usage resulted in fossil fuel savings; mowing
climate regulation, pest control, invest at least £1 billion in climate solutions and pruning regime changes helped provide
and others5 and a further £20–25 billion in climate-aware additional habitat for wildlife; and reduced
strategies, with biodiversity and natural capital chemical usage created healthier ecosystems.
being key components of both goals.
1 WEF – The Global Risks Report 2021, 16th Edition.
2 Dasgupta, P. 2021. The Economics of Biodiversity:
The Dasgupta Review.
3 The Convention on Biological Diversity.
4 Intergovernmental Science Policy Platform on Biodiversity and
Ecosystem Services (IPBES).
5 Millennium Ecosystem Assessment.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 38
Helping Britain Recover Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy Working across the industry to drive progress
In focus: Grange Farm
Collaboration between the financial sector,
policymakers, NGOs and corporations will be key to
Grange Farm: Balancing productivity and sustainability addressing the biodiversity crisis. We have joined a
number of initiatives to this end:
Natural capital: our work to date We entered a ground-breaking partnership with Second-generation farmer Andrew Pitts aims to Environmental benefits
This approach has resulted in tangible benefits the Woodland Trust to plant 10 million native combine modern agricultural methods and Andrew has also focused on yield mapping to
for nature, including establishing thriving trees in the UK by the end of the decade as part of biodiversity protection to support both profitability help identify poorer performing areas which
n an at d u a ra tt l r h a a c b ti i n ta g t s a s w u i p d p e o a r r t r i a n y g o n f a lo ti c ve a l s w p i e ld c l i i e fe s . o su u p r p co o m rt m th i e tm tr e a n n t s i t t o io fi n n t a o n a c e lo a w g c r a e r e b n o e n r f e u c t o u n re o a m n y d . a N n o d r t s h u a s m ta p in to ab ns il h it i y r e a . t 2,000-acre Grange Farm in can be put to better use. • Taskforce for on Nature-related Financial
These trees have the potential to absorb 2.5 million “Anything that won’t make a clear profit doesn’t Disclosures (TNFD) Forum – we are members of
Interpretive signage is also being developed for tonnes of carbon dioxide in their lifetime, adding The farm is primarily devoted to crop production, get planted as a cash crop,” says Andrew. the TNFD Forum and will look to participate in
each site to engage colleagues in our biodiversity to the UK’s carbon store. We are also helping fund including field beans, field peas, winter wheat “We plant something that has an environmental consultations as the framework for organisations
project, aimed at creating a positive ripple effect farmers’ transition to a low carbon future and getting and spring barley, and over the past 15 years benefit, for example flower strips or crops that to report and act on evolving nature-related risk is
by educating and inspiring them to implement colleagues involved in tree planting, volunteering Andrew and his brother William have moved to a make great habitats and encourage biodiversity. developed
their own biodiversity-enhancing measures and environmental education. Key highlights conventional, non-inversion crop establishment Taking this approach has helped us to
in their homes and community gardens. of the Woodland Trust partnership include: system with a view to improving soil health and significantly reduce our carbon footprint.”
• 2 million trees have been planted across the UK reducing costs.
Driving reforestation across the UK since the start of the partnership in communities, Embracing change
We support the UK Government’s objectives to in our new ‘woods within woods’ and in Healthy soil structure “If you can put together very best practice crop • Banking Environment Initiative Financial Risks
increase tree planting and forest conservation partnership with the agricultural community “We stopped ploughing the land in 2006,” production or livestock production with very best arising from biodiversity loss – in conjunction with
efforts across the UK and are committed to playing • 10 brand new ‘woods within woods’ will be says Andrew. “Initially we invested in a practice environmental production, you can have peer banks and investors we have helped develop
our part in this. However, we also recognise planted at existing Woodland Trust sites across Challenger and a cultivator, but over time we a very profitable business which is a joy to walk the Handbook for Nature-related Financial Risks
the need to work with nature and biodiversity the UK, with planting underway in Leicestershire, stopped working the soil so deep and started around, to see flocks of wild birds in, or that supports financial institutions to identify the
experts to ensure that tree planting is carried East Lothian and Northern Ireland direct drilling. We’ve seen huge improvements wildflowers in the spring,” says Andrew. “You specific nature-related financial risks they are
out in a responsible way that is compatible • 500,000 trees were planted through the in our soil structure, which is crucial. must be open to change and new ways of facing
with local ecosystems and does not adversely Woodland Trust’s Free Tree scheme for schools working, but that doesn’t mean change has to
impact native species of plants and animals. and community groups by the end of 2021 “With better structured soil, better earthworm happen instantly. Focus on changes that allow
• We are helping farmers and land-owners channels, more organic matter and the right you to evolve slowly, while maintaining your cash
transition to a low carbon future by offering expert sort of flora and fauna in place, land becomes flow, and really think through any big changes –
support and preferential funding at a 75 per cent more resilient to drought and excess rain or we experimented with six direct drills before we • United for Wildlife Financial Taskforce – in 2020
subsidy for more than 0.5 hectares of new heat. It allows you to have a greater resilience invested in our own.” we became a member of the Taskforce. Founded
woodland through the Woodland Trust’s in production. You also require fewer inputs by Prince William and The Royal Foundation,
MOREwoods and MOREhedges schemes to grow crops, so they automatically become Working with Lloyds Bank United for Wildlife aims to make it impossible
• This planting season, 45,000–50,000 trees have more profitable.” “We’ve been with Lloyds Bank for the whole of for traffickers to transport, finance or profit
been planted by over 1,200 colleagues as they my farming career, and my father’s before that,” from illegal wildlife products. By working
support 60 tree planting events in communities all says Andrew. “We have a strong relationship and collaboratively through their Taskforces, United
across the UK they’ve always been supportive of us and made for Wildlife is disrupting this criminal network
• Colleagues are volunteering to support citizen financing the investments we want to make in the globally
science projects run by the Woodland Trust and farm a straightforward process. Six years ago we
developing their understanding of the had the chance to grow by 40 per cent in one year
importance of woodland and our long-term record and positive
relationship enabled a swift increase in working
capital requirements to be delivered seamlessly.
Without it we would have missed the • We are supporters of the UK Government’s Get
opportunity.” Nature Positive campaign – this demonstrates our
focus on protecting and restoring nature and
support of the UK’s commitment to halt and
reverse the decline of nature by 2030
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 39
Helping Britain Recover Supporting
Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy
In focus
How MOREwoods and wildlife
MOREhedges schemes benefit
farms, wildlife and the environment
Robert Moore farms 356 hectares (880 acres) of land An expert adviser from the Woodland Trust worked
in North Lincolnshire. In the 1960s, all the hedgerows with Robert to design a planting scheme to meet
were removed from the land by a previous owner, Robert’s objectives. They planned for hedgerows to
leaving the farm with 13 large fields. Robert is be located specifically to create runways for wildlife;
committed to leaving the farm in a better state for for example, a hedgerow running directly between
the environment and wildlife than it is currently in, the new woodland and a reservoir to create
and to do this he has embraced sustainability connectivity. They decided that woodland would be
within his approach to farming. This includes the planted in an area that was poor for farming. To
use of solar panels to generate electricity, a water ensure that the woodland doesn’t shade out the
treatment system which has reduced water usage areas of productive land, it has been planted next to
by 80 per cent in the processing plant used, and a dyke. This will also provide shade to the dyke when
recycling farm plastics collected from around the trees are established. The dyke is already visited
the country. by kingfishers and the hope is that more wildlife will
arrive with the improved habitat.
The next step for Robert to consider was how he
could enhance the immediate environment and The woodland is 100 metres wide by 500–600
encourage more wildlife onto the farm. The answer metres long. This substantial area, split into three
was to incorporate some native woodland and to segments, has been designed with a track through For anyone planting more than 0.5 hectares
reinstate hedgerows on the farm. In addition to it to ensure it can be easily accessed and enjoyed. of woodland and/or 100 metres of hedging,
attracting more wildlife and improving the visual The natural planting design of wavy lines through the Woodland Trust’s MOREwoods and
impact of the land, planting trees will importantly woodland makes it a very pleasant place to MOREhedges schemes are ideal. The schemes
capture carbon and make use of less profitable areas spend time. have already created almost 3,000 hectares
of the farm, along with 80 hectares of grass. (7,200 acres) of woodland and 320 kilometres
Robert’s five hectares of woodland and one of hedgerow across the UK, including Robert’s
Through a neighbour, Robert heard about the kilometre of hedging were planted in early 2021 to project in Lincolnshire.
Woodland Trust’s MOREwoods and MOREhedges join the two kilometres of hedging he had planted
schemes. These schemes provide generous funding the previous year. The Woodland Trust provided No-obligation support and advice is available
for farmers who are looking to plant over 0.5 expert advice and generous funding. Robert says for eligible schemes, even if you decide not to
hectares of woodland and/or over 100 metres of that working with the Woodland Trust was very easy plant trees. The Woodland Trust can provide
new hedging. from start to finish: “…and they even managed the generous funding and, in some cases, help with
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process planting. All the saplings supplied are sourced
which was required due to the size of area and grown in the UK.
being planted”.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 40
Helping Britain Recover Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy
ESG due diligence in lending Counterparty level risk assessment The outputs of the climate risk assessment The novel data from these assessments will allow us
Identification of counterparty-level climate risk is tool are overlaid with quantitative sector level to develop a view of our portfolio by differing levels
Within our risk appetite, we aim to support and benefit
essential, and we have continued to enhance our emissions and transition risk data to produce a of climate risk, enhancing our understanding of
from ESG investment opportunities, offering customers internal climate risk assessment methodologies and score reflective of the client’s climate impacts and the challenges being faced by our clients and
tools in Commercial Banking, to assess the physical exposure to climate risks. We have continued to identifying areas for further due diligence. So far,
sustainable investment choices, and challenging companies and transition risks relevant to our clients. We have embed climate risk assessment into our credit risk we have completed these assessments with over
developed and launched a bespoke, qualitative management framework to ensure that climate- 1,500 of our clients, and built an understanding of
that we invest in to behave more sustainably and responsibly.
climate risk assessment tool with a focus on related risks are considered for all Commercial the risk profile and outlook of our portfolio, while
transition risks and readiness into our large Banking customers that bank with us, with embedding Climate Risk into our mainstream Credit
corporate portfolio and work is underway to specific commentary in new and renewal credit Risk management process. We will continue to
Lloyds Banking Group expects all of our customers determine the approach for the remaining portfolio. applications where total limits exceed £500,000 develop the tool with the goal to widen to the scope
Sectors covered in
to comply with applicable international conventions, This will be completed at least annually as part our (excluding automated renewal processes). and enhance the methodology as data improves.
our sector statements:
sanctions and embargoes, legislation and licensing regular client engagements and will facilitate an
requirements while showing a clear commitment to in-depth discussion with the client to enable us to: Further information on what is considered in this
• Coal • Manufacturing
robust ESG and risk management. assessment and the outputs can be found in our
• Oil & gas • Automotive 1. Gain a detailed understanding of the climate- 2021 Climate Report.
Sector statements • Power • Agriculture related risks and opportunities related to their
The Group recognises our responsibility to help • Mining • Animal welfare business / sector they operate including where
address the economic, social and environmental • Forestry • Fisheries the client is on their transition journey
challenges that the UK faces and remains fully 2. Assess the scope and feasibility of their transition
• Defence • UNESCO World
committed to Helping Britain Prosper and plan
supporting environmental sustainability. As a result, Heritage Sites 3. Discuss/mitigate any risks identified
Lloyds Banking Group has identified selected 4. Support the client with potential propositions to
sectors and defined specific risk appetites related support their transition
to our financing activities within sectors that have 5. Develop internal management information to
the potential to negatively impact the environment Reputational risks monitor the transition risk within the Commercial
and society, creating the need for the Group to To further ensure that climate-related risks Banking portfolio and to enable any mitigating
have clear guidance in terms of risk appetite for are assessed and understood, the Group’s action to be taken
selected activities. The sector statements set out Reputational Risk Policy was launched in January
our approach and appetite to lending in relation to 2021. It defines a formal process for identifying
high-risk sectors, whether this risk derives directly and monitoring reputational risk in Commercial
from climate or from reputational risk. The Group Banking. This includes any potential climate and
has 12 external sector statements that apply to the environmental risks such as trade in goods with
Group’s activities which reflect the approach we heightened environmental risks and can also assess
take to the risk assessment of our customers. These historic environmental incidents appertaining to
sector statements outline what types of activities the clients we fund. Where reputational risks are
we will and will not support. Lloyds Banking Group’s identified, the policy outlines the governance
external sector statements are publicly available on requirements to understand the nature and
the Group Responsible Business Download Centre. magnitude of these risks including alignment
Further information on the climate-related aspects to risk appetite and climate risk strategy.
of these sector statements can be found in our 2021
Climate Report.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 41
Helping Britain Recover Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy
Equator Principles: transactions screened by Lloyds Banking Group
Transactions approved
The Equator Principles
Project finance advisory services Project finance Project-related corporate loans Project-related refinance and project-related
Lloyds Banking Group is a signatory to the Equator
Principles 4, which is a risk management framework Advisory by industry sector Loans by category1 Loans by category1 acquisition finance
for determining, assessing and managing Mining 0 Category A 0 Category A 0 Loans by region
environmental and social risk in Project Finance Americas 0
Infrastructure 0 Category B 3 Category B 1
transactions, such as large scale energy, industrial or
Europe, Middle East & Africa 0
infrastructure projects. It ensures that where we Oil & gas 0 Category C 0 Category C 0
provide finance or advice for such deals, it is executed Asia Pacific/Oceania 0
Power 0
in a responsible manner, and reflects the importance Loans by region Loans by region
of environmental impacts, ecology, climate change, Other 0 Loans by industry sector
Americas 1 Americas 0
local communities, and ethical and moral factors.
Mining 0
Where any such impacts are unavoidable, they must Advisory by region Europe, Middle East & Africa 2 Europe, Middle East & Africa 1
be appropriately mitigated or offset. Infrastructure 0
Americas 0 Asia Pacific/Oceania 0 Asia Pacific/Oceania 0
Oil & gas 0
We have a robust approach to the review and Europe, Middle East & Africa 0
reporting of Equator Principle transactions, due to Loans by industry sector Loans by industry sector Power 0
Asia Pacific/Oceania 0
our internal referral and risk assessment process. Mining 0 Mining 0
Other 0
This includes detailed Environmental Due Diligence
Numbers reflect in-scope transactions Infrastructure 0 Infrastructure 0
and Technical Advisor reports being a key
requirement in our analysis of Project Finance completed in the year that reached financial Oil & gas 0 Oil & gas 0 Loans by country designation
close by 31/12/21.
transactions, alongside engagement with Designated country 0
Power 3 Power 1
environmental consultants, enabling us to make
Non-designated country 0
responsible business risk decisions. Other 0 Other 0
Loans by country designation Loans by country designation
Designated country 3 Designated country 1
Non-designated country 0 Non-designated country 0
Category A, B and C loans with Category A, B and C loans with
an independent review 3 an independent review 1
1. Category A: Projects with potentially significant adverse social or
environmental impacts that are diverse, irreversible or
unprecedented.
Category B: Projects with potentially limited adverse social and
environmental impacts that are few in number, generally
site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through
mitigation measures.
Category C: Projects with minimal or no social or environmental
impacts.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 42
Helping Britain Recover Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy
sw Scottish Widows Responsible investment and stewardship These statements and policies are consistent During 2021, we made a decision to apply the most 2021 key areas of progress
with the overall Group ambition, which is progressive voting policy on ESG available to us, • In early 2021, we launched our inaugural Scottish
to align lending and investments with a just relating to our share of votes in pooled funds with Widows Responsible Investment and
Scottish Widows was set up in 1815 to take care of
transition to a sustainable and low carbon one of our managers, which is expected to come Stewardship Report, later becoming signatories
women and children who had lost their fathers, brothers economy, thus reducing our exposure to ESG into force in 2022. to the Financial Reporting Council’s 2020 UK
and climate-related risks and maximising the Stewardship Code
and husbands in the Napoleonic Wars, taking its name value of investments in the long term. In early 2021, we conducted a targeted stewardship • In 2020, we collaborated with BlackRock to design
engagement with companies that had been and launch the Climate Transition World Equity
after the people it was founded to look after. Now more
As an asset owner, we work with the largest of our identified as in breach of the requirements of the Fund, which Scottish Widows seeded and has
than 200 years on, we look after almost six million investee companies to engender positive change UNGC, and in the second and third quarters, we continued to invest in, reaching in excess of £5
and enhance their approach to ESG issues. carried out two further engagement activities: billion by end 2021. The fund uses a new data-
customers across the UK. Today our commitment is still • Related to climate transition, we focused on the driven investment approach from BlackRock which
companies in our top 100 holdings that are measures a company’s exposure to transition risks
the same – to help people plan for their financial futures. Responsible stewardship
considered to be in the most polluting sectors, and opportunities, providing investors with the
Stewardship is the management of our investments but are not covered by Climate Action 100+ opportunity to invest in the transition to a greener
to create sustainable benefits in the long term for • Engagement with our top 50 holdings on economy. BlackRock’s approach scores companies
That purpose is more important than ever in a world We aim to address material financial risks and our clients, savers, the economy, the environment cognitive diversity in Boards on energy production, clean technology, energy
where COVID-19 has dramatically altered our ways opportunities linked to ESG factors in the and society. It includes challenging the companies management, water management, and waste
of living and working and the consequences of investments we make, and this is the foundation of we invest in to behave more sustainably and Our stewardship priorities management. The fund is tilted in favour of
climate change are already having a profound our Responsible Investment Framework. responsibly. We hold shares on behalf of Climate change companies with higher scores in these areas, while
impact on our environment. customers who invest with us which means we are We strive to influence the companies we invest retaining diversification across sectors and regions
Our Responsible Investment Framework and a significant shareholder in many of the world’s in to make positive changes. Starting in 2020, we • In November 2021, we launched the Find Your
Scottish Widows looks after the retirement savings supporting policies apply across our entire companies. As a result, we are the stewards of these have focused our stewardship activity on selecting Impact feature inside the Scottish Widows app. It
of millions of hard-working people and our role investment book and our Responsible Investment investments and have a responsibility to manage companies which are failing to address climate assesses the carbon footprint, waste to landfill, and
is to help them plan for their long-term financial team is working with government, regulators and and protect them in the best way possible. change risks. This is in line with our aspirations as Board diversity of the companies within a
prosperity. To do this, it’s important we continue the pensions industry to unlock opportunities to a member of the Institutional Investors Group on customer’s pension and then provides this
to use our scale and influence, along with our invest in the infrastructure required to successfully We have been a longstanding signatory of the Climate Change. We challenge these companies information at portfolio, fund or holding level. This
fund manager relationships, to challenge the transition to a low carbon economy, like renewable UN Principles for Responsible Investment and are to report on the financial impact of climate change allows customers to see where their money is
companies we invest in on our customers’ behalf energy facilities. committed to being responsible stewards of the on their business, to improve their business invested and the impact these companies have on
to be the sustainable businesses of the future. assets we oversee on our customers’ behalf. practices and reduce their carbon footprint. We the world around them. Additionally it will allow
Executive oversight is provided by the When we have a significant investment in a company additionally recognised companies in our portfolio members to give their views on a range of issues,
Additional links: Insurance Responsible Business Executive and have concerns that its business practices are that have performed well in reducing their carbon telling Scottish Widows (and their scheme trustees
Committee, which is a sub-committee of the not aligned with the long-term interests of our footprints, providing positive feedback and where applicable) what matters to them; we will use
2021 Climate Report Insurance and Wealth Executive Committee. customers, we’ll always engage with them first. encouraging them to continue the hard work. this to inform our stewardship activity. In the longer
Scottish Widows 2021 TCFD Report (March 2022) This committee, with strong Board support, Where we don’t see material progress, we’ll use our term, this information will influence our responsible
plays a pivotal role in setting Scottish Widows’ shareholder rights to challenge the company, and Cognitive diversity investment strategy, and will also, where
Lloyds Banking Group Sector Statements sustainability agenda and provides strategic will sell our shares where it is clear that progress Our second stewardship priority is cognitive appropriate, be shared with client companies to
Scottish Widows Responsible direction to our responsible investment activity. won’t be made. diversity on corporate Boards; we believe that more inform their own sustainability practices
Investment Framework We have externally published Lloyds Banking diverse Boards make better decisions and deliver
Whilst we delegate most of our shareholder voting stronger results in the long term. In October 2021
Scottish Widows Stewardship Policy Group sector statements across a range of sectors
to our fund managers, we work with them to we published a report Great Minds Don’t Think
which our new direct lending transactions need
Scottish Widows Exclusions Policy understand their voting practices and monitor Alike in collaboration with Dr. Johanne Ward-
to meet, and our mandated asset managers
Scottish Widows Principles are required to follow the Scottish Widows their voting activities. This ensures their approach to Grosvold, a senior lecturer at the University of Bath’s
of Responsible Investment Report Stewardship Policy and Exclusions Policy. issues like climate change preserves or enhances School of Management, to explore the challenges
the value of investments. We will act if we have facing Boards as they look to improve diversity and
Scottish Widows Climate Action Plan
material concerns. reduce groupthink in senior positions.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 43
Helping Britain Recover Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy
2021 key areas of progress continued • In mid 2021, we carried out an engagement • We responded to the joint Discussion Paper (DP) The Taskforce on Pension Scheme Voting Scottish Widows was in addition a signatory to the
• In July 2021, we launched our refreshed Scottish programme relating to climate. This was a from the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), Implementation was set up by the Minister for 2021 Global Investor Statement to Governments
Widows Environmental Fund. The fund, which dual-pronged approach, focusing on companies the Bank of England and the Financial Conduct Pensions and Financial Inclusion in December 2020 on the Climate Crisis, ahead of COP26, asking
dates back to 1989, is now fossil fuel free. It has a in our largest 100 holdings. We had identified that Authority (FCA), DP 21/2: Diversity and inclusion to address problems in the voting of equity shares governments to take specific and immediate
dual approach: invest in companies which make a there were a number of companies in which we in the financial sector – working together to drive by pension schemes. A key outcome of the taskforce actions to meet the Paris Climate Agreement
positive impact on the environment through their have large holdings, which operate in sectors change. We support regulators’ increased was its report, published in September 2021, which goals and well as being a signatory to two parallel
products and services, and invest in considered to be the most polluting, but which attention to diversity in the financial sector and the we played a key role in developing. The report letters to the UK and EU Governments, urging
environmental leaders – companies making a were not included in the Climate Action 100+ lists. inclusion of cognitive diversity as part of those recommends changes in behaviours needed from them to deliver a clean, just and sustainable
difference with their progressive policies We wrote to these companies requesting that considerations. We are also engaging with the service providers to facilitate more voting and better- recovery from COVID-19, thereby providing the
• Throughout 2021, we have conducted regular they develop and share with us robust plans to financial sector on diversity directly through our quality voting by occupational pension schemes. basis of a more inclusive and resilient economy.
oversight of our key fund managers on their reach net zero. In particular, we requested that support for the Asset Owner Diversity Charter. We are actively working on the recommendations
stewardship activities, covering engagement, they make disclosures around emissions The Asset Owner Diversity Charter was formed in the report through our involvement in Launched at the 2012 UN Conference on
voting and policy advocacy, across environmental (including Scope 3), align reporting to TCFD, with an objective to formalise a set of actions that the Occupational Pension Council. Sustainable Development, the United Nations
factors (like climate, biodiversity, waste and water make short and medium-term targets (including asset owners can commit to improve diversity, in Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP
pollution), social factors activities across several capex commitments), and link executive all forms, across the investment industry. The We are a member of the Association of British FI) Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) serve
factors like human capital management, human accountability and compensation to climate charter includes an Asset Manager Diversity and Insurers’ (ABI’s) Board and the Board’s Climate as a global framework for the insurance industry to
rights, equal pay and working conditions, targets. At the same time, we wrote to companies Inclusion Questionnaire which aims to standardise Change Sub-Group, as well as its Climate address environmental, social and governance risks
diversity, equity and inclusion, supply chain in which we have large holdings, which had been complex diversity metrics. Change Working Group. The collaborative and opportunities. Our in-house Weather Modelling
management and governance factors like Board identified on the Financial Times’ Europe’s work of this group resulted in the publication of and Sustainability teams formed part of an industry
composition, independence and diversity, Climate Leaders List, recognising their progress Partnerships, initiatives and ABI’s climate change roadmap in summer 2021, working group with other PSI members to produce a
corporate lobbying and executive remuneration. and encouraging them to press forward on their covering short and medium-term decarbonisation report on piloting the TCFD recommendations with
We have discussed the different data and decarbonisation journeys collaborations milestones for the insurance sector, proposals on a focus on medium to long-term scenario analysis.
information sources they use to inform their • Later in 2021, we conducted a range of activity Scottish Widows recognises that we can be most how insurers can provide a third of investments
investment thesis on ESG and their stewardship related to our second stewardship priority, effective through collaboration and we continue needed to meet the UK’s decarbonisation We have been a longstanding signatory of the
activities, with the understanding that the data cognitive diversity on company Boards. Scottish to work with other external bodies, organisations targets and plans to support customers in UN Principles for Responsible Investment and
sets are inconsistent and issues are complex, and Widows published a report Great Minds Don’t and initiatives pursuing responsible investment making sustainable choices, and much more. are committed to being responsible stewards of
a wide variety of sources should be considered in Think Alike in collaboration with Dr. Johanne and climate-related policy or advocacy initiatives: the assets we oversee on our customers’ behalf.
decision-making Ward-Grosvold, a senior lecturer at the University Scottish Widows helped create the IIGCC Net
• Towards the end of 2020 and in early 2021, we of Bath’s School of Management, to explore the The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) Zero Investment Framework, published in 2021, Thematic investment options
conducted direct engagement activities with challenges facing Boards as they look to improve has supported the creation of the Occupational leading on the Listed Equity & Corporate Fixed
companies that had been identified in violations diversity and reduce groupthink in senior Pensions Stewardship Council in mid-2021. The Income working group. Since publication, several Responsible investment is much greater than
of the United Nations Global Compact, including positions council provides pension schemes with a forum for members of our Responsible Investment team have stewardship and collaboration. As part of our
engagement on human rights and labour rights, sharing experience, best practice and research, and been participating in working groups focusing on Responsible Investment Framework, we have
with some specific focus in selected cases on providing practical support. Scottish Widows has developing detailed guidance on climate solutions, reviewed our fund range to allow customers, should
labour practices and the impact of those during For further details please refer to the Scottish Widows been an inaugural member of this council, leading material emissions, and stewardship engagement they wish to, to align their pension investments
COVID-19 and freedom for collective bargaining Responsible Investment and Stewardship Report. on its ‘service providers’ strand, with a focus on Asset for users of the Net Zero Investment Framework. with their own values and priorities. In particular,
Managers with an intention to develop a stronger they may wish to invest in companies involved
overall voice of asset owners within the market in providing climate solutions and effecting
and remove barriers to pension scheme voting. positive social and environmental change.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 44
Helping Britain Recover About the fund Environmental impact Environmental leaders Fossil fuel exclusions
Accelerate the transition to It’s a fossil fuel free and UK-centric fund that is
actively managed to achieve a positive
a low carbon economy These companies contribute directly to better These companies are ‘best in class’ when it comes to Crude oil, coal and gas are fossil fuels. They were
environmental impact.
environmental outcomes through their products having sustainable environmental policies which formed over millions of years from the remains of
and services. They have a large proportion of relate to their business. These companies can come dead plants and animals. Because of their origins,
The fund’s dual approach is to invest in
revenue directly associated with facilitating a from any sector (energy, consumer goods, financials, fossil fuels have a high carbon content. For more
companies that make a positive impact on the
cleaner, more sustainable human-built and natural telecommunication services etc) and they will not than a century, burning fossil fuels has generated
environment through their products and
environment. Companies that fit into this category typically be specifically targeted at the green most of the world’s energy. The energy provides
services, and in environmental leaders in terms
can often be at an earlier stage of maturity – in other economy. Nonetheless, these companies play an electricity and heat and transportation as well as
of making a difference through their
words they tend to be small or medium in size – and important role in environmental protection through, feeding the processes that make a huge range of
progressive policies.
In focus involved in more capital-intensive research or for example, living up to their progressive policies products from steel to plastics.
development than more mature companies. and procedures that:
Scottish Widows • Ensure they have responsible sourcing of But we’re paying the price. Using fossil fuels for
sustainable natural resources in their own supply energy has taken an enormous toll on the
Environmental Fund, chains environment — from air and water pollution to global
• Don’t facilitate environmental harm through warming, as well as all the negative impacts from
commercial lending, insurance, or other financial petroleum-based products such as plastics and
products chemicals.
In 2021, we launched our refreshed
• Promote environmentally responsible consumer
Scottish Widows Environmental Fund. behaviour in their products or services through So, in this fund, we won’t invest in any companies
The fund, which dates back to 1989, activities such as product recycling or making net that derive revenue from fossil fuels1. This includes
zero corporate commitments extraction, production, supply, generation, owning
is now fossil fuel free. It has a dual
reserves or receiving revenue from fossil fuels.
approach: invest in companies
which make a positive impact on In addition, we exclude companies that receive
revenue from nuclear energy, including nuclear
the environment through their
uranium mining.
products and services, and invest
Environmental impact themes
in environmental leaders – companies
making a difference with their
progressive policies. Investors in
this fund are therefore investing
in companies directly contributing
to better outcomes and a more
sustainable environment as well
Energy transition Environmental Environmental industry Low carbon consumer Circular economy
as best-in-class companies from
infrastructure
outside of the green economy. Companies whose technologies Companies whose products or Companies that enable Companies involved in the
contribute to or assist the transition Companies that finance, build or services reduce the environmental consumers to live more sustainably. use of, and investment in,
to low carbon energy. operate energy infrastructure that impact of industrial activity. recycling technologies.
contributes to supporting a net z Examples
Examples zero world. Examples Use of recycled/recyclable Examples
Wind, solar, energy storage, fuel Clean air catalyst technologies, LED packaging, plant-based products, Recycling and waste management
Examples lighting, thermal and water sustainable land management technologies, energy from waste
Wind farms, solar farms, anaerobic management, building insulation policies
digestion, energy from waste
1 Excludes companies deriving revenue from: fossil fuel reserves (if there is evidence of ownership), fossil fuel extraction and production (if companies received any revenue from thermal coal, oil and gas extraction and production), fossil fuel processing and supply (if companies
received any revenue from thermal coal or oil and gas value chain), fossil fuel power generation (if companies receive any revenue from fossil fuel (thermal coal, liquid fuel and natural gas) power generation), nuclear energy (if companies receive any revenue from nuclear power
generation, nuclear uranium mining and depleted uranium mining), or those that do not meet Scottish Widows’ other house exclusions policies – i.e., controversial weapons and UN Global Compact violators (below 0.5% materiality threshold).
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 45
Helping Britain Recover Accelerate the transition to a low carbon economy
In focus
Scottish Widows Ethical Fund
When it comes to specific ethical investment solutions, Scottish
Widows targets high ethical standards across a range of issues that
our customers care about.
The Scottish Widows Ethical Fund goes beyond the baseline Scottish
Widows Exclusions Policy to remove from its investment universe
Exclusions across the portfolio
companies in sectors often considered undesirable from a moral
We aim to reduce long-term investment
standpoint, such as alcohol, animal testing and gambling. risk by excluding investment in companies
which fail to meet the minimum criteria and/
Additional links: Screening or invest in activities that are outside of our
2021 Climate Report We recognise that there are certain companies Responsible Investment Framework.
and activities some of our customers prefer not
Scottish Widows 2021 TCFD Report (March 2022) to invest in. Screening is effective in narrowing We have raised the bar across all of our
Lloyds Banking Group Sector Statements down a fund’s investment universe. investments by excluding companies that
pose the most severe investment risk due to
Scottish Widows Responsible
the nature of their businesses: companies
Investment Framework Investment in ethical leaders and
which derive more than 10 per cent of their
Scottish Widows Stewardship Policy driving high ethical standards revenue from thermal coal and tar sands,
Scottish Widows Exclusions Policy The screening leaves a pool of companies which manufacturers of controversial weapons
meet our initial ethical criteria from which our fund and violators of international standards on
Scottish Widows Principles
managers can make their investment selections human rights, labour rights, environment
of Responsible Investment Report
of leaders in ethical practices and standards. Our and corruption – unless the size and type
Scottish Widows Climate Action Plan fund managers also have strong track records of investment mean we can influence
in working closely with the companies they positive change in their business models.
invest in on our customers’ behalf to drive high
standards in relation to areas like labour issues,
human rights and the environment. We hold our
fund managers to account with regular reviews
of their investment selections. We also consider
emerging ethical themes and conduct research
to monitor people’s changing attitudes.
Our approach for the Ethical Fund • Fossil fuels
is to exclude a range of business • Gambling
• Pornography
activities and practices to meet the • Military involvement and weapons
needs of many ethical investors: • Nuclear energy
• Companies violating international standards
• Alcohol and tobacco on anti-corruption, business practices,
• Animal testing environment, human rights, labour and
workplace issues
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 46
Helping Britain Recover Building an inclusive and diverse organisation 47
Supporting our colleagues 50
Supporting our communities 54
Build an
inclusive society
and organisation
Supporting the achievement
of the following SDGs
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 47
Helping Britain Recover
Build an inclusive society and organisation
Building an inclusive and diverse organisation
Our 2021 inclusion and diversity performance
We believe that economic and social recovery
should be truly inclusive and involve communities Gender 2021 2020 All data as at 31 December 2021. The Group Executive
Committee (GEC) assists the Group Chief Executive in
across the UK’s nations and regions. Board members Male 6 8 strategic, cross-business or Group-wide matters and inputs
to the Board. GEC and direct reports includes the Group
Female 4 4 Chief Executive, GEC and colleagues who report to a
member or attendee of GEC, excluding administrative or
GEC and GEC direct reports Male 78 86 executive support roles (personal assistant, executive
assistant).
Female 42 41
Inclusion and Diversity Building a truly inclusive organisation requires us to Reporting: A colleague is an individual who is paid via the
Senior Managers Male 4,368 4,540 Group’s payroll and employed on a permanent or fixed term
We’re aiming to create a fully inclusive environment be anti-racist, where all colleagues speak up, contract (employed for a limited period). Includes parental
that is representative of modern-day Britain challenge and act to take an active stance against Female 2,640 2,670 leavers, and internationals (UK includes Guernsey, Isle of
and where everyone can reach their potential. racism and discrimination of any kind. Man, Jersey and Gibraltar). Excludes leavers, Group
Colleagues Male 27,216 28,948 Non-Executive Directors, contractors, temps, and agency
In an increasingly diverse society, we can only staff.
truly become the best bank for customers if our In 2020, we launched our Race Action Plan to drive Female 37,256 39,817
workforce represents the society that we serve. cultural change, recruitment and progression across Diversity: Calculation is based on headcount, not FTE
(full-time employee value). Data source is HR system
the Group. At the end of 2020, we broadened our (Workday) containing all permanent colleague details.
As the first FTSE 100 company to set targets to plan to go further and work beyond our own internal Gender: Includes international, those on parental/maternity
Ethnicity leave, absent without leave (AWOL) and long-term sick.
increase both gender and ethnic diversity at senior boundaries by actively supporting Black heritage
Excludes contractors, Group Non-Executive Directors,
levels, we continue to invest in making the Group a communities through our partnerships with % of Board members from a minority ethnic background 20% 8.3% temps and agency staff. All other diversity information is UK
leading inclusive employer, where the unique Foundervine and the Black Business Network. payroll only. All diversity information is based on voluntary
differences of our colleagues are valued. % of Senior Managers from a minority ethnic background 8.8% 7.7% self-declaration, apart from gender, so is not 100%
representative; our systems do not record diversity data of
We have set aspirations to increase representation of colleagues who have not declared this information.
% of colleagues from a minority ethnic background 11.3% 10.6%
Our focus on inclusion and diversity is a source of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues to 13 per
Ethnic background: Comprising mixed/multiple, Asian,
pride for our colleagues. This year, according to our cent at senior management levels, and increase Black, Middle Eastern, North African and other (non-white)
colleague engagement survey, 89 per cent agreed Black heritage representation in senior roles to at ethnicities.
that the Group is an inclusive place to work and least 3 per cent by 2025, aligning with the overall UK Disability
Colleague grades: From A through to G, Executive (X),
approximately 50 per cent of our colleagues labour market. % of colleagues who disclose that they have a disability 3.7% 3.2% Executive (EX) and Executive Director (ED), A being the
belong to or support one of our five employee lowest.
diversity networks. Leading from the top, the Board exceeded the
Senior Managers: Grades F, G, Executive (F being the lowest).
Parker review recommendation of at least one
Ethnic diversity Black, Asian or Minority Ethnic Board member by Sexual orientation and gender identity Indicator is subject to Limited ISAE 3000 (revised)
assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2021 Annual
Our aim is to increase the ethnic diversity of our 2021.
Responsible Business Reporting. Deloitte’s 2021 assurance
workforce and unlock the potential of our Black, % of colleagues who disclose that they are lesbian, gay, statement and the 2021 Reporting Criteria are available
Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues. We have a Our Race Advisory Panel, made up of 23 colleagues online at https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/
bisexual or transgender 2.5% 2.3% who-we-are/responsible-business/downloads.html.
comprehensive Race Action Plan to help us meet of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic heritage,
our goals. continues to play a critical role in helping us to shape
the diversity initiatives that we need to deliver
sustainable change.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 48
January – March July – September
• We completed the recruitment of our Black Business • We completed the delivery of our Race Education
Advisory Committee, chaired by leading businesswoman programme for line managers to more than 9,500 line
Helping Britain Recover In focus
and former Cabinet Office adviser Claudine Reid MBE. All managers and launched our Race Education programme
Build an inclusive society members bring with them a diverse set of experiences and for Senior Leaders Our Race Education programme
and organisation expertise, which will equip them to investigate in detail the • We worked in collaboration with the Black Business for Senior Leaders
barriers to growth for the Black business community. The Network to produce the ‘Black. British. In Business &
committee met for the first time in February to discuss Proud’ report. It explores the full entrepreneurial journey We have developed and launched a comprehensive Race Education
plans and ambitions for their work for Black business owners in Britain, highlighting some of programme for our colleagues; this started in 2020 with a series of
Our 2021
• The Lloyds Bank Foundation for England and Wales the barriers to growth and unique challenges faced by sessions for all our senior leaders with external experts to help them
committed 23 per cent of its funding to support Black, Black-owned businesses in the UK have effective conversations about race. Since these sessions, we have
progress on our Asian and Minority Ethnic led charities • We launched a new practical guide, titled ‘Championing delivered in-depth workshops to senior leaders to address some of the
• We completed delivery of specialist race education Modern Britain’ for marketing and communications specific challenges they experience and explore practical ways they can
Race Action Plan training to around 500 colleagues across critical ‘people professionals. The guide identifies guiding principles that have an impact across decision-making and cultural and behavioural
process’ teams and launched our Race Education underpin marketing communications to ensure positive standards, as well as helping them to have more authentic
programme for line managers and progressive portrayals of ethnicity and race conversations about race. 73 per cent of our Senior Managers have
attended a session and have described the workshop as enlightening,
• We launched a new series of ‘Unfiltered’ films and live
inspiring and eye-opening.
events featuring real talk between real people that work
within the Group, having open and honest conversations
Gwynne Master, Managing Director, Working Capital, Client Products
and exploring topics that colleagues told us they wanted to
told us about her experience on the programme and her observations
know more about
since we launched it and the Race Action Plan.
“The workshop was a great opportunity to listen to others, learn
more, share thoughts, refine my thinking, and reconsider my
own next steps. I had several lightbulb moments during the
April – June October – December training. Western education around race is lacking at best,
• We collaborated with the City Mental Health Alliance on • Our bespoke Talent Identification & Sponsorship deliberately biased at its worst. There are so many subjects to
explore in greater depth, in order to better drive change.
the ‘Mental Health and Race at Work’ report, which seeks programme has supported five Black Senior Managers into
to build the business community’s understanding of the senior leadership roles As a result of the training, my team is now more aware of not only
challenges faced by Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic • We completed a full review of all our people processes and the importance of building a diverse team, but the benefits. As a leader,
employees at work, and how these impact their mental agreed actions and recommendations to remove any issues delivering race education to all of our colleagues is essential. We’re
health of bias and deliver a proportional outcome for our Black, on a journey to achieve best- in-class diverse teams across all of our
• We launched the Black Entrepreneurs: Community Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues. We are building on businesses, reflecting the society we serve. There are plenty of in-depth
Conversation, a series of events to build relationships and broadening this across other demographic groups studies highlighting superior results achieved by diverse teams. Not
trust within the community • We delivered the last of three Race Education ‘Next Steps’ only is action around race the right thing to do, it’s the smartest way
forward. Race education and action raises the bar for all of us – and
• We developed and launched the Black Business Resource webinars for line managers with an external expert to
that’s a good thing for our clients, colleagues and shareholders.
Hub in collaboration with the Black Business Network – enable line managers to ask questions and deepen
which is a directory of business resources and understanding following their training to help supplement Since the launch of the Race Education programme, engagement
organisations that support Black and diverse entrepreneurs their learning around race has ramped up significantly across the Group,
for the lifecycle of their businesses • We completed the delivery of our Race Education across leaders and line managers. Teams are far more aware of
• We launched refreshed inclusive hiring guidance and programme for Senior Leaders the importance of racial diversity, the seriousness of the issues to
rolled out inclusive hiring masterclasses reaching over • We launched an immersive Race Education for All be addressed, the role that they will play as individuals and the
1,600 hiring managers and colleagues Colleagues e-learning module to our entire workforce, actions they will take. The pace is picking up and this is exciting.
• Colleagues shared stories about their heritage as part of designed to help colleagues identify racism and
Windrush Day on 22 June microaggressions, promoting awareness, allyship and Race diversity sits at the very heart of our Group objectives. We’ve
action made powerful strides on gender diversity and the same is underway
regarding race. We have much more to do but momentum is growing.
• We published our second annual Ethnicity Pay Gap Report
Since the launch of the Race Action Plan, I’ve been energised by the
• We signed the Charter for Black Talent in Finance and the great expansion of knowledge, deep focus on delivering change,
Professions to enhance equality of opportunity in these and action plans being implemented and executed across teams.”
sectors in the UK
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 49
Helping Britain Recover Build an inclusive society and organisation
Build an inclusive organisation Parental leave support Our Lloyds Bank, Halifax and Bank of Scotland
Gender diversity We continued to support our working parents with branches in Glasgow, Manchester and Birmingham
We champion gender equality through promoting parental leave transition coaching to help colleagues featured Pride installations to show support for the
a strong pipeline of executive female talent for Our women’s network, Breakthrough, has 15,000 and their line managers manage the transition physical Pride events taking place across the cities,
the future. In 2021, we set a new aspiration for a members and 4,000 mentors. Breakthrough from work, to taking time off as a parent, and then With more than 5,000 members, our LGBT+ and a selection of our offices across the UK
leadership team that reflects the society we serve, regularly runs events to support colleagues in preparing to return to work again. We have also colleague network, Rainbow, plays a pivotal role in displayed Pride branding.
of 50 per cent women in senior roles by 2025. fulfilling their career potential. This year introduced two new support tools for colleagues: a our approach to supporting our LGBT+ colleagues.
Our progress has been recognised externally for Breakthrough has run dedicated months of activity new Maternity Colleague Journey on our HR system In 2021, Rainbow launched its third LGBT+ and Allies Supporting disability
the third year in the 2021 Bloomberg Gender- focused around Confidence and Mentoring, which brings together all the required information role models list, which shines a light on colleagues The Group has the ambition of supporting our
Equality Index, and for the tenth consecutive year touching on topics such as imposter syndrome, and for colleagues in one place and new maternity and within the Group who’ve been nominated for their colleagues with disabilities and long-term health
in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women. how menopause can impact on career confidence, adoption pay calculators that enable colleagues outstanding impact on LGBT+ inclusion. Senior conditions to be the best that they can be, and
as well as a 12-week personal development to view their projected income whilst on leave. leaders from across the Group have also been to be valued for who they are. This continued
Our Board is committed to maintaining at least programme for colleagues to follow. More than recognised with external LGBT+ awards. Rainbow drive behind our disability inclusion journey is
three female Board members and over time will 1,700 colleagues took part in the programme which Our Family Matters Network for parents and has also created a new Mental Health Advocate recognised through the Group holding the Business
aim to reach 50 per cent male and female equated to six hours’ personal development over carers now has over 8,000 members and holds programme based on the Group’s already Disability Forum Gold Standard accreditation,
representation on the Board to match the ambition the 12 weeks. The network also holds regular events which cover topics from caring for children/ successful existing Mental Health Advocate and retaining Disability Confident status from
that the Group has set for female senior executives. sessions showcasing senior female leaders across adults and managing a career, to specific support programme. This includes additional training and the Department for Work and Pensions.
Reflecting these aspirations, the Board will aim to the Group, which helps colleagues at all grades for fathers. support tailored to the LGBT+ community and
meet any recommendations set out by the FTSE across the Group learn the various routes that comprises over 80 advocates. As a result of listening to colleagues via informal
Women Leaders Review. leaders have taken to get into leadership roles. Sexual orientation and gender identity two-way feedback sessions, we have now agreed
We have undertaken a review of the experience of enhanced disability options on our HR system,
We are proud to have created an inclusive and open
We have continued to drive progress around female In October, the Group launched a new initiative to working environment for our LGBT+ colleagues. This our Trans* colleagues when they decide to enabling colleagues to identify their whole self. We
talent development, progression and recruitment provide more support to colleagues when it comes year we have continued our #AlwaysProud social transition, and or share their gender at work. As a have also introduced a workplace adjustment
through our existing programmes and activities, to the menopause. This includes enhanced medical media campaign because, for us, Pride is an all-year result, a series of improvements will be made across passport for our colleagues which aids with
such as our Women in Leadership and Sponsorship support and care, a dedicated menopause helpline, celebration of all sexualities and identities. We all processes and training awareness in early 2022. communication, and helps place more importance
programmes for middle management women. Our a new online hub, and changes to our Health and marked visibility and awareness events throughout on and awareness of workplace adjustments.
Women in Leadership programme has resulted in Wellbeing Policy to ensure anyone can get the the year, such as International Day Against To mark Pride in 2021, our Rainbow network held a Following the incredible success of our Mental
30 per cent of attendees achieving a promotion support they need. Training has also been Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, LGBT+ series of virtual events and activities for colleagues Health Advocate programme, this year we have also
within two years and our Sponsorship programme developed to support managers to hold confident History Month, Trans* visibility day, Bi Visibility Day, taking place over 16 weeks. The events and rolled out Accessibility Advocates which helps us
has resulted in promotion rates four times greater conversations with their teams and offer support to Lesbian Visibility Day, and also shared a series of dedicated Pride hub resulted in over 18,000 further our disability inclusion strategy, and increase
than the Group average for female progression. Our their people when needed. LGBTea Break conversations between our LGBT+ colleague engagements. During Pride, we awareness and understanding.
achievements are reflected in senior women from colleagues and social media influencers. To inspire encouraged colleagues to recognise role models
the Group having been recognised in the Cranfield our LGBT+ colleagues and encourage allyship, we who contribute to LGBT+ inclusion within the Group
Women to Watch list, and at the Women in Banking have hosted a range of events featuring high-profile, and wider community.
& Finance Awards. diverse LGBT+ speakers.
Our Returners programme, now in its sixth
year, targets professional women, as well as
men, who have been on a career break of
at least two years. The programme enables
professionals to resume their career at the level 15,000 5,000
they operated at prior to their career break. We
have a strong female uptake on this scheme
which has resulted in professional opportunities colleagues are members of our colleagues are members of our
for 122 talented individuals since its launch. Breakthrough network Rainbow LGBT+ network
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 50
Helping Britain Recover Build an inclusive society and organisation
Supporting our colleagues The proposition focuses on three areas: raising
Health and wellbeing The four pillars of our wellbeing programmes:
Menopause support awareness of the menopause and its impact;
We know the success of our business is We remain committed to supporting the health
improving day-to-day life at work through resources,
dependent on our colleagues and we and wellbeing of all colleagues and offer a range of Healthy bodies 30 per cent of our workforce is made up of women manager training, events and a review of existing
aim to look for ways to help them feel easily accessible support services for colleagues • Bupa private medical cover aged over 40, which means up to 21,000 colleagues touch-points such as uniforms; and medical support
and their families to use. This year, 83 per cent of • Office equipment support could be experiencing the menopause. Societally, provided by our Bupa private medical benefit.
more supported, in control and colleagues said they felt the Group had supported • New menopause proposition menopause is a taboo topic and within Lloyds
confident about their future. their wellbeing in 2021, and although this is down • Workplace adjustments at home Banking Group it’s no different, with three out The proposition was aimed not just at women
from 88 per cent in 2020, it’s nine percentage • Occupational health services of four women saying they’re not comfortable going through menopause, or those who have it
points higher than the UK banking and Insurance
talking about it at work. Yet its impact can be to come, but those who play a role in supporting
norm.
Colleague engagement huge, with 30 per cent of women considering someone through it at work or in their personal
More than 64,000 colleagues work across the Group Healthy minds leaving work because of it. As an organisation we life. To help us really grab colleagues’ attention,
and we welcome their views and opinions on a Our approach to wellbeing is to deliver support • Mental Health Advocates want to support all of our people to be healthy we launched a partnership with Davina McCall.
range of topics to enable us to employ and retain in four pillars and in 2020 we developed a new • Optimal Leadership Resilience at work, and reach their full potential. We spoke Colleague reaction has been overwhelmingly
hub to help colleagues access the support
talent across the organisation. We want to ensure programme to women, and men, across the organisation to positive. In the first two months, the launch article
that all our people have a positive experience and they need. Content is regularly updated and • Headspace hear how the menopause has impacted them received 16,000 views, 9,000 visits were made to
we listen to our people in many ways and respond to the hub promoted, and as a result, around • Employee Assistance programme and what support they feel is needed, and a new the Menopause Hub and our launch interview
their views. 56,000 visits are made on average each month • Your Resilience menopause proposition was launched on World with Davina McCall was viewed over 7,000 times.
by our colleagues. Wellbeing remains a key • Occupational health services Menopause Day (18 October 2021) as a result.
We conducted our Pulse survey early in 2021 though theme in our internal communications, which
far fewer colleagues took part than in previous have assisted colleagues to feel supported
surveys (57 per cent). From this we identified that and empowered to make healthy choices. Healthy finances
overall engagement had started to fall slightly from • M-word campaign for colleagues to
the all-time high in 2020. Despite this, colleagues felt break down the money taboo and
their wellbeing continued to be supported by the improve financial education
Group and their leaders. The Financial Services • Tools and resources to improve
Culture Board (FSCB) assessment also showed that financial education
on many metrics we performed better when • Employee Assistance programme –
compared to pre-pandemic levels but had not debt and financial wellbeing support
retained the high scores of 2021; indeed the FSCB • Ongoing review and provision of
noted that the ‘COVID glow’ had faded across their support through financial wellbeing/
respondents in 2021. resilience colleague campaigns
Our annual autumn survey was completed by 71 per
cent of the Group and confirmed that overall
Healthy relationships
engagement was significantly lower than in 2020.
• My Family Care
Despite lower engagement, we have seen an
• Domestic and economic abuse
increase in overall mood linked to better work life
support
balance, good teamwork and strong manager
• Employee Assistance programme
capabilities. This survey also allowed colleagues to
– your coaching and support
directly inform the future of the Group with more
• Pandemic Line Manager support
than 44,000 comments about the areas for future
guide
focus, particularly relating to strategy, purpose and
colleague experience.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 51
Helping Britain Recover Build an inclusive society and organisation
Working with Mental Health UK to support our
colleagues Optimal Leadership Resilience Programme
Working with Mental Health UK in June 2021, we (OLRP)
launched a holistic six-month ‘test and learn’ pilot Our Employee Assistance programme (EAP)
Partnering with The Insight Network, OLRP supports
to further support colleagues who receive calls
2,000 leaders across the Group to achieve peak The EAP, run by Validium, provides colleagues and
from distressed customers who are financially
leadership performance. The programme, which their families with free confidential support and
vulnerable. Whilst common practice in the NHS and
concludes in 2022, is delivered by a team of highly advice on a range of issues from health and
charity sector, this is an industry-leading pilot and a
skilled psychologists and clinicians, and teaches wellbeing related issues to financial issues. It is
unique proposition for a commercial organisation.
coping strategies and resilience tools. available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, ensuring
that support is always available. From January to
Two mental health specialists have been
October 2021, over 24,000 calls and formal
seconded into the business from Mental Health
Headspace counselling sessions took place. While calls are up
UK to work with around 200 colleagues and test
67 per cent, counselling cases are down 10 per cent,
a range of colleague wellbeing interventions,
The Group has extended our partnership with indicating that colleagues are taking steps to
including debrief calls, therapeutic coaching,
Headspace for a further two years, offering all proactively manage their mental health.
and peer group discussions. Initial findings and
colleagues a free subscription to the market-leading
feedback from the pilot have has been positive:
meditation app, providing access to mindfulness
• 77% of colleagues strongly agree, and agree with
modules covering a range of topics from stress to
the statement: “The colleague mental health
self-esteem. These initiatives continue to help us to
support pilot is helping me to maintain or improve
change our culture around mental health, and
my mental health”
empower our colleagues to openly talk about, and
• 74% of colleagues strongly agree and agree with
take ownership for their own wellbeing and take
the statement: “The colleague mental health
action to support it. Over 18,000 colleagues have
Bupa Colleague mental health support pilot is helping me feel better equipped
registered and 20 per cent are using the Headspace
to support our customers”
app regularly.
All colleagues are offered private medical cover Our mental health approach allows our colleagues • Colleague confidence in discussing their mental
provided by Bupa as a core employee benefit to feel empowered and to prioritise their wellbeing health has increased
which gives access to good-quality medical and mental health. We do this by continuing to
care, including accommodation, nursing care create a culture where the stigma around mental The pilot has now been extended for a further
and specialist advice. Cover is also available health conditions is consistently challenged and six months and will focus on the intervention
for family members by purchasing additional reduced. As we adapt our new ways of working, that is proving to be the most beneficial
benefits through Flex, an important element of we recognise the opportunity we have to further to colleagues. Findings from the pilot will
the reward package, enabling colleagues to select challenge ourselves to adapt the way we work in look to inform our future approach.
benefits that suit them or a cash equivalent. order to support each colleague’s wellbeing.
Our Mental Health Advocate programme
continues and we have surpassed our target
of training 2,500 colleagues for this role. This
network proactively works to raise awareness
of mental health and support our colleagues
by signposting to professional support. We will
continue to work with Mental Health UK to maintain
this number of Mental Health Advocates and to
ensure that support for this network continues.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 52
Helping Britain Recover Build an inclusive society and organisation
Providing support to colleagues Performance management: Your Best Given the scale of behaviour change involved in fully
Domestic and economic abuse support We have a suite of advanced guidance taking Occupational health and safety The Group’s approach to performance and adopting Your Best, we had always planned for a
colleagues on a journey to remove any biased development – Your Best – centres on helping three to five-year embedding period. This year,
thinking, reflect on the nature of healthy Ensuring a safe working environment is key to the everyone to be their best. We trust that our people against a backdrop of declining engagement scores,
At Lloyds Banking Group, we believe employers
relationships, and consider their reaction to operation of the Group as we are an organisation want to work hard every day, which means our we continued to see increases in areas indicating
have a very real role to play in supporting victims
disclosure of abuse. Professional support is dependent on our people. A Group Health and leaders and managers focus on empowering, steady progress towards making Your Best part of
and survivors of domestic and economic abuse,
signposted, including the Bright Sky app. As part of Safety Policy issued by our CEO demonstrates the encouraging and enabling then to do this. the way we do things in the Group. Line manager
raising awareness and acknowledging and
this we have specific guidance for line managers on commitment of the Group to providing a safe NPS increased to 53 (up three points from 2020 and
responding to the issue. Work can be a safe space.
how to support colleagues experiencing domestic working environment. Line managers across the Group give their direct six points from 2019); 82 per cent of colleagues say
and economic abuse. reports regular feedback so they’re clear on how they’re clear on how they’re performing due to their
We recognise we are not experts on this issue so we
To continue to ensure a safe working environment, they are performing; however, we no longer use Check-ins (up eight points from 2020 and 18 points
work with specialist charities including Surviving
The line manager guidance aims to increase robust measures have continued throughout 2021 performance ratings, or require extensive from 2019); and 65 per cent of colleagues say that
Economic Abuse, Tender and Safe Lives, as well as
awareness and understanding of the nature and to protect our colleagues from COVID-19. documentation and commentary to support this. Your Best helps them to learn and grow (up five
the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England and Wales,
impact of abuse, help them support customers and Considerable levels of additional cleaning are points from 2020).
to help us develop our strategy, support tools and
colleagues who are impacted to regain control of undertaken in our operations to ensure that all At the heart of Your Best are the conversations
resources for colleagues.
their finances and access additional help from offices and branches are safe, alongside proactive between a manager and the people in their team.
appropriate third parties. and reactive deep cleans. A key focus has been on We use a series of simple questions – which we call
In January 2021, the UK Government recognised
the ventilation systems of the buildings and ensuring the Check-in – to make sure we talk openly about
Lloyds Banking Group as a ‘best practice employer’ in
We share regular communications and colleague that we exceed standards for ventilation. how we’re performing, working with others, and
its report on support for domestic abuse survivors in
stories to raise awareness, as well as hosting growing and developing.
the workplace. In June 2021, the Group was the first
webinars with charities to provide the opportunity Significant actions have been taken during 2021 in
bank to receive Hestia’s Everyone’s Business Award,
for colleagues to ask questions on this topic terms of improving the overall health and safety We have designed Your Best as a framework for
recognising our efforts in supporting our employees
and find out more about the support available. management system of the Group, with the aim of colleagues to manage their own performance and
who may be experiencing domestic abuse.
In 2021, we hosted webinars on topics such transitioning the current processes towards a health development. We continue to encourage everyone
as personal safety, economic abuse, and how and safety management system that is aligned to the to ask for and give regular and descriptive feedback,
domestic abuse impacts different demographics. requirements of ISO 45001. The aim is to further and we especially encourage our leaders to ask for
We also supported the 16 Days of Action develop simple and clear management standards to feedback on how they are leading.
Against Domestic Violence campaign. support all colleagues in managing occupational
health and safety risks within the workplace. This is Your Best has established that our approach to
Group emergency assistance supported by the relaunch of the new employee performance and development is one of the Group’s
Our established Emergency Assistance programme health and safety portal which simplified the level of key culture-building propositions:
covers the cost of emergency accommodation and administration required to report an accident or • Following its roll-out in 2019, Your Best’s ethos of
one-to-one support. This is available to colleagues incident, and conducting safety reviews. trust, down to earth language, and flexible touch-
23,500
and their children, at no cost to them. During this points helped leaders and teams maintain
emergency stay, the colleague can receive Colleagues have easy access to health and safety supportive relationships to cope with the
additional support from our Employee Assistance subject matter experts and can learn from the disruption of the pandemic
colleagues used our Your Best
programme which will help them through their next Group-wide health and safety community through • Around a third of the Group (approximately
steps and provide support as we want our the user-friendly Health and safety SharePoint site. 23,500 people) used our Your Best modules on modules on resilience
colleagues to never feel alone. We will also offer to To date, the Health and Safety team have supported resilience, allowing us to signpost the range of
change their work mobile number to prevent the colleagues by answering over 400 queries. support that we offer to our people as the UK
perpetrator from contacting them. went through and emerged from lockdown 65%
Further information on our health and safety
• Our emphasis on continual growth and learning
To learn more about how we support our customers performance can be found in our ESG Datasheet.
means our teams are well positioned to
experiencing domestic and economic abuse please of colleagues say that Your Best is
experiment with how and where they work as we
refer to page 21 of this report. adapt to new ways of working. helping them to learn and grow
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 53
Helping Britain Recover Build an inclusive society and organisation
Colleague learning and development Recognising the impact of lost school contact time Colleague remuneration
In 2021, we continued to evolve our learning delivery through the pandemic, this year we delivered our The 2022 pay budget provides for a minimum pay
model, and offer learning solutions face to face and first virtual work experience programme, supporting increase of £1,000 for junior colleagues. The minimum
virtually through our internal curriculum and external 450 students aged fifteen and sixteen. Through it, salary in our organisation will rise to £10.60 per hour
learning content providers. they learn how to build their personal brand, (£19,292). With Flex cash included, this equates to
improve their presentation skills, gather insights into a £20,000 minimum starting rate for new joiners.
In response to the wider economic environment their strengths and find out what their place could Our pay proposal is subject to a ballot of each
and changing world of work, new learning modules be in the fast-changing future world of work. union’s members.
were launched for all colleagues to build awareness
and knowledge around sustainability – helping Group pension scheme All Group employees receive a competitive reward
accelerate our transition to a low carbon economy. The Group has 97 per cent of our employees package. To encourage ownership, colleagues are
participating in the in-house pension schemes. The eligible to participate in HMRC-approved share
Focusing on enhancing our leadership development Lloyds Banking Group Pensions Trustees Limited, plans. Further information is provided in our 2021
proposition has remained a priority. We were which is responsible for managing the largest Group Annual Report and Accounts.
successful in achieving a Princess Royal Award for pension schemes, also shares the commitment to
our Leadership & Management Accelerator learning reduce carbon emissions by at least 50 per cent of its
— designed for new and experienced leaders, c.£50 billion investments by 2030, and net zero by
supporting them in a structured skill pathway. To 2050. As part of this, and in response to member
complement this offering we have launched Virtual feedback, the Lloyds Banking Group Pensions
Classrooms helping leaders to navigate difficult Trustees Limited recently integrated ESG
conversations and hybrid leadership – shifting the considerations into its investment strategy, allowing
focus on theoretical learning to practical application our colleagues to opt to participate in an ESG-
The Edge is continuously evolving and adapting to Levy transfer
of acquired knowledge. aligned pension investment.
suit the world our colleagues and customers live in. Throughout this period of turbulence in the jobs
market we have continued to support SMEs through
Acknowledging our approach to learning and Freedom of association and collective bargaining
In addition, senior leadership has interacted with our levy transfer initiative to invest in skills within their
development, 75 per cent of colleagues responded We support colleagues’ rights to exercise freedom
more than 70 external organisations, charities and business and create new opportunities for young
positively to the statement “Colleagues are getting of association and have extensive consultation and
community leaders, using the core practices of deep people and adults faced with reskilling in a changing
the training and development needed to keep up collective bargaining processes in place, both in the
listening, working generously, reflecting more and market. By the end of 2021 we committed financial
with customer demands” and 67 per cent to the UK and overseas. We have a recognition agreement
taking action and experimenting. support to 700 apprentices employed by over 300
statement “I can see that the Group commitment to with two trade unions which collectively consult and
businesses in areas of critical shortfall need in the UK
learning is making a difference to me”. negotiate on behalf of our UK workforce (around
Apprenticeships to a cumulative value of £8.6 million.
99 per cent of colleagues worldwide) and have
We are continuing to extend and enhance
The Edge engagement with the CEO, Group Executives and
our apprenticeship delivery, currently offering Building skills for the world of work
The Edge Leadership development proposition is Board members. Union membership is relatively
apprenticeships in 30 occupational roles from Our partnership with Skillsbuilder has enabled over
equipping our executives with the tools they need high for our sector at approximately 45 per cent, and
Level 2 to Level 7. New programmes launched 2,300 students aged between eight and thirteen, to
to lead through the technological, cultural, and our relationship with the trade unions allows all
in 2021 include Level 3 Data Technician and learn about and develop essential behavioural skills
organisational challenges in 2021 and beyond. parties to work together to improve the working
Level 4 Dev Ops. We typically have 1,700 which will set them up for success. These skills
With a focus on bringing ‘outside knowledge’ in, environment and ensure colleagues are rewarded
colleagues on an apprenticeship at any time. contribute to higher educational achievement, and
executives have the opportunity to hear and interact fairly for their contribution to the Group. Our
In 2021 we have seen 700 colleagues start an higher skilled and better paid work, particularly for
with thought leaders across a breadth of fields. engagement with the unions was particularly
apprenticeship with over 80 per cent of newly individuals who have experienced challenges in
valuable during the pandemic when we held more
created apprenticeship roles being in digital early life.
The Edge ensures that our leaders value the practice than 100 meetings to discuss issues as they arose
and technology. Apprenticeship recruitment
of leadership above the position of leadership, and and ensure that our approach to health, wellbeing,
contributes to our focus on diversity with 25 per
that they are making decisions that enable the reward and colleague support was reflective of
cent of external hires coming from a Black, Asian
Group to be a force for good in society. needs and had the support of our union partners.
or Minority Ethnic and 45 per cent being female.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 54
Helping Britain Recover Build an inclusive society and organisation
Supporting our communities In 2021, 535 Lloyds Banking Group colleagues School for Social Entrepreneurs
gave practical support to many of the charities In 2021, we entered into our tenth year of In focus
We’re an integral part of communities
our Foundations fund through a number of partnership with the School for Social Entrepreneurs,
across the UK and it’s our responsibility skills-based volunteering programmes, sharing which provides grants and training for social Charity Response Forums
as one of the country’s largest financial their experience and expertise with charities, entrepreneurs and charity leaders tackling urgent
with more than 463 colleagues supporting social and environmental issues. Since the start of
services companies to help 74 Charity Response Forums and hundreds the partnership we have helped around 2,600 social Charity Response Forums were established in In 2021, 463 colleagues supported 74 charities
communities prosper. acting as mentors and trustees for charities. entrepreneurs to start up or grow their businesses. 2020 to bring charity representatives together through Charity Response Forums. One of those
virtually with a panel of the Group’s colleagues to charities was Refugee Action Kingston, which
Our Foundations In 2021, our total community investment was close to The social entrepreneurs we support demonstrate help charities navigate their way through the provides legal and welfare advice, employment
As one of the UK’s largest corporate donors, we use £46 million , which includes our colleagues’ time, huge impact: Match Trading grants enabled challenges the pandemic posed to them, their staff guidance and counselling to refugees and asylum
our scale to reach millions of people and help tackle direct donations and in-kind giving. participants to achieve an additional £3.7 million and their service users. Colleagues have been seekers. Seven colleagues joined the forum, along
social disadvantage in communities across the UK. in earned income over the course of the one- supporting the charities beyond the forums, with representatives from the charity, to share their
To help secure a more certain future for small Lloyds Scholars year programme; social enterprises on the identifying areas where their expertise could help most pressing concerns, test their thinking, and
charities and safeguard their important societal Our award-winning social mobility programme programme have helped more than 750,000 address some specific challenges, particularly tackle their problems from a new angle.
contribution, we committed to maintain our £25.5 Lloyds Scholars, established in 2011, has beneficiaries in communities across the UK, sharing digital and communication strategy tools
million contribution in 2020 to our independent supported more than 1,000 students from low- addressing society’s most pressing problems and ideas; fundraising and income generation
charitable Foundations in 2021, giving more than income households across our nine partner such as homelessness, mental health, poverty ideas; and community engagement.
£50 million over two years. universities. Students benefit from financial and inequality; and, on average, each social
support by means of an annual bursary to enterprise supported by the programmes
Ongoing challenges from the pandemic mean that help with living costs, and employability skills creates three new local, full-time employee
the small charities our Foundations fund have gained through 10-week internships with opportunities and 12 critical volunteering roles.
continued to be at the heart of the efforts to tackle Lloyds Banking Group. Employability and
some of the most challenging issues facing the UK, access to volunteering opportunities benefit
and in response to their ongoing needs, the local communities and provide a skills boost
Foundations have continued to provide much- for students’ future recruitment prospects.
needed funding and support. The Lloyds Bank
Foundation for England and Wales committed to Ten years on, with significant improvements seen
awarding 25 per cent of grants in 2021 to across university outreach programmes, and new
organisations led by and for Black Asian and initiatives sometimes modelled on the Lloyds
Minority Ethnic communities, disproportionately Scholars programme, as well as our own move
affected by the pandemic. towards higher-apprenticeship based recruitment
over recent years, we have decided to close the
programme to new recruits, but remain very proud
of the many Scholars who have gone on to become
colleagues at Lloyds, or taken up graduate level jobs
with other organisations.
Indicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 (revised) assurance by
Deloitte LLP for the 2021 Annual Responsible Business
Reporting. Deloitte’s 2021 assurance statement and the 2021
Reporting Criteria are available online in our Responsible
Business Downloads Centre.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 55
Helping Britain Recover Farmers and landowners are able to access both
expert support and preferential funding at 75 per In focus
Build an inclusive society
cent for more than 0.5 hectares of new woodland
and organisation African Caribbean Community Initiative
through the Trust’s MOREwoods and MOREhedges
schemes.
African Caribbean Community Initiative After ACCI ran a training session in the branch
Woodland Trust
Charity partnerships Since January 2020, the Group has been working Further information related to the Woodland Trust (ACCI) is a charity based in Wolverhampton, they explained Nelson’s predicament to
partnership can be found on pages 38 to 39 of funded by the Lloyds Bank Foundation for colleagues there who were able to suggest
in partnership with the Woodland Trust to plant 10
this report. England and Wales, which provides support alternative ID options, which meant Nelson
million trees in the UK by the end of the decade
for those suffering from mental health issues could open an account. Following the session,
as part of our commitment to finance a greener
Colleague volunteering and raises awareness of the issues facing its an ACCI staff member accompanied Nelson to
future and support the transition to a low carbon
Colleague volunteering has continued to be a members within the local community. the branch with a signed letter from ACCI,
economy. These trees have the potential to
challenge due to social distancing restrictions, but where Lloyds Bank colleagues opened a new
absorb 2.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in
we have continued to provide virtual support As part of a pilot called ‘Community account for Nelson.
Mental Health UK their lifetime, adding to the UK’s carbon store. to charities which are grant recipients from our Connections’ running in partnership between
During 2021, the fifth year of our partnership with independent Foundations. Towards the end of 2021 Lloyds Banking Group and the Foundation, Denzil said that
Mental Health UK, a further £1.2 million has been The Group has planted 2 million native trees across we were able to recommence our tree planting the charity was introduced to a local Lloyds
raised, bringing the total raised overall by colleagues the UK – in our new ‘woods within woods’; in volunteering activities, with over 1,200 colleagues Bank branch, where the sharing of knowledge “Lloyds Bank staff were helpful, with the
and customers to more than £14 million. In-person partnership with the agriculture sector and with volunteering to support our Woodland Trust and expertise has led to a better letter helping to break the ice, because
fundraising remained very challenging in 2021 and communities. Over 1,200 colleagues have planted initiative at sites around the UK. understanding and outcomes for local Nelson’s mental health issues aren’t
so we have continued to encourage creative nearly 50,000 trees at 60 tree planting events during people facing complex social issues. immediately recognised.”
activities such as virtual walking and cycling 2021, including two of our new ‘woods within woods’
challenges and quizzes. at Butterdean, East Lothian and Glas na Bradan, Denzil Fletcher, Deputy Services Manager Senior Bank Manager Joanne Whitehouse
Northern Ireland.
Nearly from ACCI, explained how the relationship led commented:
Mental Health UK has continued to deliver our to one of the charity’s members, who was
BLOOM programme in schools and colleges, Our partnership also supports communities to plant 50,000 facing difficulties in opening a bank account, “We are now working even closer with ACCI,
equipping young people with the tools and trees with the Woodland Trust’s Free Trees being able to access banking without the need as I feel they now trust us to help their
knowledge to maintain their mental health programme, planting over 250,000 trees for conventional ID. Nelson* had approached members with any future banking facilities.
through life’s transitions, both now and in the during 2021. trees planted by 1,200 colleagues several banks to help him open an account so We will also take this experience to help us
future. We have also continued to support the he could have his welfare benefits paid to him. identify any other customers in vulnerable
Mental Health and Money Advice service which None of them could help because he had no circumstances who we can help with their
was expanded in 2020 to support the growing passport, driving licence or photo ID, and he complex needs in the future.”
need for the service due to the pandemic, and didn’t have utility bills in his name. The stress
for which demand has continued to rise. caused by the situation was adding to Nelson’s *Name has been changed to protect identity
mental health issues.
Recognising the ongoing need to support mental
health issues, particularly heightened by the
pandemic, we have announced a further extension
of this successful partnership, through to the end of
2022, enabling the charity to focus specifically on
strengthening grassroots service provision across
the country.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 56
Helping Britain Recover Code of Ethics and Responsibility 57
Maintaining a focus on culture change Culture 57
Human rights and modern slavery 57
Whistleblowing – helping colleagues
do the right thing 59
Cyber security and resilience 59
Treating our customers fairly 60
Conduct risk and responsible
product development 60
Customer complaints 61
Economic crime 62
Responsible sourcing 63
Public affairs and policy 63
Executive reward outcomes 63
Our approach to tax 63
Conducting
our business
responsibly
Supporting the achievement
of the following SDGs
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 57
Helping Britain Recover
Conducting our business responsibly
At Lloyds Banking Group, being a responsible The Group is strengthening the connection Human rights and modern slavery The effective management of human rights and
between our purpose, culture and strategy, with The Code of Ethics and Responsibility together with modern slavery issues relies on the integration of the
business means operating ethically, sustainably refreshed values to help us move to the future the Group’s Human Rights Policy statement and human rights principles into Group guidelines and
and inclusively; meeting our legal culture we need. Modern Slavery Statement form the foundation policies that set the parameters of operations for
of the Group’s approach to human rights. We do not topics where there may be a human rights impact.
requirements; and always considering our As a Group, we have continued to build our tolerate slavery, trafficking or forced labour in any
purpose-driven and values-led culture through part of our business or any supply chain risks across The human rights priorities of the Group within our
impact on our customers, colleagues, society, critical programmes. our business. With an estimated 24.9 million people direct operations are: inclusion and diversity; mental
and the environment. • There are now 4,309 trained Behavioural in forced labour globally*, we know that complex health and colleague wellbeing in the workplace;
Experiments Champions who are experimenting global supply chains carry a risk of modern slavery. supporting vulnerable customers; tackling modern
on challenges including: supporting graduates to We have embedded a number of policies and slavery; protecting customer privacy; and
join the organisation, making team meetings processes to identify these risks. data security to keep our customers’ money and
more engaging, supporting colleagues to help data safe.
customers with their mortgage needs, using The Group’s approach to human rights is governed
Microsoft Teams more effectively and improving by the Responsible Business Committee. Modern slavery and human trafficking is included in
communications The Group’s day-to-day management of and our bespoke Fighting Economic Crime Prevention
Code of Ethics and Responsibility Maintaining a focus on • Our Dilemmas initiative has grown, allowing engagement on modern slavery and human rights is training which is mandatory for all UK colleagues to
The Code of Ethics and Responsibility is a guide and culture change real-life experiences to be presented in scenarios guided by a cross-divisional working group, which complete on an annual basis. Group-wide training
reference point for every colleague and underpins on topics including: dealing with inappropriate has input from functions across the Group including is further supported by targeted training for
our purpose, bringing together all of the different In 2021 the Group focused on understanding the behaviour; inclusion; mental health; empathy; and HR, Sourcing, Retail, Commercial Banking, and colleagues in specific roles that are more likely to
elements that define how we work and ensure that culture that we need to successfully deliver our new new ways of working. Talking about the situations Economic Crime Prevention, as well as external encounter modern slavery.
we do business responsibly. strategy. Through engagement with colleagues, helps build colleague confidence to face similar human rights experts. This approach is supported
external research and data from a behavioural situations in real life and psychological safety by several Group policies relating to the
The Code explains how we can work responsibly, diagnostic tool, we know we need to continue grows within teams as colleagues begin to share management of issues that impact human rights
living up to our values and doing the right thing increasing the sense of psychological safety their own lived experiences through our operations such as, but not limited to:
amongst our colleagues so that we can become • We continue to build empathy into how we work.
when we have to make decisions, and it applies to all
more innovative and make quicker decisions, We’ve updated our customer and colleague
Lloyds Banking Group employees, contractors and
while putting people at the heart of what we do. communications, developed capability and
agency employees, whether or not they are working
with customers directly. Lloyds Banking Group reviewed processes across the Group • Group colleague policies
demonstrates that we understand these obligations • We’ve built the foundations for the adoption of • Health, Safety and Fire Policy
hybrid ways of working and will continue to build
fully by ensuring all colleagues complete mandatory • Group Data Policy
on this with guidance and training for teams to
training every year. We promote high ethical
have conversations on their future ways of working • Security Policy
standards and do not tolerate any circumvention
of our economic crime prevention policies. We’re a • Harassment and Grievance Resolution Policy
member of Transparency International UK’s Business • Group Compliance Policy
Integrity Forum – a network of major international
• Group Accountability Standards
companies committed to high anti-corruption and
ethical standards in business practices. • Speak Up (whistleblowing)
• Anti-Bribery Policy
4,309 • Group Sector Statements
• Code of Supplier Responsibility
• Customer Policy
trained Behavioural
• Product Governance Policy
Experiments Champions
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 58
Helping Britain Recover Conducting our business responsibly
In focus
Pan Intercultural Arts
Pan Intercultural Arts is a London-based charity “I understand whoever comes to Amies
The Group is either a signatory to, or abides by, the that works with people who are marginalised in because I have been through the same
Human rights issues addressed by the Group’s activities
principles of a number of international and national society, including women who have survived situation and I know how it was physically
codes and standards relating to responsible trafficking into the UK for prostitution or and mentally. Amies, more than anything,
Colleagues Customers business practices. domestic slave labour. The Lloyds Bank support women with their mental health.
Foundation for England and Wales funds Pan’s Most of us had suicidal thoughts, now if you
• Non-discrimination, inclusivity and equality • Economic crime including AML and counter- ‘Amies London’ project with a three-year grant ask me, I say no because I have so much
• Fair remuneration terrorist financing These include: of £75,000. Amies is a therapeutic arts-based opportunity out there. Slowly every week I
• Mental health of colleagues • Data privacy and security • The Equator Principles, the UN Principles project and participants meet weekly for a year was coming I was getting that support and
• Freedom of association/collective bargaining • Modern slavery, forced labour and human rights for Responsible Investment where they make friends, learn new skills and that knowledge because when we finish they
• Health and safety of colleagues, contractors and abuses • The UN Global Compact, the UN get creative together. don’t just let you go just like that: they make
visitors • Customers who are more vulnerable including Universal Declaration of Human Rights, sure that you have those links where you will
• Harsh or degrading treatment/harassment due to critical illnesses, the elderly and • The International Labour Organization’s Annabel Rook, Amies Project Director, get support continuously because we can’t
• Accessibility for persons with disabilities customers with disabilities (see pages 21 to 22 Core Labour Standards commented: always stay here.”
• The UN Environment Programme
• Maternity and paternity protection of this report)
• Grievance mechanisms and whistleblowing • Domestic and economic abuse victims Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles for “Many of the women who come to us have Pan Intercultural Arts is working on being more
• Mental health of customers Responsible Banking and the Principles had such a traumatic history, so they just sustainable as a charity and exploring other
• Identified environmental, social, labour and for Sustainable Insurance don’t believe that there’s a positive future out sources of funding. The charity has set up a
there for them at all.” development committee following income
human rights high-risk sectors and excluded
Suppliers generation consultancy support provided by
activities related to lending activities
• UNGC compliance for investees One of the charity’s past members, Asma, now the Foundation. The Foundation has also
• Compliance with UK Modern Slavery Act and • Modern slavery and forced labour in high-risk We are guided by: runs the crèche during the Amies workshops. helped the charity recruit trustees from Lloyds
mitigation of the risk of human rights or modern sectors such as agriculture • The International Bill of Human Rights Since completing the one-year Amies Project Banking Group, through the Foundation’s
slavery risks in the countries and communities • Maternity and paternity protection • The UN Guiding Principles on Business with the charity, Asma has also found trustee programme, which brings additional
where they operate • Grievance mechanisms and whistleblowing and Human Rights employment and she’s used her personal corporate experience to the Board.
• Fair remuneration and ethical recruitment • The International Labour Organization’s experience of interviewing to coach other
practices (ILO) Core Labour Standards and its women who come to Amies. She said:
• Access to effective remedy for individual victims Tripartite Declaration of Principles
of human rights violations Communities
• Child labour
• Grievance and Whistleblowing mechanisms • Mental health in communities
• Domestic and economic abuse
• Drug trafficking and child exploitation
• Human trafficking
For further information on our approach to
human rights and modern slavery, our Human
Rights Policy Statement and Modern Slavery
Statement can be found at our Responsible
Business Download Centre.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 59
Helping Britain Recover Conducting our business responsibly
Whistleblowing – helping The Group has appointed three Non-Executive The Group has established frameworks for both
Directors as Whistleblowing Champions. Each business continuity plans and IT disaster recovery.
colleagues do the right thing
Champion is responsible for the oversight of Speak
Our Group values act as a moral compass to guide
Up arrangements in their respective legal entities, The Group does not currently have an external
decision-making alongside the FCA conduct rules.
Group, Insurance and Wealth and Lloyds Bank certification against a recognised security controls
We encourage colleagues to Speak Up if something
Corporate Markets, ensuring the confidential standard (e.g. a SOC2 report); however, this is being
doesn’t feel right, or they see inappropriate
reporting system remains a reliable and actively evaluated with the objective to seek this in
behaviour. Speak Up is there for everyone in the
independent channel for colleagues to report the near future. The Group utilises a range of
Group to report concerns, in confidence or
suspected wrongdoing. The Whistleblowing identified best practice guidance as inputs to our
anonymously. Anyone reporting a Speak Up
Champions are also responsible for ensuring that Security Policy Frameworks including the NIST cyber
concern, or involved in an investigation, receives
our procedures protect colleagues from being security framework, ISO 27000, and PCI DSS. In
support and guidance throughout and all concerns
victimised, should they report a concern. addition, we undertake legal, regulatory and best
are taken seriously and dealt with sensitively. The
practice ‘Horizon Scanning’ to proactively identify
Group’s Speak Up Policy and procedures protect all
Cyber security and resilience updates to the framework or opportunities to
colleagues from any harm or retaliation after raising
respond to regulation, alongside our annual policy
a concern. Customers trust us to keep their money and data safe,
refresh cycle.
and the Group deploys sophisticated technology to
We provide colleagues with a variety of channels: protect both. The Group works continuously to
All Group colleagues and contractors must
bolster defences against cyber-attacks through
Directly with their line manager or adopting a threat-led approach and enhancing our complete a four-part Security Training programme
HR representatives preventative, detective and responsive controls. We annually, which highlights the key threats and risks
The Group encourages colleagues to engage also recognise the importance of secure behaviours that colleagues face and how to reduce and avoid
directly with their line manager or human and continue to educate our customers and them. Our Group training won an award at the 2021
resources representative and raise any During 2021 the Group has made additional Such concerns were dealt with through line colleagues on the cyber threat. Learning Technology Awards. Identified colleagues
concerns they may have improvements to the Group’s Speak Up management or our HR People Partners, to ensure complete further mandated training specific to their
programme. We have established a new Group swift and sensitive resolution. In 2021, colleagues Cyber security maintains a high level of focus right role or risk profile.
Conduct Investigations team who lead Speak Up reported 352 concerns. 79 were investigated up to Board level, with regular updates to the Board
investigations across the Group, and manage the formally, while the remainder were managed and Group Risk Committees, along with a dedicated Recognising cyber security as a non-competitive
Let’s Talk Group’s Speak Up framework. In addition, new through a more appropriate route. 48 per cent of the quarterly Board sub-risk forum focused on cyber issue, the Group collaborates externally,
The Group encourages colleagues to work colleague guides were introduced, helping investigations closed in 2021 were found to be security, IT resilience and operational resilience. working in conjunction with our sector peers
through any interpersonal work issues colleagues navigate the process, and the Group has substantiated and resulted in remedial action. Cyber and data security forms a part of the Group’s and government on initiatives such as the
wherever possible. Let’s Talk’ was introduced in upgraded its whistleblowing site, making it as Bullying and harassment concerns (including sexual wider operational resilience framework, which Financial Services Cyber Collaboration Centre,
2020 and gives colleagues and managers the accessible and user friendly as possible. harassment, racial harassment and managerial continues to enhance the Group’s resilience to working with the UK Government’s National
tools and knowledge to resolve most issues in behaviour) were the most common type of report ‘maintain the expected through the unexpected’. An Cyber Security Centre, and the Cross-Market
an informal way The volume and type of concerns reported in 2020 investigated during 2021, and accounted for 47 per ongoing focus area of the Group is to continue to Operational Resilience Group. We work closely
and 2021 were influenced by the COVID-19 cent of the investigations overall. Where cases were embed a culture of resilience and security across the with other banks recognising the importance
pandemic. Colleagues have used Speak Up to substantiated, appropriate action was taken to Group and its key third parties. of collaboration when it comes to security,
escalate their concerns about personal wellbeing, rectify the situation. including as part of the Cyber Defence Alliance.
Speak Up changes to working patterns and to express unease The Group maintains strong and practised incident
If colleagues don’t feel comfortable about returning to offices and branches. We encourage suppliers to raise any concerns management frameworks. These were invoked at In the coming months, activities will focus on the
chatting to their line manager, they are directly with their supplier relationship manager. If the onset of COVID-19 and during 2021; the focus refresh and update of the Group’s operational
encouraged to use our dedicated, this is not possible, they can use our confidential has been to continue capturing learnings from the resilience strategy for the 2022—2025 period.
independent Speak Up process Speak Up service, which is available 24 hours a day, pandemic to inform future ways of working. We have
seven days a week. Further information on our continued exercising our incident management
approach to responsible sourcing can be found on frameworks and teams right up to Board level,
page 63 of this report. focusing on cyber security scenarios and threats.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 60
Helping Britain Recover Conducting our business responsibly
Treating our customers fairly Avoiding market abuse Continuous embedding of the customer
Our Group Customer Policy sets out how important it We implement market abuse and personal account vulnerability framework aligned with the FCA
is to treat customers fairly and ensure that we’re dealing procedures that are aligned with the UK’s guidance on fair treatment of vulnerable customers
transparent in all our dealings with them. We conduct market abuse legislation. Market abuse, such as remains a key focus. Development and continued
regular monitoring to assess whether or not we meet trading on the basis of inside information, is a oversight of the implementation of the vulnerability
our high customer service standards and colleagues’ criminal offence in the UK, the US and many other strategy remains through the Group Customer
remuneration is linked to customer outcomes. countries. Colleagues are personally responsible for Vulnerability Committee operating at a senior level
ensuring that they comply with this policy and do not to prioritise change, drive implementation and
abuse the market. We have monitoring systems in ensure consistency across the Group.
Conduct risk and responsible
place to detect instances of market abuse and
product development procedures to ensure that any detected instances A robust product governance framework ensures
We believe that consumers benefit from healthy are dealt with swiftly and effectively. This includes that our products meet customer needs, deliver fair
competition between providers of financial services: procedures to identify and report suspicious value and that the design and management of
providers compete vigorously and fairly, striving to transactions where relevant. changes to a product offer good outcomes
offer excellent service and competitive products that including those driven by the climate agenda. All
meet their needs. Responsible product development risks are identified and appropriately managed
The Group takes a range of mitigating actions with throughout the life of the product with review and
Upholding competition law respect to conduct risk and remains focused on challenge by the Divisional Committees.
The Group tolerates no anti-competitive practices delivering a leading customer experience. The
that could lead to: interventions by competition Group’s ongoing commitment to good customer The Group takes part in active engagement with
authorities; or breaches of competition law, which outcomes sets the tone from the top and supports regulatory bodies and other stakeholders to
may have a detrimental impact on customers or the development of the right customer-centric develop an understanding of concerns related to
a significant financial or reputational impact on mindset, strengthening links between actions to customer treatment, effective competition and
the Group. support conduct, culture and customer and market integrity, to ensure that the Group’s strategic
enabling more effective control management. conduct focus continues to meet evolving
The Group does not become involved in stakeholder expectations.
agreements or practices that are unlawful, such as A simplified and enhanced Customer Policy and
colluding with our competitors to restrict procedures are in place throughout the Group to
competition or unlawfully fixing prices. We ensure appropriate controls and processes that
recognise that we must deal in good faith with all our deliver fair customer outcomes, and support market
trading partners including our suppliers and integrity and competition requirements. Customer
competitors. We recognise that competition law is needs are considered through divisional customer
not intended to stifle legitimate business. We plans, which include an integrated conduct lens, and
believe that consumers benefit from healthy the plans are reviewed and challenged by the Group
competition between providers of financial services Customer First Committee.
and we compete vigorously and fairly, striving to
offer excellent service and competitive products
which meet our customers’ needs.
More information related to our approach
and management of conduct risk can be found
in our 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 61
Helping Britain Recover Conducting our business responsibly
Customer complaints We have examined the way we deliver outcomes to
In focus
Following on from our work during the pandemic, customers and tested different ways of saying sorry
2021 has been focused on recovery, improving our when we get things wrong; encouraging an
customers’ experience and developing a more empathetic complaint handling approach and Supporting our We always aim to get things right first time for our We initially declined to remove the default but,
resilient operation that best supports our empowering our colleagues to put things right. This customers but where we don’t, the complaints knowing this wasn’t the right outcome for the
business goals. has been in response to direct feedback from our customers when they process can be a way to ensure we support our customer, convened a team to review the case
customers around what is important to them when customers as best we can. In a recent example, our again. We knew that if we wanted to put our
are in need
During 2020, because of challenges caused by resolving a complaint. customer had been in an abusive relationship customer in a position to move forward from their
the pandemic, we had a considerable increase in where their partner had made purchases on their relationship, we would need to support the
the number of customers waiting for a response Training credit card without the customer’s knowledge. This customer to get a property. We worked with our
from us regarding complaints. This peaked in We have maintained our focus on improving meant the customer missed payments which led to stakeholders across the Group to make sure we
July 2020 at 31,000 complaints outstanding, support for vulnerable customers and rolled out a default being recorded. Once the customer got the right result for the customer and they were
and we have since worked extremely hard to additional training to all complaints colleagues. This became aware, they paid off the balance of the extremely emotional and grateful for our support.
reduce our level of outstanding complaints. has been helped by a new way for customers to card. However, when they tried to obtain a
As a result of this effort, we had reduced this disclose a vulnerability, and a tool for colleagues to mortgage, they weren’t able to due to the impact
number to just over 8,000 complaints by October provide appropriate support for them. The work has of the default on their credit file.
2021, and in addition reduced our complaints been supported by an updated approach focusing
outstanding for over eight weeks to fewer on great conversations to help us identify the right
than 200, a reduction of over 21 per cent. action and enable us to reduce financial harm for our
customers. We have faced a challenging
New ways of working environment in 2021 as our customers’ external
We have continued to challenge our ways of working environment has changed rapidly and frequently but
and our internal processes to test new means of we have done our utmost to continue to deliver the
contacting our customers, making their journey right outcome as quickly as possible.
effortless. This includes a roll-out of updated SMS
messages, as well as testing using email as a means
of communication to keep our customers informed
of progress and to deliver their final responses.
Although primarily we are responding to our
customers’ demand for digital choices, our switch to
SMS and email reduces our dependency on paper
and supports our sustainability goals to achieve net
zero carbon emissions by 2030 in our operations.
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 62
Helping Britain Recover Conducting our business responsibly
Economic crime Policy framework and colleague training External engagement and partnerships Stop Scams UK In 2021, The Group was part of a small working
The Group’s economic crime prevention strategy is We introduced a combined Economic Crime City of London Police The Group is an active supporter of Stop Scams UK group that developed a new IWT risk assessment
based on the principle of intelligence and data-led Prevention Policy during the first half of 2021, In 2018, the Group agreed to form a partnership and works alongside the Global Cyber Alliance and methodology for use by the 45 Global Bank
risk management, to minimise customer impact bringing together the disciplines of fraud, anti- with the City of London Police (CoLP) to fight other cross-sector partners to fight cybercrime. taskforce members. The risk assessment enables
while reducing the harm to our communities caused money laundering, anti-bribery and sanctions economic crime across the UK, committing Working in partnership we have created ‘Call 159’, a international banks and other institutions to
by criminals and terrorists. into one single core policy applicable and £1.5 million to support the delivery of several joint new telephone hotline providing customers with a consistently assess their inherent and residual risk
mandatory to all business areas. The policy is initiatives. Due to its success, the Group has number to call whenever they feel they are being a exposure to the IWT based on jurisdiction, products
designed to ensure compliance with the relevant extended the partnership for a fourth year. The victim of a scam or to check the authenticity of a caller. and transaction flows. It is hoped that a focused,
We are committed to managing the economic crime
legislation and regulations and sets out the partnership was selected as a finalist in the 2021 consistent approach across the industry will help
risks associated with our business and operate
fundamental requirements for business areas Tackling Economic Crime Awards for the North East Business Resilience Centre disrupt the flow of money associated with the IWT.
systems and controls which are appropriate and
to perform which includes risk assessments and Outstanding Partnership Award. Our funding has The Group is a member of the North East
effective within our stated risk appetite, and which
implementation of proportionate controls and enabled the expansion of the CoLP’s intelligence Business Resilience Centre (NEBRC), a not-for- Prevention of modern slavery and human
meet legal and regulatory requirements. The Group
ensures independent oversight is maintained development function, which is providing a tangible profit organisation bringing together experts trafficking
is playing its part, building its capabilities, and
to assure the efficacy of such controls. coordination role across national, regional, and local across the cyber and fraud communities to The Group continues to make modern slavery and
implementing a clear vision to protect our
policing to address high harm fraud. improve cyber safety and reduce cybercrime by human trafficking (MSHT) a primary area of focus,
customers, the economy and the bank from
The Economic Crime Prevention mandatory training promoting awareness and delivering training striving to be at the vanguard of intelligence
economic crime.
course reflects the key policy requirements and is Successes have included: to small businesses (often with fewer than 10 development in order to protect our customers and
undertaken annually by all colleagues as part of • Developing collaboration with the dating industry employees) and the local community. In 2021 the other members of society from harm.
Criminal exploitation of evolving payment
colleague mandatory training. resulting in the removal of suspect profiles, NEBRC mobilised a £100,000 SME programme
technologies and cyber currencies require an agile
protecting over 10,000 victims of romance fraud for Leeds City Region Enterprise Partnership. During 2021, the Group conducted investigations
response. The Group’s adoption of a risk-based • A partnership with law enforcement in Ghana, Our Group Director of Economic Crime and assessments on various elements of modern
approach to managing and mitigating economic
identifying and repatriating funds stolen through Prevention is Chair of the Board at the NEBRC. slavery and human trafficking and developed
crime risk ensures compliance with applicable In focus
the targeting of UK victims of romance fraud, specific typologies within the economic crime
regulations via a control framework which focuses on
delivering financial disruptions of over £300,000 Online fraud processes. The Group shared valuable intelligence
those customers, products, channels and
Assisting victims of fraud and improving international intelligence sharing We are an active member of the new Online Fraud outcomes with law enforcement bodies as well as
jurisdictions that carry heightened risk. • Significant support to campaigns directed by the Steering Group, working collectively with cross- internal stakeholders and business areas to further
The Group has used its in-house team of National Economic Crime Centre, including sector industry partners to move the dial on aid the prevention of modern slavery and human
‘mule hunters’, since 2017, to identify and courier fraud where a total of 300 investigations reducing online fraud, deliver tangible outcomes trafficking in the lending activities of the Group. The
stop the movement of money from scams. have been instigated and 190 arrests made and support the UK Government Fraud Action Plan. Group is an active member of the Public Private
The team have blocked 38,348 accounts • Training – our funding and expertise has enabled Partnership Expert Working Group for Modern
suspected of mule activity and frozen £21 the build of a new online learning platform. The In 2020 and 2021 the Banks’ Fraud Threat Desk Slavery and Human Trafficking and in 2021 led and
million in victims’ funds during 2021, and the new provision of material to support fraud completed an assessment of the threat to the Group coordinated the development of a cross-industry
Group has continued to work closely with investigation in mainstream policing has from the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, pioneering alert on labour exploitation in the agriculture sector.
peer banks to ensure the timely return of addressed the longstanding omission of fraud new ways of sharing the information and intelligence
funds. The Group continues to work closely content within existing crime investigation training with external bodies, such as peer banks, to The Group is engaged with the National Crime
with government and advisory bodies to and is delivered locally and has professionalised coordinate a joined-up threat mitigation approach. Agency’s Project AIDANT initiatives, a series of
minimise the impact of scams on our fraud investigation multi-agency operational intensifications to tackle
customers. • ‘Cyber Detectives’, our jointly created cyber fraud Illegal trade in wildlife modern slavery and human trafficking, where the
training programme aimed at primary school The illegal wildlife trade (IWT) is valued between bank has been able to develop and use network
children, now forms part of the Personal Social 50-150 billion USD per year and is one of the five most analysis capabilities to share information for periods
Health and Economics element of the national lucrative global crimes that benefit organised criminal of law intensification.
curriculum in England and over 3,000 schools gangs. The Group continues to be an active member
have downloaded content to date of the United For Wildlife – Financial Taskforce.
Further information on our approach to human rights
and modern slavery can be found page 57 of this
report
2021
Performance
Lloyds Banking GroupESG Report 2021 63
Helping Britain Recover Conducting our business responsibly
Responsible sourcing Sustainability in the supply chain Public affairs and policy Executive reward outcomes We will continue to review the scorecard to reflect
Our suppliers and supply chains are integral to how We have piloted a specialist third-party assessment With millions of retail and commercial customers The Group wants to ensure that reward is clearly market practices and review our remuneration
we fulfil our customer needs and are comprised of tool with a small selection of suppliers to provide across a range of historic brands, providing linked to the purpose and culture of the Group as policies as these develop along with our
approximately 2,600 active suppliers, the majority of insight on their management of issues across the key banking, insurance and other financial well as meeting its strategic goals. There are a Group strategy.
which are in professional services sectors such as IT, themes of labour and human rights, environment, services, the Group is often approached by number of measures within the balanced scorecard
cyber, operations, management consultancy, legal, ethics and sustainable procurement. In addition, we politicians and other policy-makers to provide that support our focus on ESG related activity Our approach to tax
HR, marketing and communications. In 2021 our have used predictive sustainability analysis to help our views and help shape public policy. and goals. Tax is one of the ways in which businesses contribute
addressable supplier expenditure was £4.6 billion further understand our inherent risk across our to the societies in which they operate, and we are
and the majority of our third-party spend was with supply base. In 2022, we plan to further embed this We seek to address risks and opportunities The balanced scorecard is considered to be a proud to be among the UK’s highest payers of
suppliers incorporated in the UK. insight into our processes and increase our reach emerging from legislation, regulation and wider transparent and effective tool, enabling the corporate taxes.
through a targeted supplier selection strategy. political activity in the interests of our customers, Remuneration Committee to assess the
Policy framework colleagues and shareholders. We do that by performance of a broad and balanced set of In 2021, we paid £2.1 billion of cash taxes. This was
The Sourcing and Supply Chain Management Policy From an environmental perspective we have taken engaging with elected representatives at every level, business objectives. The outcome of which is used primarily on business profits, VAT on goods and
applies to all businesses, divisions, Group functions steps to develop our approach to estimating our including Parliament, the devolved institutions and to determine variable (both short-term and services needed to run our business, bank levy and
and legal entities across the Group, whether based Scope 3 supply chain emissions (Purchased Goods local government, as well as civil servants, long-term) reward outcomes for our Executive employer social security on staff salaries. In addition,
in the UK or overseas, including joint ventures and Services, Capital Goods and Upstream regulators, trade associations and think tanks, and Directors. Further information is available on page we collected £1.6 billion of cash taxes primarily from
where agreed. This policy has been designed to Transportation & Distribution). We have, in addition, we do so in a way that is consistent with our values 104 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts. payroll taxes and customer product taxes.
assist in managing the inherent risk associated looked to gain greater insight into our supply chain and that meets the expectations of society.
with sourcing, outsourcing and managing our by understanding those suppliers that report carbon Engaging with our shareholders on Appropriate, prudent and transparent tax behaviour
suppliers and supply chain. The Group requires emissions via CDP and/or have set (or committed to Political donations and expenditure is a key component of corporate responsibility.
suppliers to adhere to relevant Group policies and set) Science-Based Targets. Political donations and expenditure are governed by remuneration We comply with the HMRC code of practice on
to comply with our Code of Supplier Responsibility. legislation with which we and our employees must Consistent feedback suggested the structure of our taxation for banks. We do not interpret tax laws in a
We want our suppliers to operate in a responsible In 2022 this will also enable us to take a more comply. It is our policy not to make political 2020 balanced scorecard with 15 equally weighted way that we believe is contrary to the intention of
and sustainable manner and our Code sets targeted approach to those suppliers that have the donations to, or campaign on behalf of, any political measures, made it difficult for shareholders to Parliament, and we do not promote tax avoidance
out the key social, ethical and environmental largest impact on our carbon emissions with the aim party in any country. determine how these measures clearly linked to the products to our customers.
practices and behaviours we expect of them. of working collaboratively to reduce them. More Group’s strategy and performance. For 2021, the
information on our Scope 3 emissions and climate- The Companies Act 2006 sets out what constitutes scorecard was simplified to seven performance We want to pay the taxes due on the profits we
In 2021, we undertook a review of our Code to ensure related performance can be found in our 2021 political donations and expenditure. The definitions measures, weighted equally between areas of make, in line with the letter and spirit of the law.
it remains aligned to best practice and that supplier Climate Report. are drawn widely and may cover activities that are an financial and non-financial, with 15 per cent of the
adherence to it is addressed through our sourcing and accepted part of engaging with our stakeholders but scorecard assessing progress on specific ESG More information about the taxes we pay, and the
supply chain management processes which includes: In 2021 we invested in the capacity and capability of are not designed to support any political party or to metrics for our climate and diversity ambitions. economic value we generate for the UK can be found
• A detailed compliance questionnaire across our Supply Chain Sustainability team and completed influence public support for any political party. As in the Lloyds Banking Group tax strategy document
approximately 1,100 managed suppliers through a review of our sourcing and supply chain such, at each Lloyds Banking Group Annual General We have evolved our Group scorecard for 2022 by available in our Responsible Business Downloads
the Financial Supplier Qualification System (FSQS) management processes with the aim of identifying Meeting we seek authority from shareholders to bringing greater focus on our climate change Centre.
• Risk-based assurance assessments across our further opportunities to drive sustainability through incur political expenditure up to a predetermined ambitions and ensure our purpose of Helping Britain
most critical suppliers our supply chain. We expect to use the outputs from limit. This authority is a precautionary measure Prosper is at the heart of everything we do. For 2022,
this activity to evolve our approach to supply chain to ensure that we can continue to support our ESG metrics aligned directly to our public
We encourage suppliers to raise any concerns sustainability in 2022. communities and put forward our views without commitments on climate change and promoting
directly with their supplier relationship inadvertently breaching the legislation. More inclusion and diversity will account for 17.5 per cent
manager. If this is not possible, they can use information on our approach to public affairs of the scorecard, up from 15 per cent in 2021.
our confidential Speak Up service, which is and policy can be found on our website. Overall, our scorecard continues to have a balance
available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. of financial (50 per cent) and non-financial (50 per
cent) measures when assessing performance.
For more information on our Speak Up service please More information on our approach to public
see page 59 of this report affairs can be found on our website
2021
Performance
Head office
25 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7HN
+44 (0)20 7626 1500
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com
Registered office
The Mound
Edinburgh EH1 1YZ
Registered in Scotland no. SC95000