About us Our purpose is to help Britain prosper.
We are a UK financial services provider with We are creating a responsible business that
around 27 million customers and a presence
in nearly every community. better meets our customers’ needs and a
Our main business activities are retail and
commercial banking, general insurance culture where our colleagues put customers
and long-term savings, provided under
well recognised brands including Lloyds first. This is key to our long-term success and to
Bank, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and
Scottish Widows. fulfilling our aim to become the best bank for
Our shares are quoted on the London and
customers, colleagues and shareholders.
New York stock exchanges and we are one of
the largest companies in the FTSE 100 index.
See more about how we create value for
Reporting
all our stakeholders on pages 18–27
Just as we operate in an integrated way,
we aim to report in an integrated way.
We have taken further steps towards this
goal this year. As well as reporting our
financial results, we also report on our
approach to operating responsibly and take
into account relevant economic, political,
social, regulatory and environmental factors.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains
forward looking statements with respect to
certain of the Group’s plans and its current
goals and expectations relating to its future
financial condition, performance, results,
strategic initiatives and objectives. For
further details, reference should be made to
the forward looking statements on page 265.
Inside this year’s Annual Report
Strategic report Governance
This icon appears throughout this Group highlights 01 A letter from our Chairman 52
report highlighting how we are Helping Chairman’s statement 02 Board of Directors 54
Britain Prosper. Read more online at
Group Chief Executive’s review 04 Group Executive Committee 56
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com
Key performance indicators 06 Corporate governance report 58
The external environment 08 Directors’ report 81
Our business model 10 Directors’ remuneration report 84
View our Annual Report and
Accounts and other information What we have achieved over the last Other remuneration disclosures 103
about Lloyds Banking Group at three years 12
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com Our strategic planning process 13 Risk management
Our next chapter 14 The Group’s approach to risk 108
Doing business responsibly 18 Emerging risks 110
Running a responsible business for all Capital stress testing 111
our stakeholders 21 How risk is managed 111
Environment 26 Risk governance 113
Divisional overview 28 Full analysis of risk categories 115
Risk overview 32
Financial statements
Financial results Independent auditors’ report 158
The 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Summary of Group results 39 Consolidated financial statements 166
incorporates the strategic report and the Divisional results 45 Parent company financial statements 255
consolidated financial statements, both of which Other financial information 49
have been approved by the Board of Directors.
Other information
Shareholder information 263
Five year financial summary 265
Forward looking statements 266
On behalf of the Board
Lord Blackwell Abbreviations 267
Chairman Alternative performance measures 267
Lloyds Banking Group
20 February 2018 Subsidiaries and related undertakings 268
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 03
Helping Britain Prosper and our contribution to the UK
As the UK’s leading financial services provider we are making a significant impact on the UK economy
Colleagues Communities Payments Tax Lending Dividends
O ne of the largest £58m given to £ 14 trillion £ 2.5bn taxes paid £ 65bn SME and £2.2bn paid
employers in help communities of payments in 2017 Mid Markets in dividends
the UK in 2017 processed in 2017 lending portfolio to 2.4 million
T he UK’s largest
= 7 x UK GDP shareholders
2 60,000 hours corporate tax B iggest mortgage
volunteered payer lender in UK with
c.£290bn portfolio
be a bank for Britain. Our Helping Britain I have also had the opportunity to travel Despite the uncertain environment, the
Prosper Plan takes us beyond our business as around the country to see some of this work, Group has reported increased statutory and
usual activities by using our scale and reach, speaking with teams who work directly with underlying profits, strong capital generation,
and unites our Group to meet some bold vulnerable customers and visiting charities has announced an increased ordinary dividend
commitments. When Britain prospers we who receive support from our independent and intends to implement a share buyback.
prosper, so the Plan is an important investment Foundations.
As a result, the Group’s total Group
in our long-term success.
I am delighted that we have raised more than Performance Share (GPS) outcome has
£4 million for our 2017-2018 charity partner increased to £414.7 million (an increase of
Corporate culture
Mental Health UK in the past 12 months. approximately 5.5 per cent on 2016). This is
The Board and senior management have a There is a growing recognition that mental after a 21 per cent collective performance
vital role to play in shaping and embedding a health and financial health are closely linked adjustment, and reflects both strong
healthy corporate culture, and this continued and together we are creating the perfect performance against stretching Group
to be a focus in 2017. Trust is the foundation partnership to start developing this support strategic objectives and issues impacting
for our customer franchise and I believe that for people across the UK. negatively on profitability and shareholder
our performance in the year has helped to returns, customers, conduct and the
rebuild trust not just in the Group but in Directors Group’s reputation.
the future stability and sustainability of the We review the Board’s composition and Total GPS outcome remains a small proportion
banking sector. diversity regularly and are committed to of underlying profit at 4.7 per cent. Cash GPS
Our responsible, inclusive and diverse culture ensuring we have the right balance of skills awards are capped at £2,000 with additional
ensures our colleagues consistently do the and experience within the Board. amounts paid in shares and subject to
right thing for customers. Over the last year deferral and performance adjustment. More
As announced previously, two of our
we have taken steps to become even more information on how we ensure our approach to
Non-Executive Directors, Anthony Watson
transparent in the way we communicate remuneration supports our new strategy can
and Nick Luff, stepped down following the with all our stakeholders. Of course, there is be found in the Directors’ remuneration report
AGM in May. Anthony was succeeded as
always more to do and getting this culture on page 97.
Senior Independent Director by Anita Frew
right is critical to our success in an increasingly
and Nick as Audit Committee Chairman by
competitive environment. Outlook
Simon Henry.
There is of course much more to do as we
Customers In June Lord Lupton joined the Board as an
face into a rapidly changing and challenging
independent Non-Executive Director and
We aim to treat all our customers fairly and Chairman of the non ring-fenced bank. James world. However, given our clear strategy and inclusively, making it easy for them to find, brings not just his experience of UK banking approach to transforming the business, our
understand and access products that are right and capital markets, but also extensive strong track record of delivery, our customer for them, whatever their circumstances. During corporate advisory experience which will be focused values and the dedication and
the year I have seen first-hand how the way we of particular value to our overall Commercial commitment of our colleagues, we have all
serve our customers has continued to improve, Banking activities. the components to succeed - building a great
with colleagues embracing new technology British institution we can all be proud of.
and ways of working to meet changing Remuneration
customer needs.
Our approach to reward aims to provide a
Communities clear link between remuneration and delivery
of the Group’s key strategic objectives, namely,
I am extremely proud of the way we support becoming the best bank for customers whilst
communities across the country and help delivering long-term, superior and sustainable
British people and businesses prosper and returns to shareholders. We believe in offering Lord Blackwell
am pleased that so many of our colleagues fair reward where colleagues are rewarded Chairman
have once again taken the time to volunteer for performance aligned to the long-term
and raise funds for charities and community sustainable success of the business, our
groups. Over the course of 2017 our commitment to rebuilding trust and changing
colleagues donated 260,000 hours of their the culture of the Group.
time by sharing their skills and experience to
help make sustainable differences to local
charities, schools, colleges and businesses.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05
Strategy overview Transforming ways of working
Our achievements in 2017 We are making our biggest ever investment
As we look to the future, we see the external
in people, increasing colleague training and
U K government share sale completed, environment evolving rapidly. Changing development by 50 per cent to 4.4 million hours
allowing the Group to be returned to full customer behaviours, the pace of technological per annum and embracing new technology
private ownership evolution and changes in regulation all present to drive better customer outcomes. The
opportunities. Given our strong capabilities
Statutory profit of £5.3 billion, an increase hard work, commitment and expertise of our
and the significant progress made in recent
of 24 per cent on 2016 colleagues has enabled us to deliver to date
years we believe we are in a unique position
and we will further invest in capabilities and
U nderlying profit of £8.5 billion, an to compete and win in this environment by agile working practices. We have already
increase of 8 per cent on 2016 developing additional competitive advantages. restructured the business and reorganised
We will continue to transform ourselves to
C ompleted the acquisition of prime the leadership team to ensure effective
succeed in this digital world and the next credit card business MBNA and implementation of the new strategy.
phase of our strategy will ensure we have the
announced the acquisition of Zurich’s UK
capabilities to deliver future success.
workplace pensions and savings business Financial returns
Increased ordinary dividend of Strategic priorities The UK economy has proven resilient and
3.05 pence per share with an additional going forward our plans and projections
We have identified four strategic priorities
share buyback of up to £1 billion assume this performance continues with a
focused on the financial needs and behaviours
steady increase in base rate to 1.25 per cent
of the customer of the future: further enhancing
Delivering sustainable growth by the end of 2020.
our leading customer experience; further
When we outlined our strategic vision in
digitising the Group; maximising Group The strategy outlined will enable the Group
October 2014, we targeted sustainable
capabilities; and transforming ways of working. to deliver strong statutory profit growth
growth in line with our low risk appetite,
We will invest more than £3 billion in these supported by targeted asset growth in key
committing to grow in areas where we were
strategic initiatives through the plan period that segments, a resilient net interest margin,
under-represented. We have increased net
will drive our transformation into a digitised, lower operating costs, strong asset quality
lending to SME clients by £3 billion since
simple, low risk, customer focused UK financial and lower remediation costs, whilst delivering
2014, significantly ahead of the market, while
services provider. strong capital generation and sustainable and
also increasing UK consumer assets by over
superior shareholder returns.
£6 billion and acquiring the £8 billion MBNA Delivering a leading customer experience
credit card portfolio. In the competitive low We will drive stronger customer relationships Costs will continue to be a competitive
growth mortgage market we have focused through best in class propositions while advantage as we deliver market leading
on protecting margin rather than achieving continuing to provide our customers with efficiency. We expect operating costs to be
volume growth over the last couple of years brilliant servicing and a seamless experience less than £8 billion in 2020. We also expect to
though the open mortgage book returned to across all channels. This will include: achieve a cost:income ratio in the low 40s as we
growth in 2017. The Group also announced the exit 2020, including future remediation costs.
acquisition of Zurich’s workplace pensions and r emaining the number 1 digital bank in the We continue to expect improvements in the
savings business in late 2017. UK with open banking functionality; cost:income ratio every year.
We remain committed to building the best u nrivalled reach with UK’s largest branch Asset quality remains strong and, given our
team, creating an inclusive and diverse network serving complex needs; and low risk business model and the significant
workforce that represents a changing Britain. d ata-driven and personalised portfolio improvements in recent years, we now
Colleague engagement is at an all-time high, customer propositions. expect an asset quality ratio of around 35 basis
and in line with top performing corporates. In points through the cycle and less than 30 basis
2017 we were awarded number one employer Digitising the Group points through the plan period.
for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender We will deploy new technology to drive We expect to deliver an improved return on
people at the Stonewall Awards and named the additional operational efficiencies that will tangible equity (RoTE) of 14.0–15.0 per cent
world’s best bank for diversity and inclusion by make banking simple and easier for customers from 2019 onwards on a higher CET1 capital
Euromoney magazine. whilst reducing operating costs, pursuing the base of c.13 per cent plus a management buffer
following initiatives: of around 1 per cent.
Helping Britain Prosper Plan
d eeper end-to-end transformation targeting Capital generation is expected to remain
In 2014 we launched our Helping Britain over 70 per cent of cost base; strong with 170-200 basis points of capital
Prosper Plan to support the people, s implification and progressive modernisation generation per year pre dividend and as
businesses and communities in the UK. The of our data and IT infrastructure; and a result we expect to deliver progressive
financial success of the Group is inextricably and sustainable ordinary dividends whilst
linked to the health of the UK and we are t echnology enabled productivity maintaining the flexibility to return surplus
working hard to support the whole economy. improvements across the business. capital to shareholders.
Since the launch of the plan four years ago,
Maximising the Group’s capabilities
we have lent more than £47 billion to first- Summary
We will deepen customer relationships, grow
time buyers, supported more than 440,000
start-ups, been the largest UK corporate tax in targeted segments and better address our Our strong foundations, differentiated business
payer and donated £72 million to the Group’s customers’ banking and insurance needs as model and strategic capabilities combined with
independent Foundations. Also, in 2017 an integrated financial services provider. This the new strategic plan and a highly engaged
we have trained over 700,000 individuals, will include: team positions us well to succeed in a digital
businesses and charities in digital skills. In i ncreasing Financial Planning and Retirement world and continue to help Britain prosper.
2014 we were the first FTSE 100 company to (FP&R) open book assets by more than
make a commitment on the number of senior £50 billion by 2020 with more than 1 million
positions held by women. At that time women new pension customers;
made up 29 per cent of senior management.
i mplementing an integrated FP&R
In 2017 we met our 34 per cent target and
we are on track to achieve 40 per cent by
proposition with single customer view; and
2020. We also recently became the first FTSE s tart-up, SME and Mid Market net lending
António Horta-Osório
100 company to set a target to increase the growth (more than £6 billion in the Group Chief Executive
proportion of senior roles held by Black, Asian plan period).
and Minority Ethnic colleagues. Our target is
8 per cent by 2020 for senior managers and
10 per cent for the overall Group.
08 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Our The external Intrinsic Creating What we have Our strategic
1 2 3 4 5
strategic environment strengths and value for our achieved planning
challenges stakeholders over the last process
journey
three years
See page 10 See page 11 See page 12 See page 13
1 2 3 4 5
The external environment See how risks associated with these factors
impact upon our principal risks and strategy
on page 33
Economy Challenges Regulation
Households’ spending power has been
squeezed over the past year as the rise in
Key messages inflation to 3 per cent by the end of 2017 has Key messages
outpaced growth in pay that has remained
Given our UK focus, our prospects are closely T he UK financial services sector is
subdued in a broadly 2-2.5 per cent range over
linked to the strength of the UK economy expected to remain highly regulated
the year, partly reflecting weak productivity
D espite near-term uncertainties about growth. While inflation is expected to slow, T here is increasing clarity on impending
the future relationship with the EU, the it is likely to trend towards 2 per cent only regulation with a number of key regulatory
UK economy is expected to remain resilient gradually through the next three year chapter programmes now agreed or to be finalised
in 2018, growing at a similar pace to 2017. of our strategy, and whilst we expect wage in the near future
Longer term growth potential is still growth to improve and end the spending
expected to be faster than the Eurozone power squeeze, it is uncertain how quickly this Open banking and
and similar to the US will happen. Meanwhile, the economy is more customer data
reliant than normal on business investment
I nterest rates are expected to remain low, and exports to drive growth. In January 2018 open banking regulation
with gradual rises beneficial to our savings was implemented in the UK, with the aim of
customers and the Group Business investment is likely to have been enabling customers to view their personal
impacted by the uncertainty around the UK’s financial data in one place. Customer
Overview future trading relationship with the EU but as protection is at the heart of this and other
negotiations progress and that relationship upcoming regulations regarding personal
As a UK focused financial services provider, our
becomes clearer, investment spending should data, with robust data systems and processes
prospects are closely aligned to the strength
be supported. Operational impacts of the having been developed to ensure that
of and outlook for the UK economy. In the
UK’s exit from the EU present risks for some customer data can be transferred securely,
period following the decision to leave the
of our customers’ businesses, although the and only once consent has been given.
EU, the UK economy has remained resilient.
UK’s continued competitive advantages in
Growth has slowed only a little below its trend
innovation and high value services, and the Capital regulation
rate, unemployment has continued to fall
flexible labour market should enable the
to a 40-year low, and property prices have The Group continues to monitor and
economy to prosper longer term in growing
continued to rise slowly. In the absence of prepare for a number of regulatory capital
world markets.
any sudden shocks to business or consumer developments taking effect over the next
confidence, this recent resilience is expected few years. Uncertainty remains around
Outlook
to continue in 2018 and the next few years. the implementation and impact of some
In common with many other countries, the Barring unexpected sudden shocks regulatory developments, including the
biggest uncertainty for longer term growth to consumer or business confidence, finalisation of Basel III, which will be subject
is the degree to which productivity growth the near-term outlook for both the UK to EU and UK implementation. The highly
improves from its weak rate of the past decade. economy and the Group remains relatively capital generative nature of the Group means
benign. A tight labour market and gradual that it remains relatively well-positioned
Opportunities productivity improvements should over time to meet any changes arising.
underpin quickening wage growth, whilst
The economy’s resilience bodes well for us Ring-fencing
inflation is expected to start falling through
and our customers. While interest rates are
expected to increase only gradually, the Bank 2018, the combination gradually ending the From January 2019, the Group and its peers will
of England’s first increase in Bank Rate in over squeeze on households’ spending power. have to comply with the ring-fencing regulations
10 years has benefited savers, many of whom With unemployment remaining close to its introduced by the Financial Services (Banking
will have dealt with low rates for a prolonged current 40-year lows, Bank Rate is expected Reform) Act 2013. This legislation has been
period, and will support banking margins. to continue to rise, but only slowly. House developed in response to the global financial
In recent years, low interest rates and our prices are expected to rise marginally, with the crisis, with the aim of ensuring that ordinary
low risk approach have been reflected in low affordability impact of slightly higher interest depositors and other stakeholders, such as
and falling levels of impairments against our rates offset by improving disposable incomes. shareholders, would be protected in the event
lending balances. The Group is not immune to the challenges of a similar crisis occurring in the future. While
facing the near-term and medium-term this will result in some structural and operational
Looking ahead, impairments are expected to economic outlook, but our UK focus changes for the Group, our simple business
remain at benign levels at an industry level, means that the current benign conditions model and UK focus mean they are likely to be
with contributing factors including the slow and resilience of the UK economy will be less onerous than for our major peers.
pace of expected interest rate increases,
supportive to the Group’s performance
unemployment remaining close to its current Other
through the delivery of the next chapter our
40-year low, and the benefit of both continuing
strategy. Direct operational impacts from Over the next three years a number of other
to support property prices. Meanwhile,
EU exit are also limited. regulations will be introduced or take effect
business confidence has to date held up well in
including the effectiveness of competition and
the face of global and domestic uncertainties.
customer choice and the deadline for customers
Manufacturers and exporters have been aided
to claim compensation for mis-sold PPI.
by sterling’s depreciation since late 2015, and
businesses generally are benefiting from low Given our simple, low risk business model, we
debt service costs. are well placed to meet these requirements
and welcome the positive effect that they
will have on the industry, its customers, and
other stakeholders.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11
1 2 3 4 5
Creating value for our stakeholders
Our simple, low risk, customer focused business model is driven
by our competitive positioning. As we enter the next phase of
our strategy we will enhance our competitive strengths to further
transform the business, help Britain prosper and continue delivering
for customers, colleagues and shareholders.
BUSINESS AREAS
PRODUCTS
m e
nt Le
n d
e in
g g Running a
a
n
e
alt h
k
m a O
H
U
el
R
p i
P
n
U
g
R
B
P
ri
O
ta
S
in
E D
e
p
responsible
n a
d
e
W
c n In s
Ri s
Best ba
O
n
P
k
U
r o
f
R
o
s
r
p
A
c
e
I
u
M
r
stomers, g
o
n
s
i
i
k
t
at
R
li
e
a t
b
f
s
o
t
u
a
r
s
k
a
i
e
n
ll
h
e
o
o
ss
u
ld
r
ers
a u colleagues and
ru
s n
ra
n c shareholders n g See pages 21–27
I e n ci
a
In
vestm
ent
Commercial
fi n
Commercial Banking
OUR PURPOSE OUR AIM PRODUCTS BUSINESS AREAS
Helping Britain Prosper Best bank for customers,
colleagues and shareholders
We are a responsible business, Doing the right thing for our Our product range is driven by our Our business areas are structured
focused on succeeding over the customers, colleagues and customers’ needs and is informed according to the products and
longer-term, and we believe that shareholders by meeting their through comprehensive customer services we provide to best serve
helping to make Britain a more financial needs, helping them analysis and insight. our customers’ financial needs.
inclusive and prosperous country succeed, improving our service
Lending We currently have three
is fundamental to that aim. proposition and creating value
Mortgages, credit cards, business areas:
for them, is fundamental to our
We are proud to take a leading personal and business loans
business model and the long-term Retail
role in helping the UK economy,
sustainability of the business. Deposit taking
whether through supporting Commercial Banking
Current accounts and
housing, trade and business
savings accounts Insurance and Wealth
growth or by tackling disadvantage.
Our Helping Britain Prosper Insurance Read more:
Home insurance, motor insurance
Plan, launched in 2014, takes us Retail see pages 28–29
and protection
well beyond business as usual Commercial Banking
by setting measurable targets in Investment see page 30
the areas where we can make the Pensions and investment products Insurance and Wealth
biggest difference. see page 31
Commercial financing
Term lending, debt capital markets
For more about our approach to and private equity
responsible business and the Plan
see pages 18–20 Risk management
Interest rate hedging, currency
and liquidity
12 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
1 2 3 4 5
What we have achieved
over the last three years
We have made significant progress against our
strategic priorities over the last three years and are
well positioned as we head into the next chapter of
our strategy.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 2015 – 2017
Creating the Becoming Delivering Building the
best customer simpler and sustainable best team
experience more efficient growth
W e are now the UK’s largest W e have demonstrated our D espite the uncertain W e have made progress
digital bank, with 13.4 million ability to actively respond macroeconomic environment, towards building a business
online customers and a mobile to changes in the operating we have continued to support our colleagues are proud to
customer base of 9.3 million environment, accelerating the UK economy while work for by creating the best
cost delivery and achieving operating within our prudent environment for our colleagues
W e have continued to invest in
significant efficiency savings risk appetite to succeed
the UK’s largest branch network,
reformatting branches to reflect T he transformation of customer W e have maintained market W e are creating an honest
changing customer needs journeys has made it simpler, leadership across our key retail and open environment where
faster and more convenient business lines, while growing colleagues feel valued, reflected
W e have improved customer
for us to meet customers’ in a number of targeted in all-time high colleague
satisfaction with our seamless,
evolving needs areas where we were under- engagement scores that are
multi-brand, multi-channel
represented including SME, also above the norm for high
offering, reflected in increasing W e have maintained our cost
Mid Markets, credit cards and performing organisations
Net Promoter Scores (NPS), leadership position amongst
motor finance
while customer complaints UK high street banks W e continue to encourage
continued to trend downwards W e have helped Britain prosper diversity, believing that
through a number of strategic everybody should have the
commitments, including opportunity to reach their
supporting more first-time full potential
buyers than anybody else
Performance highlights Performance highlights Performance highlights Performance highlights
6 8 per cent of customer needs C ost:income ratio of 46.8 per N et lending to SMEs up by 7 6pts – employee engagement
met via digital (versus forecast cent, down from 49.8 per cent £3 billion, ahead of market at an all-time high
range of 50-70 per cent set out
£ 1.4 billion of Simplification £ 8 billion of MBNA credit 3 4 per cent of senior roles held
in 2014)
savings achieved, ahead of card assets acquired in by women, up 5 per cent
N PS score of 62.0, up from 58.6 our original target June 2017
N amed world’s best bank
5 5 per cent of customers O perating costs reduced every M ore than £35 billion lent to for diversity and inclusion by
receiving mortgage offer year during the course of the last first-time buyers Euromoney magazine
within less than 14 days, up 18pp six years (excluding the impact
of MBNA in 2017)
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Our strategic
planning process
Over the past two years we have developed a new
strategy to further transform the Group and deliver
sustainable value to our stakeholders.
Why the change?
Since 2011, we have significantly transformed our
business for the benefit of our customers and other
stakeholders. However we are not complacent and
recognise that unprecedented change in customer
expectations, technology, the competitive environment
and regulation require a bold response for the next
chapter of our strategy.
Bank of the Development of high Finalisation of Our next chapter
Future discussion level strategic options strategy and
communication
We regularly review our strategy Using this foundation, coupled A number of changes to the Over the page, we outline
in the light of the changing with the ongoing monitoring Group’s operating structure and the strategic priorities for the
external environment to ensure of both internal and external executive management were business to 2020.
that our focus remains the right stakeholder trends and best announced in July to put in place
one for our customers and other practice, our main focus in 2017 the right team and structure
stakeholders. As part of this was the development of the to lead the development and
process, the Board specifically Group’s strategy for the three delivery of the strategy.
discusses strategic issues at year period from 2018 to 2020. The priorities identified by
a strategy offsite meeting
At the start of the year we the Board were subsequently
every year.
identified four major strategic developed into detailed strategic
In June 2016, the Board and the themes, each of which was plans with measurable operating
executive management team developed further by dedicated and financial metrics and targets
took part in an intensive two-day teams, with support and which support our strategic
strategy meeting to discuss challenge provided centrally aspirations for the next three
the strategic challenges and and by executive management. years and beyond.
opportunities the Group could
During the course of the year, the The Board reviewed the more
face in the future, based on four
Board discussed and reviewed detailed plan and immediate
scenarios for how banking could
the proposed change initiatives in priorities in an extended session
evolve over the next 10 years.
a number of deep dive sessions in November 2017, placing
The Board debated the and at mid-year the Board particular emphasis on the
transformation required to debated at length the preliminary effective management of the
become ‘Bank of the Future’ findings and broad strategic programme and the mitigation
and underpin our continued options for each of these priority of potential execution risks.
competitiveness in each of these themes over the course of two
At the same time, executive
scenarios. This provided a solid days. This resulted in a set of clear
management and the
foundation for us to develop the strategic priorities for further
Board have been engaged
next phase of our strategy. development.
in the development of the
communication plan, to ensure
that all our stakeholders clearly
understand the strategy and what
it means for them.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
1 2 3 4 5
Stages in the process
up to June 2016 up to June 2017 up to February 2018 2018–2020
18 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Doing business responsibly
Supporting our strategic priorities and
our purpose to help Britain prosper
A sustainable and responsible approach is integral
to what we do and how we operate. Doing business
responsibly underpins our purpose and is supported
by our Group values and Code of Responsibility.
Responsible business
We can only achieve our strategic Stakeholder engagement
priorities and help Britain prosper if highlights
We know that engaging with different
we continue to operate responsibly.
stakeholder groups is extremely important. We are doing business responsibly and
We know that if Britain prospers
It enables us to understand the issues they making a significant impact
we can too, so we must continue to face, and their expectations from the Group.
use our scale and reach to make a Their contributions influence our strategic One of Britain’s largest
difference to people, businesses and thinking and also help us to shape our corporate tax payers
corporate reporting.
communities across the UK.
We engage with stakeholders in many
Lending £13 billion to
How the Group is run different ways: during our business activities;
in face-to-face meetings on specific issues, first-time homebuyers
Our Group Policies and standards, including our
such as regulation; and also through new
values and Code of Responsibility, guide our
media such as digital broadcasts.
behaviour and are embedded and tracked as Supporting more than
Read more on
part of our risk appetite and policy framework.
pages 62–63 124,000 start-up businesses
You can read more about the Group Policy
framework and how these Policies are
monitored and embedded on page 111 Transforming our business
Our Responsible Business
We actively support major national and Committee to meet customers’ needs,
international codes and conventions related including the 13.4m banking
to responsible business, including the In 2017 our Board-level committee focused
digitally
UN Global Compact. on developing the Helping Britain Prosper
Plan and how the Group’s approach to doing Given 260,000 hours of
business responsibly should evolve. The
colleague volunteering
Group’s sustainability strategy was discussed
with colleagues from relevant business areas to help good causes
and external advisors.
£58 million given to help
Read more on
Governance page 80 communities, including
more than £20 million
Good governance requires an effective
given to our independent
structure and the combined effort of engaged
and well-informed colleagues. It is essential charitable Foundations
that it is embedded into the processes,
Our fundraising enabled
planning and delivery of the Group’s
objectives and strategy. Mental Health UK to launch
the UK’s first Mental Health
Our governance structure extends from our
Group Board and Board level Responsible and Money Advice Service
Business Committee, through the executive
Building Britain’s most
level Responsible Business Management
Committee, which implements our inclusive and diverse bank
responsible business strategy. At the end of
Our businesses have roots going
2017, this executive level committee became
our Sustainability Committee. The Committee back 250 years and have stood the More than 5 million sq. ft.
will increase its focus on the implementation test of time. Our purpose, to help of real estate helped to
of our Group-wide sustainability strategy
Britain prosper, is more important become energy efficient
as well as overseeing material responsible
business issues. Our responsible approach than ever to the UK’s successful
then extends onwards through the efforts of transformation into a digitally
managers and colleagues at all levels. enabled low carbon economy.
Sara Weller
Independent Director and Chairman,
Responsible Business Committee
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19
Helping Britain
Prosper
Through our products and services
we have been serving Britain for
more than 250 years, but our Helping
Britain Prosper Plan takes us beyond
Helping businesses Helping communities
business as usual and is an important
investment in our long-term success.
We launched the Plan in 2014, drawing on
We’re helping businesses of all types We’re helping communities to become
advice from our senior leaders and many
and sizes to start-up, grow, improve more cohesive by providing vital support
external partners, including our independent
productivity, build their skills base and for some of the most disadvantaged
stakeholder panel and charitable
become successful exporters. people living in Britain today. We also
Foundations. Since its launch we have
champion diversity.
achieved a lot for Britain, meeting 20 of our We provide support to businesses of all types
25 targets in 2014, 27 of our 28 targets in 2015 and sizes. In 2017, we delivered £1 billion Through our four independent charitable
and 20 of our of 24 targets in 2016. of financial support to the manufacturing Foundations we helped more than 2,800
sector, exceeding our target, and extended charities and supported colleagues to
Our performance in 2017 our support for the Lloyds Bank Advanced volunteer their expertise, including their
Manufacturing Centre, helping to train 500 mentoring skills, to help these charities
This year we have made good progress in apprentices, graduates and engineers. become more effective and financially
helping people, businesses and communities, We also met our target to support UK sustainable. This year, colleagues gave
meeting 21 of our 22 targets for the year. infrastructure projects collectively worth almost 260,000 volunteering hours to
more than £31 billion. We have now retired support local communities.
this target from our Plan.
Through our partnership with Mental
We increased net lending to SME and Health UK, we’re promoting awareness of
Mid Markets companies by £0.9 billion, but the link between mental health and money
fell short of our £2 billion target. The shortfall problems. This year we exceeded our target
reflects similar challenges across the market. and raised £4.8 million thanks to the efforts
Since the beginning of 2011, our net lending of our colleagues and customers. This
to SMEs has increased by 31 per cent whilst fundraising enabled Mental Health UK to
the market has contracted by 11 per cent. launch Mental Health and Money Advice –
Since 2012, our lending to Mid Markets the UK’s first service dedicated to helping
Helping people companies has increased by 17 per cent people understand, manage and improve
compared to a market that has remained their financial and mental health.
flat. Our 2018 target is to deliver £2 billion
We made further progress towards our
of net lending across start-up, SME and
target of women holding 40 per cent of our
We’re helping people with the issues Mid Markets businesses.
senior roles by 2020, with 34 per cent of
that really matter to them, whether that Read more on these roles now held by women. You can is buying a home, saving for later life, or page 23
read more about inclusion and diversity on
finding a rewarding job.
page 21. We also met our 2020 colleague
This year, we delivered £13 billion of lending engagement targets, three years ahead
to help first-time homebuyers, created more of schedule, and reached engagement
than 1,200 new apprenticeship positions in the levels of 70 per cent amongst Black, Asian
Group and provided support and guidance and Minority Ethnic (BAME) and Lesbian,
to help almost 89,000 customers plan for Gay, Bisexual (LGB) colleagues as well as
retirement. Through our support for the colleagues with disabilities. We will continue
School for Social Entrepreneurs we helped to promote inclusion with our business but
a further 260 social entrepreneurs start or have now retired these targets from our Plan.
grow their businesses. We also made good Read more on
progress against our target to train 1.8 million page 25
individuals, businesses and charities in digital
skills by 2020, having trained more than
708,000 in 2017.
I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000
(revised) assurance by Deloitte LLP for the
2017 Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloitte’s 2017 assurance statement and the
2017 Reporting Criteria are available online at
lloydsbankinggroup.com/RBdownloads
20 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Doing business responsibly continued
2018 Helping Evolving the Plan
To show our continuing support for the low
carbon economy, we have added a new
Britain Prosper
target: to help provide power for 5 million
homes in the UK by 2020 through our support
Plan for renewable energy projects. We are still
focused on supporting business growth and
building an inclusive and diverse business.
We have developed the Plan for 2018 We have set two new targets to increase the
and beyond, to ensure it supports percentage of roles held by BAME colleagues
the next phase of our strategy and to 10 per cent and to increase the percentage
of senior roles held by BAME colleagues to
focuses on the areas where we
8 per cent by 2020.
believe we can make the biggest As a UK focused retail and
difference: addressing Britain’s You can read more about all of our Helping commercial bank, we are
housing needs, saving for the Britain Prosper Plan targets online inextricably linked to the British
future, building digital skills, helping Our areas of focus economy. Our success is the
businesses start up and grow, Through our full Plan, we are tracking our British economy’s success
championing Britain’s diversity and performance against 22 stretching targets
and we are fully committed to
tackling disadvantage. in total. We have prioritised six of these
to focus on in 2018, as shown in the table help people, businesses and
below. These support the UN Sustainable communities in Britain prosper.
Development Goals, which aim to tackle
the world’s most pressing challenges by António Horta-Osório
promoting sustainable development. Group Chief Executive
Our areas of focus
How we are supporting the UN
Target 2018 20201 Sustainable Development Goals
Helping Britain get a home
Amount of lending committed to help people buy their first home £10bn £30bn
Helping save for the future
Growth in assets that we hold on behalf of customers in retirement and £8bn £50bn
investment products2
Building digital skills
Number of individuals, SMEs and charities trained in digital skills including 700,000 1.8m
internet banking
Supporting businesses to start up and grow
Increased amount of net lending to start-up, SME and Mid Markets businesses £2bn £6bn
Championing Britain’s diversity
Percentage of senior roles held by women 36% 40%
Percentage of roles held by Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues 8.9% 10%
Tackling disadvantage across Britain
Number of charities we will support as a result of our £100 million3 commitment to 2,500 7,500
the Group’s independent charitable Foundations
1 2020 targets are cumulative from 2018–2020 and are in line with the next phase of the Group’s strategic plan.
2 Growth in assets under administration in our front books.
3 Between 2014–2020.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21
Running a responsible business
for all our stakeholders
We seek to run our business responsibly, sustainably
and successfully, delivering value for all our stakeholders.
Addressing the issues We continue to promote I&D through our by Euromoney; and once again, a Top 10
that matter most Group Executive Committee. Several of our Employer for Working Families and Times Top
senior executives are I&D sponsors, and an 50 Employer for Women. We also won awards
This year we asked our stakeholders – Operational Committee overseas how our for our approach to agile hiring. You can read
including colleagues, customers, investors, I&D plans are implemented. more about agility on page 22.
community groups, special interest groups
and opinion formers – to participate in We have committed to ensure that women Gender pay gap
our materiality survey, to help us shape hold 40 per cent of our senior roles by 2020, We recognise that supporting gender equality
our reporting. and to help reach this target we monitor and diversity more broadly supports the
gender diversity on candidate lists for senior success of the UK as a whole. We regularly
They were particularly interested in issues appointments. Over 400 women have review our pay levels to ensure that men
related to how the Group is run; building now completed our Women in Leadership and women are paid equally for doing
trust; supporting communities and society; programme, with 100 achieving promotion. equivalent roles across the Group. We
economic performance and contribution; We’ve continued to develop and promote our support the government’s requirement for
responsible and accessible products; human Authentic Leadership Programme for Black, all large companies to publish their gender
rights, diversity and equality; and people Asian and Minority Ethnic leaders. We foster pay gap information. We remain committed
management and development. cultural awareness through promoting role to increasing the proportion of women in
We have structured our responsible business models and communication campaigns. senior roles and building a diverse senior
reporting around our key stakeholder groups. Other achievements include being rated management team.
The issues they prioritised are listed at relevant number 1 in the Stonewall Top 100 2017 Supporting colleagues with disabilities
points to help you find those of most interest LGBT employers and included in the Stonewall This year, the Department for Work and
to you. inaugural list of Transgender Inclusive Pensions designated the Group as a Disability
Employers 2018; being named the best Confident Leader for our inclusive
bank in the world for diversity and inclusion
Colleagues
Our inclusion and diversity data
Our colleagues take pride in working 2017 20161
for an inclusive and diverse bank and Gender
with their support we’re building Board members Male 9 10
a culture in which everyone feels Female 3 3
included, empowered and inspired to Senior managers2 Male 4,939 5,138
do the right thing for customers. Female 2,544 2,457
Colleagues2 Male 31,216 33,149
Key issues for our stakeholders
Female 42,956 45,769
Equality, inclusion and diversity
Human rights Ethnic background
Percentage of colleagues from a BAME background 8.3% 7.9%
Health, safety and wellbeing
Learning and development BAME managers 8.3% 6.4%
BAME senior managers 5.6% 4.8%
Equality, inclusion
Disability
and diversity
Percentage of colleagues who disclose they have a disability 2.6% 2.2%
We continued to make good progress Sexual orientation
against our inclusion and diversity (I&D) Percentage of colleagues who disclose they are lesbian, gay,
strategy. The proportion of colleagues who bisexual or transgender 1.7% 1.5%
agree that the Group is an inclusive place to
1 Restated to include International and parental leave colleagues comparable with other gender reporting. Includes
work increased to 89 per cent, 3 per cent more subsidiary Non-Executive Directors.
than in 2016, and almost half of our colleagues 2 Reporting scope: payroll headcount includes established and fixed term contract colleagues, parental leavers and
Internationals. Excludes leavers, Group Non-Executive Directors, contractors, temps and agency staff. Also excludes MBNA
are members or supporters of one of our
colleagues, who became part of Lloyds Banking Group plc in June 2017, as they are currently on a separate grading structure.
five diversity networks. We met our target to Diversity scope: Payroll headcount including parental leavers. Excludes MBNA colleagues, who became part of Lloyds
increase the engagement levels of Black, Asian Banking Group plc in June 2017, as they are currently on a separate grading structure. Also excludes contractors. Gender
and Minority Ethnic colleagues, colleagues information includes International colleagues. All other diversity information is UK Payroll only.
Senior Managers: Grades F+. Managers: Grade D-E.
with disabilities and Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual
Data source: HR system (HR Online). Apart from gender data, all diversity information is based on colleagues’ voluntary
colleagues above 70 per cent, three years self-declaration. As a result this data is not 100 per cent representative; our systems do not record diversity data for the
earlier than our target date of 2020. proportion of colleagues who have not declared this information.
22 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Running a responsible business
for all our stakeholders continued
28,000
colleagues received
mental health awareness
training in 2017.
recruitment process and in November, we We have policies, standards and relevant
won a ‘Nothing about us without us’ Disability mandatory training in place to help
Smart Award, recognising the way we gather colleagues work safely at all times. We also
insights about disability from colleagues, work closely with external health and safety
customers and charities, then use them to agencies through our participation in the
inform our decisions. As a member of the Health and Safety Primary Authority Scheme
Business Disability Forum, we are proud to and Fire Primary Authority partnership. In 2017,
have retained our Gold accreditation in the we achieved a 7 per cent decrease in our total
Disability Standard. Our colleague disability recorded accidents compared to 2016. You can
network, Access, ran a successful national read more about health and safety in our 2017
event, while more than 2,300 colleagues Responsible Business update.
completed our industry leading workplace
adjustment process. Supporting colleagues’ mental health
We worked with Mental Health UK to develop
We offer bespoke development programmes and deliver mental health awareness training
and recruitment processes for colleagues to over 28,000 colleagues and we estimate that
and job applicants with disabilities. We aim more than 25 per cent of colleagues discussed
to appoint the best candidate into any role mental health this year. This included our
and give full and fair consideration to job Group Chief Executive António Horta-Osório,
applications from those with disabilities, who shared his story about executive stress.
and we are unbiased in the way we assess, We have improved the mental health support
CREATING MORE
select, appoint, train and promote people. colleagues receive through our third-party
We offer a guaranteed interview scheme healthcare suppliers and are supporting our top APPRENTICESHIPS
for candidates who declare a disability and 120 leaders to develop their mental resilience.
meet the minimum requirements of the WITHIN OUR GROUP
role. We continue to run a Disability Work Agile working
Experience Programme in partnership To respond to the changing business During 2017, we created more than 1,200
with Remploy. This is one of the largest environment and in recognition of the apprenticeship positions within the Group,
disability-focused work experience initiatives changing ways colleagues live and work, we bringing the total to more than 5,500
in the financial services sector; we’ve increased encourage our colleagues to embrace agile since 2012. Around 44 per cent of the new
our number of candidates from 96 in 2016 to working. Approximately 41 per cent of them apprenticeships were taken up by external
392 in 2017. are now working in a flexible way compared to candidates from some of the UK’s most
33 per cent two years ago. In 2017 we launched disadvantaged areas. We are proud of the
Human rights a workforce agility Line Manager toolkit to help fact that many of our apprentices flourish
We aspire to conduct business in a way that teams implement new ways of working. with us after qualification including Vickie
values and respects the human rights of all McRae, a mother of two who joined the
the stakeholders we work with. We respect Learning and development Group in 2015.
and support the United Nations Universal Investing in learning and development
Declaration of Human Rights, together with equips colleagues to do their best for
the International Labour Organisation (ILO) customers. During 2017, colleagues spent
Fundamental Conventions, covering freedom more than 410,000 days on learning, an
of association, the abolition of forced labour, average of 5.6 days each. We made it easier We improved our digital offer, enhancing
equality and the elimination of child labour. for them to access learning by creating our Skillsoft resource, which won a Gold
We comply with all relevant legislation, new business learning catalogues and International Brandon Hall Excellence Award,
including the UK Modern Slavery Act. We also Group-wide Learning Resource Centres. and adding a video library, Lynda. com,
support relevant voluntary standards, such as We also ran ‘Values in Action’ sessions for all to resources.
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and colleagues, supporting the introduction of
Human Rights and take steps to make sure our new Group and Leadership Behaviours, Engaging colleagues
colleagues understand our position on these and unified our learning for line managers We want colleagues to be engaged and
issues and can help us live up to the standards and leaders in a new Leadership Academy. enthusiastic about our strategy, responsible
they demand. You can read our Anti-Slavery This offers a new curriculum for senior approach and culture. We regularly and
and Trafficking statement online. colleagues, ‘pathways’ to guide those systematically update them on the Group’s
preparing for a new line management role, performance and changes in the economic
Health, safety and wellbeing and leadership apprenticeships. and regulatory environment including matters
that concern their role. We also want them
We care about the physical and mental Our Strategic Leaders Programme, which
to share their ideas and views to help us
health, safety and wellbeing of our colleagues. 175 colleagues completed, concluded this
shape our future. One of the most effective
We provide them with a growing range of year. From 2018, colleagues in our Strategic
ways they do this is through the ‘Best Bank
health and wellbeing resources, including Leadership Group will undertake a new
for Customers’ and ‘Building the Best Team’
company paid private medical cover, ‘Horizon’ development programme that
surveys that are run by an independent third-
occupational health services and an employee supports our ‘Bank of the Future’ objectives.
party every year. They give colleagues the
assistance programme. We publish advice 80 per cent of colleagues who completed our
opportunity to share their thoughts in order to
about health topics on our intranet and ‘Building the Best Team’ survey confirmed that
inform decisions and support improvements
actively encourage colleagues to support they get the support they need to improve
in team performance. This year, 86 per cent of
external health and wellbeing campaigns. their skills and meet customer demands, an
colleagues participated in the two surveys –
annual increase of 3 per cent and 18 per cent
2 per cent more than in 2016 and 5 per cent
above the UK norm.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23
89%
of colleagues believe
the Group is committed
to being a responsible
business (2016: 86%).
above the external best practice response rate. Support for Britain’s
We believe the surveys confirm that colleagues
businesses and entrepreneurs
are engaged and believe the Group is moving
forward in key areas. We helped 6,800 clients to export for the first
time in 2017, as part of a wider commitment to
Rewarding colleagues help 25,000 businesses trade overseas for the
We offer a competitive and fair reward first time by 2020. We also supported more
package that supports our aims as a than 124,000 start-up businesses. In 2017, we
responsible business – with customer-facing handled over 54 million payments totalling in
colleagues in Retail incentivised on the basis excess of £1.4 trillion in digital transactions for
of actions and behaviours that put customers our commercial clients.
first. We offer colleague share schemes to
encourage shared ownership of our Group. We met our 2017 target to provide £1 billion
in funding support for the manufacturing
Read more on
sector and launched a £500 million fund
pages 84
to help manufacturers access asset
finance to invest in new capital to improve
Customers productivity. We’ve also supported more than
500 apprentices, graduates and engineers
at the Lloyds Bank Advanced Manufacturing
Training Centre in Coventry.
We aim to treat our customers fairly MEETING
and inclusively, making it easy for Through our partnership with the School for
Social Entrepreneurs, we’ve helped more CHANGING them to find, understand and access
than 1,500 social entrepreneurs to start-up
responsible products that are right for or grow their businesses since 2012. Our CUSTOMER NEEDS
them, whatever their circumstances. colleagues have worked with more than 250
social entrepreneurs as mentors to help them We are investing significantly in a major
Key issues for our stakeholders build sustainable social businesses. In 2017 branch transformation programme to better
Customer privacy and data security the Group became the first financial services serve our customers now and for many years
Support for Britain’s businesses and entrepreneurs company to partner the pioneering Match to come. We have expanded our mobile
Widening financial inclusion and supporting Trading™ initiative; a new funding model branch service this year and we now have
vulnerable customers which incentivises social entrepreneurs to 28 mobile branches, which visit 169 different
Responsible and accessible products grow their business through trading. locations to support rural communities
across Scotland, England and Wales.
Responsible and ethical lending
Widening financial inclusion
Customer privacy and supporting customers
and data security in vulnerable circumstances
We use advanced technology to protect Through our financial inclusion strategy and Supporting customers with disabilities
customers’ money and data, including secure financial education programmes we focus Digital access can transform banking for
log on and log off features and systems on improving access to financial services vulnerable customers, particularly for those
that prevent fraud or that detect fraudulent and building skills. Read more about financial with health conditions and disabilities that
payments in real time. In 2017, as part of the education on page 25. This year we opened make it difficult to get to a branch. Following
multi-stakeholder Joint Fraud Task Force, almost 271,000 new basic bank accounts a review in 2016, the charity Abilitynet
we helped to set the strategic direction for and helped 99,700 customers upgrade from accredited our Halifax and Lloyds Bank
fraud prevention. We also championed the basic to mainstream products. We also digital platforms based on their accessibility
national rollout of the Banking Protocol, which simplified our unplanned overdraft approach. for disabled customers.
now includes 38 police forces. This enables More than 9 in 10 personal current account
colleagues to request immediate police support customers of Lloyds Bank, Bank of Scotland We are piloting a new ‘Easy Read’ format,
when customers are at risk. An estimated and Halifax are now better off or unaffected endorsed by the RNIB, to make bank
£9 million of fraud was prevented through the financially by the changes. statements accessible and understandable for
Protocol this year and 100 arrests were made. customers with a range of learning difficulties
We want all customers to have easy access and disabilities. This year we agreed our
We help and educate customers to improve to our products and services. We’ve worked Autism Friendly plans for customers and
their own banking and data security and hard to track vulnerable customers’ needs, colleagues, which we have developed in
champion industry-wide public information particularly in our Community Bank, and partnership with the National Autistic Society.
campaigns, including Take 5, a national developed a Group-wide dashboard to
education and awareness campaign. We identify emerging vulnerability trends. In
offer support to colleagues to protect our 2017, our specialist support team helped
customers and they can access our Anti- 1,900 customers with cancer, through
Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist financial advice and with medical and
Policies and specialist training if required. emotional support from our partners
Looking ahead, our key priorities are to further Macmillan. To help colleagues do more
strengthen our cyber defences and to meet for vulnerable customers, we provided
the requirements of the upcoming EU General 90,000 hours of vulnerability training.
Data Protection Regulation which will apply
from May 2018.
24 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Running a responsible business
for all our stakeholders continued
Responsible and Responsible conduct
accessible products and culture
We have made significant progress over the We are building a responsible, inclusive and
last three years to improve the customer diverse culture based on our values, which
experience across many of our key products help colleagues consistently do the right
and services as part of our far-reaching thing for customers. The 2017 launch of our
Customer Journey Transformation initiative. Group and leadership behaviours has given
In 2017, we launched the last two of our colleagues clear guidance about how to live
10 journeys, each of which is intended to our values at work. Throughout the year we
put customers at the heart of any changes reinforced our values and behaviours through
we make. This year, we issued colleagues in numerous initiatives and embedded the
branches with more than 4,000 iPad Pros so behaviours in our processes and policies.
they can open accounts faster and introduced
We equip and encourage colleagues to
new digital services to help colleagues advise
work in line with our values, our Code of
customers about corporate pensions or loan
Responsibility and all other standards relevant
eligibility and to process mortgage offers and
to their role. We also encourage them to speak
accounts and small loans for SMEs in less time
up, challenge and act if they witness or suspect
than ever before.
wrongdoing by contacting our Colleague
Conduct Management Team or using our
Responsible and independent whistleblowing service ‘Speak MOBILISING
ethical lending Up’, which is accessible by phone, online or
COLLEAGUES
mobile app. During 2017, colleagues reported
As a lender and pension provider we play
372 concerns of which 181 were progressed TO SUPPORT
an important role in promoting responsible
to investigation. 57 per cent of the concerns
lending and investment decisions that take
investigated were upheld and remedial action MENTAL HEALTH
into account a broad range of environmental,
taken where appropriate.
social and governance factors. The Group
In September, a group of 62 colleagues
remains a signatory to the Equator Principles, We aim to comply with all laws and
completed the Fourtitude Challenge and
the Stewardship Code and the UN Principles regulations wherever we operate and have
raised over £317,000 for our charity partner
of Responsible Investment. As an active a comprehensive anti-bribery policy that
Mental Health UK. Our ‘Fourtituders’ tackled
and responsible asset owner, we consider applies to all colleagues, including directors,
a mental agility challenge, hiked up the
our obligations during the selection, contractors and others acting on our behalf.
highest peak in their home nation, cycled
appointment, monitoring and retention of All colleagues and contractors complete
100 miles through the Peak District and
our fund managers. The management of risk annual anti-bribery training and we encourage
completed a half marathon. An additional
for investment funds offered to customers them to report suspected bribery. The Group
250 colleagues took part as day participants
by Scottish Widows is effected through a is a member of Transparency International
and Mental Health UK’s Chief Executive,
robust and comprehensive process, including UK’s Business Integrity Forum, a network of
Brian Dow, also participated, running the
our Responsible Investment Governance major international companies committed to
half marathon.
Framework. In 2017 we completed an initial anti-corruption and high ethical standards in
assessment of the responsible investment business practices.
capabilities of our lead asset managers and the
Building trust
majority of external fund managers, and we
Our performance as a responsible business
launched a social bond fund in addition to the
ethical and environmental funds in our range. during the past year has helped to rebuild root causes of customer complaints reducing
trust in our Group and in the future stability incoming complaints by 18 per cent from 2016
and sustainability of the banking sector. In to 2017 (excluding PPI and claims management
May we returned to full private ownership and companies). Read more on page 7.
Partners the sale marked the successful delivery of our
strategy to transform into a simple, low risk, UK Direct and indirect
focused retail and commercial bank. In 2017
economic contribution
As a direct and indirect economic we continued to build trust by taking steps to
contributor to the UK economy, become even more transparent in the way we We make significant direct and indirect
we value our relationships with communicate with our stakeholders, providing contributions to the economy. We employ
them with greater detail about where we stand approximately 68,000 colleagues (full
external stakeholders and partners,
on environmental, social, governance and time equivalent) and are helping to create
including suppliers, government ethical issues. additional jobs and bring talented people
bodies and legislators.
into our business through our Graduate and
Customer satisfaction
Apprenticeship schemes. We’ve created more
Key issues for our stakeholders We measure customer satisfaction using the
than 5,500 apprenticeships since 2012. In 2017,
Responsible conduct and culture industry standard Net Promoter Score. In 2017, 38 per cent of our new apprenticeships were
this was 62.0, down slightly from 62.7 in 2016
Direct and indirect economic contribution offered to external candidates.
but remains nearly 50 per cent higher than at
Working with suppliers
the end of 2011. When customers do complain,
we act as quickly as possible, focusing on
achieving fair outcomes. We continue to
target understanding and eradicating the
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25
£2.5bn
of taxes paid in 2017
We are helping the housing sector as a whole. Working with suppliers
In 2017 we lent more than £42 billion to home
We aim to source responsibly and sustainably,
buyers and exceeded our target to build
requiring our suppliers to comply with our 1,500 homes through our Housing Growth
Code of Supplier Responsibility. We source
Partnership. We also helped the construction
a range of products and services from an
sector acquire skills through the London-
active supply base of around 4,000 suppliers.
based Construction Skills Centre, where 166
In 2017, our supplier expenditure was
people obtained an industry recognised
£5.0 billion (£5.3 billion in 2016) with 94 per cent
qualification. We also provided a further
of this spent with UK-based suppliers.
£2 billion of new funding support to the social
Our responsible business objectives are
housing sector.
embedded into our sourcing and supplier
Our tax contribution activities. For example, we further enhanced
The Group continues to be one of the largest the questions we ask prospective and existing
contributors to UK tax revenues. We were suppliers in our Financial Supplier Qualification
ranked as the highest payer of UK taxes in System in relation to issues such as human
the most recent PwC Total Tax Contribution trafficking and slavery, and have implemented
Survey for the 100 Group, which is broadly new contractual requirements. We have also
the FTSE 100 and some large UK private worked with key suppliers to build partnerships
companies. In 2017, we paid £2.5 billion in tax with social enterprises and embed social
(2016: £2.3 billion). We are also a major tax responsibility practices.
TACKLING SOCIAL
collector, gathering £1.7 billion on behalf of
HMRC in 2017 (2016: £2 billion).
DISADVANTAGE
Our approach to tax is governed by our Tax Communities
Policy which is part of our Board-approved ACROSS BRITAIN
Group Risk Management Framework. We
have discussed this Policy with HMRC and we We invest in local communities Through the Lloyds Bank Foundation for the
comply with their Code of Practice on Taxation across Britain to help them prosper Channel Islands, we are supporting Autism
for Banks and the Confederation of British Jersey, a charity that provides much-needed
economically and build social
Industry’s Statement of Tax Principles. We do advice and respite for people on the autism
cohesion by tackling disadvantage.
not interpret tax laws in a way that we believe is spectrum, their families and carers. The
contrary to the intention of Parliament, and we charity, which is using a grant of £50,000 over
Key issues for our stakeholders
do not promote tax avoidance products to our three years to help pay salaries, has grown
customers. You can read more about our Tax Financial education and inclusion significantly in the past five years and has
Strategy online. Community investment helped many individuals obtain care for the
first time without travelling to the mainland.
Shareholders Financial education
Engaging with our shareholders helps us and inclusion
understand their issues, shape our strategic
thinking and improve our corporate Our award winning Money for Life programme
reporting. We held more than 800 meetings is specifically designed to help vulnerable
with investors in 2017, including a number 16-25 year olds to improve their financial Group’s profits annually. Through the Group’s
with SRI investors. We also ran a number of competencies. Since the programme was Foundations, we reach and help some of the
webinars, roadshows and meetings to update relaunched in October 2016 we have engaged most disadvantaged communities in Britain,
shareholders, investment analysts and ratings more than 450,000 young people and over giving more than £20 million in 2017.
agencies about our performance. 11,300 money masterclasses have been
Our charity partner
delivered face-to-face in youth centres across
In 2017 we raised £4.8 million for Mental Health
Government England, Wales, Scotland and Northern
UK. This money will have a significant impact
We engage with government bodies, Ireland. In addition to this colleagues have
across the UK and has funded the first helpline
including central and local government and delivered financial literacy sessions in primary
dedicated to supporting people experiencing
the devolved governments in Scotland, Wales and secondary schools in local communities.
mental health and money management issues,
and Northern Ireland. We keep them informed Thanks to our ‘StandingOut’ programme we
which was launched in November 2017. We
about our activity as a responsible business, remain one of the largest providers of school
also aim to increase awareness and reduce the
which in 2017 included party conference fringe and academy governors in Britain, with 577
stigma associated with mental health so that
meetings held with Mental Health UK, the colleagues currently involved.
our colleagues can support themselves, each
launch of a report on the challenges facing
other and our customers.
the private rental sector, and briefings on Community investment
economic development. To support the UK’s Read more on
nations and regions, our 10 Ambassadors, Our support for local communities focuses page 22
who are all senior colleagues, have a mandate on education, employability and enterprise.
I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 (revised)
from the Group Chief Executive to support Our total community investment in 2017 assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2017 Annual
economic and social progress in their local was around £58 million . This includes our Responsible Business Reporting. Deloitte’s 2017
area. In 2017, our Ambassadors focused colleagues’ time, direct donations, and the assurance statement and the 2017 Reporting
Criteria are available online at lloydsbankinggroup.com/
on issues connected to housing, skills money we give to our independent charitable RBdownloads
development and business growth. Foundations, which receive a share of the
26 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Environment
A sustainable and responsible approach
is integral to how we operate
We need to use scarce natural help them embrace sustainability. In 2016, we
launched an innovative £1 billion Green Loan
resources more sustainably,
Initiative to incentivise commercial real estate
manage our environmental to become more energy efficient and this year
impacts and support our exceeded our target to help 2 million square
feet of real estate.
customers by financing
At the end of 2017, our UK team had financed
opportunities created by the
renewable projects with a combined
transition to a low carbon capacity of over 2.75GW (2016: 1.78GW) and
economy. internationally our existing investments in
renewables exceed 8.9GW (2016: 7.4GW).
Key issues for our stakeholders In 2017 Lloyds Bank played an important
part in Macquarie’s acquisition of the Green
The impact of climate risks
Investment Bank (now Green Investment
Managing environmental impacts Group), providing financing for a significant
Delivering the science-based carbon portfolio of operational offshore wind farms
reduction and climate resilience targets set including Sheringham Shoal, Gwynt y Mor,
out in the Paris Agreement will have significant Rhyl Flats and projects in construction,
structural implications for the economy and including Galloper and Rampion offshore
the businesses and communities we serve. wind farms. Together the projects have a total
That is why we are evolving our Group-wide capacity of approximately 2.4GW, which is HELPING
sustainability strategy. enough to power over 1.7 million homes and
This year, our overall carbon emissions were they will support a significant number of jobs INCENTIVISE
292,848 of COe, a decrease of 14 per cent across the UK through the supply chain and
year-on-year an 2 d of 48 per cent against our maintenance of the wind farms. GREEN REAL
2009 baseline. This is mainly attributable
ESTATE
to the reduction in consumption of gas The impact of climate risk
and electricity, which make up the largest
proportion of our emissions, as a result of our We welcome the recommendations of We’re incentivising Unibail-Rodamco,
extensive energy management programme. In the Financial Stability Board Taskforce on Europe’s largest commercial real estate
2017, we also reduced the COe related to our Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) business, to become more environmentally
business travel by promoting o 2 ur ‘No Travel and have mapped our approach to them. We sustainable – by linking the margin on their
Week’, encouraging travel alternatives and the are developing a strategy and implementing five year €650 million revolving credit facility
successful roll out of ‘WebEx’, Group-wide. processes to: to green key performance indicators. The
A ssess the materiality of climate risk across interest margins set through this innovative
Read more about our emissions in
the Directors’ report on page 83 our business refinancing deal, will take into account the
Unibail-Rodamco’s performance against KPIs
I dentify and define a range of scenarios,
based on its own ‘Sustainability Vision’ and
Supporting the low carbon economy including relevant physical and transition risk
‘Better Places 2030’ strategies.
We are helping more of our commercial clients E valuate the business impacts
to understand and manage their sustainability I dentify potential responses to manage the
risks and we complete an environmental risk risks and opportunities
assessment at the start of every new client
relationship. We are currently exploring ways We will address a number of these and will
to build sustainability considerations into our disclose further information on our work in this
important area.
policies and risk management processes. We
offer customers products and services that
COe emissions
2
Oct 16 - Sept 17 Oct 15 - Sept 161,2 Oct 14 - Sept 151,2
Total CO e 292,848 340,382 395,543
2
Total Scope 1 52,160 53,026 58,851
Total Scope 2 166,617 202,414 239,709
Total Scope 3 74,071 84,943 96,983
1 Restated 2014/2015 and 2015/2016 emissions data to improve the accuracy of reporting, using actual data to replace estimates.
2 Restated all historic years to reflect improved methodology in assigning road travel between reporting scopes.
Emissions in tonnes CO e in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (2004). We are in the process of transitioning to
2
the revised Scope 2 guidance. Criteria used to measure and report Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions is provided in the Lloyds Banking
Group Reporting Criteria statement available online at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/responsible-business.
Scope 1 emissions include mobile and stationary combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions have been calculated using a location based methodology, as set out by the GHG Protocol.
I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 (revised) assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2017 Annual Responsible Business
Reporting. Deloitte’s 2017 assurance statement and the 2017 Reporting Criteria are available online at
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/rbdownloads
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27
Our climate related financial disclosures
Our strategy the development and implementation of a Metrics and targets
In 2017, we reviewed how we integrate comprehensive environmental sustainability We are working to develop strategic
environmental sustainability into our strategy strategy. Discussions involving these commitments and targets in response to
and risk management processes, taking Committees and the Commercial Banking climate-related risks and opportunities, with
advice from external advisors and working leadership team were held in 2017 to start different parts of the business feeding into
with all parts of the business to understand to examine the strategic implications this target setting process. This builds on our
work already in plan and where we need to do of environmental challenges, including work to reduce the environmental impact of
more. We are committed to supporting the climate change. our own operations.
transition to a low carbon economy through Risk management Our target is to reduce our overall COe
our financial products and services, including The Sustainability Committee will oversee by 60 per cent by 2030 and 80 per cen 2 t by
renewable energy services. the assessment of our climate-related risks, 2050, in line with the UK’s emission reduction
escalating to the Responsible Business targets. This follows a science-based target
Governance of climate change
Committee and the Board Risk Committee as setting methodology. As part of our Green
The Responsible Business Committee, a
appropriate. Our divisions are each exposed Loan Initiative, our target is to fund 5 million
sub-committee of the Board, will take overall
to different levels of climate risk. For example, square feet of commercial real estate to
responsibility for the Group’s climate-related
as a large home insurer, we are aware that become more energy efficient by 2020, the
impacts and risks from 2018. It is chaired by
global warming is projected to increase equivalent of five London Shards. We have
an Independent Director, Sara Weller, and
the risk of flooding and consequently set a new target to help provide power for
meets regularly throughout the year. We have weather-related insurance claims. It is 5 million homes through our investment in
refocused our executive-level Responsible
important that we continue to work with our renewable energy by 2020.
Business Management Committee to
become our Sustainability Committee and customers, industry peers and government We will also consider the supplementary
will ensure that colleagues with operational to ensure this risk is minimised and mitigated industry specific recommendations for the
responsibilities across the Group’s key to keep flood insurance affordable. financial sector.
divisions are actively involved in You can read more about environmental
risk management on page 133
Non-financial information statement
We aim to comply with the new Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The below table, and information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters. This builds
on existing reporting that we already do under the following frameworks: CDP, Global Reporting Initiative, Guidance on the Strategic Report
(UK Financial Reporting Council), UN Global Compact, UN Sustainable Development Goals and UN Guiding Principles.
Reporting requirement Policies and standards which govern our approach Risk management and additional information
Environmental Environmental statement Environment, pages 26–27 Environmental risk management,
matters page 133
Employees Ethics and Responsible Business Policy1 Equality, inclusion and diversity, page 21 Board Diversity Policy, page 72
E thical Policy Statement Health, safety and wellbeing, page 22 People risk, page 136
Colleague Policy1 Learning and development, page 22 Governance risk, page 150
C ode of Responsibility Responsible conduct and culture, page 24
H ealth and Safety Policy1 Diversity, skills and composition, page 58
Human rights Human Rights Policy statement Human rights, page 22
Colleague Policy1 Responsible and ethical lending, page 24
P re-Employment vetting standards1 Working with suppliers, page 25
D ata Privacy Policy1
Anti-Slavery and Trafficking Statement
I nformation and Cyber Security Policy
Social matters V olunteering standards1 Helping communities, page 19 Communities, page 25
Matched giving guidelines1
Anti-corruption Anti-bribery Policy1 Customer privacy and data security, page 23
and anti-bribery Anti-bribery policy statement Responsible conduct and culture, page 24
Anti-money laundering and counter Operational risk, pages 135–136
terrorist financing Policy1
F raud Risk Management Policy1
Policy embedding2, due diligence and outcomes Risk overview, pages 32–33 Risk management, pages 107–156
Description of principal risks and impact of External environment, pages 8–9 Direct and indirect economic
business activity Creating value for our stakeholders, page 11 contribution, page 24
Addressing the issues that matter most, page 21 Risk overview, pages 32–33
Principal risks, pages 34–37
Description of the business model Our business model, pages 10–11 Our next chapter, page 14
Non-financial key performance indicators Key performance indicators, page 7 Running a responsible business,
What we have achieved over the past pages 21–25
three years, page 12 Environment, pages 26–27
Doing business responsibly, page 18
Helping Britain Prosper, pages 19–20
1 Certain Group Policies and internal standards and guidelines are not published externally.
2 The policies mentioned above form part of the Group’s Policy Framework which is founded on key risk management principles. The policies which underpin the principles define mandatory
requirements for risk management. Robust processes and controls to identify and report policy outcomes are in place and were followed in 2017.
32 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Risk overview
Effective risk management and control
As a Group, managing risk effectively is
Risk as a strategic differentiator
fundamental to our strategy and to operating
successfully. We are a simple, low risk, UK
focused bank with a culture founded on a Group strategy and risk appetite are risk control and ensures that the Group
prudent through the cycle risk appetite. developed together to ensure one informs risk appetite is continually developed and
the other to deliver on our purpose to adhered to.
A strong risk management culture is crucial
help Britain prosper whilst becoming
for sustainable growth and within Lloyds it is at the best bank for customers, colleagues Business focus and accountability
the heart of everything we do. and shareholders. Effective risk management is a key focus and
is included in key performance measures
Our approach to risk is founded on an effective
Risks are identified, managed and mitigated against which business units are assessed.
control framework, which guides how our
using our comprehensive Risk Management Business units in the first line of defence
colleagues work, behave and the decisions
Framework (see below), and our well are accountable for risk with oversight from
they make. Risk appetite – the amount and
articulated risk appetite provides a clear a strong and independent, second line of
type of risk we are prepared to seek, accept
framework for effective decision making. defence Risk division.
or tolerate – is approved by the Board and
The principal risks we face, which could
embedded in policies, authorities and limits
significantly impact the delivery of our Effective risk analysis, management
across the Group.
strategy, are discussed on pages 34–37. and reporting
Our prudent risk culture and appetite, along Continuing to deliver regular close
We believe effective risk management can
with close collaboration between Risk division monitoring and stringent reporting to
be a strategic differentiator, in particular:
and the business, supports effective decision all levels of management and the Board
making and has enabled us to continue to Prudent approach to risk ensures appetite limits are maintained and
deliver against our strategic priorities in 2017, Implementing a prudent approach to subject to stressed analysis at a risk type
simplifying and strengthening the business risk across the Group and embedding a and portfolio level.
whilst growing in targeted areas. We have strong risk culture ensures alignment to
created a strong foundation to enable this our strategy. Sustainable growth
progress, ensuring we react appropriately Embedding a risk culture that ensures
to the ever changing macroeconomic and Strong control framework proactive support and constructive
regulatory environment. The Group’s Risk Management Framework challenge takes place across the business is
is the foundation for the delivery of effective important for delivering sustainable growth.
Our risk management framework
The diagram below outlines the framework in place for risk management across the Group.
Accountability for ensuring risk is managed Confirmation of the effectiveness of
consistently with the Risk Management the Risk Management Framework
Framework approved by the Board and underlying risk and control
Setting risk appetite and strategy. Approval of
the Risk Management Framework and Group-wide Board Board authorities
risk principles role
Review risk appetite, frameworks and principles Through Board-delegated executive authorities
to be recommended to the Board. Be exemplars Senior there is effective oversight of risk management
of risk management management role consistent with risk appetite
Determined by the Board and senior management.
The risk appetite framework ensures our risks are
Business units formulate their strategy in line with Risk appetite managed in line with our risk appetite
the Group’s risk appetite
Supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide
behaviour and risk decision making. Consistency Supports a consistent approach to enterprise-wide
is delivered through the policy framework and risk Governance framework behaviour and decision making
committee structures
Maintains a robust control framework,
Monitoring, oversight and assurance ensure Three lines of defence identifying and escalating emerging risks and
effective risk management across the Group
supporting sustainable growth
Defined processes exist to identify, measure and Risk and control cycle Carried out by all three lines of defence and is an
control our current and emerging risks from identification to reporting integral part of our control effectiveness assessment
In line with our code of responsibility. Culture ensures Risk Risk resources Processes and infrastructure are being invested in to
performance, risk and reward are aligned culture and capabilities further improve our risk management capabilities
Risk-specific needs defined in detail for Primary risk categories Risk-type specific sub-frameworks e.g. credit risk
implementation by each business
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33
Risk considerations
The potential risks and impacts arising from the external environment are outlined below. They are grouped using the same classification as on
pages 8–9, with links to our principal risks and strategic priorities. For information on how we manage our emerging risks, see page 110.
Economy Regulation and legal Customer
Risk and potential impact Risk and potential impact Risk and potential impact
Economic headwinds such as rising inflation The financial services industry continues The availability and delivery of services through
could impact households’ disposable income to experience significant legislative and digital channels is becoming increasingly
and businesses’ profitability, impairing regulatory change and interpretation important for customer satisfaction.
customers’ ability to repay their borrowing, giving rise to uncertainty surrounding Accelerated change in customer behaviour
and potentially hindering sustainable growth. the nature, scale and complexity of and expectations may require increased agility
implementation requirements. to accommodate the pace and scale of change
The impact of EU exit on our portfolios
and could lead to customer detriment if this
remains uncertain. Operational changes are This has the potential to impact, for example,
change is poorly executed.
likely to be limited given our UK focus but the resource and investment available to
the impact on the UK economy may affect allocate to the Group’s strategic priorities. The Group will continue to focus on change
business performance. execution whilst keeping pace with
The Group has a proven track record in
developments to meet new and evolving
We consider an array of scenarios as part of implementing complex legal and regulatory
customer needs.
our operating plan and stress testing exercises, programmes and will continue to manage
to identify and implement appropriate any potential impact by remaining actively Link to principal risks
mitigating actions. engaged with governmental bodies, regulatory Regulatory and legal
authorities and industry associations. Conduct
Link to principal risks
Operational
Credit Link to principal risks
Operational Credit Link to strategic priorities
Insurance underwriting Regulatory and legal Delivering a leading customer experience
Capital Capital
Funding and liquidity Funding and liquidity
Market Market
Link to strategic priorities Link to strategic priorities
Maximising the Group’s capabilities Delivering a leading customer experience
Technology Competition
Risk and potential impact Risk and potential impact
New technologies such as public cloud and Technological change is driving an increase
artificial intelligence along with growing in the number, and changing the nature of
interconnectivity between the Group, competitors in the UK financial services industry,
customers, and third parties create new risks. opening up opportunities for consumers even
as levels of regulatory focus rise.
Increasing capabilities of cyber-attackers
We must ensure that an unexpectedly fast pace
and higher volumes of connected devices
of change, which may accelerate customer increases the potential for cyber-enabled fraud
disintermediation, does not lead to our
and other crime, including attacks that could
involvement in anti-competitive practices, or disrupt service for customers.
prevent certain customer groups from having
We continue to optimise our approach to equal access to our products and services.
operational resilience by enhancing systems We will continue to address this through
that support the Group’s critical business innovation and developing new products
processes, evolving controls within new that respond to market trends and meet
technologies and channels, and making customer changing needs.
significant investment to improve data privacy,
including the security of data. Link to principal risks
Regulatory and legal
Link to principal risks
Conduct
Conduct Operational
Operational People
Link to strategic priorities Link to strategic priorities
Delivering a leading customer experience Delivering a leading customer experience
Digitising the Group Maximising the Group’s capabilities
Find further discussion on the impact of
The links shown here between these five factors and our
these factors on our business on pages 8–9
principal risks and strategic priorities are not an exhaustive list.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
Governance Market Model
NEW
The risk that our capital or earnings profile is The risk of financial loss, regulatory censure,
Against a background of increased regulatory
affected by adverse market rates, in particular reputational damage or customer detriment,
focus on governance and risk management,
interest rates and credit spreads in the banking as a result of deficiencies in the development,
the most significant challenges arise from
business, equity and credit spreads in the application and ongoing operation of financial
meeting the requirements to ring-fence core
Insurance business, and credit spreads in the models and rating systems.
UK financial services and activities from January
Group’s defined benefit (DB) pension schemes.
2019 and further requirements under the Senior Examples
Manager & Certification Regime (SM&CR). Examples Examples of the consequences of inadequate
E arnings are impacted by our ability to models include:
Examples
I nadequate or complex governance forecast and model customer behaviour I nappropriate levels of capital or
arrangements to address ring-fencing accurately and establish appropriate impairments.
hedging strategies.
requirements could result in a weaker control I nappropriate credit or pricing decisions.
environment, delays in decision making and T he Insurance business is exposed indirectly
A dverse impacts on funding or liquidity,
lack of clear accountability. to equity risk through the value of future
or the Group’s earnings and profits.
management charges on policyholder
Non-compliance with or breaches of SM&CR
funds. Credit spread risk within the Insurance
requirements could result in lack of clear Key mitigating actions
business primarily arises from bonds and
accountability and legal and regulatory
loans used to back annuities. A comprehensive model risk management
consequences.
Narrowing credit spreads will increase the cost framework including:
Key mitigating actions of pension scheme benefits. D efined roles and responsibilities, with clear
ownership and accountability.
L everaging our considerable change Key mitigating actions
experience to meet ring-fencing Principles regarding the requirements of
requirements before the regulatory S tructural hedge programmes implemented data integrity, development, validation,
deadlines, and the continuing evolution to manage liability margins and margin implementation and ongoing maintenance.
of SM&CR. compression. R egular model monitoring.
P rogramme in place to address ring-fencing. E quity and credit spread risks are closely I ndependent review of models.
In close and regular contact with regulators monitored and, where appropriate,
P eriodic validation and re-approval
to develop and deploy our planned asset and liability matching is undertaken.
of models.
operating and legal structure. T he Group’s DB pension schemes
Evolving risk and governance arrangements have increased their credit allocation
to continue to be appropriate to comply with and hedged against nominal rate and Key risk indicators
regulatory objectives. inflation movements. N/A
Key risk indicators Key risk indicators
IAS19 Pension surplus
N/A
£509m
2016: £(244)m Alignment to strategic priorities
and future focus
Digitising the Group
Alignment to strategic priorities
The Group’s models play a vital role in
and future focus
Alignment to strategic priorities supporting Group strategy to ensure
and future focus Maximising the Group’s capabilities profitable growth in targeted segments
Delivering a leading customer experience We actively manage our exposure to and the Group’s drive toward automation
movements in market rates, to drive lower and digital solutions to enhance customer
Ring-fencing will ensure we become safer
volatility earnings and offer a comprehensive outcomes. Model risk management helps
and continue to deliver a leading customer
customer proposition with hedging strategies ensure these models are implemented in
experience by providing further protection
to support strategic aims. Mitigating actions a controlled and safe manner for both the
to core retail and SME deposits, increasing
are implemented to reduce the impact of Group and customers.
transparency of our operations and facilitating
market movements, resulting in a more stable
the options available in resolution.
capital position. Effective interest rate and
Our governance framework and strong culture inflation hedging has kept volatility in the
of ownership and accountability enabled Group’s DB pension schemes low and helped
effective, on time, compliance with the to return the schemes to IAS19 surplus in
SM&CR requirements and enable us to 2017. This allows us to more efficiently utilise
demonstrate clear accountability for decisions. available capital resources to better enable the
Group to maximise its capabilities.
Read more Read more Read more
on page 150 on pages 151–156 on page 156
42 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Summary of Group results continued
The Group’s CET1 ratio has strengthened to 15.5 per cent on a pro forma basis before ordinary dividends and the share buyback. After ordinary dividends
and allowing for the share buyback, the CET1 ratio remains strong at 13.9 per cent.
The Group generated 245 basis points of CET1 capital (pre ordinary dividends and share buyback) in the year. This included c.250 basis points from
underlying capital generation; the Group also had a benefit of c.80 basis points from the reduction in risk-weighted assets and c.40 basis points from
market and other movements, which were offset by the c.120 basis point impact of conduct provisions.
The Group remains highly capital generative and continues to expect ongoing capital generation of 170 to 200 basis points per annum.
As reported in the Q3 IMS, the Group’s Pillar 2A CET1 requirement has increased by 0.5 per cent to 3 per cent. In addition, the Countercyclical Capital
Buffer on UK exposures will be introduced during 2018 and the Systemic Risk Buffer will come into effect in early 2019. The Group is also pleased to
announce that the PRA has now completed its annual review of the Group’s PRA Buffer requirement. As a consequence, the Board’s view of the level of
CET1 capital required is c.13 per cent plus a management buffer of around 1 per cent. The Group’s CET1 ratio as at 31 December 2017, including the
Insurance dividend and after the ordinary dividend and allowing for the share buyback, was 13.9 per cent.
The Group’s total capital ratio remains strong at 21.2 per cent which, when combined with eligible senior unsecured securities issued by Lloyds Banking
Group plc, has left the Group well positioned to meet its Minimum Requirement for Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities (MREL) from 2020.
The leverage ratio on a pro forma basis increased to 5.4 per cent (31 December 2016: 5.3 per cent), largely reflecting both the increase in fully loaded tier 1
capital and reductions in balance sheet assets.
Tangible net assets per share at 31 December 2016 was 54.8 pence, or 53.4 pence after adjusting for the acquisition of MBNA. The movement from
the adjusted 2016 tangible net assets per share to 53.3 pence at 31 December 2017 comprises an increase of 3.1 pence due to the strong financial
performance offset by a reduction of 3.2 pence for dividends paid during the year.
Dividend
The Board has recommended a final ordinary dividend of 2.05 pence per share. This is in addition to the interim ordinary dividend of 1.0 pence per share
that was announced at the 2017 half year results. The total ordinary dividend per share for 2017 of 3.05 pence per share has increased by 20 per cent from
2.55 pence per share in 2016.
The Board continues to give due consideration at each year end to the return of any surplus capital and for 2017, the Board intends to implement a share
buyback of up to £1 billion, equivalent to up to 1.4 pence per share. This represents the return of capital over and above the Board’s view of the current
level of capital required to grow the business, meet regulatory requirements and cover uncertainties. The share buyback programme will commence in
March 2018 and is expected to be completed during the next 12 months.
Given the total ordinary dividend of 3.05 pence per share and the intended share buyback, equivalent to up to 1.4 pence per ordinary share, the total
capital return for 2017 will be up to 4.45 pence per share, an increase of up to 46 per cent on the prior year, equivalent to up to £3.2 billion.
In prior years, the Board has distributed surplus capital by means of a special dividend. The Board’s current preference is to return surplus capital by way
of a buyback programme given the amount of surplus capital (£1 billion in 2017 versus £350 million in 2016), the normalisation of ordinary dividends, our
return to full private ownership and the flexibility that a buyback programme offers.
The Group intends to maintain a progressive and sustainable ordinary dividend policy. The rate of growth of the ordinary dividend will be decided by the
Board in light of circumstances at the time and, having grown very significantly in the last three years, going forward the ordinary dividend is likely to grow
at a more normalised rate, whilst being supplemented by buybacks or special dividends.
Pensions
The Group's defined benefit schemes have been significantly derisked over recent years including being materially hedged for both interest rates
and inflation.
Terms have now been agreed in principle with the Trustee in respect of the valuations of the Group’s three main defined benefit pension schemes.
The valuations showed an aggregate ongoing funding deficit of £7.3 billion as at 31 December 2016 (£5.2 billion deficit at 30 June 2014). The increase
in the ongoing deficit over the period was mainly driven by lower gilt yields, offset primarily by hedging and asset returns.
Under the previous recovery plans, deficit contributions were committed of £0.3 billion in 2018 and 2019 and c.£0.9 billion per annum thereafter. Under the
new recovery plans, deficit contributions of £0.4 billion are payable in 2018, £0.6 billion in 2019, £0.8 billion in 2020 and £1.3 billion per annum from 2021
to 2024. The Group also continues to provide security to these pension schemes, with corporate guarantees and collateral pledged, while also making
additional annual contributions for future service. All of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes will be located within the ring-fenced bank and these
revised contributions are included in the Group’s latest capital guidance.
Ring-fencing
The Group is making good progress with the implementation of its ring-fencing programme, including the establishment of the non ring-fenced bank,
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc (LBCM), and remains on track to meet the legal and regulatory requirements by 1 January 2019. As a predominantly UK
retail and commercial bank, the impact on the Group is relatively limited, with minimal impact for the majority of the Group’s retail and commercial customers.
Over the course of 2018, in order to comply with the ring-fencing legislation, certain businesses will be transferred out of Lloyds Bank plc and its subsidiaries
to other parts of the Group, by means of statutory or contractual transfers. This will include the transfer of certain wholesale and international businesses to
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets and the transfer of Scottish Widows Group and other insurance subsidiaries to Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Due to the Group’s UK retail and commercial focus, the vast majority of the Group’s business will continue to be held by Lloyds Bank plc and its subsidiaries
(together the ring-fenced bank) and as a result these transfers will not have a material impact on the financial strength of Lloyds Bank plc.
IFRS 9
The Group implemented IFRS 9 (Financial Instruments) on 1 January 2018. The adoption of the new Standard resulted in a reduction in shareholders’
equity of £1.2 billion largely reflecting an increase in impairment provisions of £1.3 billion. The impact on the Group’s CET1 capital ratio before transitional
relief at 1 January 2018 was a reduction of c.30 basis points after taking account of the offset against regulatory expected losses. After transitional relief the
impact was c.1 basis point.
Other matters
In 2014 the FCA removed the requirement to publish quarterly interim management statements, however the Group has continued to publish detailed
statements. Going forward, given the simple and more stable nature of the Group’s business, we will review the length and content of the Q1 and Q3
interim management statements.
52 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
A letter from our Chairman
Building robust stakeholder relationships
Good governance is vitally important
as it underpins the delivery of our
strategy to help Britain prosper and
become the best bank for customers,
colleagues and shareholders.
Lord Blackwell
Chairman
Dear Shareholders The Group’s strategic Non ring-fenced bank
transformation
I am pleased to present our corporate One of the largest change initiatives for the
governance report for 2017. This report sets On 16 May 2017, the Group returned to full Group this year is the implementation of
out our approach to governance in practice, private ownership after the government sold the ring-fencing regulatory requirements
how the Board works, how it has spent its its remaining stake. The sale demonstrated which come into effect on 1 January 2019.
time during the year, how it has evaluated its the successful delivery of the Group’s strategy The Group’s approach aims to minimise the
performance, and includes reports from each to transform itself into a simple, low risk, UK impact on both colleagues and customers
of the Board’s Committees. focused retail and commercial bank. Since and for the vast majority there will be no
Good governance is vitally important as it the government first acquired shares in 2009, changes. There has been significant progress
underpins the delivery of our strategy to help the Group has repaired its balance sheet, during the year towards the establishment of
Britain prosper and become the best bank for reduced its cost base, cut complexity and the new non ring-fenced bank, Lloyds Bank
customers, colleagues and shareholders. It is international exposure, built and sold TSB, and Corporate Markets plc (‘LBCM’). The Board
essential to ensure good corporate governance addressed legacy issues. The Group returned has played an active role in identifying and
and the associated values are embedded into to profitability in 2013 and resumed paying appointing members of the LBCM board, as
the thinking and processes of the business, and dividends in 2014. well as helping to establish the governance
framework to ensure that the framework is
driven by the Board. The sale marked the final step in the rescue both fit for purpose for the new bank and
and rejuvenation of Lloyds Banking Group. complements that of the Group. An overview
Board changes The combination of our strong financial by the Chairman of LBCM, Lord Lupton, of the
The Nomination and Governance Committee performance and the progress we have made establishment and governance structures of
is responsible for reviewing the composition of towards our strategic priorities has enabled LBCM can be found on page 60.
over £21.2 billion to be returned to the
the Board and its Committees and assessing
whether the balance of skills, experience, government, more than repaying the amount Board effectiveness
that taxpayers invested.
knowledge and independence is appropriate
The Board carried out an annual evaluation
to enable them to operate effectively. However, we are not complacent. While we
of its effectiveness during the year. This
It went through a rigorous process leading are proud of the progress we have made
was an internal evaluation overseen by the
to the appointment of Lord Lupton as a new over the last few years, we recognise we now
Nomination and Governance Committee.
independent Non-Executive Director with have an equally challenging task to transform
The process which was undertaken and
the additional role of chairing our new non Lloyds Banking Group into a bank that can
the findings of the review are set out on
ring-fenced bank. Lord Lupton joined the deliver outstanding service for customers in
pages 66–67, together with information about
Board on 1 June 2017, bringing with him the future technology environment and play
our progress against the 2016 review actions.
extensive international corporate experience our full role in helping Britain prosper. The
(see page 55 for further details). Both Nick Luff Board has spent considerable time over the
Diversity
and Anthony Watson stepped down from the past two years working with the executive team
Board in May 2017, having made significant to understand the requirements to compete Being able to attract, develop, fully utilise
contributions to the Group. As a result of successfully as the ‘Bank of the Future’, and and retain top talent is highly important to
the two retirements, our Deputy Chairman to translate that into the new strategic plan us, ensuring everyone has the opportunity to
Anita Frew was appointed as the new Senior announced with our results. The oversight of progress and realise their potential. For this
Independent Director, and Simon Henry this new transformation programme, including reason, the Group has made a commitment to
succeeded Nick Luff as the Audit Committee the associated cultural changes that will be be a leader in diversity, removing the barriers
Chairman. The names and biographies of required, will be a major focus of our ongoing that stand in the way of equal opportunity.
current Directors are set out on pages 54–55. governance activities.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board
members are set out on page 68.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
The Board sees it as an important objective
for its membership to reflect diversity in its
broadest sense. A mix of different backgrounds Development of our
and experience on the Board, as in the
transformation strategy
executive team, is important in providing a
range of perspectives, insights and challenge
needed to support good decision making.
In early 2016, following discussions with the Chairman
As a Group, we have committed to maintaining and Board, the Group Chief Executive initiated a
at least three female Board members, and major exercise to explore the characteristics required
recognise the Davies/Hampton-Alexander
to succeed as the ’Bank of the Future’. Working
target for FTSE companies to move towards
groups across the Group were engaged in looking
33 per cent female representation. We are
looking to take opportunities to increase the forward to the likely impact of changing technology,
number of female Board members over time customer needs and competition, and developing
where that is consistent with other skills and scenarios for different economic backdrops.
diversity requirements. The Group has also
made the public commitment to increase the The emerging analysis was debated at a two day
proportion of senior roles held by women to offsite session involving both the Board and Group
40 per cent by 2020. For more information on Executive Committee in June 2016, and led to the
current levels of diversity and inclusion see conclusion that a major transformation would be
page 21.
required in evolving our customer propositions,
In addition to this, the Group recognises the re-engineering our core business processes to
importance of the diversity of colleagues, incorporate new technology, changing our ways of
reflecting the diversity of our customers, to
working and developing new skills and capabilities.
allow us to better understand customers’
needs and create deeper relationships. These conclusions were then developed into
The Group’s aim is to increase ethnic diversity a programme of change initiatives which were
in our workforce and unlock the potential of discussed and reviewed in subsequent Board deep
our ethnic minority colleagues. The Group has dive sessions and, as a whole, in the joint Board and
publicly committed to increase the proportion Executive offsite meeting in June 2017.
of senior roles held by Black, Asian and
Minority Ethnic colleagues to eight per cent Having agreed the key initiatives and the overall scale
by 2020. This is being achieved through career and pace of the transformation, the Board reviewed
development programmes, a programme of
the more detailed plan and immediate priorities
visible role models, and a focus on increasing
in an extended session in November 2017, placing
cultural awareness to help all colleagues
interact more effectively, regardless of ethnic particular emphasis on the effective management
background. Our commitment to diversity is of the programme and the mitigation of potential
led from the top, with Executive Committee execution risks. The final proposals were reviewed
sponsorship of the initiatives. More information again in January and confirmed with the 2018 budget
on both diversity and the importance of
in February.
succession planning is provided on page 72.
Lord Blackwell
Chairman
54 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Board of Directors
Comprising Directors with the right mix of skills and
experience, the Board is collectively responsible for
overseeing delivery of the Group’s strategy.
1 2 3 4
NG Re RB Ri A NG Re RB Ri A NG Re Ri A Ri
5 6 7 8
A Ri A Ri A Ri Re RB Ri
9 10 11 12
NG Re RB Ri
13 M ember of Responsible M ember of Nomination and
A Member of Audit Committee RB NG
Business Committee Governance Committee
Member of Remuneration
Re Ri M ember of Board Risk Committee Chairman
Committee
Committee
1. Lord Blackwell Chairman Experience across a range of sectors, including Statistical Society and has an MBA from the
banking, asset and investment management, Manchester Business School and a BSc from the
Appointed: June 2012 (Board), manufacturing and utilities University of Birmingham.
April 2014 (Chairman) Extensive experience as chairman in a range External appointments: Chairman of
Skills and experience: of industries Urban&Civic plc and a Governor of Motability.
Deep financial services knowledge including in Strong board governance experience, including
insurance and banking investor relations and remuneration 4. Simon Henry Independent Director
Significant experience with strategic planning Anita was previously Chairman of Victrex plc, the Appointed: June 2014
and implementation Senior Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset
Skills and experience:
Regulatory and public policy experience gained from Management and IMI plc, an Executive Director
senior positions in Downing Street, Regulators and a of Abbott Mead Vickers, a Non-Executive Director Deep international experience in board level strategy
wide range of industries of Northumbrian Water and has held various and execution
investment and marketing roles at Scottish Provident Extensive knowledge of financial markets,
Credibility with key stakeholders and the Royal Bank of Scotland. She has a BA (Hons) treasury and risk management
Strong leadership qualities in International Business from the University of
Qualification as an Audit Committee Financial Expert
Strathclyde, a MRes in Humanities and Philosophy
Lord Blackwell initially joined the Board as Chairman
from the University of London, an Honorary Strong board governance experience, including
of Scottish Widows Group. He was previously
DSc for contribution to industry and finance from investor relations and remuneration
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the
UK Board for Standard Life and Director of Group the University of Cranfield and an Honorary Until recently Simon was Chief Financial Officer and
Development at NatWest Group. His past Board Doctorate in Management and Finance from the Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell plc. He was
roles have included Chairman of Interserve plc, University of Aberdeen. previously Chair of the European Round Table CFO
and Non-Executive Director of Halma plc, Dixons External appointments: Chairman of Croda Taskforce and a Member of the Main Committee
Group, SEGRO and Ofcom. He was Head of the International Plc and a Non-Executive Director of the 100 Group of UK FTSE CFOs. He has a BA
Prime Minister’s Policy Unit from 1995 to 1997 and of BHP Billiton. in Mathematics, an MA from the University of
was appointed a Life Peer in 1997. He has an MA in Cambridge and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute
Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge, a 3. Alan Dickinson Independent Director of Management Accountants (CIMA).
Ph.D in Finance and Economics and an MBA from the External appointments: Non-Executive Director
University of Pennsylvania. Appointed: September 2014 of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, Independent
External appointments: Governor of the Yehudi Skills and experience: Director of PetroChina Company Limited, Member
Menuhin School and a member of the Governing Highly regarded retail and commercial banker of the Defence Board and Chair of the Defence
Body of the Royal Academy of Music. Audit Committee, UK Government, Member of the
Strong strategic, risk and core banking experience Advisory Panel of CIMA and of the Advisory Board of
2. Anita Frew Deputy Chairman and Regulatory and public policy experience the Centre for European Reform.
Senior Independent Director Alan has 37 years’ experience with the Royal Bank
of Scotland, most notably as Chief Executive of
Appointed: December 2010 (Board), RBS UK. More recently, Alan was a Non-Executive
May 2014 (Deputy Chairman), May 2017 Director of Willis Limited and Chairman of its Risk
(Senior Independent Director) Committee. He was formerly Chairman of Brown,
Skills and experience: Shipley & Co. Limited and a Non-Executive Director
of Nationwide Building Society where he was
Significant board, financial and general
Chairman of its Risk Committee. He is a Fellow of
management experience
the Chartered Institute of Bankers and the Royal
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
5. Lord Lupton CBE Independent 8. Stuart Sinclair Independent Director Group’s Management Committee. He was a
Non-Executive Director of Santander UK and
Director and Chairman of Lloyds Bank
Appointed: January 2016 subsequently its Chief Executive. He is also a former
Corporate Markets plc Non-Executive Director of the Court of the Bank
Skills and experience:
of England. António has a Degree in Management
Appointed: June 2017 Extensive experience in retail banking, insurance & Business Administration from the Universidade
Skills and experience: and consumer finance Católica Portuguesa, an MBA from INSEAD and has
Extensive international corporate experience, Governance and regulatory experience completed the Advanced Management Program
especially in financial markets Significant experience in strategic planning at Harvard Business School.
Strong board governance experience, including and implementation External appointments: Non-Executive Director of
investor relations and remuneration Experience in consumer analysis, marketing EXOR N.V., Fundação Champalimaud and Sociedade
Francisco Manuel dos Santos in Portugal, a member
Regulatory and public policy experience and distribution
of the Board of Stichting INPAR and Chairman of the
Significant experience in strategic planning Stuart is a former Non-Executive Director of TSB Wallace Collection.
and implementation Banking Group plc, TSB Bank plc, LV Group, Virgin
Lord Lupton was Deputy Chairman of Baring Brothers, Direct and Vitality Health (formerly Prudential 11. George Culmer Executive Director co-founded the London office of Greenhill & Co., and Health). He was also a Senior Independent Director and Chief Financial Officer
was Chairman of Greenhill Europe until May 2017. of Swinton Group Limited. In his executive career,
He was previously a Trustee of the British Museum, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of Appointed: May 2012 (Board)
Governor of Downe House School and a member of Aspen Insurance after spending nine years with Skills and experience:
the International Advisory Board of Global Leadership General Electric, as Chief Executive Officer of the UK
Foundation. He became a Life Peer in October 2015 Consumer Finance business then President of GE Extensive operational and financial expertise
and is a former Treasurer of the Conservative Party. He Capital China. Before that he was Chief Executive including strategic and financial planning and control
served on the House of Lords Select Committee on Officer of Tesco Personal Finance and Director of Worked in financial services in the UK and overseas
Charities. He read Jurisprudence at Lincoln College, UK Retail Banking at the Royal Bank of Scotland. for over 25 years Oxford and is a qualified solicitor. H In e te w rn a a s t a io C na o l u A n f c f i a l i m rs e (C m h b a e th r a o m f T H he o u R s o e y ) a . H l In e s h ti a t s u t a e n f M or A George was an Executive Director and Chief
External appointments: Senior Advisor to in Economics from the University of Aberdeen and an Financial Officer of RSA Insurance Group, the
Greenhill Europe and Chairman of the Trustees MBA from the University of California. former Head of Capital Management of Zurich
of the Lovington Foundation. Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer of
External appointments: Interim Chairman of its UK operations as well as holding various senior
6. Deborah McWhinney Provident Financial Plc with effect from 2 February management positions at Prudential. He is a
2018 (previously Senior Independent Director) and Non-Executive Director of Scottish Widows.
Independent Director Chair of their Risk Advisory Committee, Senior George is a Chartered Accountant and has a
Appointed: December 2015 Independent Director and Chair of Risk at QBE history degree from the University of Cambridge.
Insurance (Europe) Limited.
Skills and experience: External appointments: None.
Extensive executive background in managing 9. Sara Weller CBE Independent Director
technology, operations and new digital 12. Juan Colombás Executive Director
innovations across banking, payments and Appointed: February 2012 and Chief Operating Officer
institutional investment Skills and experience:
Appointed: November 2013 (Board), January 2011-
International business and management experience Background in retail and associated sectors, September 2017 (Chief Risk Officer), September 2017
Experience in consumer analysis, marketing including financial services (Chief Operating Officer)
and distribution Strong board governance experience, including Skills and experience:
Deborah is Chair of the Board Risk Committee’s investor relations and remuneration Significant banking and risk management experience
IT Resilience and Cyber Sub-Committee. She is a Passionate advocate of customers, the community,
International business and management experience
former Chief Executive Officer, Global Enterprise financial inclusion and the development of
Payments and President, Personal Banking and digital skills Juan was appointed to the role of Chief Operating
Wealth Management at Citibank. Deborah was Officer in September 2017 and is responsible for
Considerable experience of boards at both executive
previously President of Institutional Services at leading a number of critical Group functions and
and non-executive level
Charles Schwab Corporation and held executive driving the transformation activities across the
roles at Engage Media Services Group, Visa Sara’s previous appointments include Managing Group in order to build the Bank of the Future. Prior
International and Bank of America, where she held Director of Argos, various senior positions at to this he served as the Group’s Chief Risk Officer
senior roles in Consumer Banking. She holds a BSc in J Sainsbury including Deputy Managing Director, and was responsible for developing the Group’s
Communications from the University of Montana. Chairman of the Planning Inspectorate, Lead risk framework, recommending the Group’s risk
Non-Executive Director at the Department of appetite and ensuring that all risks generated by the
External appointments: Member of the Supervisory
Communities and Local Government, a Non- business were measured, reviewed and monitored
Board of Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA,
Executive Director of Mitchells & Butlers as well as on an ongoing basis. He was previously the Chief
Independent Director of Fluor Corporation and IHS
a number of senior management roles for Abbey Risk Officer and an Executive Director of Santander’s
Markit Ltd, a Trustee of the California Institute of
National and Mars Confectionery. She has an MA UK business. Prior to this, he held a number of senior
Technology and of the Institute for Defense Analyses.
in Chemistry from Oxford University. risk, control and business management roles across
7. Nick Prettejohn Independent Director External appointments: Non-Executive Director the Corporate, Investment, Retail and Risk Divisions
of United Utilities Group and Chair of their of the Santander Group. Until September 2017 he
and Chairman of Scottish Widows Group Remuneration Committee and a member of their was the Vice Chairman of the International Financial
Appointed: June 2014 Nomination Committee, Lead Non-Executive Risk Institute. Juan has a BSc in Industrial Chemical
Director at the Department for Work and Pensions, Engineering from the Universidad Politécnica de
Skills and experience: a Governing Council Member of Cambridge Madrid, a Financial Management degree from
Deep financial services experience, University, Board member at the Higher Education ICADE School of Business and Economics and an
particularly in insurance Funding Council and Trustee of Lloyds Bank MBA from the Institute de Empresa Business School.
In-depth regulatory knowledge and experience Foundation for England and Wales, with effect from External appointments: None.
1 February 2018.
Governance experience and strong
leadership qualities 13. Malcolm Wood Company Secretary
10. António Horta-Osório Executive Director
Significant experience in strategic planning Appointed: November 2014
and Group Chief Executive
and implementation Skills and experience:
N Lo ic n k d h o a n s , P se ru rv d e e d n a ti s a l C U h K ie a f n E d x e E c u u ro tiv p e e o a f n L d lo C y h d a ’s ir o m f an of ( A G p ro p u o p in C te h d ie : f J a E n x u e a c r u y t i 2 v 0 e 1 ) 1 (Board), March 2011 M Co a m lco p l a m n y w S a e s c p re re ta vi r o y u o s f l y S t G a e n n d e a r r a d l L C if o e u a n f s t e e l r a a n c d a reer
Brit Insurance. He is a former Non-Executive Director Skills and experience: as a corporate lawyer in private practice in London
of the Prudential Regulation Authority and of Legal Extensive experience in, and understanding of, both and Edinburgh. He has a wealth of experience in
& General Group Plc as well as Chairman of the retail and commercial banking built over a period of governance, policy and regulation. He is a Fellow
Financial Services Practitioner Panel and the Financial more than 30 years, working both internationally and of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Conduct Authority’s Financial Advice Working in the UK Administrators and a Member of the Corporate
Group. He was previously a Member of the BBC Trust Governance Council and the GC100. Malcolm is an
and Chairman of the Britten-Pears Foundation. Nick Drive, enthusiasm and commitment to customers attendee of the Group Executive Committee.
has a First Class Degree in Philosophy, Politics and Proven ability to build and lead strong
Economics from Balliol College, University of Oxford. management teams
External appointments: Chairman of the Royal António previously worked for Citibank, Goldman
Northern College of Music and a member of the Sachs and held various senior management
Board of Opera Ventures. positions at Grupo Santander before becoming
its Executive Vice President and member of the
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
1. Kate Cheetham 5. Vim Maru 9. Janet Pope
Group General Counsel (GEC attendee) Group Director, Retail Chief of Staff and Group Director, Corporate
Affairs, Responsible Business and Inclusion
Kate was appointed Group General Counsel in Vim was appointed Group Director, Retail in
January 2015. In this role she advises the Board and September 2017. He joined the Group in June 2011 Janet joined the Group in 2008 to run the Savings
Senior Executives on legal matters, leads the Group’s as Managing Director, Customer Products and was business. She was previously Chief Executive at
legal team and oversees management of the Group’s appointed to the Group Executive Committee in Alliance Trust Savings, prior to which she was EVP
external legal suppliers. Kate joined the Group in August 2013. Vim is also a UK Finance Board member, Global Strategy at Visa International. Janet spent 10
2005 from Linklaters, where she was a corporate leading on Retail Banking. Previously Vim worked years at Standard Chartered Bank where she held
lawyer specialising in M&A transactions. Before her for over 12 years at Santander, in a range of roles in a variety of roles including Retail Banking MD for
current role, Kate held a number of senior positions Corporate Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions, the Africa and non-executive directorships at Standard
including Deputy Group General Counsel and Life Division and most recently held the position of Chartered Bank Zimbabwe, Kenya, Zambia and
General Counsel for Group Legal. Kate is co-chair of Director, Retail Products. Vim holds an Economics Botswana. Janet is Chairman of the Charities Aid
Breakthrough, LBG’s women’s network, a trustee of degree from the London School of Economics and is Foundation Bank and a Non-Executive Director of
the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England and Wales a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants. the Banking Standards Board. Janet studied at the
and sponsor of ‘Legal in the Community’, the legal London School of Economics. She has a Master’s
function’s Responsible Business programme. 6. Zaka Mian degree in Economics and holds an MBA from
Group Director, Transformation Cass Business School. She is also the Group’s
2. Karin Cook Executive Sponsor for Inclusion and Diversity.
Zak joined the Group in 1989 as a Business Analyst in
Group Services Director
IT and has carried out multiple roles involving Retail 10. Stephen Shelley
Karin is Group Services Director and is responsible CIO, Head of IT Architecture and leading the Digital
Chief Risk Officer
for Global Payments, Customer Services, Property, Transformation programme. He was appointed
Divestment and Development, the Chief Security Group Director, Digital and Transformation in 2016 Stephen was appointed Chief Risk Officer in
Office, Credit Operations and Sourcing. Having and his responsibilities increased in September September 2017. He joined the Group in May 2011
worked in financial services for 27 years, prior to 2017 as the Group Director, Transformation. He as Chief Credit Officer for Wholesale, Commercial
joining the Group as COO Commercial Banking is responsible for the digital transformation of and International. In October 2012 he became Risk
in 2013, Karin led global operational, finance, and the Group, including all IT and business change, Director, Commercial Banking Risk and was also a
technology functions at HSBC, Morgan Stanley and and ensuring we are ready to meet the future member of the Commercial Banking Management
Goldman Sachs. She is a Non-Executive Director of expectations of our customers. Zak has a Group. Prior to joining the Group Stephen was
Scottish Widows and the Group’s Executive Sponsor Computer Science degree from York University. Chief Risk Officer at Barclays Corporate and prior to
for Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity. She was that was Chief Credit Officer for the UK Retail and
named in the prestigious 2017 OUTstanding FT list 7. David Oldfield Corporate business in Barclays. In a 21-year career
as one of the Top 50 Allies globally, and is proud that Group Director, Commercial Banking at Barclays, Stephen undertook a variety of roles in
the Group was also recognised as the 2017 Stonewall the front office and risk. He was also a member of
employer of the year. Karin holds a degree in Modern David was appointed as Group Director for the the Group Risk Executive team and a Chair of Group
and Medieval Languages from Cambridge University. Commercial Banking division in September 2017 Credit Committees. Stephen is also the Group’s
responsible for supporting corporate clients from Executive Sponsor for Gender Diversity and Equality.
3. Paul Day SMEs through Mid Markets to Global Corporates
Chief Internal Auditor (GEC attendee) and Financial Institutions. David started his career 11. Jennifer Tippin
with Lloyds Bank 31 years ago on the graduate
Group People and Productivity Director Paul joined the Group in June 2017 from Deloitte, entrant programme and has held a number of key
where he was a partner in the UK Financial Services leadership roles across all Divisions of the Group (GEC attendee)
practice and led the UK Financial Services Internal since that time. Immediately prior to his current role Jen was appointed as Group People and Productivity
Audit business. Paul has specialised in internal and he was Group Director Retail and Consumer Finance, Director in July 2017 and is responsible for leading
external audit roles across financial services for responsible for the Lloyds, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, the people function and managing the Group’s cost
over 20 years, including holding various leadership Lex Autolease and Black Horse Brands including base. Prior to her current role, Jen held the roles of
roles across Barclays Internal Audit. Paul studied the retail branch networks, customer products and Group Customer Services Director and Managing
at Cambridge University, holds an MBA from telephone banking, in addition to Retail Business Director, Retail Business Banking. Graduating from
Manchester Business School and is a member of Banking and UK Wealth businesses. David is a Fellow Oxford University, Jen has enjoyed a career spanning
the Institute of Chartered Accountants and the UK of the Chartered Institute of Bankers. He is also Group multiple industries, including banking, engineering
Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors. Executive Sponsor for Disability. and the airline sector. Jen is a Non-Executive Director
(Designate) on the Board of Lloyds Bank Corporate
4. Antonio Lorenzo 8. Jakob Pfaudler Markets and a Non-Executive Director of the Kent
Chief Executive, Scottish Widows and Group Group Director, Community Banking Community NHS Foundation Trust.
Director, Insurance and Wealth (GEC attendee)
12. Malcolm Wood
Antonio joined the Group in 2011 as head of the Jakob was appointed Group Director, Community
Company Secretary
Wealth and International division and Group Banking in September 2017. From 2015 to 2017 he was
Corporate Development, leading the Group’s Chief Operating Officer for the Retail Bank and prior (GEC attendee)
strategic review and subsequent programme of to this he was Managing Director of Asset Finance. Malcolm joined the Group as Company Secretary in
reducing non-core assets and exiting international Other previous roles include Chief Operating Officer November 2014. Read his full biography on page 55.
locations. From 2013, he assumed the role of Group for Wealth & International, Managing Director
Director, Consumer Finance & Group Corporate International Retail and International Banking and
Development, leading the division’s growth strategy Wholesale Banking Operations Director. Jakob
whilst completing the sale of TSB. At the end of joined the Group in 2004 having spent six years
2015 he was appointed Chief Executive, Scottish with McKinsey & Co, in their London office. Prior to
Widows and Group Director, Insurance and during McKinsey, Jakob spent time with Goldman Sachs and
2017 he also assumed responsibility for the Wealth Oliver Wyman. He has a PhD in Theoretical Physics
Division. Antonio is also Group Executive Sponsor from Oxford University.
for Emerging Talent. Antonio joined the Group
from Santander, where he had worked in a number
of different leadership roles and jurisdictions since
1998. He was part of the management team that
completed the take-over of Alliance & Leicester and
Bradford & Bingley; and was Chief Financial Officer of
Santander UK. Before Santander, Antonio spent over
nine years at Arthur Andersen.
58 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Corporate governance report
Our Board in 2017
Diversity, skills and composition
Gender diversity Skills and experience Board tenure Age
(Non-Executive Directors only)
A. Retail/Commercial Banking 6 out of 9 D. A. C. A.
B. Financial markets/wholesale banking/ 8 out of 9
corporate clients B. B.
Insurance 3 out of 9 C.
Prudential and conduct risk in 8 out of 9
A. Male: 9 financial institutions A. 0-2 years: 3 A. 46-55: 3
B. Female: 3 Core technology operations 4 out of 9 B. 3-4 years: 4 B. 56-65: 8
C. 5-6 years: 4 C. 66-75: 1
Government/regulatory 8 out of 9 D. 7-8 years: 1
Consumer/marketing/distribution 7 out of 9
Strategic thinking 9 out of 9
Data as at 31 December 2017.
Board and Committee composition and attendance in 2017
Nomination and Audit Board Risk Remuneration Responsible
Board member Board meetings Governance CommitteeCommittee Committee Committee Business Committee
Lord Blackwell (C) 10/10 8/8 C – 8/8 7/7 5/5
António Horta-Osório 10/10 – – – – –
Juan Colombás 10/10 – – – – –
George Culmer 10/10 – – – – –
Alan Dickinson 10/10 8/8 8/8 8/8 C 7/7 –
Anita Frew 10/10 8/8 8/8 8/8 7/7 C 3/5
Simon Henry 10/10 – 8/8 C 3 8/8 – –
Lord Lupton 1 5/5 – 4/4 4/4 – –
Nick Luff 2 4/5 4/4 4/4 C 3 3/4 – –
Deborah McWhinney 9/10 – 8/8 8/8 – –
Nick Prettejohn 8/10 – 7/8 8/8 – –
Stuart Sinclair 10/10 – – 8/8 7/7 4/4 4
Anthony Watson 2 5/5 3/4 3/4 4/4 4/4 –
Sara Weller 10/10 4/4 5 – 8/8 7/7 5/5 C
1 Lord Lupton joined the Board and respective Committees on 1 June 2017.
2 Nick Luff and Anthony Watson retired from the Company on 10 May and 11 May respectively.
3 Simon Henry succeeded Nick Luff as Audit Committee Chairman with effect from 1 May 2017.
4 Stuart Sinclair was appointed to the Responsible Business Committee with effect from 1 April 2017.
5 Sara Weller joined the Nomination and Governance Committee on 11 May 2017.
C Chairman
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Key focus areas
The Board sets the strategy, oversees its delivery and establishes the culture, values and standards of the Group. The Board ensures that the Group
manages risk effectively, monitors financial performance and reporting and ensures that appropriate and effective succession planning arrangements
and remuneration policies are in place. It provides and encourages entrepreneurial leadership across the Group within this framework.
Below are details of the main topics discussed by the Board during the year.
Discussions and decisions
Group performance report B oard effectiveness and Chairman’s
Regular Governance
performance reviews
updates F inance report, including budgets, forecasts and
and capital position stakeholders A GM documentation approval and subsequent
voting results briefing
Risk report
R eview and approval of the Corporate
Customer performance dashboard
Governance Framework
Chairman’s report
R eview and approval of various Group policies
Reports from Committee Chairmen including the Code of Responsibilities, Signing
Authorities, Group Statement on Modern Slavery,
and Board and GEC Members’ Dealing Policy
2017 budget
Financial Investor relations updates
Dividend approval
Committee and meeting simplification review
5 year operating plan
Draft results and presentations to analysts
Ring-fencing progress updates
Funding and liquidity plans Regulatory
Whistleblowing updates
Capital plan
Regulatory updates
Basel Pillar 3 disclosures
Senior Manager and Certification Regime
Annual Report and Form 20-F
F CA strategic review of retail banking
business models
T wo strategy away days to review progress in
Strategy implementing the Group’s strategy (see
page 13 for further details) Approval of Group risk appetite
Risk
‘Deep Dives’ on various elements of market management Review of Group non-traded market risk plan
development and business strategy (see below) Cyber security briefings
MBNA integration Review of conduct risk
C onsideration and approval of large transactions R eview and approval of PRA and EBA stress
C loud strategy, which supports the testing results
transformation of the Group’s IT architecture R eview and approval of the Risk
Management Framework
Helping Britain Prosper Plan
Culture and
values Conduct, culture and values – Culture Dashboard
Responsible business report
‘Deep dive’ sessions
The Board regularly takes the opportunity to hold ‘deep dive’ sessions In 2017 ‘deep dive’ sessions were held on the following topics:
with senior management outside formal Board meetings. The purpose
IT architecture strategy
of the sessions is to provide the Board with deeper insight into key
areas of strategic focus, whilst providing Directors with a greater Customer journeys
understanding and appreciation for the subject matter to help drive
Interest only mortgages
better quality of debate and enhance knowledge. The sessions are
structured to allow plenty of opportunity for discussion and include Consumer credit
presentations and videos.
Open banking
IFRS9 implementation
Cloud strategy
60 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Corporate governance report continued
Governance in action
Overseeing strategy Integrating MBNA Lloyds Bank Corporate
development In the immediate period following the Group’s Markets
announcement of its milestone acquisition of
The Board held two strategy offsite meetings On 1 June, 2017, I was appointed a
MBNA in December 2016, work commenced
during the year, giving the Directors the Non-Executive Director of Lloyds Banking
to achieve regulatory approval from both
opportunity to focus solely on strategic Group and also as Chairman designate of
the Competition & Markets Authority
issues. The first of these was held in June, and the newly created ‘non ring-fenced bank
(CMA) and the Financial Conduct Authority
concentrated on the priorities of the business subsidiary’, which is called Lloyds Bank
(FCA), and also to prepare for the first day
and the four strategic pillars which will help Corporate Markets plc (‘LBCM’), subject to
of legal ownership, known as ‘Completion’.
the Group progress towards the ‘Bank of the regulatory consent. Since then, we have been
Unconditional CMA approval was achieved on
Future’. During the second half of the year, engaged in a complex, intense and detailed
5 May 2017 and FCA approval of the Group’s
the priorities agreed at the first meeting were programme to meet all the conditions which
Change in Control application was received on
developed and the second meeting held in the PRA and FCA have set in order to enable
19 May 2017.
November provided an opportunity to discuss them to give us full authorisation to conduct
these further, along with financial plans. In readiness for Completion on 1 June 2017, the non ring-fenced activities of the Group,
many activities were completed to support which are required as part of the ring-fencing
António Horta-Osório reflected on the
a smooth transition of ownership from Bank regulations for UK banks.
offsite meetings:
of America, such as a review of some 470 IT
Our first, and surely the most important
applications to ensure services could continue,
task, was to appoint a Board and senior
critical policy changes in MBNA to align to the
management team to LBCM. The Board
The Board offsite meetings are especially Group and the introduction of a management comprises eight Directors, three of whom
structure and governance approach which was
important in providing an opportunity to are independent Non-Executive Directors
aligned to the Group’s organisational design
focus on strategic issues, taking a view of recruited from outside the Group and all of
and risk management framework.
the longer-term outlook for the Group. whom have wide experience of banking, two
The ‘Legal Day 1’ Event completed seamlessly Directors Designate (Group executives serving
on 1 June 2017 with no operational issues. in a non-executive capacity and subject to
In June we debated the priorities of the
Since then, we have completed a detailed regulatory approval), the Chief Executive, Chief
business and the four strategic pillars which will
operating model review to identify how best Financial Officer, and myself as Chairman.
help the Group progress towards the ‘Bank of
we integrate the MBNA and existing Lloyds This composition supports LBCM’s legal and
the Future’. It was extremely helpful to gain the
Banking Group Cards businesses to ensure regulatory requirements for independent
input of our Board members, leveraging the
we preserve and enhance areas of value decision making within the overall framework
broad range of experience and perspectives
creation and opportunities to improve the of Group policies and controls. At the
the Board has, resulting in a set of clear
customer experience for all of our 8 million same time we have made good progress in
strategic priorities we will focus on.
credit card customers. appointing the rest of the senior management
In November the Board debated the detailed team of LBCM, such as the Chief Risk Officer,
The integration programme has moved
strategic priorities, associated delivery plans Chief Operating Officer, Chief Internal
into the delivery phase and has developed
and financial projections. The collective Auditor and Treasurer from both within
plans with Bank of America to complete the
experience and expertise of the Board was and outside the Group. The bank received
customer, systems and process integration
brought to life in challenging and scrutinising authorisation from the PRA and FCA in July
by early 2019.
our plans ensuring we can further transform 2017, subject to conditions. Our current plans
the Group and deliver sustainable value are to operationalise the bank, and receive
to our stakeholders over the course of the full authorisation for it to commence trading
plan. The Board’s focus on continuing to put during 2018, leaving us good time to complete
the customer at the heart of everything we the process before the ring-fencing regulations
do, whilst recognising the increasing and There is a rigorous governance process to come into force on 1 January 2019.
critical role of technology, aligned well with oversee design decision and integration
the team’s proposals and reinforced our aim execution, which ensures appropriate Since receiving the bank’s conditional
authorisation in July 2017, the Board has
to become the best bank for customers, and timely updates and escalations up to
concentrated on creating a bespoke
colleagues and shareholders. Board level.
Governance Framework, including the vital
Risk Management Framework, which is fit for
purpose for LBCM, but also which is consistent
and fits within the Group Governance
Framework. In essence, LBCM must comply
with each and every governance and risk
requirement of the Group, but has the right
and duty to manage the non ring-fenced bank
within any narrower parameters set by the
LBCM Board.
Lord Lupton
Chairman
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lord Lupton’s induction
This contained key corporate Last Board effectiveness review Risk management
Induction pack prepared
documents, such as:
and sent to Lord Lupton M inutes of the last 12 months’ R isk profile, appetite, risk
prior to and on appointment Role of Director Board meetings management and internal
control procedures
G roup policies such as anti- Last three Board packs
bribery, expenses, gifts and
Shareholders
hospitality, and share dealing Financial and strategic
S hareholder analysis/analyst
T he role of a director and Latest Annual Report
reports
statutory duties, including
C orporate history, with a
Companies Act liabilities, V oting and shareholder summary of significant events
Listing Rules, Disclosure feedback from the last AGM
Guidance and Transparency G roup management structure
N otices of any general
Rules and SEC Rules chart and business unit details
meetings held in the last
D irectors’ and officers’ K ey performance indicators, three years
liability insurance including KPIs on which
incentive plans are measured General
Board and its Committees
Latest Strategic plan R ecent press cuttings, reports
D irectors’, Executive and articles concerning
Guide to ring-fencing
Management and Company the Company
Secretary biographies and
Governance G lossary of Company-specific
contact details
jargon/acronyms
C orporate Governance
S chedule of Board Committee Framework
membership Training aspects
Articles of Association
S chedule of Board and T he use of the electronic
Committee meetings and board portal
Board calendar T he Senior Managers and
Certification Regime
Meetings were held during May Digital and transformation Meetings were also held
Meetings with senior
and June with all the GEC to specifically to deal with
management Group operations
discuss aspects such as: regulatory aspects, including:
Commercial Banking
C ustomer products Ring-fencing
and marketing Corporate affairs
C orporate governance and the
Insurance risk Treasury Companies Act
Retail and consumer credit risk S cottish Widows and the Whistleblowing
Insurance Board
People, Legal and Strategy W holesale Banking conduct
risk and remuneration rules
Retail and Consumer Finance
Commercial Banking F inancials (including S ite visits to the New York,
Ongoing programme of
meeting the internal and Jersey and Singapore offices
meetings, deep dives Risk
external auditors)
and training sessions Branch visits to Jersey
Markets
developed in respect of Regulators
Floor walks and informal
the non ring-fenced bank, E stablishing the Board and
C apital management engagement with colleagues
including: governance procedures
and liquidity
Culture
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lord Blackwell visits
Liverpool
In July Lord Blackwell visited Liverpool,
splitting his time between meeting
colleagues and charities supported by the
England and Wales Foundation.
Regulators and Communities
Colleagues took the opportunity to present
government details of how they are implementing
strategic priorities; an update on the
apprenticeship training programme;
M embers of the Board regularly meet M embers of the Board met with some of the how fraud is managed; and the impact
with various organisations and institutions, organisations which are beneficiaries of the on customers. Lord Blackwell also met
including the Bank of England, the FCA, Group’s independent charitable Lloyds Bank representatives from the local PPI team, who
the PRA, CBI and accounting bodies. Foundation for England and Wales and Bank discussed the end-to-end PPI complaint
of Scotland Foundation. handling process, focusing on the key parts
M embers of the Board also participate in
undertaken in Speke and Chester.
the Bank Governance Leadership Network, T he Chairman also attended Lloyds Bank
which addresses key issues facing global Foundation for England and Wales A networking lunch was held, with Lord
banks and provides opportunities for Westminster Parliamentary Reception Blackwell presenting a keynote speech to
discussions between leading global banks, in November, where more than 50 colleagues. This was followed by a Q&A
and other stakeholders across a range of 100 representatives of small and local session at the Group’s Speke office, after
activities throughout the year. Core themes charities were joined by MPs, government which he visited the Rotunda charity, an
include regulation and supervision of banks ministers and representatives from the accredited training centre and community
risk governance and oversight, the future of Group. The reception highlighted the hub. The England and Wales Foundation
the banking industry, rebuilding trust and work of small and local charities tackling has been supporting the charity since
culture and changing business models and disadvantage across England. 2011. In 2017, Rotunda was awarded a
strategic challenges. further grant to support a pilot project
The Board engages with the work of the
which aims to demonstrate how a local
R epresentatives of the regulator (both PRA Foundations through the Responsible
community organisation can produce and FCA) observed Board and Committee Business Committee. See page 80 for
better services and outcomes for those
meetings in 2017. more information.
with offender records and who are long
A lmost 260,000 hours of volunteering by term unemployed.
colleagues were delivered in 2017, of which
44 per cent were skills-based volunteering.
More than 5,000 colleagues took part in
volunteering over the period of a week in the As part of our Helping Britain
Group’s Give & Gain volunteering campaign. Prosper Plan, we have committed to
supporting the communities in which
we serve and it is a matter of great
personal pride that the Lloyds Bank
Foundation is able to support this
Whistleblowing
worthy cause.
We encourage colleagues to speak up if they suspect wrongdoing or witness behaviours
that do not meet the standards set out in our Codes of Responsibility or Group policies Lord Blackwell
and procedures. This whistleblowing service is known internally as ‘Speak Up’ and it gives Chairman
colleagues a way to raise concerns confidentially and without fear of reprisal.
The Group has an established Speak Up Champion (Anita Frew, Deputy Chairman and Senior
Independent Director), a dedicated team to handle disclosures (the Colleague Conduct
Management Team (CCMT)) and a third party supplier (Expolink) which colleagues can contact
anonymously. There is a clear Speak Up Policy that sets out its commitment to listening to
colleague concerns and protecting those who raise concerns from any detriment. The Policy
provides information on how concerns can be raised and to whom. It also confirms that the
Group has zero tolerance of retaliation and provides assurance around confidentiality and
anonymity where required.
Whistleblowing continues to be a topic of public and regulatory concern; it is essential that
colleagues feel confident reporting wrongdoing and are able to trust the process. A healthy
culture encourages asking questions, raising concerns and admitting mistakes. This type of
culture influences employee actions, decision-making and behaviour. In the reporting period,
Speak Up has been embedded into Group culture through communication and awareness
campaigns, training to all colleagues and the leadership team regularly considering speak up
arrangements as part of its annual review of the system of internal control.
64 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Corporate governance report continued
How our Board works
Meetings, activities and processes
Board meetings
A yearly planner is prepared by the Company Secretary to map out the flow of key items of business to
Start of the year
the Board.
B oard venues are agreed and colleagues in the areas that the Board will visit are engaged at both senior
management and operational level.
T he Chairman holds monthly meetings to review the draft agenda and planner with the Company
Agenda set
Secretary and Chief of Staff, as well as quarterly meetings with a wider group of central functions, to
identify emerging issues.
T he draft Board agenda is discussed between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and
reviewed at GEC meetings.
M atters may be added to agendas in response to external events, Non-Executive Director requests,
regulatory initiatives and the quarterly Board topic review meetings.
T emplates and guidelines are included within targeted training for authors of papers to ensure
Papers compiled
consistency and high quality of information.
and distributed
M eeting packs are uploaded and communicated to all Directors via a secure electronic board portal
typically a week in advance of the meeting to ensure sufficient time to review the matters which are to
be discussed and seek clarification or any additional information.
E xecutive meetings are held ahead of all Board and Committee meetings to ensure all matters being
Before the meeting
presented to the Board have been through a thorough discussion and escalation process.
C ommittee meetings are held prior to Board meetings, with the Chairman of each Committee then
reporting matters discussed to the Board.
N on-Executive discussions and informal dinners are held prior to most Board meetings, some of which
also include the Group Chief Executive.
B oard meetings have certain standing items, such as a report from the Group Chief Executive and
Board meeting
Chief Financial Officer on Group performance, reports from Committee Chairmen and updates from
GEC members.
T opics for deep dives or additional items are discussed when required and include business, governance
and regulatory updates.
T he Board makes full use of technology such as video conferencing, teleconferencing, a Board portal
and tablets/devices in its meeting arrangements. This leads to greater flexibility, security and efficiency
in Board paper distribution and meeting arrangements.
T he Board meetings offer the Board the chance to meet colleagues within the business, and if any
After the meeting
additional meetings are required to provide more details, these are arranged.
M inutes and matters arising from the meeting are produced and circulated to the Directors for review
and feedback.
T hose responsible for matters arising are asked to provide updates to the next meeting by way of an
update paper.
Beyond Board meetings Where further training or awareness is identified, such as new
technology, regulations or sector advances, deep dives are held with the
Non-Executive Directors see attendance at Board and Committee
relevant field expert to provide overviews, chances to raise questions,
meetings as only one part of their role. In addition to the annual
and debate the impacts on business in an informal setting.
schedule of Board and Committee meetings, the Non-Executive
Directors undertake a full programme of activities and engagement In April, the Board held a joint discussion with the Board of Scottish
each year, as set out on page 62–63. Widows Group Limited allowing in-depth focus on insurance matters.
Non-Executive Directors regularly meet with senior management and The Executive Directors make decisions within clearly defined
spend time increasing their understanding of the business through parameters which are documented within the Corporate Governance
site visits, formal briefing sessions or more informal events including Framework, although where appropriate, any activities outside the
breakfast meetings with senior staff. These informal meetings allow ordinary course of business are brought to the full Board for their
Directors greater time to discuss business in an informal setting, consideration, even if the matters fall within the agreed parameters. The
ensuring that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters Corporate Governance Framework helps to ensure that decisions are
of a material nature at Board meetings. made by the management with the correct authority.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
The right processes in place to deliver The Board recognises the need to be adaptable and flexible to respond
on our strategy to changing circumstances and emerging business priorities, whilst
ensuring the continuing monitoring and oversight of core issues.
During the year, there were 10 scheduled Board meetings, with details
The Group has a comprehensive and continuous agenda setting and
of attendance shown on page 58. In addition to formal meetings, the
escalation process in place to ensure that the Board has the right
Board meets as necessary to consider matters of a time-sensitive nature.
information at the right time and in the right format to enable the
The Chairman and the Chairmen of each Committee ensure Board
Directors to make the right decisions. The Chairman leads the process,
and Committee meetings are structured to facilitate open discussion,
assisted by the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary. The
debate and challenge. Through their opening remarks, the Chairmen set
process ensures that sufficient time is being set aside for strategic
the focus of each meeting.
discussions and business critical items.
The Board is supported by its Committees which make recommendations
The process of escalating issues and agenda setting is reviewed at least
on matters delegated to them under the Corporate Governance
annually as part of the Board Effectiveness Review with enhancements
Framework, in particular in relation to internal control risk, financial
made to the process, where necessary, to ensure it remains effective.
reporting, governance and remuneration issues.
Details of the meeting process are provided on page 64.
The management of all Committees is in keeping with the basis on which
The Non-Executive Directors also receive regular updates from the
meetings of the Board are managed. Each of the Committee’s structures
Group Chief Executive’s office including a weekly email which gives
facilitates open discussion and debate, with steps taken to ensure
context to current issues. In-depth and background materials are
adequate time for members of the Committees to consider proposals
regularly provided via a designated area on the Board portal.
which are put forward.
A full schedule of matters reserved for the Board and Terms of
In the rare event of a Director being unable to attend a meeting, the
Reference for each of the Committees can be found at
Chairmen of the respective meetings discusses the matters proposed
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com
with the Director concerned, seeking their support and feedback
accordingly. The Chairman subsequently represents those views at
the meeting.
IT Resilience and cyber security Professional development and training
At the Board meeting in May 2017, the Board took part in an programme at a glance
advanced scenario testing exercise to simulate real life cyber-attack
scenarios. The purpose of this was to enhance the Board’s
understanding of the processes and controls in place, and to
rehearse the actions required from the Board at the different stages
of an incident if such an event should occur in reality.
IT resilience and the dynamic threat posed by cyber risk are
recognised as key risks and are a central area of focus for the Board Training and
Risk Committee. information
Important and/or material issues continue to be brought to the full sessions
Board Risk Committee for information, consideration and discussion
as appropriate.
Site visits;
During the year, the sub-committee of the Board Risk Committee
Briefing material Board dinners
dedicated to IT resilience and cyber security considered a wide
on Board portal and breakfast
range of issues including:
meetings
c yber and IT controls;
t echnology resilience;
c yber security; and
r oles and responsibilities of the Chief Security Officer.
See page 78 for more information. Management
and one-to-one
Deep dives
meetings on
key topics
66 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Corporate governance report continued
Assessing our effectiveness
How the Board performs and is evaluated Highlights from the 2017 review
The Board is in the third year of its three year evaluation cycle. An The reviews concluded that the performance of the Board, its
external evaluation was conducted in 2015, facilitated by JCA Group1, Committees, the Chairman and each of the Directors continues to be
with an internal evaluation having been carried out in 2016 and this effective. All Directors demonstrated commitment to their roles.
year. The annual evaluation is facilitated externally at least once every
Having been Board members for more than six years, a particularly
three years and an externally facilitated evaluation will be conducted in
rigorous review of Anita Frew’s and Sara Weller’s independence was
2018. The Chairman of the Board leads the annual review of the Board’s
undertaken. The Nomination and Governance Committee concluded
effectiveness and that of its Committees and individual Directors with
they were both still sufficiently independent.
the support of the Nomination and Governance Committee, which he
also chairs. Performance evaluation of the Chairman is carried out by the Many Directors commented favourably on the performance of the
Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, taking Board as a whole, describing it as hardworking, conscientious, expert,
into account the views of the Executive Directors. questioning and highly engaged. Highlights mentioned by several
Directors were the continued value of deep dives, the offsite strategy
2017 evaluation of the Board’s performance session (described by one Director as a ‘model of open discussion’);
the openness of Executives to interacting with the Board members
The 2017 evaluation was conducted internally between October 2017 and sharing issues, the discussion on executive succession; the process
and December 2017 by the Company Secretary, and was overseen by for keeping the Board aware of important issues which arise between
the Nomination and Governance Committee. meetings; the further development of Group Internal Audit; the
The 2017 review sought the Directors’ views on a range of topics usefulness of the Risk Sub-Committees and the Cyber Security Advisory
including: strategy; planning and performance; risk and control; Board Panel and the Non-Executive Director only discussions. Directors also
composition and size; balance of skills and experience; diversity; culture spoke highly of the work done by the Chairman and the Chairmen of the
and dynamics; the Board’s calendar and agenda; the quality and Committees in structuring agendas and ensuring that business is covered
timeliness of information; and support for Directors and Committees. at the meetings.
If Directors have concerns about the Company or a proposed action The actions from the 2016 Board Effectiveness Review have been
which cannot be resolved, it is recorded in the Board minutes. Also on recognised by Directors as helpful, particularly, the requirement that
resignation, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to provide a written ‘links to strategy’ are identified in Board papers. Many think that more
statement of any concerns to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board. needs to be done to make Board papers more concise and focused
No such concerns were raised in 2017 and up to the date of this report. and that less meeting time should be used for presentations.
Points raised in the
Internal evaluation process
2017 Board effectiveness review
OCTOBER 2017 The review identified a number of areas for improvement in the
Board’s effectiveness.
Q uestionnaires issued to all Directors by the Company Secretary
for completion. Board papers and presentations to the Board
The most common observation by Directors concerned the volume and
OCTOBER – DECEMBER 2017
content of information contained within Board papers, which was also
linked to observations in favour of reducing the amount of time spent
I ndividual meetings held between each Director and the Company
on presentations in Board meetings. Directors would like to receive
Secretary to discuss responses and opportunity for Directors to
more concise reports, highlighting important points and avoiding
raise any other matters concerning the Board or its Committees.
unnecessary volume and repetition, along with having fewer and
DECEMBER 2017 – JANUARY 2018 shorter presentations.
R eport prepared by the Company Secretary based on the Stakeholder feedback
questionnaire results and matters raised in individual meetings. Directors believe that they receive good information on regulatory
and customer feedback. Several Directors would like to receive
JANUARY 2018 more feedback from stakeholders other than regulators and
customers, including shareholders and bond holders. The views of
D raft report discussed by the Company Secretary with
shareholders on remuneration matters are well represented at the
the Chairman.
Remuneration Committee.
F inal report discussed at a meeting of the Board. The Board
discussion was subsequently considered by the Nomination and Responsible Business Committee Terms of Reference
Governance Committee. A number of Directors suggested that the Terms of Reference of the
Responsible Business Committee be reconsidered, now that it has been
APRIL 2018 in operation for a full year, in order to avoid duplication of effort in areas
covered by other Committees.
A ctions to be recommended to the Board by the Nomination and
Governance Committee to reflect the Board discussion in January. Non-Executive Director recruitment
S ubsequently the Board will consider the recommendations and While there was general agreement that the balance of skills within
agree an action plan. the Board was good, a number of Directors asked that the following
experience be borne in mind for future recruitment of Directors (to
JULY 2018 supplement the experience of the current Directors in these areas):
major change management; finance; accounting and data.
U pdate to be provided to both the Nomination and Governance
Committee and the Board detailing progress against the Some Directors mentioned the importance of maintaining, and
agreed actions. enhancing, gender diversity in the Board.
1 Aside from assisting with senior recruitment, benchmarking and succession planning, JCA Group has no other connection to the Company.
68 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Corporate governance report continued
Complying with the UK Corporate Governance
Code 2016
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 (the ‘Code’) applied to the 2017 financial year. The Group confirms that it applied the main principles and
complied with all the provisions of the Code throughout the year. The Code is publicly available at www.frc.org.uk.
The statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Annual report on remuneration are set out on pages 84 and 88.
The Group has adopted the UK Finance Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure and its 2017 financial statements have been prepared in compliance
with its principles.
A. Leadership
A1. The Board’s Role The Group is led by an effective, committed unitary Board, which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the
Company. The Group’s Corporate Governance Framework, which is reviewed annually by the Board, sets out a number of key decisions and matters
that are reserved for the Board’s approval. Further details can be found online at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com and on page 64.
Independent Responsibilities
Chairman Lord Blackwell leads the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance. He sets the Board’s agenda
and builds an effective and complementary Board. The Chairman leads Board succession planning and ensures effective
Lord Blackwell
communication with shareholders.
Executive Directors António Horta-Osório manages and leads the Group on a day-to-day basis and makes decisions on matters affecting the
operation, performance and strategy of the Group’s business. He delegates aspects of his own authority, as permitted
Group Chief Executive
under the Corporate Governance Framework, to other members of the Group Executive Committee. He provides
António Horta-Osório leadership and direction to senior management and coordinates all activities to implement the strategy and for managing
the business in accordance with the Group’s risk appetite and business plan set by the Board.
Chief Financial Officer
George Culmer
Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, George Culmer and Juan Colombás make and implement decisions
in all matters affecting operations, performance and strategy. They provide specialist knowledge and experience to
the Board. Together with António Horta-Osório, George Culmer and Juan Colombás design, develop and implement
strategic plans and deal with day-to-day operations of the Group. During the year Juan Colombás was appointed to the
role of Chief Operating Officer in September 2017. Prior to this he served as the Group’s Chief Risk Officer.
Chief Operating Officer
Juan Colombás
Non-Executive Directors As Deputy Chairman, Anita Frew would ensure continuity of chairmanship during any change of chairmanship. She
supports the Chairman in representing the Board and acting as a spokesperson. She deputises for the Chairman and
Deputy Chairman and
is available to the Board for consultation and advice. The Deputy Chairman represents the Group’s interests to official
Senior Independent enquiries and review bodies.
Director
As Senior Independent Director, Anita Frew is also a sounding board for the Chairman and Chief Executive. She acts as a
Anita Frew conduit for the views of other Non-Executive Directors and conducts the Chairman’s annual performance appraisal. She
is available to help resolve shareholders’ concerns and attend meetings with major shareholders and financial analysts to
understand issues and concerns.
Alan Dickinson
Simon Henry
Nick Luff 1
Lord Lupton2
The Non-Executive Directors challenge constructively and help develop and set the Group’s strategy. They actively
Deborah McWhinney participate in Board decision-making and scrutinise management performance. The Non-Executive Directors satisfy
themselves on the integrity of financial information and review the Group’s risk exposures and controls. The Non-Executive
Nick Prettejohn Directors, through the Remuneration Committee, determine the remuneration of Executive Directors.
Stuart Sinclair
Anthony Watson1
Sara Weller
Company Secretary The Company Secretary advises the Board on matters such as governance and ensures good information flows and
comprehensive practical support are provided to Directors. He maintains the Group’s Corporate Governance Framework
Malcolm Wood
and organises Directors’ induction and training. The Company Secretary communicates with shareholders as appropriate
and ensures due regard is paid to their interests. Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter
for the Board as a whole.
1 Nick Luff and Anthony Watson resigned from the board with effect from 10 May and 11 May 2017, respectively.
2 Lord Lupton joined the Board with effect from 1 June 2017.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
A2. Division of responsibilities There is clear division of responsibility Directors who take on or change roles during the year attend induction
at the head of the Company, which is documented in the Group’s meetings in respect of those new roles.
Corporate Governance Framework.
The Company Secretary maintains a training and development log for
A3. Role of the Chairman The Chairman has overall responsibility for each Director.
the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
B5. Provision of information and support The Chairman, supported
Lord Blackwell was independent on appointment. by the Company Secretary, ensures that Board members receive
appropriate and timely information.
A4. Role of the Non-Executive Directors The Board has a Senior
Independent Director (‘SID’), Anita Frew, who acts as a sounding board The Group provides access, at its expense, to the services of
to the Chairman and Group Chief Executive. She can be contacted by independent professional advisers in order to assist Directors in the role.
shareholders and other Directors as required. Anthony Watson served
Board Committees are also provided with sufficient resources to
as SID until 11 May 2017.
undertake their duties.
The Non-Executive Directors challenge constructively and help develop
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary in
and set the Group’s strategy.
relation to the discharge of their duties.
Meetings are held between the Non-Executive Directors in the absence
B6. Board and Committee performance and evaluation An externally
of the Executive Directors, and at least once a year in the absence of
facilitated performance evaluation was completed in 2015, with internally
the Chairman.
facilitated evaluations having taken place in 2016 and 2017. More
Further information on meeting arrangements and the responsibilities information can be found on pages 66–67, along with the findings,
of the Directors are given on pages 64–65 and 68 respectively. actions, and progress made during the year.
B7. Re-election of Directors At the 2017 AGM, all Directors were
B. Effectiveness
subject to re-election with the exception of Anthony Watson, who
B1. The Board’s composition The balance of skills, experience, stepped down after the AGM and Nick Luff, who stepped down prior
independence, and knowledge on the Board is the responsibility of the to the AGM. All Directors will be standing for re-election, and in the
Nomination and Governance Committee, and is reviewed annually, or case of Lord Lupton, election by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
whenever appointments are considered.
C. Accountability
The majority of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors as
shown on page 68. C1. Financial and business reporting The Directors’ and Auditors’
Statements of Responsibility can be found on pages 83 and
B2. Board appointments The process for Board appointments is led
158 respectively.
by the Nomination and Governance Committee, which then makes a
recommendation to the Board. Information on the Company’s business model and strategy can be
found on pages 1–37.
More details about succession planning can be found on page 72.
More information about the work of the Nomination and Governance C2. Risk management and internal control systems See page 67 for
Committee can be found on pages 70–72. more detail regarding internal control.
B3. Time commitments The time commitments of the Directors are The Audit Committee is responsible for the effectiveness of internal
considered by the Board on appointment and annually. controls and the Risk Management Framework. Further information can
be found on pages 73–76.
The Chairman considers any new external appointments which may
impact existing time commitments. The Board Risk Committee is responsible for the review of the risk
culture of the Group, setting the tone from the top in respect of risk
Non-Executive Directors are required to devote such time as is necessary
management. Further information can be found on pages 77–79.
for the effective discharge of their duties. The estimated minimum time
commitment set out in the terms of appointment is 35-40 days per The Directors’ viability statement and confirmation that the business is
annum including attendance at Committee meetings. For Committee a going concern can be found on page 82.
Chairmen and the SID, this increases to a minimum of 45 to 50 days. In
C3. Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit
reality, the time devoted on the Group’s business by the Non-Executive
Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its responsibilities
Directors is considerably more than the minimum requirements.
and makes recommendations to the Board. Full information on the Audit
Executive Directors are allowed to hold no more than one Committee can be found on pages 73–76.
Non-Executive Director role in a FTSE 100 company and may not take
on the Chairmanship of such a company. D. Remuneration
The Chairman is committed to this being his primary role, limiting D1. Level and elements of remuneration The Directors’ Remuneration
his other commitments to ensure he can spend as much time as the Report on pages 84–102 explains the work of the Remuneration
role requires. Committee and provides full details regarding the remuneration of
There are no Directors whose time commitments are considered to be Directors. The Remuneration Policy can be found in the 2016 Annual
a matter for concern. Report and Accounts.
B4. Training and development The Chairman leads the learning and E. Relations with Shareholders
development of Directors and the Board generally and regularly reviews
and agrees with each Director their individual and combined training E1. Shareholder engagement Details of engagements with
and development needs. shareholders during the year can be found on page 62.
Ample opportunities, support and resources for learning are E2. Use of General Meetings The 2018 AGM will be held on 24 May
provided through a comprehensive programme, which is in place 2018. The whole Board is expected to attend and will be available to
throughout the year comprising both formal and informal training answer shareholders’ questions.
and information sessions.
To facilitate shareholder participation, electronic proxy voting and voting
The Chairman personally ensures that on appointment each Director through the CREST proxy appointment service are available. All votes
receives a full, formal and tailored induction. The emphasis is on are taken by way of a poll to include all shareholder votes cast.
ensuring the induction brings the business and its issues alive for
A webcast of the AGM is carried out to allow shareholders who cannot
the new Director, taking account of the specific role they have been
attend in person to view the meeting live.
appointed to fulfil and the skills/experience of the Director to date. An
outline of the induction programme for Lord Lupton can be found on
page 61.
70 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Corporate governance report continued
Nomination and Governance
Committee report
The Group aspires to the highest
standards of corporate and internal
governance in accordance with the
expectations of the Board.
Dear Shareholder During the year, the Committee dedicated Committee purpose
a substantial part of its time to Executive and responsibilities
The Nomination and Governance Committee
succession planning, building on the progress
(the ‘Committee’) continued to keep under made over the previous years. The work The purpose of the Committee is to keep
review the structure, size and composition of undertaken included additional analysis and the Board’s governance, composition, skills,
the Board and its Committees. At the core benchmarking, which led to the establishment experience, knowledge, independence and
of the process is an ongoing assessment of development plans for identified candidates succession arrangements under review and
led by me of the collective Board’s technical (further details can be found opposite). These to make appropriate recommendations to the
and governance skill set. These assessments were important considerations in the executive Board to ensure the Company’s arrangements
provide an essential analysis of the skills and reorganisation announced in the summer. are consistent with the highest corporate
experience of the Non-Executive Directors governance standards.
relative to the required and desirable Board The Group aspires to the highest standards
competencies to help ensure that the Board of corporate and internal governance in The Committee reports to the Board on how
continues to have an appropriate range and accordance with the expectations of the it discharges its responsibilities and makes
depth of Non-Executive skills. Board, ensuring that governance is in recommendations to the Board, all of which
compliance with the latest regulation. have been accepted during the year. The
As detailed in last year’s annual report and As part of this, the Board’s Diversity Policy Committee’s terms of reference can be found
following our announcement in February 2017, was reviewed by the Committee during the at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/our-group/
Nick Luff and Anthony Watson left the Board year. The review included the consideration of corporate-governance
in May 2017. These departures resulted in the
aspects of new and emerging best practice
positions of Senior Independent Director and and regulatory developments in the area of Committee composition,
Audit Committee Chairman becoming vacant.
senior management and Board diversity. skills and experience
The Committee reviewed both internal and
This led to amendments to the existing policy
external candidates for the position of Senior explicitly to broaden the range of diversity To ensure a broad representation of
Independent Director. It was subsequently criteria which will be taken into consideration experienced and independent Directors,
agreed that Anita Frew would become the in future appointments. Specifically, the policy membership of the Committee comprises the
Senior Independent Director and Simon Henry now includes race, age, gender, educational Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, who is also
would become the Chairman of the Audit and professional background as attributes. the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Committee. Further details in respect of both and the Senior Independent Director, the
of these appointments are provided below. Lord Blackwell Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, and
Chairman, Nomination and
In addition to these changes, a thorough the Chairman of the Responsible Business
Governance Committee
recruitment process was initiated and Committee. The Group Chief Executive
overseen by the Committee to select suitable attends meetings as appropriate.
candidates for the roles of Non-Executive Details of Committee membership and
Director of the Company and Chairman of meeting attendance can be found on page 58.
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc, who would
During the year the Committee considered
provide the required skill set, experience and
a number of issues relating to the Group’s
knowledge whilst complementing the existing
governance arrangements, both internal
Board of Lloyds Banking Group plc. As a result
and external. It assisted the Chairman in
of this Lord Lupton was appointed to the
keeping the composition of the Board and
Board in June 2017. Lord Lupton was chosen
its Committees under review and it leads the
for this role as he brings not just his experience
search process for nominations to the Board.
of UK banking and capital markets, but also
his extensive corporate advisory experience These issues are summarised on the next page.
which will be of particular value to our overall
Commercial Banking activities.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Activities during the year
KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION
Change in Senior A nita Frew as Senior Independent Director – The Committee considered a range
Board changes
Independent Director and of external and internal candidates for this position (the external candidates were
and Board
Audit Committee Chairman sourced by JCA Group1), and agreed that Anita’s significant board, financial and
composition
investment management experience, including as a Senior Independent Director,
made her ideally suited to take on the role.
S imon Henry as Audit Committee Chairman – Simon had been a member of the Audit
Committee since June 2014, and the Committee agreed that his background and
experience enable him to fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chairman and for SEC
purposes the role of Audit Committee financial expert.
New Non-Executive Director The external search firm JCA Group provided an extensive list of candidates. The
Committee selected and shortlisted candidates, interviews were carried out with various
members of the Board, and the process resulted in the appointment of Lord Lupton to the
Board in June. Details of Lord Lupton’s induction are provided on page 61.
Structure and composition From the ongoing assessment of the Board members, the Chairman creates a skills
of the Board matrix which the Committee uses to track the Board’s strengths and identify gaps in the
desired collective skills profile of Board members, giving due weight to diversity in its
broadest sense. Recommendations are made to the Board as appropriate.
Developing the succession During the year, the Committee, led by the Chairman, reviewed the succession plans for
Succession
plans for senior management, key senior management roles. Full details of the process are provided on the next page.
planning
and establishing and agreeing
development plans.
Formation of Lloyds Bank In addition to the appointment of Lord Lupton as Chairman of the new bank, the
Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets plc, Committee also oversaw the selection of the Board members. This involved shortlisting
Corporate
including the establishment external candidates for the position of independent non-executive directors with the
Markets plc of the Board and its help of an external recruitment provider, Russell Reynolds1, meeting with the candidates
governance structures. on a one-to-one basis and reviewing both the individuals and overall composition of
the new board before making recommendations to the Group Board. In addition to the
composition of the board, the Committee has also reviewed the governance framework,
including the Terms of Reference of the preparatory board. The preparatory board
preceded the formation of the operating board, and was established by the Group
board to oversee the establishment of the company, board and structure.
Performance of the annual During the year, the Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities
Annual
effectiveness review of the effectively, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review. Full details of the review
effectiveness
Board and its Committees. can be found on pages 66–67.
review
The Committee oversees Annual review of the Corporate Governance Framework
Governance
various aspects of corporate
H elping to establish governance for the non ring-fenced bank, including agreeing
governance, and during the
the Terms of Reference to the non ring-fenced bank preparatory board
year, the key activities included
the following: Annual review of the share dealing policy for Directors and GEC
Received reports from the Chairman on communications with shareholders
Approved the appointment of Trustees to the Bank’s Foundations
Reviewed and proposed a training schedule for Non-Executive Directors
R eceived governance reports from the Company Secretary detailing updates
and changes to regulation and best practice
The Board Diversity Policy was In addition to the changes noted in the Chairman’s letter on page 52, Board
Diversity
reviewed by the Committee appointments must also take into account independence and knowledge in addition to
during the year. specific skills and experience to ensure a diverse Board composition. The full Diversity
Policy can be found at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com.
A review as to whether The Committee conducted a review of the role, including capabilities and time
Independence
Non-Executive Directors were commitment of all the Directors of the Company. This review was undertaken with
and time
demonstrably independent and reference to the individual performance and conduct in reaching decisions. It also took
commitments
free of relationships and other account of any relationships that had been disclosed. Details of conflicts of interest can
circumstances that could affect be found on page 81. Based on its assessment for 2017, the Committee is satisfied that,
their judgement. throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors remained independent as to both
character and judgement. All Directors were considered to have appropriate roles,
including capabilities and time commitments.
A review of the Group’s In addition to the existing methods of training for the Directors, the Board accepted
Training
approach to the training of a recommendation from the Committee that Non-Executive Directors should be
Non-Executive Directors. provided with a mandatory training programme, ideally available online, based on
relevant core modules which are part of the mandatory training programme undertaken
by all colleagues. Members of the Committee are currently testing training modules
and will feedback comments to the Committee in spring 2018 before it is considered for
roll-out to the rest of the Board.
1 Aside from assisting with senior recruitment, benchmarking and succession planning, JCA Group, Russell Reynolds, Egon Zehnder and YSC Consulting have no other connection to the Company.
72 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Corporate governance report continued
Succession planning in detail Board Diversity Policy
Good succession planning contributes to the delivery of the Group’s The Board Diversity Policy sets out the Board of Lloyds Banking Group’s
strategy by ensuring the desired mix of skills and experience of Board approach to diversity and provides a high level indication of the
members now and in the future. The Board is also committed to Board’s approach to diversity in senior management roles which is
recognising and nurturing talent within executive and management governed in greater detail through the Group’s policies.
levels across the Group to ensure the Group creates opportunities to
The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership
develop current and future leaders. The role of succession planning in
reflects diversity in its broadest sense. A combination of demographics,
promoting diversity is recognised and the Group has a range of policies
skills, experience, race, age, gender, educational and professional
which promote the engagement of under-represented groups within the
background and other relevant personal attributes on the Board is
business in order to build a diverse talent pipeline.
important in providing the range of perspectives, insights and challenge
The Company continues to review and identify potential future executive needed to support good decision making.
talent and during the year the following activities were undertaken to
New appointments are made on merit, taking account of the specific
develop the talent pipeline further:
skills and experience, independence and knowledge needed to ensure
A ssessment of potential candidates for senior management positions a rounded Board and the diversity benefits each candidate can bring to
undertaken by the Group Chief Executive with the Chairman, using the overall Board composition.
a range of criteria and benchmarking (facilitated by executive search
Objectives for achieving Board diversity may be set on a regular basis. On
and board consulting firm Egon Zehnder1). Details of assessment
gender diversity the Board has a specific target to maintain at least three
criteria are provided below. External candidates were identified by
female Board members and, recognising the emerging target for FTSE
executive search firm, JCA Group to provide a reference benchmark
companies to move towards 33 per cent female representation, to take
and identify where recruitment might be required.
opportunities to increase the number of female Board members over
A ssessments were discussed by the Committee, also taking into time where that is consistent with other skills and diversity requirements.
consideration discussions with the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board also places high emphasis on ensuring the development of
I ndividual development plans established for each internal candidate, diversity in the senior management roles within the Group and supports
and validated with individuals. and oversees the Group’s objective of achieving 40 per cent of senior
roles held by female executives by 2020, along with other metrics which
Development actions commenced.
promote the engagement of other under-represented groups within the
E videnced progress against the development plans reported to the business. This is underpinned by a range of policies within the Group
Committee and PRA in the third quarter. to help provide mentoring and development opportunities for female
executives and to ensure unbiased career progression opportunities.
Assessment of candidates Progress on this objective is monitored by the Board and built into
Each of the potential candidates for senior management positions its assessment of executive performance. You can read more on the
was assessed by the Group Chief Executive and Chairman using the Group’s diversity programmes on page 21 of the strategic report.
following criteria with input from Egon Zehnder by way of competency,
A copy of the Board Diversity Policy is available on our website at
psychometric and potential assessments and market benchmarking,
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/responsible-business and information
and in the case of non-GEC members, also with further input from
on Board diversity can be found on page 58.
YSC Consulting1 (a premier leadership consultancy), who use a
biographical assessment methodology. The results were then discussed Female representation on the Board is currently 25 per cent (based on
and reviewed by the Nomination and Governance Committee and three female directors and nine male directors).
subsequently in a meeting with all Non-Executive Directors.
Assessment criteria
Leadership: Breadth of banking experience:
Strategy Retail
People Commercial
Delivery Treasury/Capital
Judgement/values Insurance
Technology
Governance experience: Personal:
Board Drive
Investor Resilience
Candidates were scored from 1 to 5 for each of the above categories,
being 5 (very strong versus requirements), 3 (average – not a distinctive
strength) and 1 (weakness/development needed).
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION
The Group has open tax The Committee took account of the respective views of both management and the
Uncertain tax
matters which require it to make relevant tax authorities when considering the uncertain tax positions of the Group. The
positions
judgements about the most likely Committee also understood the external advice obtained by management to support
outcome for the purposes of the views taken.
calculating its tax position. The Committee was satisfied that the provisions and disclosures made in respect of
uncertain tax positions were appropriate. The relevant disclosures are set out in note 47:
‘Contingent liabilities and commitments’ on page 224 of the financial statements.
The Group must make both The Committee considered the assumptions underlying the calculation of the
Retirement
financial and demographic defined benefit liabilities. The most critical assumptions reviewed were in respect benefit
assumptions of a judgemental of the mortality assumptions, inflation and the discount rate, which have been
obligations
nature to determine the value of updated to reflect the Group’s recent experience, the latest CMI mortality tables
the defined benefit obligation. and the results of the latest full actuarial review of the Group’s main schemes.
The Committee was satisfied that the Group’s quantitative and qualitative
disclosures made in respect of retirement benefit obligations are appropriate.
The relevant disclosures are set out in note 35: ‘Retirement benefit obligations’
on page 206 of the financial statements. The defined benefit obligation at
31 December 2017 was £44,384 million (31 December 2016: £45,822 million).
The Group completed its acquisition The Committee reviewed a summary of the key assumptions underlying the fair
MBNA
of MBNA on 1 June 2017. value adjustments made by management to the acquired MBNA assets and
acquisition
liabilities. The Committee was satisfied with the key assumptions made. The
disclosures relating to the acquisition are set out in note 22: ‘Acquisition of MBNA
Limited’ on page 197 of the financial statements.
Determining the value of the VIF The Committee challenged the economic and non-economic actuarial assumptions
Value-In-
asset and insurance liabilities made by management which underpin the calculation of the VIF asset and the
Force (VIF)
is judgemental and requires insurance liabilities. The most significant assumptions were in respect of annuitant
asset and
economic and non-economic mortality, workplace pension persistency and expenses. The annuitant mortality
insurance
actuarial assumptions. assumptions were updated to recognise recent experience and for the latest
liabilities
industry improvement model; the assumptions for workplace pension persistency
were updated to reflect the introduction of new pension freedom; and the Group’s
expense assumption was updated to reflect new outsourcing arrangements.
The Committee was satisfied that the value of the VIF asset and insurance liabilities
were appropriate. The VIF asset at 31 December 2017 was £4,839 million (31
December 2016: £5,042 million). The disclosures are set out in note 24: ‘Value of
in-force business’ on page 198 and note 31: ‘Liabilities arising from insurance contracts
and participating investment contracts’ on page 202 of the financial statements. The
liability arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts at
31 December 2017 was £103,413 million (2017: £94,390 million).
The Directors are required to confirm The Committee assisted the Board in performing its assessment of the viability
Viability
whether they have a reasonable of the Company and the Group with input from management. The viability
statement
expectation that the Company and assessment, which was based on the Group’s operating, capital and funding plans,
the Group will be able to continue to included consideration of the principal and emerging risks which could impact the
operate and meet their liabilities as performance of the Group, and the liquidity and capital projections over the period.
they fall due for a specified period. The Committee was satisfied that the viability statement could be provided and
The viability statement must also advised the Board that three years was a suitable period of review.
disclose the basis for the Directors’
The viability statement is disclosed on page 82 of the Directors’ report.
conclusions and explain why the
period chosen is appropriate.
The Committee has devoted a The Committee has been briefed on the Group’s IFRS 9 implementation
IFRS 9
substantial amount of time to programme throughout 2017 and in prior years and held a session dedicated
understanding and challenging to IFRS 9 in October 2017. IFRS 9 has three critical elements: classification
management on its IFRS 9 and measurement, impairment, and hedging. The Group has not adopted
implementation programme. the hedging rules within IFRS 9 at 1 January 2018 (a permitted option) and,
The Group adopted IFRS 9 on accordingly, the Committee’s focus has been on classification and measurement,
1 January 2018. and impairment.
The Committee has received regular updates facilitating detailed discussion and
challenge, including a dedicated extended session to review the key decisions
taken by management to implement IFRS 9. During these updates, the Committee
has discussed the Group’s processes to assess the classification and impairment of
its financial assets; the proxies and simplifications used in the data for the models,
noting the Model Governance Committee’s approval of the integrity, adequacy
and methodology of the Group’s critical models; the estimated financial and
capital impact (including the Group’s approach to the transitional arrangements);
the industry-wide concerns raised by the PRA and the Group’s response to
these concerns; the key methodology decisions made by management; and the
changes to the Group’s key controls and governance.
The Committee has discussed the The Committee discussed the Group’s approach to the new revenue standard
Other
requirements of IFRS 15 (Revenue), (IFRS 15). The standard does not apply to transactions that are accounted for in
accounting
which the Group adopted on accordance with IFRS 9 and, as a result, the impact on the Group is not significant.
standards
1 January 2018, and IFRS IFRS 16, the new leasing standard, is not effective until 1 January 2019. The main
16 (Leases), which the Group impact on the Group will be on its property leases which will move ‘on-balance
expects to adopt sheet’. The Group will recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding liability.
on 1 January 2019. The Committee has discussed the Group’s progress on its implementation plans
for the standard during 2017 and will continue to discuss the Group’s plans and the
impact of the standard on the Group during 2018.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Board Risk Committee report
The Group’s effective
management of risk helps
underpin its low risk and
customer focused business
model.
Dear Shareholder Committee purpose During the year the Committee met its key
and responsibilities objectives and carried out its responsibilities
I am pleased to report on how the Board Risk
effectively. Details of Committee membership
Committee (the ‘Committee‘) has discharged The purpose of the Committee is to review the and meeting attendance can be found on
its responsibilities throughout 2017. risk culture of the Group, setting the tone from page 58.
The Committee has continued to give detailed the top in respect of risk management. The
As the most senior risk committee in the
consideration to existing and emerging risks, Committee is also responsible for ensuring the
Group, the Committee interacts with other
through a balanced agenda which ensures risk culture is fully embedded and supports
related risk committees, including the Group
sufficient focus on standing areas of risk at all times the Group’s agreed risk appetite,
Risk Committee. Such interaction assists
management, together with specific attention covering the extent and categories of risk
with the agenda planning process, where in
being given to those emerging risks which which the Board considers as acceptable for
addition to annual agenda planning, matters
are considered to be of ongoing importance the Company.
considered by the Group Risk Committee are
to the Group and its customers. During the In seeking to achieve this, the Committee reviewed to ensure escalation of all relevant
year, the Committee continued to make use assumes responsibility for monitoring the matters to the Board Risk Committee.
of dedicated sub-committees to focus on Group’s Risk Management Framework,
particular areas, such as IT resilience and which embraces risk principles, policies, Matters considered by
cyber security, where the dynamic nature and methodologies, systems, processes,
the Committee
significance of related risks and challenges procedures and people. It also includes the
continues to evolve. review of new, or material amendments to Over the course of the year the Committee
Focus has also been given to the successful risk principles and policies, and overseeing considered a wide range of risks facing the
execution of a number of significant regulatory any action resulting from material breaches Group, both standing and emerging, across all
change programmes, proactive identification of such policy. key areas of risk management, in addition to
and resolution of conduct issues, and the More details on the Group’s wider approach risk culture and risk appetite, as noted above.
challenges and opportunities arising from to risk management can be found in the risk As part of this review, certain risks were
the introduction of open banking and the management section on pages 107–156. Full identified which required further detailed
second Payment Services Directive. Increasing details of the Committee’s responsibilities are consideration. Set out on the following pages
levels of UK consumer indebtedness were set out in its terms of reference, which can be is a summary of these risks, with an outline
also reviewed, and whilst overall controls found at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/our- of the material factors considered by the
were found to be robust, with management group/corporate-governance Committee, and the conclusions which were
actions being taken to increase risk mitigation ultimately reached.
and to minimise customer detriment; close Committee composition,
monitoring will continue into 2018. Progress During 2017, the Committee continued to
across each of these areas will be a key skills, experience and utilise established sub-committees to provide
ongoing focus for the Committee during 2018. operation additional focus on Financial Markets, IT
Resilience & Cyber, and Stress Testing &
The environment within which the Group Alan Dickinson, Chairman of the Committee, Recovery Planning. These sub-committees
operates continues to be subject to is a highly regarded retail and commercial enable members of the Committee to
considerable change. Uncertainties, banker, having spent 37 years with the Royal dedicate additional time and resource to
including the EU Exit and wider geo-political Bank of Scotland, most notably as Chief achieving a more in-depth understanding of
risks continue to provide challenges, and Executive of RBS UK, overseeing the group’s the topics covered, and enable further review
the Committee will continue to monitor Retail and Commercial operations in the UK. and challenge of the associated risks.
developments and any associated impact on The Committee is composed of independent
the Group’s risk profile. Non-Executive Directors, who provide core
banking and risk knowledge, together with
The Committee has concluded that the Group
breadth of experience which brings knowledge
continues to have strong discipline in the
from other sectors, and a clear awareness of
management of both emerging and existing
the importance of putting the customer at the
risks, and the Committee’s work continues to
centre of all that the Group does.
help support the Group in achieving its core
aim of operating as a safe, low risk bank. All Non-Executive Directors are members
of the Board Risk Committee. The Chief Risk
Alan Dickinson
Officer has full access to the Committee
Chairman, Board Risk Committee
and attends all meetings. The Chief Internal
Auditor and members of the Executive also
attend meetings, as appropriate.
78 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Corporate governance report continued
Activities during the year
KEY ISSUES COMMITTEE REVIEW AND CONCLUSION
A resilient IT environment is Given the dynamic nature and significance of IT and cyber risks, the Board Risk Committee
IT and cyber critical to providing reliable sub-committee on IT resilience and cyber continues to enable more in depth consideration
risk services to our customers of these risks to the Group. During the year, the sub-committee gave consideration to a wide
and enabling sustainable range of issues including enhanced assurance for cyber critical third parties, cyber and IT
growth. The dynamic cyber controls, Technology Resilience and Cyber Programme updates, Cyber Strategy, and roles
risk and the potential for and responsibilities of the Chief Security Officer. Alongside this an advisory panel comprised
external attacks threatens the of external industry experts provides the sub-committee with an external view of current and
confidentiality and integrity evolving industry wide cyber security threats, challenges and developments.
of electronic data or the Conclusion: Whilst there have been significant improvements in cyber capability and the
availability of systems. These Group is within Board risk appetite in relation to its industry benchmark, the Committee will
are key risks for the Group continue to challenge the Group to further improve its ability to mitigate and respond to cyber
and a central area of focus for risk. Technology resilience will also remain a key focus for 2018 as the Group continues to invest
the Committee. in its infrastructure.
The Committee recognises In order to maintain and enhance the Group’s strategic position, it continues to invest in new
Strategy the risks associated with an initiatives and programmes. The Group acknowledges the challenges faced with delivering
execution extensive discretionary and this strategy alongside the extensive regulatory and legal change agenda whilst additionally
risk regulatory change agenda. enhancing systems and controls. In the development of the strategy, the Group considers
Assessments have been these demands against the capacity of the organisation to ensure successful delivery for both
performed to establish customers and shareholders.
achievability of its plans whilst Conclusion: Whilst initial planning has been undertaken to satisfy the Board that the Group
new metrics will be introduced can deliver against its planned change objectives, new metrics are being introduced to
for ongoing risk monitoring enable effective performance monitoring, risk management and the assessment of delivery
and management. challenges including subject matter capacity and capability. These risk metrics will be
managed across the Group but reported to Board on a regular basis.
Managing regulatory risk The Committee continues to focus on ensuring we have effective controls and oversight
Regulatory continues to be a key focus to comply with existing regulatory obligations. The Committee has also been focused
and legal risk within the Group due to the on overseeing the successful execution of a number of significant, complex and
significant amount of highly interdependent regulatory change programmes including ring-fencing, EU General Data
complex and interdependent Protection Regulation, Payment Services Directive II (PSD2), Markets in Financial Instruments
regulatory reform that we Directive II, and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS 239). Given the
have had to manage. significance of ring-fencing, monthly programme reporting has been presented to Board
and due consideration given to governance and compliance within the ring-fenced bank.
Conclusion: The Group has placed significant focus on ensuring compliance with these
complex regulatory changes. Regulatory risk will remain a key area of focus for the
Committee in 2018 given the importance of complying with our regulatory obligations.
Managing operational The Committee continues to focus on ensuring the Group has an effective framework for
Operational risk continues to be a key managing operational risk, including enhancing the use of key risk and control indicators and
risk focus within the Group scenarios. The Committee has considered a number of reports in relation to the operational
due to the complexity and risk framework, cyber, IT resiliency, user access management and Cloud computing.
volume of change, the Conclusion: The Group has made progress in enhancing its management of operational
Group’s IT infrastructure, risk. The Group will continue to focus on enhancing the maturity of its operational risk
cyber risk, and reliance on framework to ensure it is proactive, forward looking and effective in managing the 21st
third party suppliers. century risks in a digital world, including execution, model, cyber/IT and third party risk.
The Committee continues to Throughout 2017, the Committee has considered reports on the proactive identification and
Conduct risk focus closely on the Group’s resolution of conduct issues which directly impact customers (customer conduct risks) and
management of conduct risk. those which can undermine market integrity (market conduct risks). The pace and quality of
remediation remained a focus, including root cause analysis to establish lessons learned and
help prevent similar issues in the future. Consideration was also given to the conduct risks
associated with the treatment of customers in vulnerable circumstances, with a particular
focus on those in financial difficulties. In addition the Committee continues to consider
developments in the Group’s conduct culture as well as reports on rectification programmes,
complaints and conduct risk appetite metric performance.
Conclusion: Whilst good progress has been made in 2017, to continue embedding the
Group’s conduct strategy initiatives into business as usual, ongoing improvement in the
Group’s conduct risk profile will remain a priority for the Group in 2018 and will continue
to be a subject of focus for the Committee.
The Committee reviewed The macroeconomic and market context was reviewed to ensure understanding of the key
Consumer
key metrics for the motor drivers of increased consumer lending; this included an examination of the overall market
lending finance, credit cards, growth in consumer lending, changes in indebtedness, a comparison to pre-crisis levels
indebtedness personal loan and personal and a review of the growth rate of each consumer credit product within the portfolio. The
current account overdraft key macroeconomic drivers of credit losses including the specific impact of debt to income
portfolios to understand were also reviewed. Underwriting standards, credit quality and the programme of ongoing
the risks associated with improvements to strengthen indebtedness and affordability controls were assessed to
persistent indebtedness. ensure that risk appetite for the consumer lending portfolios remains appropriate.
Conclusion: Regular monitoring continues to assist the Committee in its assessment of
indebtedness of the consumer lending portfolios, with management continuing to take
action to mitigate potential risks associated with increased indebtedness and to continue
to review the appropriate treatment of vulnerable customers.
80 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Corporate governance report continued
Responsible Business
Committee report
Doing business responsibly is at
the heart of strengthening trust
in our Group and the industry.
Dear Shareholders How the Committee spent responsible business report and Helping
its time in 2017 Britain Prosper Plan, which the Committee
I am pleased to report on the Responsible recommends to the Board for approval.
Business Committee’s (RBC) second full year The Chairman of the Committee reviews
of operation in 2017. the forward agenda regularly to ensure that Committee composition,
Doing business responsibly is central to our the appropriate topics are considered and attendance at meetings
purpose to Help Britain Prosper, and supports adequate time is allocated for members to
and effectiveness review
our strategy to be a low risk, customer provide input to proposals at meetings.
focused bank. During the year, the Committee considered Alan Dickinson, Chairman of the Board
At its meetings, the RBC oversaw a wide in detail the development of the Group’s Risk Committee, attended all meetings.
range of responsible business activities, which responsible business approach, including a Representatives from Group Internal Audit
included our substantial investments to provide sustainability strategy. Detailed discussions and the Chief Operating Office are invited to
opportunities for those starting out, whether took place with colleagues from relevant meetings as appropriate.
as first time home buyers, small business business areas and external advisers at which Representatives of the regulators attended
start-ups, social entrepreneurs or apprentices. proposals were considered and challenged meetings as observers in January (FCA) and
leading to a change of focus on some areas July 2017 (PRA).
We also reviewed work being done to tackle of the approach. The Committee contributed
disadvantage in communities across the UK, to the plans for strengthening the Group’s During the year, the Committee met its key
through our four Charitable Foundations, our ongoing commitment to supporting basic, objectives and carried out its responsibilities
partnership with Mental Health UK, and our workplace and specialist digital skills in the effectively, as confirmed by the annual
support for vulnerable customers, including UK during 2018 and provided perspectives on effectiveness review. The Committee
those struggling with low financial skills or illness. how this could best be achieved. will consider the output from the 2017
effectiveness review and whether any changes
To respond to a rapidly changing external
The Committee also considered the need to be made to the way it works.
environment, the RBC also reviewed emerging
following topics:
areas such as the impact of climate change on Details of the committee membership and
UK businesses, individuals and communities, a regular progress report from the Chairman meeting attendance can be found on page 58.
and ways in which we can support enhanced of the executive level Group Customer First
UK productivity through the strengthening of Committee (see page 114) on the approach
digital skills, particularly for individuals, small to customers, conduct and culture;
businesses and charities. a report from Group Sourcing on working in RBC Chairman’s visit to
Many of these activities are described in our a responsible way with the Group’s suppliers;
Elizabeth Fry charity
2018 Helping Britain Prosper Plan, which is
a n oversight of the processes which provide
developed annually with the RBC to reflect
reassurance that customer rectifications are
the ways in which Lloyds Banking Group, both managed responsibly; In August 2017, Sara Weller visited the
directly (as the largest corporate tax payer and Elizabeth Fry Charity in Reading, which has
a substantial UK-wide employer) and indirectly, t he benchmarking of trust amongst received a grant of around £70,000 from
contributes to the wider economic and social stakeholders and customers against financial the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England
health of Britain. services companies and acknowledged and Wales. The charity runs one of only six
leaders in other industries; approved premises for women released
I would like to thank the many thousands of
colleagues who have dedicated their time and t he outputs from colleague surveys in from prison on bail, on license or as part of
energy to supporting these activities and I very relation to the Group’s role as a responsible a community order. The charity supports
much hope you enjoy and find it interesting to business; and residents to deal with some challenging
issues, such as substance abuse or mental
read about the Committee’s work. t he draft Modern Slavery Statement, before health problems and equips them with
Sara Weller recommending to the Board for approval. the skills to live (and hopefully work)
Chairman, Responsible Business Committee more independently within 3-6 months.
Committee purpose After the visit Sara Weller commented:
‘my visit reinforced the message that the
The purpose of the Committee is to oversee
Foundations actively seek out and make
the Group’s strategy and plans for becoming
a difference for the most disadvantaged
a leader in responsible business as part of the
people in our society. Supporting them is
objective to help Britain prosper; the activities
something in which we, as a Group, take
which have an impact on the Group’s behaviour
great pride.’
and reputation as a trusted, responsible
business; and the development of the Group’s
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Directors’ report
Corporate governance statement Change of control
The Corporate Governance report found on pages 51–80 together with The Company is not party to any significant contracts that are subject
this Directors’ report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements of to change of control provisions in the event of a takeover bid. There are
the Corporate Governance Statement for the purpose of the Financial no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees
Conduct Authority’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTR). providing compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs
because of a takeover bid.
Profit and dividends
The consolidated income statement shows a statutory profit before Directors’ indemnities
tax for the year ended 31 December 2017 of £5,275 million (2016: The Directors of the Company, including the former Directors who
£4,238 million). The Directors have recommended a final dividend, which retired during the year, have entered into individual deeds of indemnity
is subject to approval by the shareholders at the AGM, of 2.05 pence per with the Company which constituted ‘qualifying third party indemnity
share (2016: 1.7 pence per share) totalling £1,475 million (2016: provisions’ for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006. The deeds
£1,212 million). The final dividend will be paid on 29 May 2018. indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted by law
The final dividend in respect of 2016 of 1.7 pence per ordinary share was and remain in force. The deeds were in force during the whole of the
paid to shareholders on 16 May 2017, a special dividend in respect of 2016 financial year or from the date of appointment in respect of the Director
of 0.5 pence per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 16 May 2017 appointed in 2017. In addition, the Group had appropriate Directors’ and
and an interim dividend for 2017 of 1 pence per ordinary share was paid Officers’ liability insurance cover in place throughout 2017.
on 27 September 2017; these dividends totalled £2,284 million, net of a Deeds for existing Directors are available for inspection at the
credit in respect of unclaimed dividends written-back in accordance with Company’s registered office.
the Company’s Articles of Association. Further information on dividends
The Company has also granted deeds of indemnity by deed poll and by
is shown in note 44 on page 220 and is incorporated by reference.
way of entering into individual deeds, which constitute ‘qualifying third
The Board continues to give due consideration at each year end to party indemnity provisions’ to the Directors of the Group’s subsidiary
the return of any surplus capital and for 2017, the Board intends to companies, including to former Directors who retired during the year
implement a share buyback of up to £1 billion, equivalent to up to and since the year end. Such deeds were in force during the financial year
1.4 pence per share. This represents the return of capital over and ended 31 December 2017 and remain in force as at the date of this report.
above the Board’s view of the current level of capital required to grow
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to the
the business, meet regulatory requirements and cover uncertainties.
Trustees of the Group’s Pension Schemes, which were in force for the
The share buyback programme will commence in March 2018 and is
whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the date of this report.
expected to be completed during the next 12 months. Given the total
ordinary dividend of 3.05 pence per share and the intended share
Power of Directors in relation to shares
buyback, equivalent to up to 1.4 pence per ordinary share, the total
capital return for 2017 will be up to 4.45 pence per share, an increase of The Board manages the business of the Company under the powers set
up to 46 per cent on the prior year, equivalent to up to £3.2 billion. out in the articles of association, which include the Directors’ ability to
The Company intends to use the authority for the repurchase of ordinary issue or buy back shares. The Directors were granted authorities to issue
shares granted to it at the 2017 AGM to implement the proposed share and allot shares and to buy back shares at the 2017 AGM. Shareholders
buyback. Details of this existing authority are set out under ‘Power of will be asked to renew these authorities at the 2018 AGM. The authority
Directors in relation to shares’. in respect of purchase of the Company’s ordinary shares is limited to
7,154,088,636 ordinary shares, equivalent to 10 per cent of the issued
Appointment and retirement of Directors ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date
prior to publication of the 2017 AGM circular.
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the Company’s
articles of association, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the The Company did not repurchase any of its shares during the year.
Companies Act 2006. The Company’s articles of association may only be (2016: none).
amended by a special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
Conflicts of interest
Lord Lupton has been appointed to the Board since the 2017 AGM and
will therefore stand for election at the forthcoming AGM. In the interests The Board has a comprehensive procedure for reviewing, and as
of good governance and in accordance with the provisions of the UK permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s articles of
Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors will retire, and those association, approving actual and potential conflicts of interest. Directors
wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the have a duty to notify the Chairman and Company Secretary as soon as
forthcoming AGM. they become aware of actual or potential conflict situations. Changes
Biographies of current Directors are set out on pages 54–55. Details of to commitments of all Directors are reported to the Nomination and
the Directors seeking election or re-election at the AGM are set out in Governance Committee and the Board and a register of potential
the Notice of Meeting. conflicts and time commitments is regularly reviewed and authorised by
the Board to ensure the authorisation status remains appropriate.
Board composition changes
Stuart Sinclair is Senior Independent Directors at QBE Insurance (Europe)
Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2017 up to the Limited, a general insurance and reinsurance company. Lord Lupton
date of this report are shown in the table below: is a senior advisor to Greenhill Europe, an investment bank focused
on providing financial advice on significant mergers, acquisitions,
Joined the Board Left the Board restructurings, financings and capital raising to corporations,
Nicholas Luff 10 May 2017 partnerships, institutions and governments. The Board has recognised
Anthony Watson 11 May 2017 that potential conflicts may arise as a result of these positions. The Board
has authorised the potential conflicts and requires Mr. Sinclair and Lord
Lord Lupton 1 June 2017
Lupton to recuse themselves from discussions, should the need arise.
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance
Branches
Throughout 2017 the Group had appropriate insurance cover in place
The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services
to protect Directors, including the Directors who retired or resigned
through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
during the year, from liabilities that may arise against them personally in
connection with the performance of their role. Research and development activities
As well as insurance cover, the Group agrees to indemnify the Directors to
During the ordinary course of business the Group develops new
the maximum extent permitted by law. Further information on the Group’s
products and services within the business units.
indemnity arrangements is provided in the Directors’ indemnities section.
82 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Directors’ report continued
Information incorporated by reference Going concern
The following additional information forms part of the Directors’ report,
The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent on
and is incorporated by reference.
successfully funding their respective balance sheets and maintaining
Content Pages adequate levels of capital. In order to satisfy themselves that the
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate
Group results Summary of Group results 39–42
for the foreseeable future, the Directors have considered a number of
Ordinary dividends Dividends on ordinary shares 220 key dependencies which are set out in the risk management section
Directors’ Board of Directors 54–55 under principal risks and uncertainties: funding and liquidity on page 36
biographies and pages 144–149 and capital position on pages 137–144. Additionally,
Directors in 20171 Board of Directors 54–55 the Directors have considered the capital and funding projections of
the Company and Group. Accordingly, the Directors conclude that
Directors’ Directors’ remuneration report 84–106
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in
emoluments
operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of
Internal control Financial reporting risk 109 the approval of the financial statements and therefore it is appropriate to
and financial risk Risk management and 108–156 continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
management Financial instruments and
226–237 Viability statement
Information Future developments 2–37
The Directors have an obligation under the UK Corporate Governance
included in the Greenhouse gas emissions 27
Code to state whether they believe the Company and the Group will be
strategic report (additional information)
able to continue in operation and meet their liabilities as they fall due over
Inclusion and diversity 21–22
a specified period determined by the Directors, taking account of the
Engaging colleagues 22
current position and the principal risks of the Company and the Group.
Disclosures required Significant contracts 223–224
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range
under Listing Dividend waivers 220
of information, including: the principal and emerging risks which could
Rule 9.8.4R
impact the performance of the Group; the 2017 Group Strategic Review,
Principal risks Funding and liquidity 36 and which sets out the Group’s customer and business strategy for the three
and uncertainties 144–150 year period from 2018 to 2020; and the Group’s five year operating
Capital position 137–144 plan which comprises detailed customer, financial, capital and funding
Share capital Share capital and restrictions on the 216 projections together with an assessment of relevant risk factors. In
and control transfer of shares or voting rights particular in 2017, the assessment included consideration of the impact of
Special rights with regard to the Structural Reform (ring-fencing), the effects of the continuing low interest
control of the Company 216 rate environment, the ongoing impact of the implementation of IFRS 9
Employee share schemes – ‘Financial Instruments’ and the continuing uncertainty over the transitional
exercise of voting rights 216 arrangements to be agreed as part of the UK’s exit from the EU.
1 Nick Luff and Anthony Watson also served as directors during the year, retiring from the Group, divisional and business unit operating plans covering a period
Company on 10 May 2017 and 11 May 2017 respectively. of five years are produced and subject to rigorous stress testing on
an annual basis. The planning process takes account of the Group’s
Substantial shareholders
business objectives, the risks taken to seek to meet those objectives and
Information provided to the Company by substantial shareholders the controls in place to mitigate those risks to remain within the Group’s
pursuant to the DTR is published via a Regulatory Information Service. overall risk appetite.
As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified by its The Group’s annual planning process comprises the following key stages:
substantial shareholders under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following
T he Board reviews and revises the Group’s strategy, risk appetite and
interests in the Company’s shares:
objectives in the context of the operating environment and external
% of issued share capital with market commitments.
rights to vote in all circumstances at
Interest in shares general meetings1 T he divisional teams develop their operating plans based on the
Board’s objectives ensuring that they are in line with the Group’s
BlackRock Inc. 3,668,756,7652 5.14%
strategy and risk appetite.
Harris Associates L.P. 3,607,058,7583 5.01%
T he financial projections and the underlying assumptions in respect
1 Percentage provided was correct at the date of notification.
of expected market and business changes, and future expected legal,
2 The most recent notification provided by BlackRock Inc. under Rule 5 of the DTR identifies
(i) an indirect holding of 3,599,451,380 shares in the Company representing 5.04 per cent accounting and regulatory changes are subject to rigorous review and
of the voting rights in the Company, and (ii) a holding of 69,305,385 in other financial challenge from both divisional and Group executives.
instruments in respect of the Company representing 0.09 per cent of the voting rights of the
Company. BlackRock Inc.’s holding most recently notified to the Company under Rule 5 of I n addition, the Board obtains independent assurance from Risk
the DTR varies from the holding disclosed in BlackRock Inc.’s Schedule 13-G filing with the Division over the alignment of the plan with Group strategy and the
US Securities and Exchange Commission dated 7 February 2018, which identifies beneficial
ownership of 4,843,291,732 shares in the Company representing 6.7 per cent of the issued Board’s risk appetite. This assessment performed by Risk Division also
share capital in the Company. This variance is attributable to different notification and identifies the key risks to delivery of the Group’s operating plan.
disclosure requirements between these regulatory regimes.
3 An indirect holding. T he planning process is also underpinned by a robust capital and
funding stress testing framework. This framework allows the Group
No further notifications have been received under Rule 5 of the DTR as at to assess compliance of the operating plan with the Group’s risk
the date of this report. appetite. The scenarios used for stress testing are designed to
be severe but plausible, and take account of the availability and
Post balance sheet events
likely effectiveness of mitigating actions that could be taken by
The Board has announced its intention to implement a share buyback management to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the
programme, details of which are from a post balance sheet events underlying risks. In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions,
perspective provided in note 53, ‘Events since the balance sheet date’, the conclusions of the Board’s regular monitoring and review of risk
on page 252. and internal control systems, as discussed on page 67, is taken into
account. Further information on stress testing and reverse stress
testing is provided on page 111.
T he final five year operating plan, Risk Division assessment and the
results of the stress testing are presented to the Board for approval.
Once approved, the operating plan drives detailed divisional and
Group targets for the following year.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
The Directors have specifically assessed the prospects of the Company Independent auditor and audit information
and the Group over the first three years of the current plan. The uncertain
Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report
economic and political environment caused by the UK’s plans to leave the EU
confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit and the pace of regulatory change mean that the assumptions supporting
information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware and each
the fourth and fifth years of the operating plan are likely to be less reliable. As
Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
a result, the Board considers that a three year period continues to present a
as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
reasonable degree of confidence over expected events and macroeconomic
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that
assumptions, whilst still providing an appropriate longer-term outlook,
information. This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in
although the remaining period of the operating plan contains no information
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
which would cause different conclusions to be reached over the longer-term
viability of the Company and Group. Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP as auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to set its
Information relevant to the assessment can be found in the following
remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
sections of the annual report and accounts:
T he Group’s principal activities, business and operating models Statement of directors’ responsibilities
and strategic direction are described in the strategic report on
pages 1–37; The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report,
the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in
E merging risks are disclosed on page 110;
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires
T he principal risks, including the Group’s objectives, policies and the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
processes for managing credit, capital, liquidity and funding, are Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and parent
provided in the risk management section on pages 116–156; and Company financial statements in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European
T he Group’s approach to stress testing and reverse stress testing,
Union. Under company law, the Directors must not approve the
including both regulatory and internal stresses, is described on
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
page 111.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and
Based upon this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period. In
expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
to 31 December 2020. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable
and prudent; and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the
Greenhouse gas emissions European Union have been followed.
The Group has voluntarily reported greenhouse gas emissions and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records
environmental performance since 2009, and since 2013 this has been that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and
reported in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
Our total emissions, in tonnes of CO2 equivalent, are reported in the of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the
strategic report on page 26. financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration report comply
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial
Deloitte LLP has provided limited level ISAE 3000 (Revised) assurance
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for
over selected non-financial indicators as noted by . Their full,
safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for
independent assurance statement is available online
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/rbdownloads
other irregularities.
Methodology
A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website at
The Group follows the principles of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com. The Directors are responsible for the
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate our Scope 1,
maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the
2 and 3 emissions from our worldwide operations.
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
The reporting period is 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
is different to that of our Directors’ report (January 2017 – December
2017). This is in line with regulations in that the majority of the emissions Each of the current Directors who are in office as at the date of this
reporting year falls within the period of the Directors’ report. Emissions report, and whose names and functions are listed on pages 54–55 of this
are reported based on an operational boundary. The scope of reporting annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
is in line with the GHG Protocol and covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 t he Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
emissions. Reported Scope 1 emissions cover emissions generated from accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true
gas and oil used in buildings, emissions from UK company-owned vehicles and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss
used for business travel and emissions from the use of air conditioning of the Company and Group; and
and chiller/refrigerant plant. Reported Scope 2 emissions cover emissions
generated from the use of electricity, calculated using the location based t he management report contained in the strategic report and the
methodology. Reported Scope 3 emissions relate to business travel Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and
undertaken by colleagues and emissions associated with the extraction performance of the business and the position of the Company
and distribution of each of our energy sources – electricity, gas and and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and
oil. A detailed definition of these emissions can be found in our 2017 uncertainties that they face.
Reporting Criteria online at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/rbdownloads
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken
Intensity ratio as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
GHG emissions (COe) per £m of underlying income information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position
2
Oct 2016-Sept 2017 15.8 and performance, business model and strategy. The Directors have also
separately reviewed and approved the strategic report.
Oct 2015-Sept 2016 19.7
On behalf of the Board
Oct 2014-Sept 2015 22.4
Omissions
Emissions associated with joint ventures and investments are not
included in this disclosure as they fall outside the scope of our
operational boundary. The Group does not have any emissions Malcolm Wood Company Secretary
associated with heat, steam or cooling and is not aware of any other 20 February 2018
material sources of omissions from our reporting. Lloyds Banking Group plc
Registered in Scotland
Company number SC95000
84 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee
Chairman’s statement
Our remuneration policy ensures fair reward for
all colleagues, with a focus on building a culture
where colleagues have a long-term interest in the
success of the Group, in line with shareholders.
Anita Frew
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder Share plan. Approximately 28,000 customer- Our key priorities
facing colleagues have transitioned plans
On behalf of the Board and the Remuneration
during 2017.
Committee (the ‘Committee’), I have the
pleasure of presenting the Directors’ In my last report, I announced that all 1 S implifying the Group’s
remuneration report for the year ended colleagues in the Group had received an remuneration policy and principles,
31 December 2017. The Committee strongly award of Colleague Group Ownership Shares, with a focus on long-term share
believes that the Group’s remuneration with the aim of achieving 100 per cent share ownership
approach, guided by four key reward ownership among colleagues and building a
principles, contributes significantly to the colleague-wide long-term ownership culture. 2 Ensuring remuneration outcomes
delivery of the Group’s strategic priorities. I am pleased to confirm that this award will be are fair for all colleagues
repeated in 2018.
I am very grateful for the continued support 3 Rewarding individual performance
and engagement we have had with Taking into consideration and collective success
shareholders, their representative bodies and
our wider stakeholder group. I believe this stakeholders’ views 4 P roviding alignment to the Group’s
is reflected in the positive voting outcome The Committee remains acutely aware that the future strategic priorities
we received at the AGM in 2017 for our topic of remuneration, alongside corporate
new remuneration policy. No changes are culture and working practices, continues to 5 E nhancing levels of disclosure
proposed to that policy. generate a high level of focus and that the role and corporate governance
of the Committee is to ensure that the interests
Simplification of colleagues, shareholders and other key
stakeholders are considered fairly, and in the
We made changes in 2017 in a drive towards
context of wider societal expectations.
further simplification of remuneration
structures, removing complexity, and ensuring I have set a broad agenda for the Committee
a focus on rewarding longer-term, sustainable in 2017, further details of which can be
performance. The Group Performance Share found on page 99. The Committee remit
plan was introduced in 2017. The plan outcome is dynamic and extends beyond executive
is determined on a ‘top down’ basis, as a remuneration, believing that all colleagues
percentage of the Group’s underlying profit, should be represented in its consideration.
replacing the previous complex bonus pool It is our aim to ensure that the remuneration
methodology driven by aggregated divisional policy framework and guiding principles can
and functional bonus outcomes. There are be applied consistently to all colleagues. This
enhancements to the levels of disclosure recognises the importance of colleagues
within this report, with the aim to provide working together, sharing collectively in the
additional clarity and transparency, particularly Group’s success and building a culture of
relating to the performance assessments acting as stewards of the long-term interests of
that underpin the Group Performance the Group.
Share outcome both at Group level, and for
The Committee remains mindful of the
individual Executive Directors.
relationship between pay for Executive
From 2018, the Group no longer operates Directors and all other colleagues. To ensure
specific incentive arrangements for customer- that the Committee understands wider
facing colleagues. Instead, colleagues now stakeholder views, I have engaged directly
participate only in the Group Performance with the Group’s recognised unions (Accord
90 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Group Balanced Scorecard performance
Performance range/outcome2
Objective Measure Under Top
Customer Creating Customer dashboard
the best
customer
experience
+gnortS
The Group has performed below expectations The Group has exceeded expectations in terms of
in terms of customer perception of brand, customer perception of brand, service, products and
service, products and complaints. complaints.
Best customer experience:
end-to-end customer journeys
The Group has not improved the operation The Group has significantly improved the operation or
and/or service of its key customer journeys. service of its key customer journeys.
Reportable Total FCA 3.24
complaints complaints
per ‘000 > 4.95 ≤ 3.09
Formally closed 0.52
FCA complaints
per ‘000 > 0.71 ≤ 0.50
FOS uphold rate (ex PPI) 15%
> 30% ≤ 25%
People Best team: Culture – Best Bank for 80
engaged Customers Index scores
and
customer
focused
colleagues
+gnortS
≤ 68 ≥ 84
People colleague 76
engagement – EEI
≤ 57 ≥ 73
People colleague 83
engagement – PEI
≤ 60 ≥ 81
Inclusion & Diversity – 34
F+ Females
< 32.4% > 34.3%
Control Maintain Board risk appetite
environment a strong
control,
governance
and
compliance
structure
in line with
the Risk
Management
Framework
+gnortS
The Group has not managed its key risk The Group has strongly managed its key risk measures to
measures to ensure the safe guarding of ensure the safe guarding of the Group.
the Group.
Regulatory management
The regulatory bodies (FCA and PRA) are The regulatory bodies (FCA and PRA) are comfortable
concerned about the Group’s approach to with the Group’s approach to regulatory matters and
regulatory matters. recognise this as an area of strength.
Building the Actively Simpler and more efficient:
business manage key Simplification savings
stakeholders
gnortS
The Group has not managed to improve its The Group has successfully managed to improve
operational and strategic processes through its operations and strategic processes through
simplification initiatives and delivered below simplification initiatives and delivered above target
target savings. savings.
Best customer experience: 13.44m
Digital active customer growth
< 13.26m ≥ 13.38m
Reputation with external
stakeholders – composite
Poor relationships with key external Strong relationships with key external stakeholders.
(excluding regulators)
stakeholders.
Deliver Helping Britain
Prosper Plan targets (Group)
< 50% of Helping Britain Prosper Plan metrics 90%+ of Helping Britain Prosper Plan metrics are Green
are Green and none of the Helping Britain Prosper metrics are Red.
Establishment of the
non ring-fenced bank
Key mobilisation milestones are not on track for Key mobilisation milestones are ahead of schedule
the separation of the commercial and personal and comfortably on track for the separation of the
banking customers in line with the regulatory non commercial and personal banking customers in line with
ring-fenced Bank requirements. the regulatory non ring-fenced Bank requirements.
Finance Maintain Cost:income ratio (Group)1 47.3%
prudent
reserves to
withstand
unexpected
shocks
gnortS
> 49.8% < 47.3%
Underlying profit before 8,298m
tax (Group)1
< 7,061m > 8,238m
Total return on required 8.1%
equity (Group)
< 7.0% > 10.5%
Underlying Common Equity Tier 245bps
1 generation (Group)
< 140bps > 200bps
PRA stress test (Group)
Failed the annual Prudential Regulation Passed the annual Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA)
Authority (PRA) stress test due to the Group’s stress test with a strong capital position and very positive
capital position and negative feedback on feedback on quality of submissions and ranked highly
quality of submissions and ranked significantly against peers.
below peers.
1 Excludes MBNA.
2 Where the performance assessment is qualitative the position against threshold and maximum (Under and Top) is shown. Where internal dashboards are used in reaching the assessment of
performance, the Committee is provided with underlying data points and additional commentary to inform its judgement.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Remuneration Committee Stakeholders:
– Feedback from the Chairman on her meeting with the PRA
Committee composition and purpose and shareholders
The Committee comprises Non-Executive Directors from a wide
– Consideration of the BEIS Corporate Governance Report and PRA
background to provide a balanced and independent view on
Policy and supervisory statements
remuneration matters. Anthony Watson retired as an independent Non-
Executive Director and as a member of the Committee on 11 May 2017. Other remuneration matters:
For details of full membership and attendance at meetings, please see – Approval of the 2016 Directors’ Remuneration Report for publication
page 58. within the annual report and Form 20-F
The purpose of the Committee is to set the remuneration for all – Approval of the 2016 Remuneration Policy Statement
Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights and
– Review of the Reward Governance Framework
any compensation payments. It recommends and monitors the level
and structure of remuneration for senior management and material risk – Gender pay reporting review
takers. It also considers, agrees and recommends to the Board an overall – Approval of the annual procedural review
remuneration policy and philosophy for the Group that is aligned with – MBNA integration impacts and awards
its long-term business strategy, its business objectives, its risk appetite,
values and the long-term interests of the Group that recognises the Mercer (part of the MMC group of companies) is the appointed advisor
interests of relevant stakeholders. to the Remuneration Committee. Mercer is a founding member and
signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
Annual effectiveness review For more detail, please refer to the website
During 2017, the Committee met its key objectives and carried www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. Mercer was appointed
out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual by the Committee in 2016 following a competitive tender process
effectiveness review. and was retained during the year. The Committee is of the view that
Mercer provides independent remuneration advice to the Committee
How the Remuneration Committee spent its time in 2017 and does not have any connections with the Group that may impair
The Committee had eight scheduled meetings during 2017 to consider its independence, and, other than advice on remuneration, no other
the following principal matters. services were provided to the Company. The broader Mercer company
Committee: provides unrelated advice on accounting.
– Review of committee composition During the year, Mercer attended Committee meetings upon
invitation and provided advice and support in areas such as market
– Approval of terms of reference
and best practice, regulatory and governance developments, drafting
– Results of the effectiveness review and suggestions for improvement the remuneration report, and relevant comparator groups for pay
Remuneration approach and awards: and performance.
– Determination of 2016 bonus outcome Fees payable for the provision of Remuneration Committee services in
– Approval of the 2014 LTIP vesting 2017 were £98,020, based on time and materials.
– Approval of the 2017 Group Performance Share plan design, António Horta-Osório (Group Chief Executive), Simon Davies (Chief
methodology and performance measures People, Legal and Strategy Officer) until July 2017 and Jen Tippin (Group
– Colleague 2017 Group Ownership Share People and Productivity Director) thereafter, Paul Hucknall (People
Director, Centres of Excellence), Matt Sinnott (Group Reward Director),
– Approval of the 2017 and 2018 Group Ownership Shares plan
Chris Evans (Director, Reward Policy and Partnering), Stuart Woodward
performance measures
(Head of Reward Regulation and Governance) and Letitia Smith (Group
– Incentive Plan review Director, Conduct, Compliance & Operational Risk) provided guidance
to the Committee (other than for their own remuneration).
Senior Executives:
– Review of performance and remuneration arrangements for Executive Juan Colombás (Chief Operating Officer from September 2017 and
Directors and key senior managers formerly the Chief Risk Officer) and George Culmer (Chief Financial
Officer) also attended the Committee to advise as and when necessary
– Review and approval of material risk taker identification
on risk, financial and operational matters.
– Approval of LBCM Non-Executive Fees
– Review of shareholding policy
Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting
The table below sets out the voting outcome at the Annual General Meeting in May 2017.
Votes
Votes cast in favour Votes cast against withheld
Number of Number of Number of
shares Percentage of shares Percentage of shares
(millions) votes cast (millions) votes cast (millions)
Directors’ remuneration policy (binding vote) 47,673 98.03% 959 1.97% 535
2016 annual report on remuneration (advisory vote) 48,113 97.92% 1,023 2.08% 31
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Other remuneration disclosures
This section discloses the remuneration awards made by the Group the performance of the Group and that they are recognised for their
to Material Risk Takers (MRTs) in respect of the 2017 performance year. individual contribution to the success of the organisation, whilst ensuring
Additional information summarising the Group’s remuneration policies, that there is no reward for excessive risk taking. The Remuneration
structure and governance is also provided. These disclosures should Committee works closely with the Risk Committee in ensuring the
be read in conjunction with the disclosures for Executive Directors Group Performance Share (GPS) plan outcome is moderated. The
contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report (DRR) on pages 84–102, two Committees determine whether the proposed GPS outcome and
and together comply with the requirements of Article 450 of the Capital performance assessments adequately reflect the risk appetite and
Requirements Regulation (EU) No. 575/2013 (CRR). The remuneration framework of the Group; whether it took account of current and future
principles and practices detailed in the DRR apply to MRTs and non- risks; and whether any further adjustment is required or merited. The
MRTs in the same way as to Executive Directors (other than where stated Group and the Remuneration Committee are determined to ensure
in this disclosure). that the aggregate of the variable remuneration for all colleagues is
appropriate and balanced with the interests of shareholders and all
The Group has applied the EBA Delegated Regulation (EU) No 604/2014
other stakeholders.
to determine which colleagues should be identified as MRTs. MRTs are
colleagues who are considered to have a material impact on the Group’s The Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference are available from
risk profile, and include, but are not limited to: the Company Secretary and are displayed on the Group’s website,
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com. These terms are reviewed each year
Senior management, Executive Directors, members and attendees of
to ensure compliance with the remuneration regulations and were last
the Group Executive Committee (GEC) and their respective executive
updated in November 2017.
level direct reports;
N on-Executive Directors; Link between pay and performance
The Group’s approach to reward is intended to provide a clear link
A pproved persons performing significant influence functions (SIFs)
between remuneration and delivery of its key strategic objectives,
and/or all colleagues performing a senior management function; and
supporting the aim of becoming the best bank for customers,
O ther highly remunerated individuals whose activities could have a and through that, for shareholders. To this end, the performance
material impact on the Group’s risk profile. management process has been developed, with the close participation
of the Group’s Risk team, to embed performance measures across the
Decision making process for remuneration policy Group’s reward structure which are challenging and reflect Group and
The Group has a strong belief in aligning the remuneration delivered divisional achievement in addition to personal contribution.
to the Group’s executives with the successful performance of the
The use of a balanced scorecard approach to measure performance
business and, through this, the delivery of long-term, superior and
enables the Remuneration Committee to assess the performance of the
sustainable returns to shareholders. It has continued to seek the views
Group and its senior executives in a consistent and performance-driven
of shareholders and other key stakeholders with regard to remuneration
way. The Group’s remuneration policy supports the business values
policy and seeks to motivate, incentivise and retain talent while being
and strategy, based on building long-term relationships with customers
mindful of the economic outlook. An essential component of the
and colleagues and managing the financial consequences of business
Group’s approach to remuneration is the governance process that
decisions across the entire economic cycle.
underpins it. This ensures that the policy is robustly applied and risk is
managed appropriately. Further detail can be found in the DRR. In particular, see pages 89–90,
92, 96–97 and 101–102 of the DRR.
The overarching purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to
consider, agree and recommend to the Board an overall remuneration
Design and structure of remuneration
policy and philosophy for the Group that is defined by, supports
When establishing the remuneration policy and associated frameworks,
and is closely aligned to its long-term business strategy, business
the Group is required to take into account its size, organisation
objectives, risk appetite and values and recognises the interests of
and the nature, scope and complexity of its activities. For the
relevant stakeholders. The remuneration policy governs all aspects
purpose of remuneration regulation, Lloyds Bank plc is treated as a
of remuneration and applies in its entirety to all divisions, business
proportionality level I firm and therefore subject to the more onerous
units and companies in the Group, including wholly-owned overseas
remuneration rules.
businesses and all colleagues, contractors and temporary staff. The
Committee reviews the policy annually. In 2017, it was updated to reflect Remuneration is delivered via a combination of fixed and variable
changes to the Reward Principles and new reward supporting policies. remuneration. Fixed remuneration reflects the role, responsibility
The Committee pays particular attention to the top management and experience of a colleague. Variable remuneration is based on
population, including the highest paid colleagues in each division, an assessment of individual, business area and Group performance.
those colleagues who perform senior management functions for the The mix of variable and fixed remuneration is driven by seniority,
Group and MRTs. Further details on the operation of the Remuneration grade and role. Taking into account the expected value of awards,
Committee can be found on page 99 of the DRR. the performance-related elements of pay make up a considerable
proportion of the total remuneration package for MRTs, whilst
The Group has a robust governance framework, with the Remuneration
maintaining an appropriate balance between the fixed and variable
Committee reviewing all compensation decisions for Executive
elements. The maximum ratio of fixed to variable remuneration for MRTs
Directors, senior management, senior risk and compliance officers, high
is 200 per cent, which has been approved by shareholders (98.77 per
earners and any other MRTs. This approach to governance is cascaded
cent of votes cast) at the AGM on 15 May 2014.
through the Group with the Executive Compensation Committee
having oversight for all other colleagues and divisional Remuneration Remuneration for control functions is set in relation to benchmark market
Committees providing oversight for specific business areas. data to ensure that it is possible to attract and retain staff with the
appropriate knowledge, experience and skills. An appropriate balance
Governance and risk management between fixed and variable compensation supports this approach.
An essential component of the approach to remuneration is the Generally, control function staff receive a higher proportion of fixed
governance process that underpins it. This ensures that the policy is remuneration than other colleagues and the aggregate ratio of fixed
robustly applied and risk is managed appropriately. to variable remuneration for all control function staff does not exceed
100 per cent. Particular attention is paid to ensure remuneration for
In addition to setting the overall remuneration policy and philosophy for
control function staff is linked to the performance of their function and
the Group, the Remuneration Committee ensures that colleagues who
independent from the business areas they control.
could have a material impact on the Group’s risk profile are provided
with appropriate incentives and reward to encourage them to enhance
108 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Risk management
Risk management is at the heart of our strategy Framework including its risk appetite, to ensure these are in line with
emerging regulatory, corporate governance and industry best practice.
to become the best bank for customers.
Group risk appetite includes the following areas:
Our mission is to support the business in
Credit – the Group has a conservative and well balanced credit portfolio
delivering sustainable growth in targeted through the economic cycle, generating an appropriate return on equity, in
segments. This is achieved through informed line with the Group’s target return on equity in aggregate.
risk decision making and superior risk and Conduct – the Group’s product design and sales practices ensure that
products are transparent and meet customer needs.
capital management, supported by a consistent
risk‑focused culture. Market – the Group has robust controls in place to manage the Group’s
inherent market risk and does not engage in any proprietary trading,
The risk overview (pages 32–37) provides a summary of risk management reflecting the customer focused nature of the Group’s activities.
within the Group. It highlights the important role of risk as a strategic
Operational – the Group has robust controls in place to manage
differentiator, along with a brief overview of the Group’s Risk Management
operational losses, reputational events and regulatory breaches.
Framework, the potential risks and impacts arising from the external
environment, and the principal risks faced by the Group and key Funding and liquidity – the Group maintains a prudent liquidity profile
mitigating actions. and a balance sheet structure that limits its reliance on potentially volatile
sources of funding.
This full risk management section provides a more in-depth picture of how
risk is managed within the Group, detailing the Group’s emerging risks, Capital – the Group maintains capital levels commensurate with a prudent
approach to stress testing, risk governance, committee structure, appetite level of solvency, and aims to deliver consistent and high quality earnings.
for risk (pages 108–115) and a full analysis of the primary risk categories Regulatory and legal – the Group complies with all relevant regulation
(pages 115–156) – the framework by which risks are identified, managed, and all applicable laws (including codes of practice which have legal
mitigated and monitored. implications) and/or legal obligations.
Each risk category is described and managed using the following standard People – the Group leads responsibly and proficiently, manages its people
headings: definition, exposures, measurement, mitigation and monitoring. resource effectively, supports and develops colleague talent, and meets
legal and regulatory obligations related to its people.
The Group’s approach to risk
Governance – the Group has governance arrangements that support the
The Group operates a prudent approach to risk with rigorous effective long-term operation of the business, maximise shareholder value
management controls to support sustainable business growth and and meet regulatory and societal expectations.
minimise losses. Through a strong and independent risk function (Risk
Model – the Group has embedded a framework for the management
division) a robust control framework is maintained to identify and escalate
of model risk to ensure effective control and oversight, compliance
current and emerging risks to support sustainable business growth within
with all regulatory rules and standards, and to facilitate appropriate
Group risk appetite and through good risk reward decision making.
customer outcomes.
Risk culture Financial reporting – the Group meets regulatory reporting and tax
requirements in jurisdictions where it operates.
The Board ensures that senior management implements risk policies and
risk appetite that either limit or, where appropriate, prohibit activities, As separate regulated entities with their own Boards, the Insurance
relationships and situations that could be detrimental to the Group’s business and Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets each maintain their
risk profile. own risk appetite and framework, which are aligned to the Group risk
appetite framework.
As part of a conservative business model that embodies a risk culture
founded on a prudent approach to managing risk, the Group reviewed Governance and control
its code of responsibility in 2017, reinforcing its approach under which
colleagues are accountable for the risks they take and for prioritising their The Group’s approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework
customers’ needs. and a strong risk management culture which are the foundation for the
delivery of effective risk management and guide the way all employees
The focus remains on building and sustaining long-term relationships with
approach their work, behave and make decisions.
customers cognisant of the economic climate.
Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from the Board
Risk appetite down to individuals through the management hierarchy. Senior executives
are supported by a committee based structure which is designed to ensure
Risk appetite is defined as ‘the amount and type of risk that the Group is open challenge and support effective decision making.
prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.’
The Group’s risk appetite, principles, policies, procedures, controls and
Risk appetite is documented in a Group risk appetite statement which reporting are regularly reviewed and updated where needed to ensure
is reviewed by the Board Risk Committee and approved annually by the they remain fully in line with regulations, law, corporate governance and
Board. The Group level metrics are supported by more detailed sub Board industry good-practice.
functional and divisional risk appetite metrics.
The interaction of the executive and non-executive governance structures
As a key component of the Risk Management Framework, Group risk relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by
appetite is embedded within principles, policies, authorities and limits both the Board and senior management.
across the Group and continues to evolve to reflect external market
developments and composition of the Group. Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior
management in Group-wide risk issues at Group Executive Committee
The Group’s strategy operates in tandem with the Group risk appetite and level, ensures that escalated issues are promptly addressed and
business planning is undertaken with a view to meeting the requirements remediation plans are initiated where required.
of the Group risk appetite. Performance is optimised by allowing business
units to operate within approved risk appetite and limits. Line managers are directly accountable for identifying and managing risks
in their individual businesses, ensuring that business decisions strike an
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing the development, appropriate balance between risk and reward and are consistent with the
implementation and maintenance of the Group’s overall Risk Management Group’s risk appetite.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Capital stress testing The engagement of all required business, Risk and Finance areas is built
into the preparation process, so that the appropriate analysis of each risk
Overview category’s impact upon the business plans is understood and documented.
The methodologies and modelling approach used for stress testing
Stress testing is recognised as a key risk management tool within the
ensure that a clear link is shown between the macroeconomic scenarios,
Group by the Board, senior management, the businesses and the Risk
the business drivers for each area and the resultant stress testing outputs.
and Finance functions. It is fully embedded in the planning process of the
All material assumptions used in modelling are documented and justified,
Group as a key activity in medium term planning, and senior management
with a clearly communicated review and sign-off process. Modelling
is actively involved in stress testing activities via a strict governance process.
is supported by expert judgement and is subject to the Group Model
The Group uses scenario stress testing for: Governance Policy.
Risk identification: Governance
– To understand key vulnerabilities of the Group under adverse
Clear accountabilities and responsibilities for stress testing are assigned to
economic conditions.
senior management and the Risk and Finance functions throughout the
Risk appetite: Group. This is formalised through the Group Business Planning and Stress
Testing Policy and Procedure, which are reviewed at least annually.
– Assess the results of the stress test against the Group’s risk appetite
to ensure the Group is managed within its risk parameters. The Group Financial Risk Committee (GFRC), chaired by the Chief Risk
– Inform the setting of risk appetite by assessing the underlying risks Officer and attended by the Chief Financial Officer and other senior Risk
under stress conditions. and Finance colleagues, is the Committee that has primary responsibility
for overseeing the development and execution of the Group’s stress tests.
Strategic and capital planning:
The review and challenge of the detailed stress forecasts, the key
– Allow senior management and the Board to adjust strategies if the plan
assumptions behind these, and the methodology used to translate the
does not meet risk appetite in a stressed scenario.
economic assumptions into stressed outputs conclude with the divisional
– Support the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) Finance Directors’, appropriate Risk Directors’ and Managing Directors’
by demonstrating capital adequacy, and meet the requirements of sign-off. The outputs are then presented to GFRC, Group Asset and
regulatory stress tests that are used to inform the setting of the Group’s Liability Committee/Group Risk Committee/Group Executive Committee
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and management buffers (see and Board Risk Committee for Group level executive and non-executive
capital risk on pages 137–144). review and challenge, before being approved by the Board.
Risk mitigation:
How risk is managed in
– Drive the development of potential actions and contingency plans to
Lloyds Banking Group
mitigate the impact of adverse scenarios. Stress testing also links directly
to the Group’s recovery planning process. The Group’s Risk Management Framework (RMF) (see risk overview,
page 32), is structured around the following components which meet and
Regulatory stress tests
align with the industry-accepted internal control framework issued by the
The concurrent UK stress test run by the Bank of England was also Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
undertaken in 2017. As announced in November, despite the severity of the
The RMF applies to every area of the business and covers all types of risk.
stress scenario, the Group exceeded the capital and leverage thresholds
It is reviewed, updated and approved by the Board at least annually to
set out for the purpose of the stress test and was not required to take any
reflect any changes in the nature of our business and external regulations,
capital action as a result.
law, corporate governance and industry best practice. In 2017 the annual
Internal stress tests update was also informed by the findings of an independent external
review. The RMF provides the Group with an effective mechanism for
On at least an annual basis, the Group conducts macroeconomic stress
developing and embedding risk policies and risk management strategies
tests of the operating plan, which are supplemented with higher-level
which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses. It also seeks to
refreshes if necessary. The exercise aims to highlight the key vulnerabilities
facilitate effective communication on these matters across the Group.
of the Group’s business plan to adverse changes in the economic
environment, and to ensure that there are adequate financial resources Role of the Board and senior management
in the event of a downturn.
Key responsibilities of the Board and senior management include:
Reverse stress testing
– setting risk appetite and approval of the RMF;
Reverse stress testing is used to explore the vulnerabilities of the Group’s – approval of Group-wide risk principles and policies;
strategies and plans to extreme adverse events that would cause the – the cascade of delegated authority (for example to Board
business to fail, in order to facilitate contingency planning. The scenarios sub-committees and the Group Chief Executive); and
used are those that would cause the Group to be unable to carry on its
– effective oversight of risk management consistent with risk appetite.
business activities. Where reverse stress testing reveals plausible scenarios
with an unacceptably high risk when considered against the Group’s risk Risk appetite
appetite, the Group will adopt measures to prevent or mitigate that risk,
Risk appetite is defined within the Group as ‘the amount and type of risk
which are then reflected in strategic plans.
that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate’ (see the Group’s
Other stress testing activity approach to risk’, pages 108–109).
The Group’s stress testing programme also involves undertaking Governance frameworks
assessment of liquidity scenarios, market risk sensitivities and scenarios,
The policy framework is founded on Board-approved key principles
and business specific scenarios (see the primary risk categories on
for the overall management of risk in the organisation, which are
pages 115–156 for further information on risk specific stress testing). If
aligned with Group strategy and risk appetite and based on a current
required, ad hoc stress testing exercises are also undertaken to assess
and comprehensive risk profile that identifies all material risks to the
emerging risks, as well as in response to regulatory requests. This wide
organisation. The principles are underpinned by a hierarchy of policies
ranging programme provides a comprehensive view of the potential
which define mandatory requirements for risk management and control
impacts arising from the risks to which the Group is exposed and reflects
which are consistently implemented across the Group.
the nature, scale and complexity of the Group.
Regular policy framework assessments are undertaken in all business areas,
Methodology
driving Board-level risk appetite metrics which monitor the operating
The stress tests at all levels must comply with all regulatory requirements, effectiveness of policy controls and overall policy implementation. Robust
achieved through comprehensive construction of macroeconomic processes and controls to identify and report policy breaches include clear
scenarios and a rigorous divisional, functional, risk and executive review materiality criteria and escalation procedures which ensure an appropriate
and challenge process, supported by analysis and insight into impacts level of visibility and prioritisation of remedial actions.
on customers and business drivers.
The risk committee governance framework is outlined on page 113.
112 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Risk management continued
Three Lines of Defence model business and the Risk division, and seeks to ensure objective challenge to
the effectiveness of the risk governance framework.
The RMF is implemented through a ‘three lines of defence’ model which
defines clear responsibilities and accountabilities and ensures effective Risk and control cycle from identification
independent oversight and assurance activities take place covering
to reporting
key decisions.
To allow senior management to make informed risk decisions, the business
Business lines (first line) have primary responsibility for risk decisions,
follows a continuous risk management approach which includes producing
identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their areas
appropriate, accurate and focused risk reporting and risk management.
of accountability. They are required to establish effective governance and
The risk and control cycle sets out how this should be approached and
control frameworks for their business to be compliant with Group policy
produced with the appropriate controls and processes in place. This cycle,
requirements, to maintain appropriate risk management skills, mechanisms
from identification to reporting, ensures consistency and is intended to
and toolkits, and to act within Group risk appetite parameters set and
manage and mitigate the risks impacting the Group.
approved by the Board.
The process for risk identification, measurement and control is integrated
Risk division (second line) is a centralised function headed by the Chief Risk
into the overall framework for risk governance. Risk identification processes
Officer and consisting of eight Risk Directors and their specialist teams. The
are forward looking to ensure emerging risks are identified. Risks are
role of Chief Risk Officer was held by Juan Colombás until 4 September
captured and measured using robust and consistent quantification
2017 when he was succeeded by Stephen Shelley, previously Commercial
methodologies. The measurement of risks includes the application of
Banking Risk Director. Within Risk division the Compliance function has
stress testing and scenario analysis, and considers whether relevant
been headed throughout 2017 by Letitia Smith, Group Director, Conduct,
controls are in place before risks are incurred.
Compliance and Operational Risk.
Identified risks are reported on a monthly basis or as frequently as
Risk division provides oversight and independent constructive challenge
necessary to the appropriate committee. The extent of the risk is
to the effectiveness of risk decisions taken by business management,
compared to the overall risk appetite as well as specific limits or triggers.
providing proactive advice and guidance, reviewing, challenging and
When thresholds are breached, committee minutes are clear on the
reporting on the risk profile of the Group and ensuring that mitigating
actions and timeframes required to resolve the breach and bring risk
actions are appropriate.
within given tolerances. There is a clear process for escalation of risks and
It also has a key role in promoting the implementation of a strategic risk events.
approach to risk management reflecting the risk appetite and RMF agreed
All business areas complete a Control Effectiveness Review (CER) annually,
by the Board that encompasses:
reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls and putting in place
– embedded effective risk management processes; a programme of enhancements where appropriate. The CER reports
– transparent, focused risk monitoring and reporting; are approved at divisional risk committees or directly by the relevant
member of the Group Executive Committee to confirm the accuracy of the
– provision of expert and high quality advice and guidance to the Board,
assessment. This key process is overseen and independently challenged
executives and management on strategic issues and horizon scanning,
by Risk division, reviewed by Group Internal Audit against the findings of its
including pending regulatory changes; and
assurance activities, and reported to the Board.
– a constructive dialogue with the first line through provision of advice,
development of common methodologies, understanding, education, Risk culture
training, and development of new tools.
Supporting the formal frameworks of the RMF is the underlying culture,
The Chief Risk Officer is accountable for developing and leading an or shared behaviours and values, which sets out in clear terms what
industry-wide recognised Risk function that adds value to the Group by: constitutes good behaviour and good practice. In order to effectively
manage risk across the organisation, the functions encompassed within
– providing a regular comprehensive view of the Group’s risk profile, both
the three lines of defence have a clear understanding of risk appetite,
current and emerging key risks, and management actions;
business strategy and an understanding of (and commitment to) the role
– (with input from the business areas and Risk division) proposing Group
they play in delivering it. A number of levers are used to reinforce the
risk appetite to the Board for approval, and overseeing performance of
risk culture, including tone from the top, clear accountabilities, effective
the Group against risk appetite;
communication and challenge and an appropriately aligned performance
– developing an effective RMF which meets regulatory requirements for incentive and structure.
approval by the Board, and overseeing execution and compliance; and
Risk resources and capabilities
– challenging management on emerging risks and providing expert risk
and control advice to help management maintain an effective risk and Appropriate mechanisms are in place to avoid over-reliance on key
control framework. personnel or system/technical expertise within the Group. Adequate
resources are in place to serve customers both under normal working
The Risk Directors:
conditions and in times of stress, and monitoring procedures are in
– provide independent advice, oversight and challenge to the business; place to ensure that the level of available resource can be increased
– design, develop and maintain policies, specific functional risk type if required. Colleagues undertake appropriate training to ensure they
frameworks and guidance to ensure alignment with business imperatives have the skills and knowledge necessary to enable them to deliver fair
and regulatory requirements; outcomes for customers, being mindful of the Group’s strategic conduct
– establish and maintain appropriate governance structures, culture, agenda, customer treatment policy/standards and Financial Conduct
oversight and monitoring arrangements which ensure robust and Authority requirements.
efficient compliance with relevant risk type risk appetites and policies; There is ongoing investment in risk systems and models alongside the
– lead regulatory liaison on behalf of the Group including horizon scanning Group’s investment in customer and product systems and processes.
and regulatory development for their risk type; and This drives improvements in risk data quality, aggregation and reporting
– recommend risk appetite and oversight of the associated risk profile leading to effective and efficient risk decisions.
across the Group.
Group Internal Audit (third line) provides independent and objective
assurance designed to add value and improve the organisation’s
operations. Group Internal Audit has been headed throughout 2017
by Paul Day, Chief Internal Auditor, on an interim secondment basis
from 1 January to 31 May, and on a permanent basis thereafter. It
helps the Group accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic,
disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk
management, control and governance processes. Group Internal Audit
provides independent assurance to the Audit Committee and the Board
that risks within the Group are recognised, monitored and managed within
acceptable parameters. Group Internal Audit is fully independent of the
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Risk governance
The risk governance structure below is integral to effective risk management across the Group. Risk division is appropriately represented on key
committees to ensure that risk management is discussed in these meetings. This structure outlines the flow and escalation of risk information and reporting
from business areas and Risk division to Group Executive Committee and Board. Conversely, strategic direction and guidance is cascaded down from the
Board and Group Executive Committee.
Company Secretariat support senior and Board level committees, and support the Chairs in agenda planning. This gives a further line of escalation outside
the three lines of defence.
Table 1.2: Risk governance structure
Reporting Reporting
Audit Board Risk
Board
Committee Committee
Group Chief Executive
Business area principal
Enterprise Risk Committees
Reporting First line of defence Reporting
– risk management
Group Chief Executive Committees Business area principal Risk Division Committees
Enterprise Risk Committees and Governance
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Group Risk Committee (GRC) Commercial Banking Risk Committee Credit risk
− Executive Credit Approval Committee
Group Asset and Liability Committee (GALCO) Retail Risk Committee − Commercial Banking Credit Risk Committees
Group Customer First Committee Insurance and Wealth Risk Committee − Retail Credit Risk Committees
Group Cost Management Committee Community Banking Risk Committee Market risk
− Group Market Risk Committee
Conduct Review Committee Group Services Risk Committee
Conduct, compliance and operational risk
Group People Committee Transformation Risk Committee − G roup Conduct, Compliance and
Responsible Business Finance Risk Committee Operational Risk Committee
Management Committee People and Productivity Risk Committee Fraud and financial crime risk
Senior Independent Performance Group Corporate Affairs Risk Committee − G roup Fraud and Financial Crime
Adjustment and Conduct Committee Prevention Committee
Financial risk
− Group Financial Risk Committee
Capital risk
− Group Capital Risk Committee
Model risk
− Group Model Governance Committee
Insurance underwriting risk through
the governance arrangements for
Insurance Group (Insurance Group is a
separate regulated entity with its own Board,
governance structure and Chief Risk Officer)
ecnarussa
– ecnefed
fo
enil
drihT
tiduA
lanretnI
puorG
thgisrevo
ksir
– ecnefed
fo
enil
dnoceS
Aggregation, Aggregation,
escalation escalation
Group Chief Executive
Independent Independent
challenge Committees challenge
Risk Division
Committees and
Primary escalation Governance
Independent Independent
challenge challenge
Independent challenge of both
first and second lines of defence
114 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Risk management continued
Board, Executive and Risk Committees
The Group’s risk governance structure (see table 1.2) strengthens risk evaluation and management, while also positioning the Group to manage the
changing regulatory environment in an efficient and effective manner.
Assisted by the Board Risk and Audit Committees, the Board approves the Group’s overall governance, risk and control frameworks and risk appetite.
Refer to the Corporate Governance section on pages 58–80, for further information on Board committees.
The divisional and functional risk committees review and recommend divisional and functional risk appetite and monitor local risk profile and adherence
to appetite.
Insurance, which is subject to separate regulation, has its own Board and governance structure. The Insurance Board, assisted by a Risk Oversight
Committee and Audit Committee, approves the governance, risk and control frameworks for the Insurance business and the Insurance business risk
appetite, ensuring it aligns with the Group’s framework and risk appetite.
Table 1.3: Executive and Risk Committees
The Group Chief Executive is supported by the following:
Committees Risk focus
Group Executive Committee (GEC) Supports the Group Chief Executive in exercising his authority in relation to material matters
having strategic, cross-business area or Group-wide implications.
Group Risk Committee (GRC) Reviews and recommends the Group’s risk appetite and governance, risk and control
frameworks, and material Group policies. The committee also regularly reviews risk
exposures and risk/reward returns and approves models that are material at Group level.
Group Asset and Liability Committee (GALCO) Responsible for the strategic management of the Group’s assets and liabilities and the profit
and loss implications of balance sheet management actions. It is also responsible for the risk
management framework for market risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and earnings volatility.
Group Customer First Committee Provides a Group-wide perspective on the progress of Group’s, divisions’ and functions’
implementation of initiatives which enhance the delivery of customer outcomes and
customer trust, and sets and promotes the appropriate tone from the top to fulfil the Group’s
vision to become the best bank for customers and help Britain prosper.
Group Cost Management Committee Leads and shapes the Group’s approach to cost management, ensuring appropriate
governance and process over Group-wide cost management activities and effective control
of the Group’s cost base.
Conduct Review Committee Provides oversight and challenge in connection with the Group’s engagement with conduct
review matters as agreed with the Group Chief Executive.
Group People Committee Oversees the Group’s colleague policy, remuneration policy and Group-wide remuneration
matters, oversees compliance with Senior Manager and Certification Regime (SM&CR) and
other regulatory requirements, monitors colleague engagement surveys and ensures that
colleague-related issues are managed fairly, effectively and compliantly.
Responsible Business Management Committee Recommends and implements the strategy and plans to deliver the Group’s aspiration to be
a leader in responsible business as part of the objective of helping Britain prosper.
Senior Independent Performance Adjustment and Responsible for providing recommendations regarding performance adjustment, including
Conduct Committee the individual risk adjustment process and risk adjusted performance assessment, and
making final decisions on behalf of the Group on the appropriate course of action relating to
conduct breaches, under the formal scope of the SM&CR.
The Group Risk Committee is supported through escalation and ongoing reporting by business area risk committees, cross-divisional committees
addressing specific matters of Group-wide significance and the following second line of defence Risk committees which ensure effective oversight of
risk management:
Credit Risk Committees Responsible for the development and effectiveness of the relevant credit risk management
framework, clear description of the Group’s credit risk appetite, setting of credit policy, and
compliance with regulatory credit requirements.
Group Market Risk Committee Monitors and reviews the Group’s aggregate market risk exposures and concentrations
and provides a proactive and robust challenge around business activities giving rise to
market risks.
Group Conduct, Compliance and Operational Responsible for monitoring breaches, material events and risk issues, and conducting deep
Risk Committee dive assessments on specific conduct, compliance or operational risk subjects to inform
corrective action along with the sharing of information and best practice.
Group Fraud and Financial Crime Prevention Committee Reviews and challenges the management of fraud and financial crime risk including overall
strategy and performance, Group-level risk appetite and broader corporate responsibilities,
and engagement with relevant authorities and other external parties. The committee is
accountable for ensuring that, at Group level, current and emerging fraud and financial
crime risks are effectively identified and managed within appetite, and that strategies
and investments to improve fraud and financial crime prevention are co-ordinated and
implemented in relevant business areas.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Committees Risk focus
Group Financial Risk Committee Responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending to GEC, GRC and GALCO, the
Group Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAAP) and Internal Capital Adequacy
Assessment Process (ICAAP) submissions, Pillar 3 Disclosures, the Group recovery and
resolution plans, and the annual stress testing of the Group’s operating plan, Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and European Banking Authority (EBA) stress tests, and any other
analysis as required.
Group Capital Risk Committee Responsible for providing oversight of all relevant capital matters within the Group including
the Group’s capital position, Pillar 2 requirements, regulatory reform and accounting
developments specific to capital, as well as other areas such as stress testing and modelling
activity. It also reviews regulatory submissions including the ICAAP and recovery plan prior to
submission to Group Financial Risk Committee.
Group Model Governance Committee Responsible for setting the framework and standards for model governance across the
Group, including establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority and principles
underlying the Group’s modelling framework, specifically regarding consistency of approach
across business units and risk types. It approves banking models other than those material
at Group level, which are approved by GRC, and meets the PRA requirements regarding
the governance and approval for Internal Ratings Based (IRB) methodologies. An equivalent
committee exists in the Insurance division for approval of insurance models.
Full analysis of risk categories
The Group’s risk framework covers all types of risk which affect the Group and could impact on the achievement of its strategic objectives. A detailed
description of each category is provided on pages 116–156.
Following a review of the Group’s risk categories in 2017, model risk is now a primary risk category, and is described in detail on page 156. Financial
reporting risk, previously a primary risk category, is now considered as a secondary risk category of operational risk (see pages 135–136; additionally
the main features of the Group’s internal control system in relation to the financial reporting process are described on page 109).
Primary risk categories Secondary risk categories
Credit risk – Retail credit – Commercial credit
Page 116
Regulatory and legal risk – Regulatory compliance – Legal
Page 133
Conduct risk – Conduct
Page 134
Operational risk – Business process – External service provision – Internal service provision
Page 135 – Change – Financial crime – IT systems
– Cyber and information security – Financial reporting – Operational resilience
– Data management – Fraud – Physical security/health and safety
– Sourcing
People risk – People
Page 136
Insurance underwriting risk – Insurance underwriting
Page 137
Capital risk – Capital
Page 137
Funding and liquidity risk – Funding and liquidity
Page 144
Governance risk – Governance
Page 150
Market risk – Trading book – Pensions
Page 151 – Banking book – Insurance
Model risk – Model
Page 156
The Group considers both reputational and financial impact in the course of managing all its risks and therefore does not classify reputational
impact as a separate risk category.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 117
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
maximum limit on exposure, but may instead require new business in Where credit acceptance scorecards are used, new models, model
concentrated sectors to fulfil additional minimum policy and/or guideline changes and monitoring of model effectiveness are independently
requirements. The Group’s largest exposures are regularly reported to reviewed and approved in accordance with the governance framework set
the Board Risk Committee and reported in accordance with regulatory by the Group Model Governance Committee.
reporting requirements.
Additional mitigation for Commercial customers
Robust country risk management: The Board sets a broad maximum
country risk appetite. Within this, the Executive Credit Approval Individual credit assessment and independent sanction of customer
Committee approves the Group country risk framework and sovereign and bank limits: With the exception of small exposures to SME customers
limits on an annual basis. Risk based country appetite for all countries is where relationship managers have limited delegated sanctioning authority,
set within the independent Risk division, taking into account economic, credit risk in commercial customer portfolios is subject to sanction
financial, political and social factors as well as the approved business and by the independent Risk division, which considers the strengths and
strategic plans of the Group. weaknesses of individual transactions, the balance of risk and reward, and
how credit risk aligns to the Group’s risk appetite. Exposure to individual
Specialist expertise: Credit quality is managed and controlled by a counterparties, groups of counterparties or customer risk segments is
number of specialist units within the business and Risk division providing, controlled through a tiered hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities
for example: intensive management and control (see overleaf for Intensive and limit guidelines. Approval requirements for each decision are based on
care of customers in financial difficulty); security perfection, maintenance a number of factors including, but not limited to, the transaction amount,
and retention; expertise in documentation for lending and associated the customer’s aggregate facilities, credit policy, risk appetite, credit risk
products; sector specific expertise; and legal services applicable to the ratings and the nature and term of the risk. The Group’s credit risk appetite
particular market place and product range offered by the business. criteria for counterparty and customer underwriting is generally the same
Stress testing and scenario analysis: The Group’s credit portfolios are also as that for assets intended to be held to maturity. All hard underwriting
subjected to regular stress testing, with stress scenario assessments run at must be sanctioned via credit limits and a pre-approved credit matrix may
various levels of the organisation. Exercises focused on individual divisions be used for ‘best efforts’ underwriting.
and portfolios are performed in addition to the Group led and regulatory Counterparty credit limits: Limits are set against all types of exposure in
stress tests. For further information on stress testing process, methodology a counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each
and governance, see page 111. exposure type. This includes credit risk exposure on individual derivatives
Frequent and robust credit risk oversight and assurance: Undertaken and securities financing transactions, which incorporates potential future
by independent credit risk oversight functions operating within Retail exposures from market movements against agreed confidence intervals.
Credit Risk and Commercial Banking Risk which are part of the Group’s Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are set and limit breaches are
second line of defence. Their primary objective is to provide reasonable subject to escalation procedures.
and independent oversight that credit risk is being managed with Daily settlement limits: Settlement risk arises in any situation where a payment
appropriate and effective controls. in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding
Group Internal Audit provides assurance to the Board Audit Committee receipt in cash, securities or equities. Daily settlement limits are established for
on the effectiveness of credit risk management controls across the Group’s each relevant counterparty to cover the aggregate of all settlement risk arising
activities. The team carries out independent risk based control audits from the Group’s market transactions on any single day.
across the full credit lifecycle.
Collateral
Additional mitigation for Retail customers
The principal collateral types acceptable for loans and advances,
The Group uses a variety of lending criteria when assessing applications contingent liabilities and derivatives with commercial and bank
for mortgages and unsecured lending. The general approval process counterparties and customers are:
uses credit acceptance scorecards and involves a review of an applicant’s – residential and commercial properties;
previous credit history using internal data and information held by Credit
– charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts
Reference Agencies (CRA).
receivable;
The Group also assesses the affordability and sustainability of lending for – financial instruments such as debt securities;
each borrower; for secured lending this includes use of an appropriate
– vehicles;
stressed interest rate scenario. Affordability assessments are compliant
with relevant regulatory conduct guidelines. The Group takes reasonable – cash; and
steps to validate information used in the assessment of a customer’s – guarantees received from third parties.
income and expenditure.
The Group maintains appetite guidelines on the acceptability of specific
In addition, the Group has in place quantitative limits such as product classes of collateral.
maximum limits, the level of borrowing to income and the ratio of
Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and
borrowing to collateral. Some of these limits relate to internal approval
advances is determined by the nature of the underlying exposure. Debt
levels and others are policy limits above which the Group will reject
securities, including treasury and other bills, are generally unsecured, with
borrowing applications. The Group also applies certain criteria that are
the exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments such
applicable to specific products such as for applications for a mortgage on
as covered bonds, which are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
a property that is to be let by the applicant.
Collateral is generally not held against loans and advances to financial
For UK Secured, the Group’s policy permits owner occupier applications institutions, however securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or
with a loan to value (LTV) maximum of 95 per cent. Applications with an LTV securities borrowing transactions or where a collateral agreement has been
above 90 per cent are subject to enhanced underwriting criteria, including entered into under a master netting agreement. Derivative transactions
higher scorecard cut-offs. with financial counterparties are typically collateralised under a Credit
Support Annex (CSA) in conjunction with the International Swaps and
Buy-to-let mortgages are limited to a maximum loan size of £1,000,000 and
Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreement. Derivative transactions
75 per cent LTV. Buy-to-let applications must pass a minimum rental cover
with non-financial customers are not usually supported by a CSA.
ratio of 125 per cent under stressed interest rates, after applicable tax
liabilities. Since September 2017, Portfolio Landlords (customers with four No collateral is held in respect of retail credit card or unsecured personal
or more mortgaged buy-to-let properties) have been subject to additional lending. For non-mortgage retail lending to small businesses, collateral
controls including evaluation of overall portfolio resilience. may include second charges over residential property and the assignment
of life cover.
The Group’s policy is to reject any application for a lending product
where a customer is registered as bankrupt or insolvent, or has a recent Commercial lending decisions must be based on an obligor’s ability to
County Court Judgment or financial default registered at a CRA used by repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal
the Group above de minimis thresholds. In addition, the Group rejects of any security provided. The requirement for collateral and the type to
applicants where total unsecured debt, debt-to-income ratios, or other be taken at origination will be based upon the nature of the transaction
indicators of financial difficulty exceed policy limits. and the credit quality, size and structure of the borrower. For non-retail
exposures, the Group will often require the collateral to include a first
charge over land and buildings owned and occupied by the business, a
118 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Risk management continued
debenture over one or more of the assets of a company or limited liability the Group, including reports on significant credit exposures, which are
partnership, personal guarantees, limited in amount, from the directors of a presented to the divisional risk committees, Group Risk Committee and
company or limited liability partnership and key man insurance. The Group the Board Risk Committee.
maintains policies setting out acceptable collateral bases for valuation,
The performance of all rating models is monitored on a regular basis, in
maximum LTV ratios and other criteria to be considered when reviewing
order to ensure that they provide appropriate risk differentiation capability,
an application. Other than for project finance, object finance and income
the generated ratings remain as accurate and robust as practical, and the
producing real estate where charges over the subject assets are required,
models assign appropriate risk estimates to grades and pools. All models
the provision of collateral will not determine the outcome of an application.
are monitored against a series of agreed key performance indicators. In
Notwithstanding this, the fundamental business proposition must evidence
the event that the monitoring identifies material exceptions or deviations
the ability of the business to generate funds from normal business sources
from expected outcomes, these will be escalated in accordance with the
to repay a customer or counterparty’s financial commitment.
governance framework set by the Group Model Governance Committee.
The extent to which collateral values are actively managed will depend
Intensive care of customers in financial difficulty
on the credit quality and other circumstances of the obligor and type of
underlying transaction. Although lending decisions are based on expected The Group operates a number of solutions to assist borrowers who are
cash flows, any collateral provided may impact the pricing and other terms experiencing financial stress. The material elements of these solutions
of a loan or facility granted. This will have a financial impact on the amount through which the Group has granted a concession, whether temporarily
of net interest income recognised and on internal loss given default or permanently, are set out below.
estimates that contribute to the determination of asset quality and returns.
Retail customers
Collateral values are assessed at the time of loan origination. The Group
requires collateral to be realistically valued by an appropriately qualified The Group’s aim in offering forbearance and other assistance to customers
source, independent of both the credit decision process and the customer, in financial distress is to benefit both the customer and the Group by
at the time of borrowing. In certain circumstances, for Retail residential discharging the Group’s regulatory and social responsibilities to support
mortgages this may include the use of automated valuation models based its customers and act in their best long-term interests and by bringing
on market data, subject to accuracy criteria and LTV limits. Collateral customer facilities back into a sustainable position which, for owner
values are reviewed on a regular basis which will vary according to the type occupier mortgages, also means keeping customers in their homes. The
of lending, collateral involved and account performance. Such reviews Group offers a range of tools and assistance to support customers who
are undertaken to confirm that the value recorded in the Bank’s systems are encountering financial difficulties. Cases are managed on an individual
remains appropriate and whether revaluation is required, considering for basis, with the circumstances of each customer considered separately
example, account performance, market conditions and any information and the action taken judged as being affordable and sustainable for the
available that may indicate that the value of the collateral has materially customer. Operationally, the provision and review of such assistance is
declined. In such instances, the Group may seek additional collateral. controlled through the application of an appropriate policy framework,
For Retail, the Group adjusts open market values to take account of the controls around the execution of policy, regular review of the different
costs of realisation and any discount associated with the realisation of the treatments to confirm that they remain appropriate, monitoring of
collateral when estimating credit losses. customers’ performance and the level of payments received, and
management visibility of the nature and extent of assistance provided and
The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and
the associated risk.
collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential
undue concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by Assistance is provided through trained colleagues in branches and
changes to strategy, policy and/or business plans. dedicated telephony units, and via online guidance material. For those
customers requiring more intensive help, assistance is provided through
The Group seeks to avoid correlation or wrong way risk where possible.
dedicated support units where tailored repayment programmes can be
Under repurchase (repo) policy, the issuer of the collateral and the repo
agreed. Customers are actively supported and referred to free money
counterparty should be neither the same nor connected. The same rule
advice agencies when they have multiple credit facilities, including those
applies for derivatives. The Risk division has the necessary discretion
at other lenders that require restructuring. Within the collections and
to extend this rule to other cases where there is significant correlation.
recoveries functions, the sharing of best practice and alignment of policies
Countries with a rating equivalent to AA- and above may be considered
across the Group has helped to drive more effective customer outcomes
to have no adverse correlation between the counterparty domiciled in the
and achieve operational efficiencies.
country and that country of risk (issuer of securities).
The specific tools available to assist customers vary by product and the
Refer to note 51 on page 240 for further information on collateral.
customer’s status. In defining the treatments offered to customers who
Master netting agreements have experienced financial distress, the Group distinguishes between the
following categories:
It is credit policy that a Group approved master netting agreement must
be used for all derivative and traded property transactions and must be – Reduced payment arrangements: a temporary arrangement for
in place prior to trading. Any exceptions must be approved by the credit customers in financial distress where arrears accrue at the contractual
sanctioner. Although master netting agreements do not generally result payment, for example short-term arrangements to pay.
in an offset of balance sheet assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, – Term extensions: a permanent account change for customers in financial
as transactions are usually settled on a gross basis, within relevant distress where the overall term of the mortgage is extended, resulting in
jurisdictions and for appropriate counterparty types they do reduce the a lower contractual monthly payment.
credit risk to the extent that, if an event of default occurs, all trades with the – Repair: a permanent account change used to repair a customer’s
counterparty may be terminated and settled on a net basis. The Group’s position when they have emerged from financial difficulty, for example
overall exposure to credit risk on derivative instruments subject to master capitalisation of arrears.
netting agreements can change substantially within a short period, since
this is the net position of all trades under the master netting agreement. Forbearance identification, classification and measurement
The Group classifies Retail accounts as forborne at the time a customer
Other credit risk transfers
in financial difficulty is granted a concession. Accounts are classified as
The Group also undertakes asset sales, credit derivative based transactions forborne only for the period of time which the exposure is known to be, or
and securitisations as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking may still be, in financial difficulty. Where temporary forbearance is granted,
into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions. exit criteria are applied to include accounts until they are known to no longer
be in financial difficulty. Where the treatment involves a permanent change
Monitoring to the contractual basis of the customer’s account such as a capitalisation of
arrears or term extension, the Group may classify the balance as forborne
In conjunction with Risk division, businesses identify and define portfolios for a period of 24 months, after which no distinction is made between these
of credit and related risk exposures and the key benchmarks, behaviours accounts and others where no change has been made.
and characteristics by which those portfolios are managed and monitored
in terms of credit risk exposure. This entails the production and analysis of Those forborne loans which fall below individual assessment limits for
regular portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior management. Risk impairment are grouped with other assets of similar characteristics and
division in turn produces an aggregated review of credit risk throughout assessed collectively in accordance with the Group impairment policy
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Environmental risk management Project-Related Corporate loans and Bridge loans. The Group has also
been a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI)
The Group ensures appropriate management of the environmental
since 2012, which incorporate ESG (environmental, social and governance
impact, including climate change, of its lending activities. The Group-wide
risk) considerations in asset management. Scottish Widows is responsible
credit risk principles require all credit risk to be incurred with due regard to
for the annual UNPRI reporting process.
environmental legislation and the Group’s code of responsibility.
Within Commercial Banking, an electronic Environmental Risk Screening
The Group’s divisions are each exposed to different types and levels of
Tool is the primary mechanism for assessing environmental risk for lending
climate-related risk in their operations. For example, the general insurance
transactions. This system provides screening of location specific and sector
division regularly uses weather, climate and environmental models and
based risks that may be present in a transaction. Where a risk is identified,
data to assess its insurance risk from covered perils such as windstorm and
the transaction is referred to the Group’s expert in-house environmental
flood. A team of specialist scientists are employed within underwriting to
risk team for further review and assessment, as outlined below. Where
do this work and they also regularly monitor the state of climate science to
required, the Group’s panel of environmental consultants provide
assess the need to include its potential impacts within pricing and solvency.
additional expert support.
In response to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure
recommendations, in 2018 we will commence a systematic review of We provide colleague training on environmental risk management as part
climate-related risks and opportunities across the Group’s core divisions. of the standard suite of Commercial Banking credit risk courses. To support
this training, a range of online resource is available to colleagues and
The Group has been a signatory to the Equator Principles since 2008
includes environmental risk theory, procedural guidance, and information
and has adopted and applied the expanded scope of Equator Principles
on environmental legislation and sector-specific environmental impacts.
III. The Equator Principles support the Group’s approach to assessing
and managing environmental and social issues in Project Finance,
Table 1.27: Environmental risk management approach
Group credit principles Initial transaction Detailed review Environmental Environmental
Environmental risk screening In-house team, due diligence risk approval
Relationship teams retained consultancy Panel consultants (including any
conditions)
Credit policies
Business unit
processes
Sector briefings
Supporting tools
Legislation briefings
Regulatory and legal risk – Group policies and procedures set out the principles and key controls
that should apply across the business which are aligned to the Group risk
Definition appetite. Mandated policies and processes require appropriate control
frameworks, management information, standards and colleague training
Regulatory and legal risk is defined as the risk that the Group is exposed
to be implemented to identify and manage regulatory and legal risk;
to fines, censure, or legal or enforcement action; or to civil or criminal
proceedings in the courts (or equivalent) and/or the Group is unable to – Business units assess and implement policy and regulatory requirements
enforce its rights due to failing to comply with applicable laws (including and establish local control, processes and procedures to ensure
codes of practice which could have legal implications), regulations, codes governance and compliance;
of conduct or legal obligations. – Material risks and issues are escalated to divisional and then Group-level
bodies which challenge and support the business on its management
Exposures of them;
Whilst the Group has a zero risk appetite for material regulatory breaches – Business units regularly produce management information to assist
or material legal incidents, the Group remains exposed to material in the identification of issues and test management controls are
regulatory breaches and material legal incidents outside of its risk appetite. working effectively;
Exposure is driven by significant ongoing and new legislation, regulation – Risk division and Legal provide oversight and proactive support and
and court proceedings in the UK and overseas which in each case needs to constructive challenge to the business in identifying and managing
be interpreted, implemented and embedded into day-to-day operational regulatory and legal issues;
and business practices across the Group.
– Risk division will conduct thematic reviews of regulatory compliance
across businesses and divisions where appropriate; and
Measurement
– Business units with the support of divisional and Group-level bodies
Regulatory and legal risks are measured against a set of risk appetite conduct ongoing horizon scanning to identify and address changes in
metrics, with appropriate thresholds, which are approved annually by the regulatory and legal requirements.
Board and which are regularly reviewed and monitored. Metrics include
assessments of control and material regulatory rule breaches. Monitoring
Mitigation Business unit risk exposure is reported to Risk division where it is
aggregated at Group level and a report prepared. The report forms
We have taken a number of steps and have outlined below the following the basis of challenge to the business at the monthly Group Conduct,
key components: Compliance and Operational Risk Committee. This committee may
– The Board establishes a Group-wide risk appetite and metrics for escalate matters to the Chief Risk Officer, or higher committees. The report
regulatory and legal risk; also forms the basis of the regulatory and legal sections in the Group’s
consolidated risk reporting.
136 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Risk management continued
colleagues. The Group also plays an active role with other financial People risk
institutions, industry bodies, and enforcement agencies in identifying and
combatting fraud. Definition
– The Group has adopted policies and procedures designed to detect
The risk that the Group fails to provide an appropriate colleague and
and prevent the use of its banking network for money laundering,
customer centric culture, supported by robust reward and wellbeing
terrorist financing, bribery, tax evasion, human trafficking, and modern-
policies and processes; effective leadership to manage colleague
day slavery, and activities prohibited by legal and regulatory sanctions.
resources; effective talent and succession management; and robust control
Against a background of increasingly complex and detailed laws and
to ensure all colleague-related requirements are met.
regulations, and of increased criminal and terrorist activity, the Group
regularly reviews and assesses its policies, procedures and organisational
Exposures
arrangements to keep them current, effective and consistent across
markets and jurisdictions. The Group requires mandatory training on The Group’s management of material people risks is critical to its capacity
these topics for all employees. Specifically, the anti-money laundering to deliver against its strategic objectives and to be the best bank for
procedures include ‘know-your-customer’ requirements, transaction customers. Over the coming year the Group anticipates the following key
monitoring technologies, reporting of suspicions of money laundering or people risk exposures:
terrorist financing to the applicable regulatory authorities, and interaction
– Maintaining organisational skills, capability, resilience and capacity levels
between the Group’s Financial Intelligence Unit and external agencies
in response to increasing volumes of organisational, political and external
and other financial institutions. The Anti-Bribery Policy prohibits the
market change;
payment, offer, acceptance or request of a bribe, including ‘facilitation
payments’ by any employee or agent and provides a confidential – Senior Managers and Certification Regime (SM&CR) and additional
reporting service for anonymous reporting for suspected or actual regulatory constraints on remuneration structures may impact the
bribery activity. The Sanctions and Related Prohibitions Policy sets out a Group’s ability to attract and retain talent;
framework of controls for compliance with legal and regulatory sanctions. – The increasing digitisation of the business is changing the capability mix
– Operational resilience measures and recovery planning defined in the required and may impact our ability to attract and retain talent; and
Group’s Resilience and Continuity (including Incident Management) – Colleague engagement may continue to be challenged by ongoing
Policy ensure an appropriate and consistent approach to the media attention on banking sector culture, sales practices and
management of continuity risks, including potential interruptions ethical conduct.
from a range of internal and external incidents or threats including
environmental and climatic issues, terrorism, cyber, economic instability, Measurement
pandemic planning and operational incidents. The Group considers its
People risk is measured through a series of quantitative and qualitative
operational resilience across five key pillars; cyber, third parties, IT, people
indicators, aligned to key sources of people risk for the Group such
and property.
as succession, retention, colleague engagement and performance
Monitoring management. In addition to risk appetite measures and limits, people
risks and controls are monitored on a monthly basis via the Group’s risk
Monitoring and reporting of operational risk is undertaken at Board, Group governance framework and reporting structures.
and divisional risk committees. Each committee monitors key risks, control
effectiveness, key risk and control indicators, events, operational losses, risk Mitigation
appetite metrics and the results of independent testing conducted by Risk
and/or Group Internal Audit. The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to people risk. Key
areas of focus include:
The Group maintains a formal approach to operational risk event
escalation, whereby material events are identified, captured and escalated. – Focusing on leadership and colleague engagement, through delivery
Root causes of events are determined, where possible, and action plans of strategies to attract, retain and develop high calibre people together
put in place to ensure an optimum level of control to keep customers and with implementation of rigorous succession planning;
the business safe, reduce costs, and improve efficiency. – Continued focus on the Group’s culture by developing and delivering
initiatives that reinforce the appropriate behaviours which generate the
The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with
best possible long-term outcomes for customers and colleagues;
recommendations being made to the Group’s senior management
annually prior to each renewal. Insurers are monitored on an ongoing – Managing organisational capability and capacity through divisional
basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised. A process is in place to people strategies to ensure there are the right skills and resources to
manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies. meet our customers’ needs and deliver our strategic plan;
– Maintain effective remuneration arrangements to ensure they promote
an appropriate culture and colleague behaviours that meet customer
needs and regulatory expectations;
– Ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to
SM&CR, embedding compliant and appropriate colleague behaviours in
line with Group policies, values and its people risk priorities; and
– Ongoing consultation with the Group’s recognised unions on changes
which impact their members.
Monitoring
People risks from across the Group are monitored and reported through
Board and Group Governance Committees in accordance with the Group’s
Risk Management Framework and people risk sub-framework. Risk
exposures are discussed monthly via the Group People Risk Committee
with upwards reporting to Group Risk and Executive Committees. In
addition, oversight, challenge and reporting is completed at Risk division
level and, combined with risk assurance, Risk division reviews and assesses
the effectiveness of controls, recommending follow up remedial action
if relevant. All material people risk events are escalated in accordance
with the formal Group Operational Risk Policy and People Policies to the
respective divisional Managing Directors and the Group Director, Conduct,
Compliance and Operational Risk.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 139
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Dividend policy Overall the Group’s CET1 ratio has strengthened to 15.5 per cent on a
pro forma basis before ordinary dividends and the share buyback. After
The Group intends to maintain an ordinary dividend policy that is both
ordinary dividends the Group’s CET1 ratio was 14.4 per cent on a pro
progressive and sustainable. The rate of growth of the ordinary dividend
forma basis. In addition the Board intends to implement a share buyback
will be decided by the Board in light of the circumstances at the time.
programme of up to £1 billion, equivalent to up to 1.4 pence per share.
The Board also gives due consideration to the distribution of surplus The buyback will impact the Group’s capital position in 2018 and is
capital through the use of special dividends or share buybacks. Surplus expected to reduce CET1 capital by c.50 basis points. Allowing for this
capital represents the return of capital over and above the Board's view of at 31 December 2017 the pro forma CET1 ratio would be 13.9 per cent
the current level of capital required to grow the business, meet regulatory (31 December 2016: 13.0 per cent pro forma after dividends and adjusting
requirements and cover uncertainties. The amount of required capital for MBNA).
may vary from time to time depending on circumstances and by its nature
The accrual for foreseeable dividends reflects the recommended final
there can be no guarantee that any surplus capital distribution will be
ordinary dividend of 2.05 pence per share.
appropriate in future years.
The transitional total capital ratio, after ordinary dividends reduced by
The ability of the Group to pay a dividend is also subject to constraints
0.2 per cent to 21.2 per cent, largely reflecting amortisation on dated
including the availability of distributable reserves, legal and regulatory
tier 2 instruments and foreign exchange movements on tier 1 and tier 2
restrictions and the financial and operating performance of the entity.
instruments, offset by the increase in CET1 capital and the reduction in
Distributable reserves are determined as required by the Companies risk-weighted assets.
Act 2006 by reference to a company’s individual financial statements.
Applying the Bank of England’s Minimum Requirement for Own Funds
At 31 December 2017 Lloyds Banking Group plc (‘the Company’)
and Eligible Liabilities (MREL) policy to current capital requirements, the
had accumulated distributable reserves of approximately £8.5 billion.
Group’s indicative MREL requirement, excluding regulatory capital buffers,
Substantially all of the Company’s merger reserve is available for
is as follows:
distribution under UK company law as a result of transactions undertaken
to recapitalise the Company in 2009. – From 2020, 2 times Pillar 1 plus Pillar 2A, equivalent to 21.4 per cent of
risk-weighted assets
Lloyds Banking Group plc acts as a holding company which also issues
capital and other securities to capitalise and fund the activities of the – From 2022, 2 times Pillar 1 plus 2 times Pillar 2A, equivalent to 26.8 per
Group. The profitability of the holding company, and consequently its cent of risk-weighted assets
ability to sustain dividend payments, is therefore dependent upon the The Bank of England will review the calibration of MREL in 2020 before
continued receipt of dividends from its subsidiaries (representing both setting final end-state requirements to be met from 2022. This review will
banking and insurance). A number of Group subsidiaries, principally those take into consideration any changes to the capital framework, including
with banking and insurance activities, are also subject to regulatory capital the finalisation of Basel III.
requirements. These require entities to maintain minimum amounts of
During 2017, the Group issued £8.5 billion (sterling equivalent as at
capital related to their size and risk. The principal operating subsidiary is
31 December 2017) of senior unsecured securities from Lloyds Banking
Lloyds Bank plc which, at 31 December 2017, had a consolidated CET1
Group plc which, while not included in total capital, are eligible to meet
capital ratio of 15.8 per cent (31 December 2016: 15.1 per cent). The
MREL. Combined with previous issuances made during 2016 the Group
Group actively manages the capital of its subsidiaries, which includes
remains comfortably positioned to meet MREL requirements from 2020
monitoring the regulatory capital ratios for its banking and insurance
and, as at 31 December 2017, had a transitional MREL ratio of 25.7 per cent
subsidiaries against approved risk appetite limits. It operates a formal
of risk-weighted assets.
capital management policy which requires all subsidiary entities to remit
any surplus capital to their parent companies. The UK leverage ratio, after ordinary dividends, increased from 5.3 per
cent on a pro forma basis to 5.4 per cent on a pro forma basis, largely
Analysis of capital position
reflecting the increase in fully loaded tier 1 capital and the underlying
Excluding the capital impact of the acquisition of MBNA on 1 June 2017, reduction in balance sheet assets, net of qualifying central bank claims and
the Group generated 2.45 per cent of CET1 capital on a pro forma basis deconsolidation adjustments.
before ordinary dividends and allowing for the share buyback, primarily as An analysis of the Group’s capital position as at 31 December 2017
a result of: is presented in the following section on both a CRD IV transitional
– Strong underlying capital generation of 2.5 per cent, largely driven by arrangements basis and a CRD IV fully loaded basis.
underlying profits (2.2 per cent) and the dividend paid by the Insurance
business in February 2018 in relation to 2017 earnings (0.3 per cent);
– A reduction in risk-weighted assets (prior to the impact of the acquisition
of MBNA) resulting in an increase of 0.8 per cent, primarily reflecting
updates made to both mortgage and unsecured retail IRB models,
continued active portfolio management, foreign exchange movements,
disposals and capital efficient securitisation activity, partly offset through
targeted growth in key customer segments;
– The impact of market and other movements, generating an increase of
0.4 per cent, partially reflecting positive movements in available-for-sale
assets and the defined benefit pension schemes;
– Offset by a reduction of (1.2) per cent for conduct provisions.
In addition, the Group utilised the 0.8 per cent of CET1 capital retained at
31 December 2016 to cover the acquisition of MBNA.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 141
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
The key difference between the transitional capital calculation as at 31 December 2017 and the fully loaded equivalent is primarily related to capital
securities that previously qualified as tier 1 or tier 2 capital, but that do not fully qualify under CRD IV, which can be included in additional tier 1 (AT1)
or tier 2 capital (as applicable) up to specified limits which reduce by 10 per cent per annum until 2022.
The movements in the transitional CET1, AT1, tier 2 and total capital positions in the period are provided below.
Table 1.30: Movements in capital resources
Common Additional Total
Equity tier 1 Tier 1 Tier 2 capital
£m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2016 29,284 7,297 9,542 46,123
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders1 2,514 – – 2,514
Movement in foreseeable dividends2 93 – – 93
Dividends paid out on ordinary shares during the year (2,284 ) – – (2,284 )
Dividends in respect of 2016 earnings and 2017 interim earnings
received from the Insurance business1 575 – – 575
Movement in treasury shares and employee share schemes 3 – – 3
Pension movements:
Removal of defined benefit pension surplus (274 ) – – (274 )
Movement through other comprehensive income 428 – – 428
Available-for-sale reserve (74 ) – – (74 )
Prudent valuation adjustment 74 – – 74
Deferred tax asset 309 – – 309
Goodwill and other intangible assets (1,343 ) – – (1,343 )
Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and value adjustments 104 – – 104
Significant investments 32 (74 ) 55 13
Eligible provisions – – (66 ) (66 )
Movements in subordinated debt:
Repurchases, redemptions and other – (541 ) (1,201 ) (1,742 )
Other movements 206 – – 206
At 31 December 2017 29,647 6,682 8,330 44,659
1 Under the regulatory framework, profits made by Insurance are removed from CET1 capital. However, when dividends are paid to the Group by Insurance these are recognised through
CET1 capital.
2 Includes the accrual for the 2017 full year ordinary dividend and the reversal of the accrual for the 2016 full year ordinary and special dividends which were paid during the year.
CET1 capital resources have increased by £363 million in the year, primarily reflecting a combination of profit generation, dividends received from the
Insurance business during the year, movements in the defined benefit pension schemes and a reduction in the deferred tax asset deducted from capital,
partially offset by the payment of the 2017 interim dividend, the accrual of the full year ordinary dividend and an increase in the deduction for goodwill and
other intangible assets, largely in relation to the acquisition of MBNA.
AT1 capital resources have reduced by £615 million in the year, primarily reflecting the annual reduction in the transitional limit applied to grandfathered
AT1 capital instruments and foreign exchange movements.
Tier 2 capital resources have reduced by £1,212 million in the year largely reflecting the amortisation of dated tier 2 instruments and foreign exchange
movements on subordinated debt, partly offset by the transitioning of grandfathered AT1 instruments to tier 2.
150 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Risk management continued
Governance risk
Definition
Governance risk is defined as the risk that the Group’s organisational Under the banner of the RMF, training modules are in place to support all
infrastructure fails to provide robust oversight of decision making and the colleagues in understanding and fulfilling their risk responsibilities.
control mechanisms to ensure strategies and management instructions are
The Ethics and Responsible Business Policy and supporting code of
implemented effectively.
responsibility embody the Group’s values and reflect its commitment to
operating responsibly and ethically both at a business and an individual
Exposures
level. All colleagues are required to adhere to the code in all aspects of
The internal and corporate governance arrangements of major financial their roles.
institutions continue to be subject to a high level of regulatory and public
Effective implementation of the RMF mutually reinforces and is reinforced
scrutiny. The Group’s exposure to governance risk is also reflective of the
by the Group’s risk culture, which is embedded in its approach to
significant volume of existing and proposed legislation and regulation,
recruitment, selection, training, performance management and reward.
both within the UK and across the multiple jurisdictions within which it
operates, with which it must comply. Risk governance and risk culture are
Monitoring
mutually reinforcing.
A review of the Group’s RMF, which includes the status of the Group’s
Measurement principles and policy framework, and the design and operational
effectiveness of key governance committees, is undertaken on an annual
The Group’s governance arrangements are assessed against new or
basis and the findings are reported to the Group Risk Committee, Board
proposed legislation and regulation and best practice among peer
Risk Committee and the Board.
organisations in order to identify any areas of enhancement required.
This includes a review of the Group’s current approach to governance
Mitigation and ongoing initiatives in light of the latest regulatory guidance, including
in 2017 the continued enhancement of frameworks to address Senior
The Group’s Risk Management Framework (RMF) establishes robust Managers and Certification Regime (SM&CR) requirements and prepare
arrangements for risk governance, in particular by: for the requirement to ring-fence retail banking activities with effect
– Defining individual and collective accountabilities for risk management, from January 2019.
risk oversight and risk assurance through a three lines of defence For further information on Corporate Governance see pages 58–80.
model which supports the discharge of responsibilities to customers,
shareholders and regulators;
– Outlining governance arrangements which articulate the enterprise-wide
approach to risk management; and
– Supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide behaviour and
risk decision making through a Group policy framework which helps
everyone understand their responsibilities by clearly articulating and
communicating rules, standards, boundaries and risk appetite measures
which can be controlled, enforced and monitored.
156 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Risk management continued
The market risk for the trading book continues to be low with respect to Model risk
the size of the Group and compared to our peers. This reflects the fact
that the Group’s trading operations are customer-centric and focused on Definition
hedging and recycling client risks.
Model risk is defined as the risk of financial loss, regulatory censure,
Although it is an important market standard measure of risk, VaR has
reputational damage or customer detriment, as a result of deficiencies
limitations. One of them is the use of limited historical data sample which
in the development, application or ongoing operation of models and
influences the output by the implicit assumption that future market
rating systems.
behaviour will not differ greatly from the historically observed period.
Another known limitation is the use of defined holding periods which Models are defined as quantitative methods that process input data
assumes that the risk can be liquidated or hedged within that holding into quantitative outputs, or qualitative outputs (including ordinal
period. Also calculating the VaR at the chosen confidence interval does letter output) which have a quantitative measure associated with
not give enough information about potential losses which may occur if them. Model Governance Policy is restricted to specific categories of
this level is exceeded. The Group fully recognises these limitations and application of models, principally financial risk, treasury and valuation,
supplements the use of VaR with a variety of other measurements which with certain exclusions, such as prescribed calculations and project
reflect the nature of the business activity. These include detailed sensitivity appraisal calculations.
analysis, position reporting and a stress testing programme.
Exposures
Trading book VaR (1-day 99 per cent) is compared daily against both
hypothetical and clean profit and loss. 1-day 99 per cent VaR charts for There are over 300 models in the Group performing a variety of functions
Lloyds Bank, HBOS and Lloyds Banking Group models can be found in the including:
Group’s Pillar 3 Report.
– capital calculation;
Mitigation – credit decisioning, including fraud;
The level of exposure is controlled by establishing and communicating – pricing models;
the approved risk limits and controls through policies and procedures – impairment calculation;
that define the responsibility and authority for risk taking. Market risk limits
– stress testing and forecasting; and
are clearly and consistently communicated to the business. Any new or
– market risk measurement.
emerging risks are brought within risk reporting and defined limits.
As a result of the wide scope and breadth of coverage, there is exposure to
Monitoring
model risk across a number of the Group’s primary risk categories.
Trading risk appetite is monitored daily with 1-day 95 per cent VaR and
stress testing limits. These limits are complemented with position level Measurement
action triggers and profit and loss referrals. Risk and position limits are
set and managed at both desk and overall trading book levels. They are The Group risk appetite framework is the key component for measuring
reviewed at least annually and can be changed as required within the the Group’s model risk. Reported monthly to the Group Risk Committee
overall Group risk appetite framework. and Board, focus is placed on the performance of the Group’s most
material models.
Mitigation
The model risk management framework, established by and with
continued oversight from an independent team in the Risk division,
provides the foundation for managing and mitigating Model Risk
within the Group. Accountability is cascaded from the Board and
senior management via the Group Risk Management Framework.
This provides the basis for the Group Model Governance Policy,
which defines the mandatory requirements for models across the
Group, including:
– the scope of models covered by the policy;
– model materiality;
– roles and responsibilities, including ownership, independent oversight
and approval; and
– key principles and controls regarding data integrity, development,
validation, implementation, ongoing maintenance and validation,
monitoring, and the process for non-compliance.
The above ensures models, including those involved in regulatory capital
calculation, are developed consistently and are of sufficient quality to
support business decisions and meet regulatory requirements.
Monitoring
The Group Model Governance Committee is the primary body for
overseeing model risk. Policy requires that Key Performance Indicators
are monitored for every model and all issues are escalated appropriately.
Material model issues are reported to Group and Board Risk Committees
monthly with more detailed papers as necessary to focus on key issues.
158 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Lloyds Banking Group plc
Report on the financial statements
Opinion
In our opinion, Lloyds Banking Group plc’s consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial statements’):
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s
and the parent company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
– have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company’s financial statements, as
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of
the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the ‘Annual Report’), which comprise: the consolidated and
parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017; the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year then ended; the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the consolidated and
parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant
accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (‘ISAs (UK)’) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK)
are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence
We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the
UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or
the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the parent company in the
period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach
Overview
– Overall Group materiality: £350 million (2016: £325 million), based on 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted profit before tax. Statutory profits were
adjusted to remove the effects of certain items which are exceptional and/or one-off in nature.
– Overall parent company materiality: £350 million (2016: £325 million), based on 1 per cent of total assets.
– The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment, the financial
significance of components and other qualitative factors (including history of misstatement through fraud or error).
– We performed audit procedures over components considered financially significant in the context of the Group (full scope audit) or in the context
of individual primary statement account balances (audit of specific account balances). We performed other procedures including testing entity
level controls, information technology general controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the
residual components.
The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were:
– Loan loss impairment provisions (Group)
– Conduct risk and provisions (Group)
– Insurance actuarial assumptions (Group)
– Defined benefit obligation (Group)
– Hedge accounting (Group and parent)
– Significant transactions (Group and parent)
– Privileged access to IT systems (Group and parent)
– Disclosure of the impact of IFRS 9 (Group)
These items were discussed with the Audit Committee as part of our audit plan communicated in April 2017 and updated in October 2017. These were
the key audit matters for discussion at the conclusion of our audit.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis
of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/
auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 159
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
The scope of our audit
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we
looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions
and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the
risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud. We designed audit procedures at Group and significant
component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through
collusion. We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and parent financial statements, including but
not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the Prudential Regulation Authority’s regulations, the Pensions Regulator legislation, the UK tax
legislation. Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of
correspondence with and reports to the regulators, enquiries of management, review of significant components auditors’ work and review of internal audit
reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the
events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We found conduct risks and provisions to be a key audit matter, and this is discussed further below. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of
management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a
risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with
qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual
financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Group financial statements Parent company financial statements
Overall materiality £350 million (2016: £325 million). £350 million (2016: £325 million).
How we determined it 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted profit 1 per cent of total assets.
before tax. Profit was adjusted to remove the effects
of certain items which are exceptional and/or one off
in nature.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have used a 3 year average of adjusted profit We have selected total assets as an appropriate
before tax in order to reduce the potential for benchmark for parent company materiality. Profit
volatility and large changes in materiality year-on- based benchmarks are not considered appropriate
year. This is a generally accepted auditing practice. for parent company materiality as the Group is not
Statutory profits before tax for 2015, 2016 and 2017 required to disclose a parent company income
were adjusted to remove the disproportionate impact statement. Parent company overall materiality
of several items which are considered exceptional calculated based on the total assets benchmark
and/or one-off in nature. These adjustments included exceeds the Group overall materiality level. Therefore
charges related to PPI and other conduct provisions, parent company overall materiality is restricted to
charges relating to redemptions of enhanced capital equal the Group overall materiality level (£350m).
notes and the credit in relation to the Group’s
disposal of its stake in Visa Europe Ltd.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The range of materiality
allocated across components was between £60 million and £120 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £20 million for the Group and parent
company audits (2016: £20 million) as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole,
taking into account the geographic structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the
Group operates.
The Group is structured into three segments being Retail, Commercial Banking, and Insurance and Wealth. Each of the segments comprises a number of
components. The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of the components.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that is required to be performed over the components by us,
as the Group engagement team, or auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction (‘component auditors’).
Almost all of our audit work is undertaken by PwC UK component auditors.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to
conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
This included regular communication with the component auditors throughout the audit, the issuance of instructions, a review of the results of their work
on the key audit matters and formal clearance meetings.
Any components which were considered individually financially significant in the context of the Group’s consolidated financial statements (defined as
components which that represent more than or equal to 10% of the total assets of the consolidated Group) were considered full scope components. We
considered the individual financial significance of other components in relation to primary statement account balances. We considered the presence of
any significant audit risks and other qualitative factors (including history of misstatements through fraud or error). Any component which was not already
included as a full scope audit component but was identified as being individually financially significant in respect of one of more account balances was
subject to specific audit procedures over those account balances. Inconsequential components (defined as components which did not represent a
reasonable possibility of a risk of material misstatement either individually or in aggregate) were eliminated from further consideration for specific audit
procedures although they were subject to Group level analytical review procedures. All remaining components which were neither inconsequential nor
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 161
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Conduct risk and provisions We understood and tested the key controls and management’s processes around:
Group – identifying emerging conduct risk exposures and assessing whether provisions or disclosures were
necessary; and Refer to page 73 (Audit Committee Report), page 173
(Accounting Policies) and page 213 (Note 37 and Critical – calculating and reviewing conduct provisions, including governance processes, challenge of key
Accounting Estimates and Judgements). assumptions and approval of provisions.
Provisions reflecting the Group’s best estimate of present We found these controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively and therefore we
obligations relating to anticipated customer redress payments, determined that we could place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
operational costs and regulatory fines as a result of past events,
We performed the following procedures around the measurement of provisions recognised:
practices and conduct continue to be significant and therefore
represent a key audit matter. The majority of our detailed audit work was on the significant conduct provisions in relation to past
sales of PPI policies, arrears handling activities, packaged bank accounts and insurance products in
The most significant provisions relate to past sales of payment
the German branch of Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd (now Scottish Widows Ltd). We also
protection insurance (PPI) policies, arrears handling activities,
examined other conduct provisions which are individually less material.
packaged bank accounts and insurance products of the German
branch of Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd (now Scottish For significant provisions made, we understood and challenged the provisioning methodologies and
Widows Ltd). underlying assumptions used by management. For example, we challenged the basis that
management used for forecasting the number of PPI complaints that will be received in the future.
For the known issues that have been provided for, we focused on
We considered regulatory developments and management’s interactions with regulators.
the use of several management assumptions including volume of
future complaints and related redress costs that are key For those assumptions based on historic information, we challenged whether this was appropriate for
judgmental inputs into the measurement of provisions. future experience and challenged the appropriateness of any adjustments made by management.
We independently performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
Given the number and volume of products sold by the Group
historically, and the continued regulatory and public focus on the Given the inherent uncertainty in the calculation of conduct provisions and their judgemental nature,
banking industry, there is a continuing risk that new conduct we evaluated the disclosures made in the financial statements. In particular, we focused on
issues will emerge. Therefore, there is a financial reporting risk challenging management around whether the disclosures were sufficiently clear in highlighting the
that such emerging risks and exposures are not appropriately exposures that remain, significant uncertainties that exist in respect of the provisions and the
identified, for which financial statement disclosure and, or, sensitivity of the provisions to changes in the underlying assumptions.
provision may be required. Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, we found management’s assumptions
to be appropriate.
We performed the following procedures around the completeness of provisions recognised:
We met with Divisional and Group management to understand the emerging and potential issues
that they had identified. We independently assessed emerging and potential areas where exposures
might have arisen based upon our knowledge and experience of emerging industry issues and the
regulatory environment. We used this to challenge the completeness of the issues identified by
management and whether a provision was required.
We understood the nature of customer complaints received, and assessed the trends. We used this
analysis to understand whether there were indicators of more systemic issues being present for which
provisions or disclosures may have needed to be made in the financial statements.
We reviewed the Group’s litigation reports, to identify potentially material cases which may require
provision. We also communicated with the Group’s external legal representatives to confirm our
understanding of significant cases.
We reviewed the Group’s correspondence with the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential
Regulation Authority, discussing the content of any correspondence considered to be pertinent to
our audit with management. We met on a trilateral basis with the Prudential Regulation Authority and
the Chair of the Audit Committee. We also met on a bilateral basis with each regulator.
We read the minutes of key governance meetings including those of the Board, and of
various management committees, as well as attending all Audit Committee and Board Risk
Committee meetings.
No additional material conduct issues that would require financial statement disclosure or provision
were identified as a result of the audit work performed.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 163
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Significant transactions We understood and tested key controls which require that one-off transactions are referred to Group
Financial Reporting and that an accounting paper is produced outlining the treatment of the
Group and parent
transaction in the financial statements. Further to this, we ensured that the accounting paper is
Refer to page 73 (Audit Committee Report). appropriately reviewed and approved. We found the key controls were designed, implemented and
During the year, the Group has entered into significant one-off operated effectively.
transactions that inherently have a high level of complexity and/or We understood the nature of the significant transactions and reviewed the accounting papers
judgment in its determination of accounting treatment produced in the year including any transaction documents or contracts to evaluate and assess the
(e.g. acquisition of MBNA). This judgment increases the risk of impact of the transaction on the Group.
management bias being introduced into the transactions.
We made our own assessment as to the most appropriate accounting treatment, using this as a basis
Due to the nature of significant one-off transactions, the to challenge the key judgements made by management, including the assessment of any potential
accounting often falls outside of the business as usual process management bias.
level controls and requires manual calculations to be performed.
We assessed whether the extent of the disclosures made, in relation to significant transactions
The design of the initial accounting treatment may form the basis was appropriate.
for subsequent periods for long dated transactions.
Based on the results of the evidence obtained, we found the accounting treatments applied to
significant transactions were supported by the evidence obtained.
Privileged access to IT systems We understood and tested key controls surrounding Group IT’s central process for the periodic
recertification of user access entitlements across in-scope systems as well as reviewed the processes
Group and parent
for managing privileged access to IT systems.
Refer to page 73 (Audit Committee Report).
We have obtained an understanding of management’s remediation programme and observed
The Group’s financial reporting processes are reliant on progress in terms of their remediation of a number of the control matters. However, several of the
automated processes and controls performed by IT systems. controls continued to be ineffective for the full financial reporting period.
Further, the group-wide IT estate is complex in terms of the scale
Where these control matters affected applications and supporting IT systems within the scope of our
and nature of IT systems relied upon. The risks associated with IT
audit, we performed a combination of additional controls testing, including compensating controls
are also impacted by the threat profile of IT within the banking
where relevant and substantive audit procedures.
environment, which is subject to a number of internal and
external risks relating to cyber security and the resilience of On the basis of our additional audit testing, we were able to place reliance on the data and reports
IT systems. from in-scope applications.
As part of the audit, we validate the design and operating
effectiveness of in-scope automated and IT dependent controls
over financial reporting at a point in time as well as review the
supporting IT General Computer Controls (ITGCs) that provide
assurance over the continued integrity of these controls for the
full financial reporting period.
As part of our audit work in prior periods, we identified recurring
control matters in relation to the management of IT privileged
access to IT systems and therefore have relied on compensating
controls and performed additional procedures.
While there is an ongoing programme of activities to address
such control matters, the fact that these were open control
matters during the period meant there was an increased risk that
the data and reports from the affected systems were not reliable.
Disclosure of the impact of IFRS 9 We understood and tested key controls supporting management’s estimate of the transition
adjustment focusing on:
Group
– model development, validation and approval to ensure compliance with IFRS 9 requirements;
Refer to page 73 (Audit Committee Report) and page 253
(Note 54). – review and approval of key assumptions, judgements and forward looking information prior to use
On 1 January 2018, the Group transitioned to financial in the models;
instruments accounting standard IFRS 9 which replaced IAS 39. – the integrity of data used as input to the models including the transfer of data between source
The estimated transition impact is disclosed in Note 54 to the systems and the impairment models;
Financial Statements in accordance with IAS 8. Disclosures in 2017
– review and approval of post model adjustments recorded by management; and
are intended to provide users with an understanding of the
estimated impact of the new standard, and as a result are more – review and approval of the output of IFRS 9 models and related transition impacts.
limited than the disclosure to be included in the 2018 financial We noted the controls were designed and operated effectively, in all material respects.
statements.
We understood and critically assessed classification and measurement decisions and the ECL models
We have deemed the disclosure of the impact of IFRS 9 for developed by the Group. This included using our credit modelling experts in our assessment of
impairment an area of focus because of the significant changes judgements and assumptions supporting the ECL requirements of the standard. We re-performed
introduced by the standard. Under the new impairment model, certain model calculations to confirm the risk parameter outputs and the results were appropriate.
losses are recognised on an expected credit loss basis. Expected
We assessed the reasonableness of forward looking information incorporated into the impairment
credit losses ('ECLs') are required to incorporate forward-looking
calculations by using our experts and specialists to challenge the multiple economic scenarios chosen
information, reflecting management’s view of potential future
and the weighting applied to capture non-linear losses.
economic environments. The complexity involved requires
management to develop new methodologies involving the use of We considered post-model adjustments in the context of key model and data limitations identified by
significant judgements. management, challenged their rationale and recalculated where necessary.
Separately, the standard introduces new requirements around We tested the underlying disclosures related to the transition impact and reconciled the disclosed
the classification and measurement of financial instruments, impact to underlying accounting records.
potentially resulting in fair value differences. Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies, modelled assumptions, data
In order to meet the requirements of the new standard, used within the models, resulting outputs and overlays to modelled outputs are appropriate.
significant changes have also been made to systems, processes
and controls with effect from 1 January 2018.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 165
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Other code provisions
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when:
– The statement given by the directors, on page 83, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable,
and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Group’s and parent company’s position and performance, business model and
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
– The section of the Annual Report on page 73 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us
to the Audit Committee.
– The directors’ statement relating to the parent company’s compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of
the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors’ remuneration
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. (CA06)
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 83, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are responsible for such
internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as a going
concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to
liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Use of this report
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any
other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not
visited by us; or
– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting
records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment
Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 21 December 1995 to audit the financial statements for
the year ended 31 December 1995 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 23 years, covering the years ended
31 December 1995 to 31 December 2017. The audit was tendered in 2014 and we were re-appointed with effect from 1 January 2016. There will be a
mandatory rotation for the 2021 audit.
Mark Hannam (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
20 February 2018