ENVIRONMENTAL,
SOCIAL AND
GOVERNANCE
REPORT
Lloyds Banking Group
2020
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 1
INSIDE THIS REPORT
About this report 2
About Lloyds Banking Group 3
Being a responsible business 4
Our purpose 6
Our approach to responsible business 7
and ESG performance
Our Helping Britain Prosper Plan 10
Our COVID-19 response 12
Strategic review 2021 14
Helping Britain Recover 15
Our environmental and social performance 19
– Helping the transition to a sustainable 19
low-carbon economy (including TCFD disclosures)
– ESG in lending and investment 36
– Championing Britain’s diversity 39
– Assisting our customers 44
APPENDICES
– Supporting businesses and SMEs 45
Appendix 1: ESG data sheet 65
– Helping Britain get a home 48
Appendix 2: Equator Principles
– Building financial resilience 50
Transaction Table 72
– Supporting our communities 54
Appendix 3: Our Helping Britain
Prosper Plan full performance
– Supporting our colleagues 57
report 2018–2020 73
– Conducting our business responsibly 61
Appendix 4: Principles for
Responsible Banking Progress Report 74
Appendix 5: Global Reporting
Initiative content index 81
Appendix 6: Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 93
Appendix 7: Deloitte Independent
Assurance Report 99
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 2
About this report
Our reporting is evolving
This is our first Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) We have continued to review and enhance
Report. We have noted a shift in stakeholders increasing our methodologies and framework for The below symbols indicate
reporting our ESG performance. This which underlying areas of ESG
their focus on ESG performance when assessing the overall
review has taken into account a range of performance support our societal
success of a company. We have listened to our investors’ industry guidelines including the Task Force ambitions. Our 2020 environmental
and stakeholders’ feedback, to make this document a more for Climate-related Financial Disclosures and social performance in each of
useful tool for understanding and engaging with our ESG (TCFD), the Principles for Responsible these areas is discussed in more
Banking (PRB), the Global Reporting detail in this report.
performance for all of our stakeholders, including shareholders.
Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainability
This means we are responding more clearly to the key ESG Accounting Standards Board (SASB). We Selected disclosures related to
good governance practices that
topics which emerged during our 2020 materiality exercise, will continue to engage with the emerging
support conducting our business in
World Economic Forum ESG reporting
while reporting back on the progress of our Helping Britain a responsible manner are included
metrics and the development of these
Prosper Plan. in this report. Further disclosures
disclosure standards. related to the governance of the Additional links
Scope of this report Group can be found in the 2020
Lloyds Banking Group SASB Index
The report covers the period from Annual Report and Accounts.
1 January to 31 December 2020 and, E Environmental Lloyds Banking Group GRI Index
where relevant to performance, refers
to activities and events before and after Our environmental indicator relates Lloyds Banking Group PRB Self-
this period. to areas of our performance which Assessment Template
have an environmental impact.
Assurance Our Responsible Business
Deloitte LLP has provided limited
S Social
Downloads Centre
Our social indicator relates to areas
assurance over selected environmental
of our performance in respect of our Our Investor Relations ESG
and social key performance indicators.
management of relationships with webpage
The assurance statement can be found
employees, suppliers, customers and
on pages 99 and 100 of this report. Our 2021 ESG Investor
the communities within which
Presentation
we operate.
Lloyds Banking Group 2020
G Governance
Annual Report and Accounts
Our governance indicator relates to
areas of performance that support Lloyds Banking Group 2020
good governance practices and Gender Pay Gap Report
facilitate Lloyds Banking Group being
Lloyds Banking Group 2020
considered a responsible business.
Ethnicity Pay Gap Report
Helping Britain Prosper
priority areas Lloyds Banking Group UN Global
Our 2020 performance on our seven Compact Communication
priority Helping Britain Prosper areas Our Helping Britain Prosper Plan
can be identified in the following text
by this indicator. The Big Conversation – Helping
Britain Recover Report
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 3
About Lloyds Banking Group
Lloyds Banking Group is an The Group has a unique customer
integrated UK financial services proposition enabling us to serve the
financial needs of our customers in one
leader. We are the largest
place. We operate multiple brands
UK retail and commercial through three core divisions: Retail,
financial services provider Commercial Banking, and Insurance
with approximately 25 million and Wealth. The Group’s main business
activities include retail and commercial
customers and a presence in
banking, general insurance and long-term
nearly every community within savings, provided through multiple Retail Commercial Banking Insurance and Wealth
the UK. well-recognised brands including Lloyds
Bank, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and
Our Retail division is a leading provider Our Commercial Banking division has a Our Insurance and Wealth division
Scottish Widows.
of current accounts, savings, credit cards, rich heritage of supporting businesses helps millions of customers with their
loans, mortgages, insurance and and the economic prosperity of the nation, long-term protection, retirement and
motor finance. primarily focused on UK businesses and investment needs.
those with strong links to the UK.
We have one guiding focus – to be the Our Insurance business is one of the
best bank for customers by improving We provide customers with the support largest in the UK. We have a strong
customer service and earning trust and they need to help them grow, manage heritage, helping our customers every
loyalty from making customers central to risk and enhance efficiency. We continue day with their diverse and critical needs
everything we do. With our strong brands, to invest in our relationship teams and including life insurance, pensions,
including Lloyds Bank, Halifax and Bank of deepen our product expertise to ensure investments and general insurance
Scotland, our Retail division serves millions we deliver first-class service. (home and car).
of customers.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Doing the right thing for our customers, colleagues and P rudent, low-risk business with strong capital position.
shareholders – by meeting their financial needs, helping them Being low risk is fundamental to our business model.
succeed, improving our service proposition and creating Our low risk appetite is reflected through the quality of
value for them – is fundamental to our business model and our loan portfolio and underwriting criteria. Our financial
25 million
the long-term sustainability of the business. strength has been transformed in recent years and our
capital position is strong
M ulti-brand, multi-channel proposition with the UK’s
customers and a presence largest digital bank and branch network Purpose-driven and customer-focused culture. Our clear
in nearly every community purpose of Helping Britain Prosper is driving the business
Differentiated and sustainable customer franchise with
and our current focus on Helping Britain Recover is at the
98% leading integrated propositions. Our scale and reach
heart of our evolution of strategy
across the UK means that our franchise extends to over
25 million customers, with 17.4 million digitally active Inclusive and diverse organisation. Being one of the largest
of our employees work employers in the country, we will further focus on developing
in the UK M arket-leading efficiency through tech-enabled an inclusive, diverse, skilled and future-ready workforce
productivity improvements enabling us to invest more to
3,000 the benefit of both customers and shareholders Rigorous execution and management discipline.
Experience of delivering change in recent years provides
benefit as we further transform the business
Our active supplier base
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 4
Being a responsible business
Letter from the Chair of the Responsible Business Committee
These priorities were captured in the 2020 also saw the Group be the first As I approach the end of my nine-
Helping Britain Prosper Plan (HBPP), FTSE 100 business to commit to a public year term on the Board, I reflect on
which formed the backbone of the work target of 3 per cent of senior roles being how far we have travelled, in putting
within the Bank to ensure we delivered taken by Black colleagues, following on responsible business, and our Helping
on the public commitments we made, from our earlier public commitment to Britain Prosper Plan, at the heart of our
whether these related to household work towards 40 per cent of senior roles business. Achieving external recognition
finances, equality and diversity within being held by women and 10 per cent for this, through organisations such as
the Group, tackling disadvantage in our being held by colleagues from a Black, ShareAction or the Bloomberg Gender-
communities, including through our four Asian and Minority Ethnic background. Equality Index is satisfying, but much
charitable Foundations, or in supporting Targets are not a goal in themselves, but more important is the way the business
the UK transition to a lower-carbon they are a tool through which to highlight now places responsible business firmly at
economy. and reinforce the changes in behaviours the heart of its words and actions.
that are needed to create a truly inclusive
Our company’s purpose, to The HBPP has constantly evolved since culture that reflects the diversity of the As one of the UK’s largest businesses,
it was first published in 2014 and has Lloyds Banking Group will focus on
UK today.
Help Britain Prosper, runs throughout become increasingly embedded into the substantial contribution it can
the day-to-day work of the Group. Not Looking ahead into 2021, as the make to many of today’s most pressing
our work, as we help customers
only did it make our priorities visible HBPP draws to a close, the Group will challenges: accelerating the transition
achieve their goals on a daily basis. to everyone, inside and outside the continue its work on these key critical to a low-carbon economy; expanding
organisation, but it ensured transparency aspects of responsible business with a the availability of affordable and quality
Sara Weller CBE of our performance and allowed renewed focus of Helping Britain Recover, homes; helping to rebuild households’
Independent Director stakeholders to hold us to account on in alignment with our ongoing purpose financial health and wellbeing;
our progress. of Helping Britain Prosper, and work to supporting businesses to recover, adapt
make this a recovery with environmental and grow; and building an inclusive
2020 has brought great change in
sustainability and social inclusivity at its society and organisation. Our focus of
the way we all live and work. Our
heart. Helping Britain Recover will allow the
colleagues have worked to support our
Group to play our part in rebuilding the
£12bn Lloyds Banking Group has a long history customers and communities through There are many milestones to be reached
economy and society with commitments
supporting people and businesses across this time with extraordinary resilience in 2021. We will look to increase the
that will support a recovery that is
the country, and as Britain’s largest retail and resourcefulness. The Group has extent of our reporting disclosures on
of lending through sustainable and includes all the nations
and commercial bank, the Group takes its continued to put serving customers and environmental measures towards full
government-backed and regions in our society.
role in the UK economy and society very supporting colleagues at the heart of its compliance with the recommendations
lending schemes
seriously. operation. Over 90 per cent of branches of the TCFD standards. We will work with I would like to welcome Amanda Mackenzie,
remained open throughout the deepest customers to return them to financial who will be taking on the role as Chair
1.8m With a very wide range of ESG issues
periods of lockdown; since 2018, stability after a year of intense disruption of the Responsible Business Committee
currently under the spotlight, each year
1.8 million people have been supported for many individuals and businesses. following my retirement from the Board in
the Board, advised by its Responsible
people have been to move online; during 2020, 1.3 million And we will support the country’s aim 2021. Amanda has been a Non-Executive
Business Committee which I chair,
trained in digital skills payment holidays have been granted to recover sustainably by providing Director since October 2018, and is a
listens to a range of stakeholder views
to retail customers; £12 billion was lent increased green finance to businesses current member of the Responsible
c.1.3m to identify the most material issues through government-backed lending to help them prepare for, and take Business Committee. I am confident
affecting the Group and to prioritise
schemes; and the Group made over advantage of the opportunities created she will continue to support the Group’s
areas for particular focus, where the
750,000 calls to check on the wellbeing of by the transition to lower-carbon growth, progress in delivering our purpose.
payment holidays have Group believes it can make the
our customers when isolation prevented in areas such as housing, real estate and
been granted to retail greatest contribution. We hope our successes to date, and
them from going out. vehicles.
customers ambitions in achieving a positive societal
impact, are reflected and demonstrated
in this report.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 5
Being a responsible business
Our long-term ESG focus is supported by our awards and ratings
RECOGNITION OF OUR ACTIVITY OUR PERFORMANCE ON ESG INDICES
Lloyds Banking Group received the following accolades in 2020. We continue to review our scores, enhance our disclosures and actively engage with rating
agencies and ESG indices to address the information needs of our stakeholders in this space.
Category Award detail
ESG index and scoring 2018 2019 2020
Ethnicity Investing in Ethnicity Awards 2020: Outstanding Employer
MSCI BBB BBB AA
Scale: AAA to CCC, AAA as a best possible score
Gender equality Recognised for leading the way towards an equal and more Sustainalytics 27 24.4 23.3
inclusive workforce Scale: 0–100, 0 as a best possible score
ISS-ESG Corporate rating C C C
Scale: D- to A+, A+ as a best possible score
Women in business Featured in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women S&P Global CSA/DJSI 47 45 43
Scale: Ranking of companies, 100 as a best possible score
FTSE4Good 4.2 4.4 4.6
Scale: 0–5, 5 as a best possible score
Bloomberg ESG Disclosure 57 58 58
Working families/ Recognised for the sixth consecutive year as a Top 10 Employer for
Scale: 0–100, with 100 as a best possible score
agility Working Families
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index N/A 83% 83%
Scale: 0%–100%, with 100% as a best possible score
Culture Your Best, our employee career development and performance CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) A A A-
management approach, has been successful in nine awards so far Scale: A+ to F, with A+ as a best possible score
including the Best Large Organisation for Culture in the Business
Culture Awards, the Learning and Development award from ShareAction – Banking on a Low Carbon Future II N/A 2nd N/A
Investors in People, and the Best Change Management Initiative Rated 16th in 2017
from the Personnel Today Awards Scale: Ranking of 20 banks, 1st being the best
ranking score
COVID-19 response Mitie and Lloyds Banking Group jointly won an Institute of
in our facilities Workplace and Facilities Management Impact Award for our Responsibility100 Index (Tortoise) N/A 17th 8th
COVID-19 response: Keeping Good Work Going Award Lloyds Banking Group provide an annual
submission in March 2020
Scale: Ranking of 100 FTSE listed companies,
1st being the best ranking score
Workforce Disclosure Initiative 83% 75% 85%
Scale: Number of questions with a meaningful response
expressed as a percentage, 100% as a best possible score
N/A indicates a year that we did not participate in the index.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 6
Our purpose
Our purpose is to Help Britain For more than 320 years, with our unique We have an important role to play in
Prosper. This is central to family of brands, we have supported Britain’s recovery, working with others to
Britain through the good times and the help build an inclusive, greener and more
our strategy and underpins
bad: this time is no different. We have and resilient economy for the whole of the UK.
everything we do. Our Helping will continue to support our customers
We aim to help our customers, clients,
Britain Prosper Plan was and colleagues to get through these
colleagues and communities get through
introduced to address some extraordinary times.
the crisis and back on their feet, while
of the social, economic and In 2014, the Group launched the Helping delivering long-term sustainable success
environmental challenges Britain Prosper Plan to address some of for shareholders.
the social, economic and environmental
facing the UK and has Further information related to our purpose
challenges facing the UK. This was a
underpinned our ESG priorities. unique undertaking at the time as the is on page 12 of the Lloyds Banking Group
Annual Report and Accounts 2020.
Plan took us beyond business as usual,
uniting the Group behind an inspiring
set of objectives.
Additional links
L loyds Banking Group Homepage
L loyds Banking Group Annual
Report and Accounts 2020
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 7
Our approach to responsible business
and ESG performance
OUR ESG APPROACH IS GUIDED BY OUR PURPOSE
With the Group’s unique At Lloyds Banking Group, being a
As a large listed company, the Group is increasingly confronted
position at the heart of the responsible business means operating
ethically and inclusively, meeting our with environmental and social factors such as climate change,
British economy, we embrace
legal and regulatory requirements, and colleague safety, diversity of workforce and relationships with
our responsibility to help always considering the impact on our
regulators and the communities in which we operate.
address some of the economic, employees, the community, society and
the environment.
social and environmental The recognition and management of ESG issues allows us to
challenges that the UK faces. Our ESG approach is fully aligned to deliver a business model that provides broader societal support,
Our success is inextricably our strategy and the interests of our generates sustainable returns for shareholders, and attracts and
stakeholders. The ESG aspects of our
linked to the health and success performance play an integral part in the retains best-in-class employees.
of the UK. delivery of the Lloyds Banking Group
purpose and strategy and, without them,
it would not be possible to make progress
and achieve our societal goals.
Through our societal commitments
published externally and wider ESG and
responsible business activities, we are
actively supporting the UN’s sustainable
development agenda, and supporting the
UK in working towards the UN Sustainable
Development Goals.
This will continue to be the case with
the updated focus on Helping Britain
Recover and our Helping Britain
Recover commitments.
Memberships which support
Read more about our Helping Britain
our activities:
Prosper Plan
U nited Nations Environment
Programme Finance Initiative
(UNEP FI) Principles for
Responsible Banking
U nited Nations Global Compact
B usiness in the Community
P rinciples for Responsible
Investment
U NEP FI Principles for Sustainable
Insurance
T ask Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 8
Our approach to responsible business
and ESG performance
Responsible Committee changes
Sara Weller will have served nine years as
business LLOYDS BANKING GROUP BOARD
a Non-Executive Director in February
governance and 2021, and accordingly plans to retire as
Chair of the RBC and a Non-Executive
accountability Director at the AGM in May 2021. Amanda
Mackenzie, a Non-Executive Director
Responsible Business Committee
since October 2018, will take on the
Creating and sustaining a role as Chair of the RBC following Sara’s
values-led culture with retirement from the Board.
good governance is crucial
Sarah Legg, a Non-Executive Director
to ensuring that our colleagues since December 2019 and Chair of
remain engaged, well informed the Audit Committee, has been
appointed as a member of the RBC
and able to effectively deliver
with effect from 1 February 2021.
our strategy.
Robin Budenburg Sara Weller Alan Dickinson
“We established the Board-level RBC in Chair of the Board Non-Executive Director, Chair Non-Executive Director
Our internal governance and controls, 2015 as a further demonstration of our
comprising numerous policies and commitment to sustainability and to put
standards, aim to treat all stakeholders customers and communities at the heart
fairly while minimising risk. of everything we do. I would like to thank
Sara for her leadership and commitment
Our Board-level Responsible Business
in chairing the Committee since then.
Committee (RBC) oversees the Group’s
The Board will miss Sara’s contribution
performance as a responsible business
and counsel. Amanda’s customer focus
and delivery of our sustainability strategy.
has been a major asset to the RBC, and Amanda Mackenzie Lord Lupton Stuart Sinclair
Both the Board and RBC are supported
I am very pleased Amanda has agreed Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director
by the Group Executive Committee,
to take on the role of Chair of this
which is in turn supported by a dedicated
Committee. I am also grateful to Sarah for
Sustainability Committee.
taking on this important additional role.”
Purpose of the Committee: Challenge on those activities which impact on the
Robin Budenburg O versight of and support for Lloyds Banking Group’s Group’s behaviour and reputation as a trusted,
Group Chair strategy and plans for delivering the organisations’ sustainable and inclusive responsible business
aspirations to be a trusted, sustainable and inclusive Recommend to the Board for approval of the ESG
responsible business, aligned to our purpose of Report, the Helping Britain Prosper Plan and Helping
Helping Britain Prosper Britain Recover commitments
Group Executive Committee
Our Responsible Business Committee Report can be found on page 110 of the 2020 Annual Report and Accounts
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 9
Our approach to responsible business
and ESG performance
OUR 2020 STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIAL ESG ISSUES
Understanding the
Our 2020 materiality analysis identified a number of critical themes which we have addressed through this report:
issues that matter to
our stakeholders
Our stakeholders How we engage Material topics identified through engagement Our response
Engaging and responding to stakeholders Colleagues ESG investor presentations The transition to a low-carbon Page 19
is fundamental to being a responsible economy
business. Investors and shareholders ESG reporting
Environmental risks in lending Page 36
Each year we gather a wide range of views Clients ESG index responses
through our formal materiality assessment Race action and inclusion Page 40
with our stakeholders, which guides both ESG ratings agencies Annual reporting
our strategy and reporting. ESG analysts Meetings, email communication S an u d p p v o ul r n ti e n r g a b fo le r v g u ro ln u e p ra s ble customers Page 44
We engage with stakeholders in many and telephonic communications
Communities
different ways during our regular business Support for businesses and small or Page 45
Press releases medium-sized businesses (SMEs)
activities, in face-to-face meetings about Non-governmental organisations (NGOs)
s fi p n e an ci c fi i c a l i s p s e u r e fo s r s m uc a h n c a e s , r a e n g d u l i a n t c io re n a o si r n gly Regulators and governments C th o ro m u m gh u n o i u ca r t in io te n r t c o h e an m g p e l o s y it e e e s s Financial resilience Page 50
through social media, such as digital Industry bodies Access to skills Page 46
broadcasts. We conduct a dedicated Client events
responsible business materiality Suppliers Financial education Page 50
Engagement with industry bodies
assessment every year to help us shape
and participation on sector working Adaptation to ways of working due to Page 57
our corporate reporting and inform our
groups and forums the pandemic
strategic thinking.
Direct engagements with investors, Health and wellbeing of colleagues Page 57
This year we used insights gathered from
NGOs, shareholders and clients on
stakeholders including investors, industry Colleague training Page 59
ESG matters
bodies, special interest groups and key
opinion formers. Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic Page 32 of the 2020 Annual Report
on the Group and Accounts
Disclosure standards such as the GRI and Pages 44–64
SASB were considered in the identification
of material issues and disclosures. Customer data security Page 63
Our approach to materiality Key decisions taken by the Board to reflect the needs of our stakeholders can be found on page 46 of the Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020.
Our materiality assessment comprises four
stages: issue identification, prioritisation, How materiality informs shaped by the materiality process outputs.
validation and review. Through this our reporting The categories and issues ranked as most
process, a wide range of issues relating material directly inform the content of our
directly to ESG performance and impacts The findings of the materiality assessment 2020 Annual Report and Accounts, and
related to the financial sector were were discussed and validated internally. this report.
identified. Our Group Sustainable Business team and
our external advisers reviewed the process
and its outcomes, and our reporting was
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 10
Our Helping Britain Prosper Plan
Addressing some of the social, In 2014, the Group announced its clear Originally tracking our progress against
economic and environmental and focused purpose to Help Britain numerous metrics, over the years as a result
Prosper, and we were the first bank to of reviews of our context, the economy, our
challenges facing the UK is
launch a plan setting out how we intended strengths as an organisation and stakeholder
the foundation of our Helping to help address some of the economic engagements, we have continually refined and
Britain Prosper Plan. The plan and social challenges the UK faces. re-focused our plan and our metrics on the
things that we think matter most.
has taken us beyond business In 2018, as part of its inclusion in the
as usual, focusing our effort on Group Balanced Scorecard, we set
key identified areas of societal specific targets across six areas of focus
aligned to our three-year strategy,
benefit in the UK economy.
including environmental sustainability.
Being a responsible business:
The Helping Britain
Prosper Plan journey 2014 2015 2018 2019
The Group was the first FTSE 100 The Helping Britain Prosper Plan was We developed a renewed Helping Britain We introduced a new area of focus:
company to set a public goal on reviewed to ensure its continued relevance Prosper Plan for the 2018–2020 period helping the transition to a sustainable
gender diversity. to our business and our stakeholders. reflecting our new strategy. low-carbon economy, increasing the
number of our key priority areas.
We were the first FTSE 100 company to
target an increase in the proportion
of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
colleagues at both an overall and senior
management level.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 11
Our Helping Britain Prosper Plan
SASB indicator:
FN-CB-240a.1
FN-CB-240a.2
Our Helping Britain Prosper priorities FN-CB-240a.4
Helping the transition to a Tackling social disadvantage Helping people save
sustainable low-carbon economy across Britain for the future
Average number of homes that could Number of charities we supported in 2020 Growth in assets that we hold on behalf
be powered as a result of our support as a result of our £100 million commitment of customers in retirement and investment
of UK renewable energy projects to the Group’s independent charitable products
Foundations
10.1m £45.6bn
Target: 5m Target: £50bn
2,787
Target: 2,500
2020
Helping Britain get a home Building capability Supporting businesses
Our final year of implementation Amount of lending committed to help people and digital skills to start up and grow
of our Helping Britain Prosper buy their first home Number of individuals, SMEs and charities Increased amount of net lending to start-up,
Plan 2018–2020. £39.7bn trained in digital skills, including internet SME and Mid Market businesses
Target: £30bn banking
>£6bn
Our full performance from 1.8m Target: £6bn
2018 to 2020 can be found on Target: 1.8m
page 73 of this report.
Indicator is subject to limited ISAE3000 (revised) Championing Britain’s diversity
assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2020 Annual
Responsible Business Reporting. Deloitte’s Percentage of senior roles held by women Percentage of roles held by Black, Asian Percentage of senior roles held by Black,
2020 assurance statement and the 2020
Reporting Criteria are available online at in 2020 and Minority Ethnic colleagues in 2020 Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues in 2020
https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/
our-group/responsible-business/reporting- 37% 10.6% 7.7%
centre/. Target: 40% Target: 10% Target: 8%
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 12
Our COVID-19 response
Supporting
During an extraordinarily challenging
time we are Helping Britain Recover,
as part of our Group purpose of customers
Helping Britain Prosper.
Many people continue to feel the impact of the past year on
We have lent over £12 billion to help
their personal finances. We have approved around 1.3 million
businesses bounce back and granted payment holidays for our customers who have mortgages,
around 1.3 million payment holidays to personal loans, credit cards and car finance with us since the
start of the outbreak, and are helping our customers to re-plan
support customers, while increasing
their finances.
customer satisfaction, strengthening
our franchise with growth in deposits Our Group Our dedicated telephone services, with extended opening
hours for the over-70s and NHS workers, have taken around
and further enhancing our leading
880,000 calls since the end of March, allowing us to
digital proposition, which now serves prioritise support for these customers and their urgent needs.
17.4 million customers. We have and will continue to support our We’ve also proactively made over 750,000 calls to
customers and colleagues to get through check on the wellbeing of our vulnerable customers.
these extraordinary times. These services will continue.
We have an important role to play in Britain’s
recovery, working with others to help build an
inclusive, greener and more resilient economy
for the whole of the UK.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 13
Our COVID-19 response
Supporting
communities
The effects of coronavirus will remain for some time to
come; that’s why we’re providing extra practical and
emotional support for the most vulnerable in society.
Supporting
Through a range of new and existing partnerships, we
are providing extra capacity in friendship services, mental
businesses health programmes and digital skills training. We have also
provided £25.5 million to our charitable Foundations
n 2020 and have guaranteed the same funding for 2021,
As a result of the lockdowns, businesses are facing challenges to keep those who are isolated connected and give
like never before. Many have been forced to close and furlough people support when they need it most.
their staff, while others have had to adapt to external changes.
Whatever situation our business customers have faced,
we’ve stood by their side.
We have supported them to obtain more than £12 billion
in finance through the government schemes, helped
them to manage their cash flow by granting around
34,000 capital repayment holidays and
helped their working capital by agreeing around Supporting
22,000 businesses fee free overdrafts.
We are doing our best to help and advise British businesses our colleagues
of all sizes so that, as lockdown eases, they can adapt their
business models to re-open safely and profitably.
We’re taking every precaution to protect our colleagues.
More than 50,000 colleagues worked from home
for most of 2020, up from 15,000 before the pandemic,
and this will continue, until at least summer 2021.
Where our colleagues are providing an essential
service for the UK, such as in our call centres and
branches, we are following social distancing rules,
to keep both our colleagues and customers safe.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 14
Strategic Review 2021
Lloyds Banking Group is a customer- The UK’s preferred financial partner
focused, sustainable, efficient and Through delivery of the strategy, we Building the UK’s preferred
low-risk UK financial services leader with intend to create the preferred financial
the clear purpose of Helping Britain partner for personal customers and financial partner
Prosper. The next phase of our strategy, the best bank for business. Delivery of
Strategic Review 2021, is focused on our customer-centric ambitions will be
Helping Britain Recover and further supported by accelerating the Group’s
enhancing our core capabilities. transformation, with particular focus on:
Through this approach, which is focused D elivering a modernised technology
on near-term execution and underpinned architecture
by our longer-term strategic vision, we B uilding an integrated payments
are aiming to capture the coordinated platform
growth opportunities available to us in
Creating a data-driven organisation
our two core business areas by creating
the UK’s preferred financial partner for I mplementing re-imagined ways
personal customers and of working
the best bank for business.
Our superior cost structure has enabled
Strategic Review 2021 builds on our core us to maintain high levels of strategic
capabilities and the strong foundations investment. We will invest around
from previous strategic reviews, £0.9 billion this year to support the
reinforcing our customer focus. We have Strategic Review 2021 initiatives and
made significant progress in recent the long-term strength of the business.
years, leveraging the unique strengths
and assets of the Group, including our
purpose-driven and customer-focused
business model, our low-risk approach
to business, our market-leading
efficiency and our leading multi-channel
propositions, including the largest digital
bank and branch network in the UK. This
has created the platform for Strategic
Review 2021.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 15
Helping Britain Recover
THE ROLE OF THE GROUP IN RESPONDING TO SOCIETAL ISSUES
As the task of rebuilding the We continue to embrace our responsibility to help address some of the biggest social, economic and environmental challenges.
economy and society begins,
we are playing our part to June 2019 Up to June 2020 Up to February 2021 2021 onwards
support the country’s recovery. Group’s role in the society Strategic options and Short- and medium-term Ongoing development as
Having helped over a million of the future societal areas of focus societal response part of business strategy
households and hundreds of
thousands of businesses in 2020, As part of the regular annual strategy Building on these discussions, working Based on the outcomes of the Board We will continue to build on our
meeting reviewing the Group’s strategic with external advisers such as Social and senior management discussions, strengths to identify new opportunities
our purpose of Helping Britain
context and direction, the Board and Finance and influenced by thinking of the Group developed both short- and to contribute to building a more
Prosper very much remains.
senior management took part in a organisations such as Blueprint for Better medium-term societal responses as part sustainable and inclusive society and
We are committed to discussion on the evolving obligations Business, the Group reviewed societal of formulation of business plans under take a leadership role to contribute
supporting a recovery for a to the society of the future, and how trends shaping the lives and prospects the Strategic Review 2021. and realise positive societal and
the Group can play a more active role for individuals and families in the UK, and business benefits.
sustainable and inclusive society. Recognising the continued need
in responding to societal challenges in identified key areas of focus where the
to support people, businesses and To support our efforts, we will continue
line with its purpose of Helping Britain Group could play a more prominent role.
communities across the UK through to embed societal considerations into
Prosper.
Alongside this, a strategic framework the pandemic, the short-term response our Group strategy, decision-making,
The debate was aided by external enabling the incorporation of societal focuses on helping Britain to recover, processes and culture, and evaluate our
speakers, who offered their views and considerations into business operations while establishing a longer-term societal impact.
gave the Group new perspectives and was developed to assist in strategy foundation for the Group to play a role
impetuses. development. in building a sustainable and inclusive
society and economy.
High-level strategic options were
discussed with the Board and senior Our commitments for 2021 are
management as part of their annual summarised in Helping Britain Recover.
strategic discussion in June 2020. See pages 17 and 18.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 16
Helping Britain Recover
We have considered and consulted a wide range of stakeholders when developing
our societal response and our Helping Britain Recover commitments
Customers and clients
Regulators
We always listen to our customers’ and
clients’ feedback and views, respond We maintain a regular and proactive
to their needs and evaluate our broad dialogue with our regulators on a wide
insights to be able to react more range of topics which include, among
effectively. Specifically, in preparing others, our culture, purpose and
our strategy, we ran bespoke research responsibility to our customers and
looking at people’s expectations of wider society.
financial institutions and where these
should play a more active role. As part
of The Big Conversation, a series of
discussions focusing on rebuilding the Corporate stakeholders
country after the pandemic, we also
A wide range of corporate stakeholders,
explored the views of a broad range of
including opinion makers, community
our clients and discussed the support
leaders and politicians at national
they think is needed from financial
and local levels have been involved in
services to get people and businesses
discussions about our role in society,
in the UK back on their feet.
most prominently through the regional
thematic discussions under the Big
Conversation series.
Colleagues Shareholders
Our people are one of our key We are committed to delivering
competitive strengths and, as such, we sustainable returns to our shareholders.
are continuously striving to be a better We are proud to have the largest retail
employer, evaluating what we hear shareholder base in the UK as well
from our regular colleague surveys. as belonging to portfolios of most
We regularly learn that purpose and pension funds, and are devoted to
its reflection in their day-to-day job is maintain a dialogue with all types of
very important to our colleagues. When our shareholders. As part of this, we are
developing our societal strategy, we increasingly engaging on a variety of
have been working across the Group, ESG topics, improving our disclosure
ensuring that a wide range of people is and communications and were one of
involved and their views are reflected. the first UK financial institutions with a
dedicated investor relations contact
for ESG.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 17
Helping Britain Recover
We recognise that the focus of the
Group’s purpose must evolve in
Help rebuild households’ Support businesses to Expand availability of
response to the current environment
and changing customer needs and financial health and wellbeing recover, adapt and grow affordable and quality homes
expectations. We will help rebuild households’ financial health We will support businesses to recover, adapt We will expand the availability of affordable
and wellbeing and grow and quality homes
With the evolution of our strategy, we will further
embed our purpose across all of our activities.
This will ensure we contribute to creating an
environmentally sustainable and inclusive future
for the UK and by doing so build a successful and We remain committed to supporting our customers We will be by the side of businesses as they recover, As the UK recovers from the pandemic, we aspire to
sustainable business. to become financially resilient and to plan and save supporting UK business to adapt and grow, and a UK in which all households have access to stable,
for the future. We will provide practical support, and create quality jobs across the regions of the UK. affordable and safe homes in places they want to live.
The COVID-19 pandemic will have lasting social flexibility where possible, to help our customers facing We are committed to broadening access to home
In 2021, we will:
and economic effects on the UK. Its impact has financial difficulty to get back on track and help as ownership and exploring opportunities to increase
been felt by everyone, whether through financial many customers as we can to stay in their own home. Develop appropriate recovery plans for our support to the UK rental sector.
hardship, reduced choices, mental distress or our customers, supported by 1,100 business
personal loss. Our focus will therefore be to Help In 2021, we will: specialists in communities across Britain In 2021, we will:
Britain Recover, and we are committed to working H ave over 6,500 colleagues trained to support Support at least 75,000 UK businesses to Provide £10 billion of lending to help people to
with others in five areas where we can make the customers to build their financial resilience start up in 2021 buy their first home in 2021, and lead a national
most difference. M aintain our commitment to supporting mental conversation on how more households can access
Help at least 185,000 small businesses boost
Through Helping Britain Recover and wider health, and become accredited as Mental Health their digital capability through our regional the housing market
responsible business activities, we will be actively Accessible for Halifax and Bank of Scotland, in academies, partnerships and digital mentoring Provide £1.5 billion of new funding support,
supporting the UN’s sustainable development addition to the existing Lloyds Bank accreditation including £500 million in ESG-linked funding,
agenda, using our key skills to focus our resources P artner with independent debt advice in support of the social housing sector
on making an impactful benefit to the UK and organisations to ensure customers have access S upport the creation of national sustainability
working towards the realisation of the UN to practical support standards for housebuilding finance and assess
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). the energy retrofit requirements of over
Our near-term focus of Helping Britain Recover 200,000 homes in the social housing sector
allows the Group to focus our business strategy,
harness our expertise within the Group to make
We engage with a range of stakeholders, industry-led bodies and collaborative memberships on topics, progress in our sector and impacts of our business in
an impactful contribution to addressing some of
support of the achievement of the SDGs. We are members of the UK Finance Sustainability Committee, TCFD and Sustainable Finance working groups, and
the issues highlighted in the SDGs, and assist in
UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking.
building a more inclusive and sustainable economy.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 18
Helping Britain Recover
Accelerate the transition Build an inclusive society
to a low-carbon economy and organisation
We will help accelerate the transition to a We will help build an inclusive society through our financial services
low-carbon economy offering and by creating an organisation that reflects the society we serve
With recovery comes an opportunity to build a greener future, We believe that the economic and social recovery should be one
creating new businesses and jobs. We want to play our part in that’s truly inclusive and involves communities across the UK’s
supporting the transition to net zero and are committed to working nations and regions.
with customers, government and the market to help reduce the
In 2021, we will:
carbon emissions we finance by more than 50 per cent by 2030 on
the path to net zero by 2050 or sooner. Set new aspirations for a leadership team that reflects the
society we serve, of 50 per cent women, 3 per cent Black and
In 2021, we will: 13 per cent Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues in senior
Expand the funding available under our green finance roles by 2025
initiatives from £3 billion to £5 billion, to support Maintain our £25.5 million contribution to our independent
businesses to transition charitable foundations, with the Lloyds Bank Foundation for
Launch a new goal to ensure our own operations are net zero England and Wales focusing 25 per cent of its support on
by 2030 Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic led charities
Become the first major pensions and insurance provider Support regional regeneration, including launching the Regional
to target halving the carbon footprint of all our c.£170bn Housing Growth Initiative, helping small- and medium-sized
investments by 2030 on our path to net zero by 2050 housebuilders create more homes in the North of England, the
Introduce a flagship fossil fuel-free fund to support green Midlands and the regions of Scotland
growth, allowing pension savers to choose to invest in UK Support financial inclusion by providing banking for groups of
companies pursuing a positive environmental impact people experiencing homelessness, financial abuse or victims of
modern slavery, and supporting the prisoner banking programme
We engage with a range of stakeholders, industry-led bodies and collaborative memberships on topics, progress in
our sector and impacts of our business in support of the achievement of the SDGs. We are members of the UK Finance
Sustainability Committee, TCFD and Sustainable Finance working groups, and UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 19
Our environmental and social performance
SASB indicator:
FN-CB-410a.2 FN-MF-450a.3
Progress in 2020
FN-IN-410b.2 FN-IN-410a.2
FN-CB-410a.1 FN-AC-401a.2
Helping Britain The UK Government has announced a the emerging industry standard
Supporting a green recovery
commitment to the vision of a sustainable methodology from the Partnership for
transition to a low-carbon future. Our unique position Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF).
within the UK economy means that We have also developed a specific In 2020, we joined more than 200 businesses, investors
sustainable low- the successful transition to a more emission intensity reduction ambition for and business organisations in calling on the Government
sustainable, low-carbon economy is of the power sector, the decarbonisation to deliver a clean, inclusive and resilient recovery plan.
carbon economy strategic importance to us. We support of which is critical to the UK achieving The letter recommended this plan drive investment
the aims of the 2015 Paris Agreement, its climate targets. We will continue in low-carbon innovation, focused support on sectors
the UK Government’s net zero target to develop additional sector-specific and activities that can best support sustainable growth,
E S G
and Ten Point Plan for a Green Industrial ambitions throughout 2021. and that the Government include decarbonisation
Revolution, and the recommendations requirements within financial support packages to
More detail is provided in the metrics
Highlights of the TCFD. ensure that businesses align their strategies with national
and targets section (see page 32).
and international climate goals. Lloyds Banking Group
W e continue to make progress The economic recovery required post
in implementing our financed COVID-19 provides a critical opportunity Scottish Widows announced net zero also produced Financing a Green Future, outlining why
emissions reduction ambition on to drive clean growth and ensure that the targets for its investments in February we believe prioritising a green recovery is so critical and
the path to net zero by 2050 or UK’s decarbonisation requirements sit at 2021. We have published a target of the priority areas we thought should feature within any
sooner, working with customers, the heart of the UK’s policy framework. reaching net zero across our investment economic stimulus plan.
government and the market to help While the focus over the last year has book by 2050, with an intermediate
reduce the emissions we finance understandably been dominated by the target of halving our investments’ carbon
footprint by 2030. We intend to reach the
W e calculated our initial estimated coronavirus pandemic, Lloyds Banking
target through proactive investment in
view of 2018 financed emissions Group is a keen believer of the benefits
climate solutions, selective divestments
baseline and developed our first of building back greener. These benefits
and using our influence through stewardship
emissions intensity reduction arise from the unique ability of the
to drive the transition to a low-carbon
ambition for the power sector green economy to deliver the UK’s
future, following the Institutional Investors
broader economic objectives, namely:
W e continue to make progress Group on Climate Change’s (IIGCC) Net
job creation; creation of attractive
in the implementation of the Zero Investment Framework.
investment opportunities to increase UK
recommendations of the Task
Force on Climate-related Financial productivity; and supporting regional In order to meet our overall 2030 and
Disclosures (TCFD) development and the ability to deliver 2050 goals, we will continue to:
the UK’s climate goals.
W e have developed three new I dentify new ways to support our
operational climate pledges which Our strategy customers and clients with the
will accelerate our plan to tackle management of opportunities and risks U se our scale and reach to help
Our goal and approach
climate change and apply across associated with climate change, and the drive progress towards a sustainable
As a signal of our commitment we set
our operations transition to a low-carbon economy. and resilient UK economy through
an ambitious goal in 2020, working with
W e have launched several new green I dentify, manage and disclose material engagement with customers,
customers, government and the market
finance products, tools and services sustainability and climate-related risks communities, industry, government,
to help reduce the emissions we finance
in the year across the Group and their impacts on shareholders and suppliers.
by more than 50 per cent by 2030, on
the path to net zero by 2050 or sooner, the Group and its financial planning E mbed sustainability into the way
This section contains certain disclosures supporting both the UK Government’s processes, in line with the TCFD we do business and manage our own
in alignment with the recommendations ambition and the 2015 Paris Agreement. framework. This includes working operations in a more sustainable way.
of the TCFD. TCFD-related disclosures During the course of 2020, we have with industry bodies, specialist To support this we have updated Additional links
can also be found in the Lloyds Banking calculated an initial estimate of our 2018 consultancies and leading academics our operational climate pledges,
Group 2020 Annual Report and Accounts. financed emissions baseline, using to develop a robust climate risk setting a new net zero goal for 2030 L loyds Banking Group –
measurement capability. (see page 34). Financing a Green Future
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 20
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
OUR AMBITION
How we are delivering against our ambitions
We set ourselves seven leadership
In 2020, we have focused on enhancing our green finance products and services to achieve our ambitions. Examples of this include the following:
ambitions to support the UK’s
transition to a sustainable future:
Business
Business
Be a leading UK commercial bank for Since 2018, the Group has supported
sustainable growth, supporting our renewable energy projects that could The Lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland
clients to transition to sustainable power the equivalent of 10.1 million Green Buildings Tool was developed
business models and operations, homes, significantly exceeding our in partnership with CFP Green
and to pursue new clean growth Helping Britain Prosper Plan 2020 target. Buildings. The tool complements
opportunities our Green Lending Initiative in the C ontinued investment into its existing
A signature transaction in 2020 was the real estate and housing sectors, and
homes to maintain and exceed the
Homes £5.5 billion debt financing of Dogger Clean Growth Finance Initiatives
Welsh Housing Quality Standard
Be a leading UK provider of customer Bank A and Dogger Bank B offshore wind across all Commercial Banking
support for energy-efficient, farms. Alongside Dogger Bank C, which sectors I mproved energy efficiency of its
sustainable homes will be financed in 2021, these projects existing homes for its tenants and
constitute the 3.6GW Dogger Bank Wind to tackle fuel poverty (their energy-
Vehicles Farm project – the largest offshore wind A Sustainability Fixed Term Deposit Supporting efficiency ambitions exceed the current
Be a leading UK provider of development in the world. and 95 Day Notice Account were regulatory minimum standards)
low-emission/green vehicle fleets social housing
also launched where deposited T he delivery of 1,000 new affordable,
In 2020, we also launched several
Pensions and investments new green finance products, tools funds are used to support the same to transition energy-efficient homes by 2030
Be a leading UK pension provider and services. areas defined in our Sustainability (which includes low-energy, carbon-
that offers our customers and Bond Framework across ESG zero homes using timber frame and
offsite technology from their dedicated
colleagues sustainable investment
modular housing factory)
choices, and challenge the
We are supporting the ESG transition
companies we invest in to behave In addition, we also structured C ontinued social contribution by
of social housing with our first
more sustainably and responsibly and coordinated the first Sterling tackling homelessness and helping
Sustainability Linked Loan in the sector
Overnight Index Average (SONIA) local people, including tenants, to find
Insurance Sustainability Linked Loan for with a suite of ambitious environmental employment, training and volunteering
Be a leading UK insurer in improving Affinity Water and social key performance indicators.
the resilience of customers’ Cartrefi Conwy, a registered social This support builds on the commitment
lives against extreme weather landlord, owns and manages c.4,000 Lloyds Commercial Banking and Scottish
exacerbated by climate change These products build on our £3 billion affordable homes across North Wales. Widows has made as an early adopter
balance sheet commitments for of the external Sustainability Reporting
Green bonds Commercial Real Estate Green Lending We have provided our first Standard for Social Housing
Be a leading UK bank in the green/ and our Clean Growth Finance Initiative. Sustainability Linked Loan (Revolving
www.esgsocialhousing.co.uk
sustainable bonds market Credit Facility) to support their
corporate plan, which will enable:
Our own footprint
Be a leading UK bank in reducing
our own carbon footprint and
challenging our suppliers to ensure
Additional links
our own consumption of resources,
goods and services is sustainable
L loyds Banking Group Green
Bonds Framework
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 21
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Our ambition
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
Business continued Homes
Improving the energy efficiency of homes
is one of our key priorities. The UK is home
The UK Government has committed
to some of the oldest housing stock in
to reaching Net Zero by 2050. With our
Europe which is typically made up
homes making up 22 per cent of the UK’s
of less energy-efficient properties.
total carbon emissions, we all have a part
To help customers understand what
to play in reaching these targets.
energy-efficiency improvements they
can make to their home, we launched That’s why Halifax and Lloyds have
our Green Living and Eco Home Hub for collaborated with the Energy Saving Trust
Halifax and Lloyds customers, including to develop a home energy-saving tool.
an online tool. First in market among It helps individuals find out just how green
lenders, it provides mortgage customers Partnering with their home is and shows them how a few
with a tailored action plan on home changes could make their home more
improvements that could make their the Energy energy efficient.
home more sustainable.
It is very quick and easy to use – just
Saving Trust
To support Halifax customers with the cost answer a few questions about your home
of green home improvements, we have and it produces a personalised action plan
Partnering with also introduced a Green Living Reward with estimates of your EPC rating, energy
under the UK Department for Business, costs and your home’s CO emissions.
2
CFP Green Buildings Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS)
Green Home Finance Innovation Fund.
Built in association with sustainability These measures can be filtered by:
consultancy CFP Green Buildings, the
p otential impact on the Energy
Green Buildings Tool is a free-to-use
Performance Certificate (EPC) rating
tool for Commercial Banking clients that
calculates potential investments and i nvestment required
savings by combining benchmark data e stimated payback period
from CFP’s proprietary system with
p otential financial and CO savings
best practice related to buildings in 2
the areas of technology, operations, The tool is designed to be updated when
maintenance and management. measures are implemented or are not
applicable, so that an updated estimate
An easy-to-navigate dashboard generates
of the property portfolio is always
a tailored recommendation of over
available to review. The tool is intuitive
50 measures that could be taken to improve
and interactive, providing live updates to
the green credentials of a property,
estimates as measures are selected.
lower the running costs or reduce the
carbon footprint. The recommendations
are estimated based on the information
provided about the building in question,
while drawing on the information from
CFP’s proprietary system.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 22
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Our ambition
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
Vehicles
In 2020, we more than doubled the Every business with a vehicle fleet is For every business there will be different The Fuel Decision Tree helps customers
number of electric vehicles financed already somewhere on The Sustainability needs and challenges ahead. But Lex to understand if their driving is suited
through our Motor Finance and Leasing Curve – the path from conventionally Autolease is there to guide them all to an electric or plug-in hybrid vehicle,
subsidiaries, Lex Autolease and Black The fuelled vehicles to net-zero carbon the way to zero. We have developed helping to reduce the barriers to, and
Horse. Within Lex Autolease, electric emissions. And although green fleet many tools to help customers make uncertainties around, transitioning to
vehicles made up more than 10 per cent Sustainability transformation won’t happen overnight, that transition, one of which is the low-carbon vehicles.
of all new orders, which is double the evaluating a fleet’s fuel mix and reviewing Fuel Decision Tree, which is part
Curve Toolkit
overall percentage of new vehicles sold the fleet policy can begin right away. of The Sustainability Curve toolkit.
in the UK in 2020 that were electric.
ANY EV
OR PHEV
MID-
RANGE
ANY EV EV**
0 TO 50
51 TO 150 IS IT CONVENIENT TO
H D O O W Y M OU A N DR Y I M VE I L IN ES 151 TO 300 CH Y A O R U G R E J U O P U R D N U E R Y IN ? G 1 5 5 1 1 T T O O 1 3 5 0 0 0 R LO AN N G G E -
A TYPICAL DAY? 300+ EV**
300+
CAN YOU EASILY
CHARGE YOUR CAR AT
HOME OR WOR K?
DIESEL*,
FULL HYBRID
DIESEL*, OR PETROL
FULL HYBRID
OR PETROL
DO YOU PRIMARILY
DRIVE ON
MOTORWAYS AND GLOSSARY***
A-ROADS?
EV FULL ELECTRIC VEHICLE
PHEV PLUG-IN HYBRID ELECTRIC VEHICLE
You should carefully consider the type of vehicle that is right for your F O U R LL P H E Y T B R R O I L D FULL HYBRID NON PLUG-IN HYBRID ELECTRIC VEHICLE
individual or business circumstances. This is a guide to the questions PETROL CONVENTIONAL OR MILD HYBRID PETROL VEHICLE
you should consider and provides an indication as to the type of vehicle DIESEL CONVENTIONAL OR MILD HYBRID DIESEL CAR
which may be suitable.
Please note, manufacturer’s figures may not reflect real world
* To clear a diesel particulate filter, ensure you take regular journeys in your vehicle using motorways or fast A-roads driving
driving – actual range may vary as a result of driving mode and style, for 10 minutes or so at speeds over 40mph.
additional electricity using equipment, load/number of passengers, ** Definitions of mid and long range EVs can be found here: pod-point.com/guides/vehicles
outside temperature, terrain and other factors. Ensure you select a *** Definitions of glossary terms can be found here: smmt.co.uk/industry-topics/emissions/fuel-type-and-powertrain-technology
vehicle suited to your needs and have considered factors such as any Lex Autolease is not responsible for the content of external web sites. Web site links are for informational purposes only and we
occasional need to tow or a longer journey. do not endorse or approve their content. Access is mostly free but you may be asked to register or subscribe before viewing content.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 23
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Our ambition
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
energy transactions, as well as supporting
Pensions and investments Green bonds
the installation of smart meters across the
We recognise the need to balance
UK, helping households to save money
this reduction against the additional
and cut carbon emissions.
household emissions caused by
We have worked with BlackRock to colleagues working from home.
develop the BlackRock ACS Climate We have calculated 4,008 tonnes CO 2 e
Transition World Equity Fund. We are (3 per cent of our overall market-based
investing £2 billion into the fund to make carbon footprint) as working from home
up 10 per cent of the equities portion of emissions, and are now including these
our default pension investment approach. emissions in our environmental reporting.
The fund is aligned to the goals of
Calculating In October 2020, to support other
We have focused on building robust the Paris Agreement and focused on Since the launch of this ambition in 2018,
organisations to navigate the challenge
foundations for future responsible investing more in the companies already we have maintained our role as leader for
working from of measuring homeworking emissions,
investment activity, launching our at the forefront of decarbonisation and our UK corporate clients between 2016
we supported the development of a
Responsible Investment Framework in responsible use of natural resources, and 2020, raising around £2.9 billion.
home emissions white paper. The document, written in
March 2020 and supporting stewardship and demonstrates our commitment to
partnership with EcoAct and NatWest
and exclusions policies later in the supporting the decarbonisation of the Our own footprint Group, defines a simple process for
year. Our Exclusions Policy focuses on economy as a whole. The impacts of the pandemic have
organisations to use to calculate emissions
companies that have failed to meet our resulted in significant changes to
of colleagues working from home, and
ESG standards, namely manufacturers Insurance the way our colleagues have worked has been downloaded more than
of controversial weapons, UN Global during 2020. With around two-thirds
1,000 times.
Compact violators and those deriving of our colleagues working from home
more than 10 per cent of their revenue during the pandemic, our travel-related To support our colleagues in making
from thermal coal and tar sands carbon emissions and some of our more sustainable choices at home, we
extraction. We are currently divesting an building-related emissions have launched a new collection of Sustainable
initial £440 million from these companies, reduced in 2020. Living colleague offers in 2020. These
starting with those investments where we deals included special offers on renewable
have direct control, and are working to We continue to improve the sustainability electricity tariffs and smart heating
expand the application of this policy into of our own operations and have recently thermostats, to help colleagues reduce
external pooled funds that underpin our updated our operational climate their household carbon emissions.
multi-asset funds as well. Early success of We are currently focusing on supporting pledges (see page 34). This year, we
our engagement with one of our partner our General Insurance customers when have calculated and disclosed the
asset managers has led the investment they need us most. We continue to emissions associated with increased
manager to introduce an exclusions policy partner with RedArc in operating a trauma homeworking as a result of the pandemic,
for all their Europe-domiciled passive helpline that aids customers needing extra and supported the development of a
funds totalling over £20 billion, leading help after a traumatic claim such as a fire white paper to help others account for
to an additional divestment of or flood. We are also investing in ways to similar activity in their organisations.
approximately £280 million within our minimise the impact of flooding on our We have continued to reduce the energy
customer pension portfolios. customers and to deal with weather claims and carbon intensity of our properties Additional links
as quickly and efficiently as possible. and have supported low-carbon travel
Our shareholder investment activity W hite paper on calculating
For example, we continue to provide a by installing electric vehicle charging
includes providing direct loans to finance homeworking carbon emissions
Rapid Response Vehicle that deploys to infrastructure and improved cycling
renewable energy and infrastructure
the worst-affected areas, so that customer facilities in a further 14 offices in 2020. T he Scottish Widows Responsible
projects such as investment in the world’s
claims can be assessed quickly, and funds Investment Framework, Exclusion
largest offshore wind farm and solar
released to complete vital repairs. Policy and Stewardship Policy
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 24
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Our ambition
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
Climate-related Business In The Community (BITC) Coalition for Climate Institutional Investors Group United Nations Environment
Environment Leadership Team Resilient Investment on Climate Change (IIGCC) Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI)
initiatives and We are members of the BITC Environment We joined the Coalition for Climate The IIGCC is the European membership We became a member of UNEP FI in 2019
Leadership Team which helps business Resilient Investment in 2019 and continue body for investor collaboration on and joined its Phase 2 Banking TCFD pilot
collaboration drive innovation that turns the threats of to contribute to the work that aims to climate change, representing institutional and initial Insurance TCFD pilot which
the climate emergency into opportunities. transform infrastructure investment by investors with over €33 trillion in assets. conducted work throughout 2020.
integrating climate risks into decision- Scottish Widows joined the IIGCC in 2019
Climate change is a global Climate Financial Risk Forum (CFRF) University of Cambridge Banking
making. to focus on the development of the Net
challenge that requires In 2020, the Prudential Regulatory Environment Initiative (BEI)
Zero Investment Framework to establish
collaboration across companies Authority and Financial Conduct Green Finance Institute (GFI) a common methodology for investors for We worked with the University of
Authority’s joint CFRF published the Coalition for the Energy Efficiency Cambridge and 12 leading banks to
and industries to ensure the transitioning their portfolios to net zero by
CFRF Guide to help the financial industry of Buildings (CEEB) develop a roadmap for how the industry
2050. In August 2020, this framework was
risks and opportunities can approach and address climate-related We joined the GFI’s CEEB in 2020 and can direct capital towards environmentally
published for market consultation.
be adequately identified financial risks. We participated in the are actively contributing to several and socially sustainable economic
risk management working group activities aimed at developing solutions Partnership for Carbon Accounting development. The results of the
and managed.
which produced a UK best practice to help further improve the efficiency and Financials (PCAF) work were published in 2020 in the
chapter on this topic in the handbook decarbonisation of the UK’s buildings, PCAF is a global partnership of financial Bank 2030 report.
To support this, we participate
on implementation of the TCFD including having become a supporter of institutions that work together to develop
in several industry initiatives recommendations. the GFI’s Green Home Retrofit Principles. and implement a harmonised approach World Economic Forum (WEF) initiative
on Financing the Transition to a Net
and have signed up to key to assess and disclose the greenhouse
The Climate Group HRH The Prince of Wales’ Sustainable Zero Future
principles that drive action In 2019, we were one of the first businesses Markets Initiative: Financial gas emissions associated with their loans In 2020, we joined this new initiative that
and investments. We joined PCAF in
on climate change and globally to sign up to all three of Services Taskforce aims to accelerate progress in developing
2020 to learn and contribute as we
sustainability, including: The Climate Group’s campaigns, and we In 2020, we joined the Financial Services develop and enhance our financed new transition financing solutions, focused
continue to drive activity in those areas: Taskforce of HRH The Prince of Wales’ on ‘hard-to-abate’ sectors such as steel,
emissions baseline measurements.
Sustainable Markets Initiative. This chemicals, aviation, trucking and shipping.
RE100 – a commitment to source
taskforce is planning to focus on areas Task Force on Nature-related We are one of 30 financial institutions
100 per cent of our electricity from
such as establishing a net-zero framework Financial Disclosures (TNFD) participating in the initiative, which directly
renewable sources by 2030, which we
for banks, sustainable infrastructure as an In 2020, we joined the TNFD working engages with industry through the Mission
achieved in 2019 and was fully validated
asset class and credibility for voluntary group, which is seeking to create resilience Possible Partnership, also hosted
by The Climate Group in 2020
carbon markets. in the global economy by redirecting flows by the WEF.
EP100 – a commitment to improve our of finance at scale towards nature-positive
energy productivity by 2030 activities to allow nature and people
EV100 – a commitment to accelerate the to flourish.
transition to electric vehicles by 2030
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 25
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Governance
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
Governance Updates on these areas are provided to Led by the Risk Division, the Climate Risk
Governance the committee by the Group Executive Executive Management forum is tasked
Committee (GEC) on a quarterly basis. with making key decisions related to
Given the strategic importance Our governance structure provides clear oversight and ownership of the Group’s
A Group Executive Sustainability the Group’s climate risk management
sustainability strategy and management of climate-related risks. Governance for
of our sustainability ambitions Committee, a sub-committee of the GEC, and TCFD implementation. The forum
climate-related risks is embedded into the Group’s existing governance structure
and commitment in meets quarterly and acts as the executive comprises senior risk colleagues across
and is complementary to governance of the Group’s sustainability strategy.
oversight body for all sustainability activity, the Group, including the RFB, LBCM and
managing the impacts arising
providing quarterly updates to the full GEC. Insurance sub-groups, and meets on a
from climate change, our Lloyds Banking Group Board
monthly basis, with updates provided
governance structure provides Our Group Sustainability team is to the Group Risk Committee, Board
clear oversight and ownership Responsible Business Committee Board Risk Committee supported by divisional sustainability Risk Committees and Board.
governance forums led by Divisional
of the Group’s sustainability Managing Directors, ensuring a A Group-level Climate Risk Planning
Group Executive Committee
strategy and management of coordinated approach to oversight, and Prioritisation forum supports the
Group Risk Committee
delivery and reporting of the Group’s Climate Risk Executive Management
climate-related risk. Group Executive Sustainability Committee
sustainability strategy. by coordinating the implementation of
TCFD and embedding of climate risk
Governance for climate-related Group Sustainability team Climate Risk Executive Management The relevant Chief Risk Officers across management across the Group in line
risk is embedded into the Group’s the Group have Senior Management
with regulatory expectations, escalating
existing governance structure and is Function responsibility for overseeing
Divisional forums/ Group Sustainability Climate Risk Planning issues as required. This forum is attended
complementary to governance of the working groups forum and Prioritisiation forum the management of risks from climate by stakeholders across the Risk Division,
Group’s sustainability strategy. change, covering Lloyds Bank and Bank of
as well as from Business and Group
Scotland, Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
The governance structure will continue functions.
to evolve as the Group further develops remuneration outcomes – see page 118 The RBC ensures Board oversight for the (LBCM), and the Solvency II regulated
and embeds its approach to managing in the Group’s Annual Report and Group’s overall strategy on environmental entities in Insurance. Additionally, our divisions have
climate-related risks. Accounts for further detail. sustainability, which includes: Climate risk is monitored in the Group’s governance structures in place to manage
climate-related risks. For instance, climate-
The Chairman of the Responsible The Board was one of the first groups at I dentifying new opportunities to risk reporting and more detailed updates related risk is discussed on a regular basis
Business Committee (RBC) Sara Weller is Lloyds Banking Group to receive training support our customers and clients are provided regularly to the Group at the Risk Oversight Committee, a
a Non-Executive Director on the Board, via our partnership with the Cambridge and finance the UK transition to a low and Ring-Fenced Banks (RFB) Board sub-committee of the Insurance Board,
a member of the Board Risk Committee, Institute for Sustainability Leadership, carbon economy Risk Committees regarding the Group’s and in LBCM climate-related risks feature
the Remuneration Committee and the which provides high-quality training I dentifying, managing and disclosing climate risk management activities and regularly at its Board Risk Committee.
Nomination and Governance Committee, to executives and colleagues in risk sustainability and climate-related risks key developments.
and ensures sustainability is discussed and management, product development across the Group and their impacts on
considered by the Board. and client-facing roles. In 2020, over 700 the Group and its financial planning
such colleagues were trained (over 1,900 processes
The Board is engaged on a regular basis colleagues to date), ensuring they are
on our sustainability agenda, receiving able to support clients’ transition to a U sing our scale and reach to help
regular briefings to build understanding sustainable low-carbon economy. drive progress towards a sustainable
and capability and also attending and resilient UK economy through
relevant external briefings. In the Group’s engagement with customers,
2020 Annual Report and Accounts, detail communities, industry, government,
is provided on how the Board is engaged shareholders and suppliers
on climate change. A metric on our own E mbedding sustainability into the
emissions is included in the 2021 Group way we do business and manage
scorecard, which will in turn inform our own operations
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 26
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Risk Management
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
CLIMATE-RELATED IMPACTS ACROSS THE GROUP’S RISK TAXONOMY
Risk management As we continue to further embed climate
risk into the Group’s Enterprise Risk We have mapped climate change impacts across the different risk types within the Group’s risk taxonomy. While the majority
Management Framework, we will ensure of the Group’s principal risks are impacted in different ways, we have focused on the impact for the most material risk types,
Integration into overall risk
that climate-related risks are considered outlined below.
management framework as part of existing processes, aligned to
the three lines of defence model. These Risk type Summary of impacts from climate risk
The Group has adopted a comprehensive climate-related risks will be appropriately Credit risk Climate change is likely to result in changes in the risk profile and outlook for our
approach to embedding climate-related aggregated together to provide senior customers, the sectors we operate in and collateral/asset valuations. Changes are
risks into our Enterprise Risk Management management with a consolidated view likely to be needed to our business and product strategies, as well as our risk appetite
Framework through: of the climate risk to which the Group response.
and its sub-groups is exposed across the
C reation of a new principal risk for
short (0–1 years), medium (1–5 years) and Insurance underwriting risk Changing climate patterns, for example increasing frequency and severity of weather
climate risk, in order to drive dedicated
long term (over 5 years). These timescales events, are expected to lead to a changing risk profile for our insurance activities.
focus and a consistent approach, while
align to the TCFD report playbook This could lead to an unexpected level of claims or pattern of contract renewals.
enhancing Board-level insight
developed by UNEP FI and the Institute
I ntegration of climate risk into our of International Finance. Market risk The financial instruments held across the Group are subject to market risk as the
existing principal risks, to ensure underlying companies may be subject to value erosion due to climate change, for
comprehensive consideration across Climate risk is a fast-developing area example, from extreme weather events or transition risk impacts.
all aspects of our business activity and the Group’s processes will continue
to evolve as we embed our approach Conduct risk Conduct risk may potentially arise from a number of channels, including:
As its own principal risk, climate risk to managing climate-related risks and W ithdrawing credit lines or services from ‘brown’ sectors or counterparties
captures the risk that the Group opportunities. Dedicated roles and R emoval of certain product lines, as they become unsustainable as a result of
experiences losses and/or reputational training programmes have been created climate change
damage as a result of climate change, to strengthen our capacity and capabilities
either directly or through its customers. for managing climate risk Group-wide. P otential ‘green washing’, as the Group develops new propositions
Climate risk is included as both a principal
Operational resilience and An acute weather event that affects the Group’s operations directly or indirectly could
and emerging risk this year given it is such
operational risk cause disruption to customer service if continuity plans are not adequately developed
a new and fast-moving area.
and tested to ensure they provide a framework for response.
The Group’s operations are also subject to the low-carbon transition, both through
emissions from our property footprint, as well as the Group’s supply chain.
Regulatory and legal risk The Group is subject to an increasing number of regulations where compliance is
required, for example, PRA Supervisory Statement 3/19. The Group may be the target of
climate-related litigation in respect of its activities and there may be increased scrutiny
on how the Group deals with climate-related risks. Any implications of litigation or
enforcement could be severe, including potential reputational damage.
Strategic risk Strategic risk is inherent in the transition required as the Group looks to remain
competitive, safeguard its reputation and adapt to the changing expectations of
customers and shareholders.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 27
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Risk Management
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
Risk identification and assessment Climate risk and sustainability have been a Identification of counterparty-level climate
R isk quantification – quantifying
We have engaged with third-party key consideration in the credit assessment risk is essential, and we have developed
physical and transition risk at
consultants to support the development process in recent years, and in 2020 we and are piloting a tool in Commercial
individual business level initially for
of our climate risk management framework, have deepened the integration of climate Banking to help assess the physical and
priority sectors and counterparties
extending our modelling and assessment considerations into our credit processes. transition risks relating to our clients.
capabilities for quantifying climate risk. As part of the Group’s credit risk policy, The tool is initially qualitative; as data
We are enhancing our credit risk operating we have mandatory requirements to evolves, we plan to augment this with
model. Our credit ambition involves B usiness and credit strategy – consider environmental risks in key risk quantitative information to enhance
ensuring full compliance with regulation evolving and developing our risk management activities. In Commercial the overall assessment. We are also
and other stakeholder expectations, appetite aligned to the Group’s Banking, Relationship Managers must developing our approach to measuring
alongside supporting the commercial low risk through the cycle appetite continue to ensure that sustainability risk our exposure to specific physical and
teams in developing their customer approach. We aim to safely capture is considered for all new and renewal transition risks.
climate opportunities in our chosen
strategies to capture climate opportunities facilities, and specifically commented on
sectors and products We are leveraging the lessons learned and
and manage the risks. Our current credit where credit limits exceed £500,000. This
understanding in Commercial Banking to
strategy work revolves around four themes: provides clarity of:
help enhance the climate risk practices
O rigination – integrating a holistic O ur clients’ understanding of and across the Group. As with Commercial
view of inherent and residual climate approach to addressing physical and Banking cases, we consider exposure
risk in our origination and pricing transitional climate risks within their to physical risks (such as flooding) in our
processes. We will continue to develop business and supply chain mortgages origination criteria. To help
climate-related eligibility criteria, as T he existence of actual or potential determine the adequacy of mitigation/
well as limits and policies for sectors ‘stranded assets’ due to ESG factors abatement measures, higher-risk cases
at increased risk from the impacts of are subject to a thorough site inspection
T he actions being taken to reduce
climate change. Enhanced climate by technical experts. As part of our
greenhouse gas emissions
risk due diligence and risk appetite wider horizon scanning, we continue
ambitions will be developed as our T he framework that our clients have to monitor changes to legislation on
understanding of consequences on in place to ensure compliance with energy-efficiency standards and in 2020
portfolios evolves all relevant legal and regulatory ESG we have launched tools to support our
requirements relevant to their business Retail and Commercial customers.
During 2020, we have also simplified our We have introduced sustainability-related
M onitoring – undertaking risk-based environmental risk policy. criteria into our Retail motor finance
monitoring across our portfolio All cases that are identified as higher businesses who in principle will generally
especially on the sectors and risk by our Environmental Risk Screening not lend against vehicles for personal use
counterparties with higher climate Tool are subject to further review. Where which are 14 or more years old. We are
risk. This will continue to evolve and specific or material environmental risks or actively reviewing and developing our
expand over time concerns are identified, cases are referred strategy for financing electric vehicles
to retained environmental risk consultants and the required infrastructure.
for an opinion on the adequacy of the
mitigants in place or recommendations
on managing the environmental risk.
The key findings from such due diligence
must be factored into credit applications
which inform lending decisions.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 28
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Risk management
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
DEVELOPING OUR UNDERSTANDING OF CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Other initiatives to further embed climate Management of climate-related risks
In line with the Group’s strategy, and Actions that we have taken to progress risk factors into the risk management We continue to work on existing processes
to help integrate climate risk into our our understanding include the activities of the Retail Division include to ensure our approach for climate risk
risk management framework, we are following: work on the development of a risk management has suitable Board-level
working to enhance our understanding mitigation strategy for retail banking visibility. The Board has approved a Risk
T o support our efforts, we engaged
of the effect climate change will have on activities such as vehicle finance and home Appetite Statement for climate risk, as well
two market-leading consultants,
our business and clients. The aim is to: loans. The work involves research and as an interim metric to ensure the Group
renowned respectively for their
analysis to identify and assess the risks, continues to progress activities at pace.
C ontinue to develop a robust climate knowledge of climate change risks
and stress testing to quantify the risk. We aim to develop further quantitative
risk management framework and data capabilities to provide an
We are using the insight and knowledge and qualitative risk appetite metrics as our
C reate reliable data sources outside perspective and expertise gained from risk identification, assessment capabilities evolve, including appropriate
B uild capacity W e have prioritised four sectors and loss modelling to develop and consideration across our sub-groups.
to consider the climate risks and shape risk appetite, and are working on This is supported by Board-level risk
S upport clients’ efforts to manage
opportunities faced by the Group process changes to fully embed climate reporting of climate risk.
their climate risks and opportunities,
and our customers, covering: risk assessment into business origination
by providing guidance on the energy, automotive, mortgages across our retail banking operations. We have considered and included
potential impact of climate change on and agriculture commentary on climate-related risks
their financial and business profiles In our Insurance business, an assessment as part of our annual Individual Capital
W e have dedicated time to run
of climate-related risks to General Adequacy Assessment Process. We have
Understanding the consequences dynamic and interactive workshops,
Insurance (GI) liabilities is integrated into used expert judgement to assess the
of climate change on our portfolios to engage with a range of
the internal model governance process. financial impacts for key risk types that
is essential, and will help to inform stakeholders from across the Group
Climate change is identified as a key are sensitive to climate change under a
our ambitions over the short and to: work collaboratively; reveal insight;
topic for model review and approval number of different climate scenarios.
medium term. help understand the extent of
within this process, and specifically, the We will continue to enhance our
the problem; share research;
appropriateness of the view of risk for the approach as our scenario analysis
brainstorm; prioritise areas of
weather perils in the context of climate capabilities develop.
focus; and to assist with the
change science. Currently, an adjustment
development of the appropriate We continue to refine and enhance the
for sea-level rise is applied. This view of risk
business strategy and risk appetite Group’s 12 external sector statements,
is integrated into assessments of GI capital
response to support our clients which help articulate appropriate areas
requirements, reserving, reinsurance and
W e are developing a process for pricing. It also feeds into the GI quarterly of environment and climate-related
gathering reliable data to facilitate exposure management where GI portfolio risk appetite and approach to the risk
analysis of the impacts of climate exposure arising from weather-related assessment of our customers.
change across industry sectors perils is monitored and controlled. In defining our sector appetite and
strategic ambitions, we are reflecting
We further expanded our weather on areas such as the composition of our
modelling capabilities in 2020, with the portfolio, the business positioning and
completion of a knowledge transfer transition plans of counterparties within
project with the University of Reading the sector, and the likely government and
to better understand extreme wind and regulatory policy responses. Helping our
flood risk in the UK. clients’ transition is a key element of the
Group’s Sustainability strategy. For more
information on the Group’s external
sector statements see page 36.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 29
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Risk management
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
TABLE 1: LENDING1 TO CUSTOMERS IN SECTORS AT INCREASED RISK FROM THE IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE
Sectors with increased climate risk 1 Commercial Banking and Retail divisions only.
The Group has identified those sectors Excludes Insurance & Wealth division.
Lending to Percentage of total Group loans
where we have lending to customers Commercial Banking customers (£m)2 and advances to customers3 2 Commercial Banking division only, excludes
Commercial Finance. Drawn lending is gross
that may likely contribute a higher share Commercial Banking sector4 Dec 2020 Dec 2019 Dec 2020 Dec 2019 of significant risk transfers. Excludes Business
of Lloyds Banking Group’s financed Banking lending, which sits within Retail division.
emissions (see Table 1). Not all customers Energy use in Real estate 25,426 27,124 5.04% 5.44% 2019 restated on a consistent basis with 2020.
in these sectors have high emissions or buildings (inc housing associations) 3 Percentages calculated using total Group loans and
advances to customers on a statutory basis, before
are exposed to significant transition risks. Agriculture Agriculture, forestry & fishing5 7,464 7,219 1.48% 1.45% allowance for impairment losses (£504,603 million
As discussed within our disclosure, we at 31 December 2020 and £498,247 million at
continue to enhance and refine this work Transport Passenger transport 1,135 1,120 0.22% 0.22% 31 December 2019).
at both counterparty and sector level, 4 Commercial lending classified using Office for
considering both risks and opportunities Industrial transport 1,374 1,674 0.27% 0.34% N (S a IC ti ) o c n o a d l e S s ta a t t is l t e ic g s a S l e ta n n ti d ty a r le d v I e n l d . ustrial Classification
as we look to support our customers’ Automotives6 1,485 1,272 0.29% 0.26% 5 Agriculture lending includes Agricultural Mortgage
responses to climate change. Corporation (AMC) based on loans and advances to
customers £4,186 million (2019: £3,998 million).
Energy use Housebuilders 870 1,168 0.17% 0.23%
6 Includes automotive manufacture, retail and
in industry
Construction7 1,210 1,179 0.24% 0.24% wholesale trade, rentals and parts but excludes
finance captives and securitisations.
Cement, construction materials, 317 391 0.06% 0.08% 7 Construction excludes 41100 Development of
building projects (included within Real estate)
chemicals & steel manufacture
and 41202 Construction of domestic buildings
(reported separately as Housebuilders).
General manufacturing 1,301 1,285 0.26% 0.26%
8 Excludes commodity traders.
Food manufacturing and 1,312 1,844 0.26% 0.37% 9 Based on loans and advances to customers within
Retail division.
wholesalers
Energy supply Oil & gas8 1,099 1,393 0.22% 0.28%
Utilities 1,638 1,779 0.32% 0.36%
Coal mining 8 21 0.002% 0.004%
Total 44,639 47,469 8.85% 9.53%
Loans and advances Percentage of total Group loans
to customers (£m) and advances to customers3
Retail division areas9 Dec 2020 Dec 2019 Dec 2020 Dec 2019
UK mortgages 294,806 289,198 58.42% 58.04%
UK motor finance 15,201 15,976 3.01% 3.21%
Total 310,007 305,174 61.44% 61.25%
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 30
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Risk management
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
CLIMATE SCENARIOS DEVELOPED
Climate scenario analysis
As the understanding and importance of Three different climate scenarios have 2° orderly 2° disorderly 4° business as usual
climate risk progresses, climate scenario been developed, together with a third- This scenario describes a globally In this scenario, the world does not In this scenario, the world does not
analysis is becoming an essential risk party consultant, representing possible coordinated response to climate change respond to climate change before 2030 respond to climate-related change
management tool. Scenario analysis pathways to different climate change that sees the world quickly decarbonise and then takes sharper corrective actions at all and technology deployment is
assists the identification, measurement outcomes. These were not intended in an orderly and efficient manner, to limit global heating impacts, resulting driven purely by relative economics.
and ongoing assessment of climate risks to represent a best forecast of how therefore limiting transition and in higher initial transition risks as much
This scenario features no carbon
that pose threats over the longer term, the transition will occur but enable the physical risks. sharper intervention occurs around 2030
pricing, continued thermal power
and the potential threats to the Group’s Group to explore credible pathways in order to get decarbonisation back on
This scenario features, among other generation (especially in developing
strategic objectives. to 2° and 4° worlds. track for a less than 2°C heating outcome
aspects, a global carbon price, major markets), some renewable capacity
by 2100.
The complex, forward-looking and The scenarios developed were a expansion of renewables, electrification expansion and some electrification
long-term nature of climate risks and the 2° orderly transition to less than 2° of heat, transport and industry, and This scenario features a global carbon of transport.
inherent uncertainty about future events warming by 2100; a 2° disorderly development of carbon capture and price, major expansion of renewables,
This scenario implies greater physical
make it difficult to assess them using transition to less than 2° warming storage capabilities at scale. electrification of heat, transport and
risks as heating rises by 4°C, largely
standard risk modelling methodologies. by 2100; and a 4° ‘business as usual’ industry and, again, development of
Although Paris compliant, increased manifesting after 2050.
Climate scenario analysis provides a scenario. carbon capture and storage techniques.
physical risks relative to the present day
flexible ‘what-if’ style methodological
This suite of scenarios is functionally remain in this scenario. Although Paris compliant, as the scenario
approach that is better suited to exploring
aligned to the climate scenarios anticipates increased temperatures, physical
the risks that could crystallise in possible
described in the Bank of England’s risks increase relative to the present day.
future scenarios.
discussion paper, The 2021 biennial
Climate scenario analysis also allows exploratory scenario on the financial
identification of extreme yet plausible risks for climate change. They are also
risks that challenges the Group’s business broadly similar in outcome to the
model and helps understand the possible representative orderly, disorderly and
range of climate consequences and hot house scenarios published in June
management actions. Accordingly, such 2020 by the Network for Greening the
analysis is an iterative process in that the Financial System. Our climate scenarios
conclusions of an exercise can provide risk will develop over time as climate
insights that in themselves may trigger scenario analysis embeds across all
additional investigation and strategy relevant activities.
refinement.
To embed climate scenario analysis, the
Group has developed a climate scenario
analysis framework to guide the consistent
use of this method.
ksir
lacisyhP
desaercni
hguorht
detsefinam
egnahc
etamilc
fo
ecaP
stneve
rehtaew
emertxe
fo
ytireves
dna
ycneuqerf
gnimraw
egareva
sa
llew
sa
Transition risk
Pace of regulatory change, technological innovation
and user demand to mitigate climate change
hgiH
woL
4° business as usual
2° disorderly
2° orderly
Low High
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 31
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Risk management
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
Scenario development approach
The first stage in the development of the
scenarios was to establish a consistent
narrative. Then the scenario details were
built up to describe a transition pathway General Insurance In-house expertise on physical risk is Since their inception, the team has The analysis covered three different
developed at the required level of sectoral
retained in the form of a dedicated monitored climate change science and time horizons out to 2100, and emissions
and geographical resolution. Weather modelling weather modelling team that sits applied this to the view of physical risk scenarios producing 2°C and 4°C
Then key events were identified alongside within general insurance (GI). The team for the UK. Consequently, an adjustment temperature increases. The team
critical levels or tipping points that team comprises specialists in hydrology, is currently applied to coastal inundation estimated increases of between 5 per
provided material evidence that the meteorology and probabilistic modelling losses on GI liabilities to account for cent and 43 per cent in average annual
real world developed in line with each who develop a baseline view of physical sea-level rise at a rate of 2mm per year. claims costs arising from severe weather
specific scenario. risk for the UK and conduct forward- across the three scenarios.
The team also conducts forward-looking
looking climate stress testing onto this.
Milestones were defined so as to be This team has been in place since 2016 climate stress testing onto GI liabilities. The Weather modelling team will be
observable in the real world and progress and has monitored and applied climate For the 2019 Prudential Regulatory further developing their climate scenario
towards them being monitorable using change science onto the view of risk Authority stress test, the team used tidal modelling capabilities through 2021 – as
pre-defined sources. Collectively they used for capital, pricing, reinsurance and river gauge observations, claims part of the Bank of England 2021 biennial
represented a plausible pathway for the and planning. datasets, climate model outputs and exploratory scenario and broader TCFD
scenario realisation. probabilistic catastrophe models to implementation – leveraging the past
calculate an estimate of increased investment made through this team in
The types of scenario variables risk to our insurance portfolios. understanding physical risk in the UK.
generated through this process include
macro-economic outcomes, human
activities, energy system evolution,
physical impacts and climate variables.
Scenario usage
The climate scenarios developed have
been used to assist in preparation for the
2021 biennial exploratory scenario on
the financial risks for climate change
and, hence, final results have not yet
been generated from them.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 32
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Metrics and targets
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
Metrics and targets We have used the emerging industry
standard for calculating financed TABLE 2: INITIAL ESTIMATED VIEW OF THE 2018 FINANCED EMISSIONS BASELINE FOR THE GROUP’S OWN LENDING
emissions developed by the Partnership (EXCLUDING THE INSURANCE AND WEALTH DIVISION)
We have focused this year on expanding
for Carbon Accounting Financials
our climate-related metrics and ambitions. (PCAF). The baseline is an estimate, as Asset class (Scop E e s t 1 im & a 2 te e d m M is t s C io O n 2 s e ) Equivalent share o b f y U s K e c to to ta r/ l a e s m se is t s c i l o a n s s s6
We have developed an initial estimated
methodologies for calculating financed Motor vehicle loans3 3.2 c.4%
view of the 2018 financed emissions
emissions mature and client- or asset-level
baseline across the Group (excluding the Mortgages4 6.3 c.6%
emissions data is currently not available
Insurance and Wealth division), created a in all cases and, where appropriate, we Business loans5 15.9 c.6%
specific ambition for reducing emissions
have used internal and external data to Total 25.41,2 c.5.6%
intensity from the power sector and
fill these data gaps. Given this is a new
created new climate pledges for our own Note:
discipline that will continue to develop and
operations. We will continue to develop 1 Includes Nil emissions for cash balances, which accounted for 8% of Group’s balance sheet.
evolve, it is expected that our baseline will
additional sector-based ambitions in 2021 2 Examples of areas where there is no current method for calculating emissions include: Government securities, derivatives, personal loans, credit cards and reverse repos.
to support our goal to help reduce the change in the future (perhaps materially), Areas where data was not readily available but coverage may be expanded in the future include: business banking, non-UK mortgages, loans and advances to banks and
which will require restatement. We expect some assets at fair value through profit and loss.
emissions we finance by more than 50
methodologies for calculating financed 3 Covers 95 per cent of motor vehicle loans and operating lease assets. Excludes assets that do not have a motor, specialist vehicles and vehicles where mileage is difficult to
per cent by 2030 on the path to net zero emissions to mature and data availability estimate. Currently does not apply a loan-to-value ratio for emissions.
by 2050, or sooner, and to help us better and quality to improve from clients and 4 Covers 97 per cent of mortgages. Excludes non-UK mortgages. Uses EPC emissions estimates for 45 per cent of properties and average emission intensity profiles of EPC
support customers in their transition plans C to G properties to calculate emissions for the balance of properties where EPCs are not available. Property index value as at end 2018 is used for current property value
to a low-carbon economy. Government sources. in PCAF emission attribution calculations.
Our initial estimated view of the 2018 5 Includes 99 per cent of Commercial Banking business loans, based on drawn lending. The PCAF sector-based approach has been used for the majority of the business
Financed emissions loans baseline, using ONS UK emissions. The business loans method has been applied to project finance (excluding power project finance) and commercial real estate
financed emissions baseline covers assets, which will be refined in the future as better data becomes available.
An initial estimated view of the 2018
approximately 70 per cent of the Group’s 6 Total UK emissions in 2018 were: 88 MtCOe from cars and vans; c.100 MtCOe from homes, including emissions from both electricity and heating; and 263 MtCOe from
financed emissions baseline across the 2 2 2
balance sheet (excluding Insurance and business (excluding emissions from electricity used in residential property). Source: Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy – 2018 UK Greenhouse Gas
Group’s own lending activity (excluding Wealth)1 comprising: Emissions, Final Figures.
the Insurance and Wealth division) has
been developed to serve as a basis for M otor vehicle loans (Lex and Black
our goal of reducing the emissions we Horse) – at individual vehicle level, For the remaining balance sheet,
finance by more than 50 per cent by vehicle emission intensity and 26 per cent currently have no method for
2030 on the path to net zero by 2050, or contracted (or estimated) miles driven calculating emissions and 4 per cent do
sooner. We selected 2018 as the year for per annum not have data readily available to enable
the baseline as there is comprehensive M ortgages (Retail UK Mortgages) – from emissions to be calculated.2
company emissions reporting and UK
EPCs where available with estimates The initial estimate at c.25.4 MtCOe, is
Government Office for National Statistics used for properties without EPC ratings equivalent to around 5.6 per cent o 2 f UK
(ONS) emissions data available at the time.
B usiness loans (Commercial Banking emissions (451 MtCOe*). The breakdown
2
only) – on client-level emissions data and by asset type is provided in Table 2, along
asset-based estimates using ONS UK with our share of equivalent UK sector
sector emissions emissions.
C ash balances – with no associated As currently recommended by PCAF,
emissions the baseline only includes Scope 1 and 2
emissions of clients and does not include
off balance sheet contingents, derivatives
or Government bonds.
* Source: Department for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy – 2018 UK Greenhouse Gas
Emissions, Final Figures.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 33
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a Metrics and targets
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
COMPARING UK AND 2018 LLOYDS BANKING GROUP FINANCED EMISSIONS
Insurance and Wealth Achieving our ambition will be
Fossil Industry The financed emissions for the Insurance dependent on:
1% 2% and Wealth division are not included in
T he UK Government putting in place
the Group’s total financed emissions or
Landfills the required policy framework to meet
Crops 3% the Group’s target to reduce financed
the Committee on Climate Change’s
3% emissions by 50 per cent by 2030 on the
recommended 2030 decarbonisation
path to net zero, by 2050, or sooner. Due
Waste goals
4.5% Other to the different nature of banking and
Livestock investment activity, the Insurance and E uropean national governments putting
6% Agriculture Wealth division will be further developing in place the required policy frameworks
10% its approach to reporting appropriate to achieve their national and EU-
Energy use climate metrics and targets during 2021. mandated decarbonisation plans
in buildings
32% Power sector ambition M ajor utilities achieving their
decarbonisation objectives, including
In Commercial Banking we have been
renewable financing, by 2030 as publicly
Energy supply working to develop a power sector stated in their annual reports
8% ambition as power sector decarbonisation
is critical for the UK to achieve its net We already have a robust client
zero goal. engagement strategy in the power
UK emissions We have determined that the power generation portfolio that includes
supporting renewable energy and
451 MtCOe generation portfolio, comprising only
2 Commercial Banking large corporate offshore wind in particular. We will
continue to work with our clients to
and project finance portfolio facilities,
understand and engage on their future
generated financed emissions of
plans and alignment to net zero.
0.7 MtCOe in 2018, with an emission
2
intensity of 141 gCOe/kWh on a
2
drawn basis, covering both UK and
Energy use EU exposures. This is lower than the
in industry UK average grid emissions intensity of
16%
283 gCOe/kWh in 2018, due to our
2
market-leading support for UK offshore
and renewable energy.
Having assessed our Commercial
Energy Transport
Banking large corporate and project
83.5% 27%
finance power generation portfolio
against decarbonisation plans and our
Business Motor Homes commitment to Help Britain Prosper, we Note:
are now setting an ambition to reduce the * We have followed the PCAF recommendation to only
UK Lloyds UK Lloyds UK Lloyds account for drawn lending exposure in our financed
Banking Group Banking Group Banking Group portfolio’s emission intensity to less than emissions disclosure. It is important to highlight
75 gCO
2
e/kWh by 2030*. This is in line t
p
h
o
a
r
t
t
t
fo
h
l
e
io
u
c
n
o
d
u
ra
ld
w
r
n
e s
p
u
o
lt
r t
i
i
n
o
fl
n
u
o
c
f
t
t
u
h
a
e
t i
p
o
o
ns
w
t
e
o
r
t
g
h
e
e
n
e
e
m
ra
i
t
s
i
s
o
i
n
o n
263 MtCOe 15.9 MtCOe 88 MtCOe 3.2 MtCOe 100 MtCOe 6.3 MtCOe with the UK’s net zero ambition, but takes and power intensity baseline.
2 2 2 2 2 2 into account the combination of UK and
We have used the business loans approach for
European clients in our portfolio. calculating emissions from large corporate clients
and project finance method for specific power
* Source: Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy – 2018 UK Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Final Figures.
projects.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 34
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
TABLE 3: INTENSITY RATIO
Green finance We will maintain travel carbon Methodology
In 2020, we provided over £2.3 billion of emissions below 50 per cent of The Group follows the principles of Oct19–Sep20 Oct18–Sep19 Oct17–Sep18
pre-pandemic (2018/9) levels, the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol
green finance in Commercial Banking, Legacy scope
embedding for the long term the Corporate Accounting and Reporting
through our Clean Growth Finance Initiative,
C In o it m iat m iv e e r , c R ia e l n R e e w a a l b E l s e t a E t n e e G rg re y e F n in L a e n n c d in in g g r b e u d s u in c e e s d s l t e ra ve ve ls l o se f e co n m du m ri u n t g in t g h e an d S e t m an is d si a o r n d s t f o r o c m al c o u u la r t w e o S r c ld o w pe id 1 e , o 2 p a e n r d a t 3 io ns. G un H d G e r e ly m in i g ss i i n o c n o s m (C e O (l 2 o e c ) a p t e io r n £ m ba o s f e d)* 10.4 11.5 13.0
pandemic and supporting colleagues The reporting period is 1 October 2019
and Green Bond facilitation. This
to switch to low-carbon transport to 30 September 2020, which is different GHG emissions (COe) per £m of 4.7 5.6 6.2
increased our total green finance to over 2
to that of our Directors’ report (January underlying income (market based)*
£7.3 billion since 2016. In addition, we have Achieving these goals will not be easy, and
to December 2020). This is in line with
supported clients with over £1.8 billion we will need to invest in our buildings over Expanded scope
the regulations in that the majority of the
of Sustainability Linked Loans since 2017. the next decade, supporting the UK to
T ra h n e g s e e o g f r e e e lig n i b fin le a n p c ro e d p u r c o t d a u c c t t iv s i s ty u p in p c o lu r d t a in g m to a d k e e p a l o g y r e e e n n e r r g e y c - o e v f e fi r c y i . e W nt e t e w c i h ll n c o o l n o t g in y u e e p m er i i s o s d io o n f s t r h e e p D or ir t e in c g to y r e s’ a R r e fa p ll o s r w t. i t E h m in i s t s h i e o ns G in H co G m e e m (m is a si r o k n e s t b (C a O se 2 e d ) ) p – e e r x £ p m an o d f e u d n d sc e o rl p yi e n * g * 13.6 15.8 17.3
are reported based on the operational
reducing emissions, improving energy including LED lighting and improved
control approach. GHG emissions (COe) per £m of 7.9 9.9 10.6
efficiency, reducing waste, improving building controls. We will remove all use 2
underlying income (location based) –
water efficiency, and funding low-carbon of natural gas from our estate, replacing Reported Scope 1 emissions are those
expanded scope**
transport and renewable energy. our gas boilers with zero-carbon heating generated from gas and oil used in
technologies and create sustainable buildings, emissions from fuels used in * I ntensities have been restated for 2017/18 and 2018/19 to reflect changes to emissions data only, replacing
New climate pledges for branches in communities across the UK. UK company-owned vehicles used for estimated data with actuals; underlying income figures for those years have not changed.
our own operations Many of the technologies we will need to business travel and fugitive emissions ** S cope 3 emissions have been expanded to include additional elements within the Group’s own operations
including emissions from waste, colleague commuting and additional elements of business travel (including
use are still new and we will need to work from the use of air conditioning and taxis, tube, well to tank emissions of business travel and hotels). We have disclosed these figures parallel to
In 2019, we announced achievement of
closely with our partners and supply chain chiller/refrigerant plant. Reported Scope legacy scope numbers to allow fairer comparison with numbers previously disclosed and to demonstrate
our 2030 carbon emission reduction goal to innovate. 2 emissions are generated from the use performance versus our previous targets. Additionally, October 19–Sep 20 Scope 3 figures include an
for our own operations, 11 years early, allowance for emissions from homeworkers not previously accounted for, owing to the significant increase
of electricity and are calculated using in materiality year to year due to the impacts of coronavirus. Previous years have not been restated.
having reduced carbon emissions by Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions both the location and market-based
63 per cent between 2009 and 2019, and
methodologies. Reported Scope 3
exceeding our 60 per cent reduction Greenhouse gas emissions
emissions relate to business travel and action since 2010, which has delivered A large proportion of our colleagues
target. We are now able to announce The Group has voluntarily reported
commuting undertaken by colleagues, a reduction in gas and electricity worked from home in 2020 in line with
three new operational climate pledges greenhouse gas emissions and
waste and the extraction and distribution consumption through extensive energy travel restrictions and advice, which has
which accelerate our plan to tackle climate environmental performance since 2009,
of each of our energy sources – electricity, management, alongside decarbonisation led to a considerable reduction in both
change and apply across our operations: and since 2013 this has been reported
gas and oil. This year, in light of the of the UK electricity grid from October to Scope 1 and 3 business travel numbers
in line with the requirements of the
We will achieve net zero carbon Companies Act 2006 and its applicable pandemic’s impacts on the Group’s March 2020. Further reductions have been reported. Lloyds Banking Group building
operations by 2030. We plan to reduce regulations. Our total emissions, in tonnes operations, we have included the caused by the impact of the pandemic on energy, gas and electricity also reduces in
our direct emissions (known as Scope 1 of CO equivalent, are reported in emissions of colleagues working from our operations and reported emissions. part due to the impacts of this operational
a (c n o d m 2 p e a m re i d ss w io it n h s ) 2 b 0 y 1 8 a / t 1 l 9 e a le s v t e 7 l 5 s ) p er cent T le a v b e l l e I S 2 4 A . D E e 3 l 0 o 0 it 0 te ( R L e L v P i s h e a d s ) p a r s o s v u i r d a e n d c e li m ov it e e r d h in o o m u e r S b c e o fo p r e e 3 a n to d t a d ls u . ring the pandemic A w a s s ig a n c i h fi i c e a v n e t d r e b d e u tw ct e io e n n o O f c 2 t 0 o ,9 b 7 e 1 r t a C n O d 2 e s O h u if r t , S t c h o o p u e g h 2 m im a p rk a e c t t - s b a a r s e e n d o e t m as is s s i i g o n n i s fi cant.
We will reduce our total energy selected non-financial indicators as This year, our overall location-based March of this reporting year (reduction figure is 0 tCOe, as we have procured
consumption by 50 per cent by 2030 noted by . Their full, independent carbon emissions were 159,487 tCOe; in legacy location-based emissions renewable ene 2 rgy certificates equal to our
(compared with 2018/19). While we assurance statement is available online at a 24 per cent decrease since 2019 an 2 d compared with the equivalent period in total electricity consumption in each of the
already procure zero carbon electricity, https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/ 72 per cent against our 2009 baseline the previous year). markets we operate since January 2019.
it remains crucial that we reduce the who-we-are/responsible-business/ (legacy scope). Significant reductions were
amount of power we consume to downloads.html. achieved between October and March of
support the UK in meeting an increasing this reporting year. These are attributable
demand for renewable energy to our programme of environmental
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 35
Our environmental and social Helping Britain transition to a
performance: Progress in 2020 sustainable low-carbon economy
TABLE 4: TOTAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
CO2E EMISSIONS (TONNES) – LEGACY SCOPE
1 Restated 2017/2018 emissions data to improve the Omissions Looking forward
accuracy of reporting, using actual data to replace
CO 2 e emissions tonnes: Oct19–Sep20 Oct18–Sep191 Oct17–Sep181 estimates. Emissions associated with joint ventures
Total COe (market-based) 71,704 101,856 116,100 2 Grey fleet refers to colleague and hired road vehicles and investments are not included in this In 2021, we will continue to develop
2 being used for a business purpose. disclosure as they fall outside the scope additional sector-based ambitions to
Total CO 2 e (location-based) 159,487 208,495 243,028 C Em or i p ss o io ra n t s e i n S t t a o n n d n a e r s d C (2 O 0 2 0 e 4 i ) n . W lin e e a w re it h re t p h o e r G tin H g G t o P r t o h t e o col of our operational boundary. The support our goal to help reduce the
Total Scope 1 & 2 (location-based) 126,890 155,270 178,378 revised Scope 2 guidance, disclosing a market-based Group does not have any emissions emissions we finance by more than
figure in addition to the location-based figure. associated with imported heat, steam 50 per cent by 2030 on the path to net
Of which UK Scope 1 & 2 (location-based) 126,209 152,893 176,676 The definitions of measurement and reporting of or cooling and is not aware of any other zero by 2050, or sooner. We will continue
Scope 1,2,3 emissions is provided in the Lloyds Banking material sources of omissions from to enhance our methodologies and
Group Reporting Criteria statement available online
Total Scope 1 & 2 (market-based) 39,107 48,631 51,450 at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/our-group/ our reporting. framework for reporting climate risks
responsible-business. and opportunities, taking into account
Of which UK Scope 1 & 2 (market-based) 38,806 47,946 49,213
Scope 1 emissions include mobile and stationary Energy efficiency relevant industry guidelines and
Total Scope 1 39,107 48,246 49,505 c S o co m p b e u 2 s t e io m n i s o s f i o fu n e s l h a a n v d e o b p e e e r n a t c io al n c u o l f a f t a e c d il i i t n ie a s c . cordance While the pandemic has significantly r w e i g ll u fu la r t t o h r e y r r a e d p v o a r n t c in e g o r u e r q d u i i s r c e l m os e u n r t e s s . T an h d is
with GHG Protocol guidelines, in both location and impacted our energy performance year
Total Scope 2 (market-based) − 385 1,945 market-based methodologies. on year, we did see a 4 per cent year- respond to the evolving needs of both our
Total Scope 2 (location-based) 87,783 107,025 128,873 Scope 3 emissions reported are disclosed in line with to-year energy consumption reduction shareholders and other stakeholders.
our legacy target, per the expanded scope to include
additional elements within the Group’s own operations achieved in a six-month period prior to We will further embed climate risk into our
Total Scope 3 32,597 53,225 64,650 including emissions from waste, colleague commuting the impacts of coronavirus, largely due risk management framework and improve
and additional elements of business travel (including to our energy reduction initiatives. These our climate scenario analysis including
taxis, tube, well to tank emissions of business travel and
hotels). We have also disclosed legacy scope numbers initiatives include an energy optimisation participating in the Bank of England’s
to allow fairer comparison with numbers previously programme; an energy intervention 2021 Biennial Exploratory Scenario on the
CO2E EMISSIONS (TONNES) – EXPANDED SCOPE d ou is r c p lo r s e e v d io a u n s d ta t r o g d et e s m . onstrate performance versus scheme that includes remote and onsite Financial Risks for Climate Change.
optimisation; and strategic alterations of
CO 2 e emissions tonnes: Oct19–Sep20 Oct18–Sep191 Oct17–Sep181
I
( 2 r
n
0 e
d
2 v
i
i 0
c
s
a
e A
t
d
o
n ) n
r
a
i
u
s
s a s
s
l u
u
R r
b
a e
j
n s
e
p c
c
e o
t t
n b
o
s y i
L
b D
i
l
m
e e l
i
B o
te
u it
d
s te i
I
n
S
L e
A
L s
E
P s
3
R fo
0
e r
0
p t
0
o h e rt i ng.
t
c
h
o
e
n t
b
r
u
o
i
l
l
s
d
s
in
ys
g
t e
m
m
a
s
n a
to
g e
m
m
at
e
c
n
h
t
t
s
h
y
e
s t
r
e
u
m
n
s
h
a
o
n
u
d
rs
T
to
h
u
is
n
w
d
i
e
ll
r
b
ta
e
k
c
e
o
f
m
ur
p
th
le
e
m
r s
e
e
n
c
t
t
e
o
d
r
b
d
y
e e
o
p
u r
d
p
iv
la
e
n s
Total COe (market-based) 120,308 180,153 197,623 Deloitte’s 2020 assurance statement and the of plant to core operating hours and reviews during 2021 to enhance our
2 2020 Reporting Criteria are available online at ensure temperature settings are aligned portfolio and sector understanding,
Total CO 2 e (location-based) 208,092 286,792 324,551 h re t s tp p s o : n // s w ib w le w - . b llo u y s d in s e b s a s n /d k o in w g n g lo ro a u d p s . . c h o tm m l / . who-we-are/ with Group comfort guidelines. In 2020, identifying the risks and opportunities
Total Scope 3 81,202 131,522 146,173 89 deep dives, 88-onsite optimisations, across the portfolio; and we will launch
13 remote optimisations and 550 bank our climate risk assessment tool to
holiday programming optimisations were enable us to undertake qualitative client
completed, which resulted in a 105 GWh assessments, in order to understand and
saving. Additionally, Lloyds Banking Group monitor our clients’ transition plans.
GLOBAL ENERGY USE
saw a 14 per cent year-to-year energy
We will accelerate the decarbonisation
reduction in our company-owned vehicles
of our operations, beginning the
Global energy use (kWhs) Oct19–Sep20 Oct18–Sep191 Oct17–Sep181 energy usage in the six-month period implementation of our 10-year plan to
prior to April 2020, due to our ongoing
Total global energy use 524,024,822 591,341,929 623,467,500 achieve net zero operations by 2030.
focus on reducing business travel.
Of which UK energy use 518,717,523 585,136,101 617,185,723
Total building energy 503,709,548 551,778,914 577,606,213
Total company-owned vehicle energy 14,436,436 29,987,906 34,889,251
Total grey fleet vehicle energy2 5,878,838 9,575,109 10,972,036
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 36
Our environmental and social ESG in lending and investment
SASB indicator:
performance: Progress in 2020
FN-CB-410a.2 FN-IN-410a.2
FN-IN-410b.2 FN-AC-410a.2
FN-CB-410a.1 FN-AC-410a.3
ESG in lending Lloyds Banking Group P rovide general purpose banking or Sustainability risks and lending We continue to develop guidance and
sector statements lending to any new customers where We have continued to strengthen our tools to help Relationship Managers and
and investment any revenue is derived from operating Credit Officers identify and manage the
We recognise our responsibility to coal-fired power stations in the UK capabilities and abilities for identifying, climate risk associated with our customers,
help address the economic, social and assessing and managing sustainability including:
E S G environmental challenges that the UK In addition to the above exclusions, we will risks across our lending assessments,
faces and remain fully committed to support existing customers in the coal credit and sector risk appetite and policy A ctions being taken by the customer to
Lloyds Banking Group expects Helping Britain Prosper and supporting industry to diversify their strategy to eliminate setting and ongoing risk management reduce GHG emissions
all of our customers to comply environmental sustainability. As a result, coal mining or coal power operations from processes. E xposure to physical and transitional
with applicable international Lloyds Banking Group has identified their UK operations in line with the UK Relationship Managers and Credit risks from climate change
selected sectors and defined specific risk Government’s 2024 phase-out target.
conventions, sanctions and Officers across the Commercial Banking P otential opportunities to support the
appetites related to our financing activities
embargoes, legislation and We will also encourage clients with must ensure that sustainability risks are client in their transition journey
within sectors that have the potential to
international coal-related operations to considered at transaction origination
licensing requirements while negatively impact the environment and We have a robust approach to identifying,
reduce their exposure in line with the and monitored on an ongoing basis
showing a clear commitment to society, creating the need for the Group assessing and managing the environmental
Paris Agreement. throughout the customer lifecycle.
robust ESG and risk management. to have clear guidance in terms of risk In Commercial Banking Relationship risk associated with our customers’
appetite for selected activities. The sector During 2020, we have now placed business activities and lending collateral.
Managers and Credit Risk Officers must
Within our risk appetite, we aim to statements set out our approach and additional emphasis on the importance of consider sustainability risk for all new During 2020, we have also simplified
support and benefit from ESG investment appetite to lending as it relates to high-risk engagement with clients in the oil and gas and renewal credit applications, and our environmental risk policy. All cases
opportunities, offering customers sectors, whether this risk derives directly sector to determine whether they have specifically comment on this where total that are identified as higher risk by our
sustainable investment choices, and from climate or from reputational risk. Paris-aligned transition plans in place. limits exceed £500,000. Environmental Risk Screening Tool are
challenging companies that we invest in to
Our 2020 review of our sector statements We will continue to develop sector- subject to further review. Higher-risk
behave more sustainably and responsibly. In 2020, we have developed and piloted a
has tightened our lending appetite for specific guidance to help Relationship applications will also be reviewed by our
tool in Commercial Banking to help assess
exposure to the coal sector even further. Managers identify environmental and in-house environmental risk team. Where
our clients’ physical and transition risks.
Highlights Lloyds Banking Group will not: social risks. This will enable Relationship Managers specific or material environmental risks or
concerns are identified, cases are referred
W e have tightened our lending E ngage new commercial banking The scope of our Sector Statements: and Credit Officers to better understand
to retained environmental risk consultants
appetite for the coal sector customers where any revenue is derived sustainability risks and customers’ plans
W e have further enhanced our from operating thermal or metallurgical C oal for transitioning to a low-carbon economy. for an opinion on the adequacy of the
mitigants in place or recommendations
environmental and social risk lending coal mines O il and gas Climate risk is also being embedded in on managing the environmental risk. The
due diligence processes. In 2020, D irectly finance new or existing UK coal- P ower our credit processes as part of our wider key findings from such due diligence must
we have developed and piloted fired power stations by the end of 2022 M ining ESG focus. More information is available be factored into credit applications which
a h e to lp o a l i s n s e C s o s m ou m r e c r li c e ia n l t B s’ a p n h k y in si g c a to l a nd S i n u v p e p st o m rt e n n e t w in p c r o o a je l p c o t fi w n e a r n o c p e e o ra r t d io ir n e s c t o f F orestry i p n a t g h e e 2 d 6 is o c f u t s h s i i s o r n e o p n o r r t is . k management on inform lending decisions.
transition risks D efence
diversified utility companies elsewhere
W e have established a dedicated in the world, unless the finance is used M anufacturing
Responsible Investment team in to decommission the coal power A utomotive Additional links
our Insurance and Wealth division generation or convert to renewable
A griculture
and have launched our Responsible power generation T he Lloyds Banking Group S cottish Widows Stewardship Policy
Investment Framework and A nimal welfare Sector Statement
S cottish Widows Exclusions Policy
Stewardship Policy through F isheries
T he Lloyds Banking Group
Scottish Widows S cottish Widows Principles of
U NESCO World Heritage Sites Equator Principles Performance table
Responsible Investment Report
S cottish Widows Responsible
Investment Framework
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 37
Our environmental and social ESG in lending and investment
performance: Progress in 2020
Responsible investment Executive oversight is provided by a largest offshore wind farm and solar
and stewardship Responsible Investment Committee, energy transactions, as well as supporting
which is a sub-committee of the Insurance the installation of smart meters across the
Scottish Widows look after the retirement Investment Strategy Committee. This UK, helping households to save money
savings of millions of hard-working people committee, with strong Board support, and cut carbon emissions.
and our role is to help them plan for their plays a pivotal role in setting Scottish
long-term financial prosperity. To do this, Widows’ sustainability agenda and We are early adopters of the recently
it’s important we continue to use our provides strategic direction to our launched Sustainability Reporting
scale and influence, along with our fund responsible investment activity. Standard for Social Housing, which aims to
manager relationships, to challenge the standardise ESG reporting in the sector,
companies we invest in on our customers’ We have externally published Lloyds and we are an active funder to social
behalf to be the sustainable businesses Banking Group Sector Statements across housing providers to support delivery of
of the future. We aim to address material a range of sectors which our new direct new-build social and affordable housing.
financial risks and opportunities linked lending transactions need to meet, We have also committed over £700 million
to ESG factors in the investments we and our mandated asset managers are to private sector housing provision, where
make, and this is the foundation of our required to follow the Scottish Widows we aim to drive a positive social impact,
Responsible Investment Framework. Stewardship Policy and Exclusions including the provision of over 6,500
Policy. These statements and policies quality rental homes and more than 2,500
Over the course of 2020, we have focused are consistent with the overall Group specialist residential beds across the UK.
The Equator
on building robust foundations for future ambition, which is to align lending and
Principles responsible investment activity, launching investments with a fair and orderly For Customer funds, we are investigating
our Responsible Investment Framework transition to a sustainable and low-carbon responsible investment metrics, such
in March and developing Stewardship economy, thus reducing our exposure as carbon intensity and how to share
Lloyds Banking Group is a signatory to We have a robust approach to the and Exclusions Policies. We have also to ESG and climate-related risks and this with our customers. This area is
the Equator Principles, which is a risk review and reporting on Equator established a Responsible Investment maximising the value of investments in the moving quickly, and we expect much to
management framework for managing Principle transactions through an team which is made up of professionals long term. become visible in 2021. This will evolve
sustainability risks in project finance internal referral and risk assessment with diverse backgrounds in responsible in the short term, as consensus on the
transactions, such as large-scale process through our environmental investment, policy, research, advocacy, As an asset owner, we work with the best communication methods with
energy, industrial or infrastructure due diligence and/or technical adviser data and climate science. The team is largest of our investee companies to our clients and customers across the
projects. It ensures that such deals, reports being a key requirement in our set to continue to grow in line with our engender positive change and enhance industry matures. When developing new
where we provide finance or advice, analysis of project finance transactions, developing ambition in stewardship their approach to climate and Board metrics and assessing their applicability
meet minimum standards for due alongside engagement with and responsible investment. diversity issues. We delegate broader to our various communications, we are
diligence and monitoring in keeping environmental consultants, enabling engagement activity to our investment working to ensure we provide supporting
with responsible finance. us to make responsible business risk Currently, our responsible investment managers, who we oversee to ensure they educational material to allow customers
decisions. principles are applied to our equity live up to their promises. Where we have to understand the meaning of the figures
In 2020, we implemented the enhanced investments. Over time, we aim to extend found their demonstrated activity has not we show them, as well as establishing
requirements of Equator Principles 4. Our 2020 Equator Principles them to other types of investments, like fulfilled the promises made to the market, necessary safeguards to prevent impulsive
This strengthens the due diligence performance table in included bonds. Our Responsible Investment we have escalated and followed up on decision-making which could lead to sub-
requirements for signatories to in Appendix 2 of this report on Team is also working with Government, the resolution. optimal customer outcomes.
consider the environmental and social page 72. regulators and the pensions industry
risk impacts of projects specifically to unlock opportunities to invest in the Shareholder investment activity includes
on human rights, climate change and infrastructure required to successfully providing direct loans to finance
biodiversity, including aligning climate transition to a lower-carbon economy, renewable energy and infrastructure
change risk assessments with the like renewable energy facilities. projects such as investment in the world’s
physical and transition risk categories
of the TCFD.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 38
Our environmental and social ESG in lending and investment
performance: Progress in 2020
Collaboration Stewardship activity in 2020
We recognise we can be most effective I n 2020, we continued our direct
through collaboration and we continue engagement with BP and Shell to
to work with other external bodies, discuss their plans to evolve their
organisations and initiatives pursuing businesses into green energy
responsible investment and climate- production and increase transparency
related policy or advocacy initiatives: in the way they manage climate change
risk in order to seek to reduce the risk
I nstitutional Investors Group on Climate
of our investments in these companies
Change – playing a leading role in
BlackRock ACS becoming ‘stranded assets’, a key way
the development of the Net Zero
in which sustainability risk becomes
Investment Framework Climate Transition investment risk
P rinciples for Responsible Investment
W e worked collaboratively with the
World Equity Fund
U NEP FI Principles for Sustainable wider investment industry, signing
Insurance two open letters to Government over
T he Association of British Insurers We have partnered with BlackRock the course of the year encouraging Investment of the UN Global Compact on
to create a new fund aligned to the the development of carbon-aware human rights, labour, environment
goals of the Paris Agreement, helping economic recovery plans (‘build back exclusions in action and corruption – unless the size and
mitigate climate change risks and better’); this activity saw fruition in the type of investment means that the
benefiting from the opportunities publication both of the Chancellor’s Scottish Widows is to divest at least insurer can influence positive change
relating to the low-carbon transition. suite of green finance plans and the £440 million from companies that in their business models. As one of
We have now committed £2 billion Prime Minister’s Ten Point Plan for a have failed to meet its ESG standards, the biggest pension providers in the
of our pension default product, the green industrial revolution and warned this figure could grow UK, Scottish Widows’ new exclusions
PIA, to be invested into this fund – the much further if companies do not take policy will enable nearly 6 million UK
Climate Transition World Equity Fund, action to improve the sustainability of savers to invest more sustainably.
which was launched in August. This their business practices. Early success These exclusions will be applied
will enable over 2.6 million pension of our engagement with one of our across the group’s life, pension and
savers to invest more sustainably. partner asset managers has led the Open Ended Investment Company
We are also expanding its use within investment manager to introduce an funds – including its flagship
our wider multi-asset fund range. exclusions policy for all their Europe- workplace pensions default – and will
Compared with benchmarks, this domiciled passive funds totalling over apply to index trackers as well as its
fund could be expected to achieve a £20 billion, leading to an additional own active funds. As part of the policy,
50 per cent reduction in carbon divestment of approximately £280 Scottish Widows is working with its
emissions intensity and to achieve million within our customer pension strategic investment partners to apply
60 per cent more revenue from portfolios. Scottish Widows’ new the exclusions to the external pooled
‘green’ technologies. At the same exclusions policy targets companies funds they manage on behalf of a
time, the investment approach for the which derive more than 10 per cent broad range of institutions in order to
rest of the default is one of continued of their revenue from thermal coal enable even more UK savers to invest
ESG integration, with the underlying and tar sands, manufacturers of more sustainably.
funds moving to introduce exclusions controversial weapons and violators
on UN Global Compact, controversial
weapons, thermal coal and tar sands
over the next year, as publicised in the
Scottish Widows Exclusions Policy.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 39
Our environmental and social Championing Britain’s diversity
SASB indicator:
performance: Progress in 2020
FN-AC-330a.1
Championing Lloyds Banking Group aims to create a fully In 2018, we made a public commitment to
inclusive environment that is representative increase the ethnic diversity of both our OUR INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY DATA 2020 2019
inclusion and of modern-day Britain and where everyone overall and senior workforce, which has led
Gender
can reach their potential. to positive changes; however, feedback
diversity from our Black colleagues told us there Board members Male 8 9
As the first FTSE 100 company to set
was still more to do.
targets to increase both gender and Female 4 4
E S G ethnic diversity at senior levels, we In July 2020, our Group Chief Executive,
GEC & GEC direct reports Male 86 111
continue to invest in making the Group António Horta-Osório launched our
a leading inclusive employer, where the Race Action Plan, which includes a new Female 41 50
Highlights unique differences our colleagues bring public goal to specifically increase Black
Senior managers Male 4,540 4,539
During 2020, we launched our to work every day are valued. representation in senior roles from 0.6 per
Race Action Plan. The Group was cent at senior grades to at least 3 per cent Female 2,670 2,647
Building a truly inclusive organisation
the first FTSE 100 company to launch by 2025 to align with the overall UK labour
a new public goal to specifically also requires us to be an anti-racist market. The plan aims to drive cultural Colleagues Male 28,948 29,522
organisation – one where all colleagues
increase Black representation in change, recruitment and progression Female 39,817 41,033
speak up, challenge and act to take
senior roles across the Group. In December 2020,
an active stance against racism and we broadened our plan to go further Ethnicity
We have published our first Ethnicity discrimination of any kind.
Pay Gap Report and work beyond our own internal % of Board Members from an Ethnic Minority Background 8.3% NR
Getting this right is at the heart of our boundaries by actively supporting Black
We have published our annual % of Senior Managers from an Ethnic Minority Background 7.7% 6.7%
purpose to Help Britain Prosper – a more communities through our partnerships
Gender Pay Gap Report
inclusive society is a more prosperous with Foundervine and the Black Business % of Colleagues from an Ethnic Minority Background 10.6% 10.2%
We achieved the external Hampton- society, and a diverse business is a better Network.
Disability
Alexander goal of 33 per cent business.
We have already delivered a number of
women in the combined Executive % of Colleagues who disclose that they have a disability 3.2% 2.8%
Committee and direct report Our focus on inclusion and diversity is activities, including establishing a new
population a source of pride for our colleagues; Race Advisory Panel, made up of Black, Sexual orientation
this year, according to our colleague Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues to % of Colleagues who disclose that they are lesbian, gay, 2.3% 2.2%
engagement survey, 85 per cent agreed influence and inform our diversity strategy, bisexual or transgender
that the Group is an inclusive place to delivering a series of race education
work. Approximately 50 per cent of our sessions for all senior leaders, and All data as at 31 December 2020. Group Executive Committee (GEC) assists the Group Chief Executive in
strategic, cross-business or Group-wide matters and inputs to Board. GEC and direct reports includes the Group
colleagues belong to or support one of publishing our Ethnicity Pay Gap Report. Chief Executive, GEC and colleagues who report to a member or attendee of GEC, excluding administrative or
our five employee diversity networks. executive support roles (personal assistant, executive assistant).
The Board currently meets, and will aim
Reporting: A colleague is an individual who is paid via the Group’s payroll and employed on a permanent or fixed term
to continue to meet, the objectives of the contract (employed for a limited period). Includes parental leavers, and internationals (UK includes Guernsey, Isle of
Ethnic diversity
Parker Review of at least one Black, Asian Man, Jersey and Gibraltar). Excludes leavers, Group Non-Executive Directors, contractors, temps, and agency staff.
Being able to attract, develop, fully utilise or Minority Ethnic Board member. Diversity: Calculation is based on headcount, not FTE (full-time employee value). Data source is HR system
(Workday) containing all permanent colleague details. Gender: includes international, those on parental/
and retain top talent from diverse ethnic
We have commenced the roll-out of a maternity leave, absent without leave (AWOL) and long-term sick. Excludes contractors, Group Non-Executive
and cultural backgrounds is key to the Directors, temps and agency staff. All other diversity information is UK payroll only. All diversity information is
wider race education programme for
success of the Group. Lloyds Banking Group based on voluntary self-declaration, apart from gender, so is not 100 per cent representative; our systems do
Additional information is investing in creating an organisation all colleagues, launched our new Talent not record diversity data of colleagues who have not declared this information.
Identification Programme for our Black Ethnic background: comprising of mixed/multiple, Asian, Black, Middle Eastern, North African and other
where our Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
T he Lloyds Banking Group colleagues feel included, valued and able to senior managers, and have started to (non-white) ethnicities.
Inclusion & Diversity webpage realise their full potential. review our key people processes to C A o b l e le in ag g u th e e g l r o a w d e e s s t : . f rom A through to J, Senior Executive (SE), Executive (EX) and Executive Director (ED),
remove any issues of racial bias within
G ender Pay Gap Report the Group. Senior Managers: Grades F, G, H, J, SE, EX and ED (F being the lowest).
NR: Data not reported during period.
E thnicity Pay Gap Report Indicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 (revised) assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2020 Annual Responsible
Business Reporting. Deloitte’s 2020 assurance statement and the 2020 Reporting Criteria are available online at
https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/responsible-business/downloads.html
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 40
Our environmental and social Championing Britain’s diversity
performance: Progress in 2020
OUR RACE ACTION PLAN COMMITMENTS
While we had a comprehensive ethnicity 1. 5.
strategy in place for some time, and We have set a new public goal, We committed to publish our first
have made progress that we can be complementing our broader 2018 Ethnicity Pay Gap Report by the end
proud of, we know there is more to Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic of 2020.
do. We recognise that specific groups target, to specifically increase Black
6.
face difficult and sometimes nuanced representation in senior grades from
challenges. 0.6 per cent at senior roles to at least We ensure diversity on all our senior
executive recruitment shortlists with
3 per cent by 2025, to align with the
These are the commitments that a Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
overall UK labour market.
make up our plan. We are continually candidate. We have trained recruiters,
reviewing and updating these with input 2. hiring managers and third-party
from our Race Advisory Panel to ensure We have set up a Race Advisory Panel, suppliers to ensure they understand
our actions are the right ones. made up of 23 colleagues of Black, our expectations and have the tools
Asian and Minority Ethnic heritage, to hire inclusively.
to influence and inform our ongoing
7.
diversity strategy and ensure we are
We are nurturing our talented
making the right progress.
Black colleagues by creating specific
3. development and sponsorship
We are working in partnership with programmes for both middle
external experts to develop a race management and senior grades, so
education programme and have that we can help break the ceiling for
already delivered a series of sessions senior role models.
for our senior leaders to learn about the
8.
challenges faced by Black communities,
Supporting Black Communities – Taking
and to equip them to have informed
our work beyond our own organisation
conversations with their teams about
and starting to help address challenges
race and ethnicity. In 2021, we will
faced by Black communities, beginning
continue this programme with our line
with partnerships with Foundervine and
managers and colleagues.
the Black Business Network specifically
4. to help Black entrepreneurs.
We are undertaking regular listening
sessions to gauge and understand our
colleagues’ experiences and progress
against our plans. We plan to keep
on listening.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 41
Our environmental and social Championing Britain’s diversity
performance: Progress in 2020
OUR 2020 PROGRESS ON OUR RACE ACTION PLAN
July September November
Our Race Action Plan was announced to We delivered a series of colleague We started taking some of our
drive change in our culture, recruitment communications and events to support specialist teams through a full day of
and progression for Black colleagues. the Race Action Plan, including in-depth race education training with
Senior Black representation stands at webinar events exploring ‘Cultural 250 colleagues in strategically crucial
0.6 per cent and we have set a goal to Conversations’, ‘Race and Mental roles, such as conduct and performance
reach 3 per cent by 2025. Health’ and ‘Tackling Everyday Racism’. management.
August We introduced diverse shortlists We upskilled our recruiters, hiring
and waiver processes for executive managers and third-party suppliers
A Senior Race Action Plan lead was
appointments to ensure these include to ensure they understand our
appointed to oversee our programme
at least one Black, Asian and Minority expectations and have the tools to
of activity and a working group was
Ethnic candidate. hire inclusively.
established to own and deliver the plan.
October We started working with new
Our Race Advisory Panel was set up,
recruitment partners to help us better
made up of 23 Black, Asian and We marked Black History Month by
reach Black, Asian and Minority
Minority Ethnic colleagues from sharing stories of Black excellence
Ethnic talent.
across the business. among our colleagues and hidden
figures in history. We began development of bespoke
We delivered the start of a wide-scale
race education training for our line
race education programme with almost Lloyds Banking Group stood with
manager cohort and colleagues which
60 per cent of senior managers and Business in the Community to support
we plan to launch in the first quarter
leaders, to get the conversations started the call on Government to make
of 2021.
about race with the expertise of external ethnicity pay gap data a reporting
thought-leaders. We are continuing requirement for companies. December
this project with our leaders into 2021.
We started reviewing our people Our Race Action Plan was widened to
We developed a ‘Starting the processes to understand to what extent look at supporting challenges faced by
Conversation on Race’ support pack our recruitment, performance, conduct, Black communities externally, starting
to equip line managers and colleagues and reward and recognition processes with a partnership with Foundervine
with the information they need to be may favour some groups of people and our sponsorship of the Black
able to have supportive conversations more than others. Business Network’s Black Investor
around race and ethnicity within 360 event for 2020 and 2021.
their teams.
We launched a new Talent Identification
Programme for our Black senior managers.
We published our first Ethnicity Pay
Gap Report.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 42
Our environmental and social Championing Britain’s diversity
performance: Progress in 2020
Gender diversity 45 per cent achieving a promotion within families, and we achieved the external
two years. In addition, our Sponsorship Hampton-Alexander goal of 33 per cent
We champion gender equality through
programme to match mid-manager grade for women in the combined Executive
promoting a strong pipeline of executive
women with a senior sponsor has resulted Committee and direct report population.
female talent for the future. Our ambitious
in attendees achieving a promotion rate The Board has achieved the Hampton-
target to have 40 per cent of senior
five times greater than the Group average Alexander objective of 33 per cent female
management roles filled by women by the
for female progression. representation, and will aim to continue to
end of 2020 has seen us advance from
do so. We have also published our annual
28 per cent in 2014 to 37 per cent at We have also continued to support our
Gender Pay Gap Report.
the end of 2020. Our goal was always working parents with parental leave transition
aspirational and has provided real focus coaching to help colleagues and their line Our women’s network, Breakthrough, is
and, without it, we would not have made managers manage the transition from now the largest of its kind in the UK with
the progress that we have achieved. work, to taking time off as a parent, and 15,000 members and 4,000 mentors.
then preparing to return to work again. The Group has also been a proud sponsor
We have continued to drive progress
of the Women of the Future Ambassadors
around female talent development, Our progress has been recognised
Programme over the past seven years,
progression, recruitment through our externally for the second year in the 2020
providing mentors and role models and
existing programmes and activities, such Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index, and
strengthening the pipeline of talent among
as our Women in Leadership programme for the ninth consecutive year in The Times
young British women, reaching 20,000
for middle management women, with Top 50 Employers for Women. We
students over the course of the programme.
around 20 per cent achieving a promotion have also been recognised by Working
within 12 months of attending and Families as a Top 10 Employer for working
The Big Question:
How do we have effective conversations
about race and why does it matter?
Following the launch of our Race This was in response to feedback that
Action Plan, we invited all of our many of our colleagues and leaders
executive leaders to attend a one-hour felt uncomfortable when it came to
webinar session entitled ‘The Big talking about race. The sessions have
Question: How do we have effective been attended by 91 per cent of our
OUR PROGRESS ON GENDER DIVERSITY
conversations about race and why executive leadership population and
does it matter?’ with organisational have helped to provide immediate
psychologist, bestselling author and insight and support to leaders while
2014 2015 2016 2018 2019 2020
Founder of Amaechi Performance we are developing our longer-term
We became the first We launched a We were among the We launched By the end of 2019, We achieved the Systems, John Amaechi OBE. race education programme.
FTSE 100 organisation Women in Leadership first signatories to the a sponsorship we had increased external Hampton- The purpose of these sessions was
to make a public programme for Women in Finance programme for representation of Alexander goal of to help our executive leaders feel
commitment on middle management Charter. women and Black, senior women from 33 per cent for women more comfortable in having positive
gender equality in women. Asian and Minority 27 per cent to almost in the combined and supportive conversations
our Helping Britain Ethnic colleagues. 37 per cent. Executive Committee about race within their teams, and
Prosper plan. and direct report particularly with their Black, Asian
population. and Minority Ethnic colleagues.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 43
Our environmental and social Championing Britain’s diversity
performance: Progress in 2020
Gender identity and
sexual orientation
We are proud to have created an inclusive
Supporting the
and open working environment for our
LGBT+ colleagues, with the Group named sunflower
Top Financial Employer, and seventh
overall in the 2019 Stonewall Top 100
employers list. This achievement is the We are proud to support the Hidden
culmination of a journey that has seen the Disabilities Sunflower Scheme.
Group placed in the top 10 since 2015, In August 2020, we were the first bank
and first in 2017, recognising the progress to launch this across all our Halifax,
made and our continued commitment to Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Bank
LGBT+ inclusion. Our LGBT+ colleague branches. As some disabilities are not
network, Rainbow, plays a pivotal role immediately visible, the lanyards are
in our approach, and with over 5,000 used to discreetly indicate that the
Our sponsorship In 2017, we introduced a new “When being nominated for the members and supporters, is one of the wearer may need a little more support
sponsorship programme to match mid- sponsorship programme I had only largest networks of its kind in the UK. and prompt a conversation. This
programme for manager grade women with a senior recently secured a promotion to In 2020, our Rainbow network celebrated allows us to better understand our
sponsor. In 2018, this was extended to mid-management grade, but my line their 10-year anniversary and held a series customers, and the challenges they
mid-management include Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic manager and peers could see my of virtual Pride events for colleagues may face, and adapt our behaviour to
colleagues (both male and female). potential to one-day become a leader spanning 10 weeks, reaching over meet their needs.
women So far 350 colleagues have taken part, of the future. 1,600 colleagues and raising £10,000 for
with 30 per cent achieving a promotion LGBT+ charities.
to a senior role. To date, women on the The programme offered the platform I
programme have achieved a promotion needed to showcase my talents, and the Supporting disability
rate five times greater than the Group exposure to like-minded females across
average for female progression. the Group to share my experiences and The Group is committed to creating an
This programme was highlighted in the learn from theirs. My sponsor served inclusive and diverse organisation where
2018 Hampton-Alexander Review report as a great sounding board to discuss colleagues with disabilities or long-term
as a leading approach to sponsorship. potential roles and suggested actions to health conditions feel valued, understood
address my areas of development. Within and supported to reach their full potential.
A recent attendee on the programme, 18 months of joining the programme, This has been recognised through the
Gülizar Abdurrahman, Commercial I was accepted onto the Executive MBA Group holding the Business Disability
Banking Client Products, tells us how Apprenticeship scheme with Henley Forum Gold Standard accreditation and
the programme has supported her Business School and was promoted retaining Disability Confident Leader
to achieve her ambitions. to a senior manager. The sponsorship status from the Department for Work and
programme helped me fine tune the Pensions, which recognise the inclusive
skills I needed to be a strong senior culture of Lloyds Banking Group and the
manager and leader, which my team support we provide.
and I are really benefiting from now.”
We support these colleagues in a variety
Gülizar Abdurrahman of ways, through workplace adjustments
Commercial Banking Client Products and a guaranteed interview scheme, as well
as training and development programmes.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 44
Our environmental and social Assisting our customers
performance: Progress in 2020
Assisting our We have supported over a million Our branch colleagues made over 750,000
customers with payment holidays across outbound calls to customers throughout
customers mortgages, credit cards, loans and the year not only to support with their
motor finance. This has given customers banking needs but to check on their
impacted by the pandemic the flexibility wellbeing and in some cases connect
E S G
they need to help get them back on track customers to local support.
and the comfort that their credit file will
We recognise that many customers have
not be impacted.
Highlights chosen to interact with us digitally through
T o assist our customers during the Across mortgages and motor finance, this period, and so have developed a
pandemic, we launched a number of we remain committed to giving customers number of new online journeys which give
financial, digital and mental health time to recover from the impact of the customers access to set up and service
support initiatives pandemic without losing their home or forbearance plans with us. This also helps us
vehicle. Additionally, further support to keep our phone lines available for those
W e made it easier for our customers
was provided to our current account who need or want to speak to us. Additional
less able to see us in branch to
customers, with all customers benefiting information in the case study on page 51.
contact us, by launching priority
from an initial three-month interest-free
phone lines with increased
buffer on their overdraft. Supporting customer
telephony resource, allowing them
to reach us quickly and to avoid the We recognise the impact that the pandemic mental health
need for unnecessary journeys has had operationally and our ability to be It has never been more important
W e made over 750,000 outbound there for our customers when they need to continue to work to support our
wellbeing calls to customers to offer us the most. Dedicated priority lines have customers’ mental health and wellbeing,
support in 2020 through our branch been set up for NHS workers and the given the extra pressures the current
networks, and partnered with Mental over-70s, along with increased telephony pandemic has placed upon all of us. Connecting with our customers
Health UK to create a mental health resource to support our customers. During the coronavirus pandemic, we have
support section on our customer- We have also trained some of our branch provided funding for The Silverline, who
I called Mr and Mrs A as part of the and signposted the different channels
facing webpages colleagues to increase our capacity to help support the over-55s who may be feeling
over-70s wellbeing calls. Mr A told me available. I gave Mr A our Cancer
customers who may be facing financial lonely and isolated. We have worked
they were shielding because he has Support Team number; he was shocked
difficulty and need the support of a in partnership with our charity partner
Supporting our customers cancer. They have no support from at the support we provided and said,
colleague. In addition to this we signpost Mental Health UK, to create bespoke
any family or friends, were relying on “you really care about us customers
in challenging times customers to further support, including mental health support for our website.
the Government’s food box, unable to don’t you!” It made me emotional
mental health support, available through
The Group is committed to providing our websites, mobile apps and direct mail. Lloyds Bank became the first organisation get their prescriptions, and there was knowing that they were both in a
meaningful support to meet the needs of to achieve the Essentials level in the no one to support them with their horrible situation with no support, but
our customers, aiming to provide positive We made it easier for our customers less Mental Health Accessible Accreditation banking as they only used branches. one phone call made all the difference
outcomes and working to mitigate able to see us in branch to contact us launched by the Money Mental Health I first gave them the direct number for to them. Mrs A ended the call saying
or reduce the risk of financial harm. by launching a priority phone number, Policy Institute. This is a significant Middlesbrough Council’s Help Boro “What a nice gesture to phone us,
The pandemic has magnified existing allowing them to reach us quickly and to milestone on our continuing journey department to locate volunteers to help have a lovely day Hollie. I will forever
challenges faced by customers, and avoid the need for unnecessary journeys. towards not only supporting our them with food shopping and picking remember this call.”
brought new challenges affecting We made it easier for customers to find customers with both visible and invisible up their prescriptions. Mr and Mrs A
health, income and relationships. the help and support they needed, disabilities, but also addressing the stigma were also worried about their credit card Hollie contacted a customer
By adapting our support, proactively updating our websites with a dedicated that exists around mental health. bill which was due. I put them through local to the branch she works
contacting customers and using insight pandemic support section, meaning directly to the over-70s priority number in Middlesbrough
to understand what their needs are, we customers could access the financial
continued to support customers support available and undertake the
in challenging times. things that were most important to them
simply and easily.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 45
Our environmental and social Supporting Businesses and SMEs
SASB indicator:
performance: Progress in 2020
FN-CB-240a.1
Supporting Supporting businesses to In the real estate and housing sector, commercial banking market, provides the
recover, adapt, start up we have funded 19.1 million sq. ft. of incentive of discounted borrowing to all
businesses commercial real estate to become more types of businesses that invest in reducing
and grow
energy efficient, reducing greenhouse their environmental impact. Building
and SMEs Supporting businesses of all types and gas emissions in core business processes, on this, we launched several new green
sizes is fundamental to helping Britain to properties and infrastructure since 2018. finance products, tools and services in
both prosper and recover. The pandemic Over that same time period, we have 2020. Further information on our green
E S G
has had a profound impact on the way we committed to supporting renewable finance initiatives can be located on
live our lives and on the global economy. energy transactions that could power page 20.
Highlights We remain fully focused on helping our the equivalent of 10.1 million homes.
The Big Conversation –
customers and the UK economy recover,
W e have provided over £12 billion in collaboration with government and We’ve made a specific commitment to Helping Britain Recover
of lending through Government- support the agriculture sector to meet
our regulators.
backed lending schemes its ambitious net zero target of 2040, Lloyds Banking Group has brought
We have helped over 265,000 This year we have actively supported our through our brands – Lloyds Bank, Bank of together more than 900 businesses,
businesses start up since 2018 clients with over £12 billion of lending Scotland and the Agricultural Mortgage community members, policy-makers and
through government-backed lending Corporation. The sector generates subject-matter experts across the UK’s
W e have trained 1,211 apprentices,
in addition to a range of propositions 10 per cent of the UK’s carbon emissions, nations and regions to explore how we
graduates and engineers through
including approximately 34,000 capital and we have a role to play as the largest can help the UK recover from the impact
our investment in the Lloyds Bank
repayment holidays and around 22,000 lender to the sector. Our package of of coronavirus.
Advanced Manufacturing Training
fee-free overdrafts as part of the Group’s measures includes lowering the minimum
Centre since 2018 £2 billion COVID-19 fund. As the impact lending amount to access green funding, Conversations have covered a range of
We have invested over £5 million of coronavirus has been felt across the broadening what we finance, and topics, from accessing the finance and
into supporting more than UK, we have also looked to address wider promoting and facilitating the use skills needed to return to prosperity,
230 businesses and 450 apprentices concerns about how the pandemic could of three market-leading carbon to the opportunities brought about
to develop science, technology, affect businesses in a number of ways measurement tools. by an increasingly digital economy.
engineering and mathematics skills through providing online guides and Discussions also revealed a shared view
that will support the UK’s recovery webcast series covering a range of topics For over five years, Lloyds Banking Group of what the critical priorities should be
has evidenced how crucial technology for policy-makers.
W e have supported over 368,000 such as managing fraud risks, mental
is for small businesses and the digital
organisations in gaining digital skills health, the road to a low-carbon economy, economy through the Business Digital We’ve partnered with the Confederation
and to adapt their businesses with optimising working capital and risk Index reports. In 2020, in partnership with of British Industry, bringing the voices and
technology since 2018 through management. Be the Business, we provided a one-off experience of its 190,000 members to the
strategic partnerships Since 2018, we have now helped over piece of thought leadership looking at conversation.
T o support businesses in their 265,000 businesses start up and the impact of COVID-19 on digitalisation
transition to a low-carbon future, have re-affirmed our commitment to the and business resilience. We’ve held free
we launched several new green UK’s manufacturing sector providing workshops, peer-to-peer networking
finance products, tools and services £3.7 billion of dedicated investment, sessions across all regions of the UK
(page 20) while continuing to build on our financial and have a range of free on-demand
commitments with our broader support learning available, helping over 368,000
for a range of issues that impact business organisations since 2018, with more in plan
skills and productivity every day. for 2021 and beyond. Additional information
In support of the Group’s Race Action Our Clean Growth Finance Initiative The Big Conversation
Plan, we have committed to a programme (CGFI), which aims to offer the most
of activities for Black-led businesses that inclusive UK green funding in the T he Lloyds Bank Advanced
we will progress in 2021. Manufacturing Training Centre
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 46
Our environmental and social Supporting Businesses and SMEs
performance: Progress in 2020
Our apprenticeship strategy The 2019 apprenticeship enrolments
saw that over 41 per cent of external
Lloyds Banking Group continues to
apprentices were from the UK’s most
Mayfield Eggs promote the importance of bringing disadvantaged areas, and we saw an
new skills into industry and support
increase in intake of 47 per cent in 2020
apprenticeships by launching a new
in higher apprenticeship enrolment.
Witney-based Mayfield Eggs has apprentice support service in conjunction
adapted its processes to provide packs with the Advanced Manufacturing Lloyds Bank Group and AMTC
of fresh free-range eggs to homes Training Centre (AMTC) for manufacturing apprenticeships have teamed up to create
across Oxfordshire, while maintaining companies across England. a new partnership to deliver fully funded
its supply to local independent stores. high-value engineering apprenticeships
Established in 2015, the Lloyds Bank
The shift has helped to ensure that to SMEs in Coventry, Warwickshire
AMTC is a state-of-the-art training centre
elderly and vulnerable residents who are and the surrounding areas. The Group
designed to create a new generation
unable to get to the shops can still buy has agreed £9 million of support over
of engineers and technicians to help
eggs during the coronavirus pandemic. three years to help SMEs to invest in
the UK realise its potential in advanced
apprenticeships through our Levy Transfer
They’ve been able to deliver produce manufacturing. The Lloyds Bank AMTC
initiative. By sharing our apprenticeship
more quickly and efficiently with the connects apprenticeships with high-
levy we have already committed over
help of a new on-site packaging facility calibre manufacturing and engineering
£5.4 million of this funding, helping
and grading machine, which speeds employers who are looking to employ
230 businesses and 450 apprentices with
up the packing process by sorting the the best talent in the industry. During
the costs of training and development of
eggs by size and weight and packing 2020, the Group has continued with its
critical STEM and digital skills in London,
them into cartons. The machine was long-term investment of £10 million over
purchased with the help of a £480,000 “As more people are cooking and baking 10 years in the AMTC, which is on track West Midlands and Greater Manchester,
loan provided as part of Lloyds Bank’s at home during lockdown, demand for to support the training and upskilling contributing towards the UK’s recovery.
Clean Growth Financing Initiative. eggs has rocketed. We pride ourselves of around 3,500 apprentices, graduates
on being part of the community and and engineers by the of 2024. Through
The funding has also enabled them to wanted to adapt our processes to offer our annual investment in the AMTC,
cut emissions by removing road miles a door-to-door delivery service for local based in the Midlands, we have trained
from transporting eggs to and from the residents during this difficult time.” 1,211 manufacturing apprentices,
previous packing site, as well as reducing James Lyall graduates and engineers in manufacturing
operating costs. Director, Mayfield Eggs since 2018.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 47
Our environmental and social Supporting Businesses and SMEs
performance: Progress in 2020
Strategic partnerships
We continue to support our strategic Eko Food Market has put its investment “From previously providing the finance for
partner Be the Business, with their plan of recently acquired premises in Kent our delivery vans to the latest COVID-19
ambition to support 1 million UK back on track thanks to a Coronavirus support, we’re now able to carry on with
small businesses through our annual Business Interruption Loan from Lloyds our expansion plans and operate from a
contribution and a joint activity plan where Bank. much bigger and more efficient fit-for-
we offer mentors training, research and purpose premises, bringing a taste of
Known as the ‘Harrods’ of African
tools to help businesses to increase their Africa to more of the UK.”
food, Eko Food Market is a UK leading
productivity and to recover and rebuild
manufacturer and supplier of deliciously Christine Adeosun
through the challenges of the pandemic.
authentic and high-quality chilled and Owner, Eko Food
We are ambitious about championing frozen ethnic ready meals, ambient sauces
and leading on gender equality for and African dry foods. “It’s great to see such a passionate
small businesses, aiming to help female- business being able to return to doing
Lloyds Bank provided a loan under the
entrepreneurs unlock their potential and what they do best. With our help, they’re
Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan
promote a strong pipeline of female able to not only mitigate the adverse
Scheme (CBILS), helping the business
led businesses for the future. In 2020, impact of COVID-19, but return to the
continue to capitalise on the growing
we have partnered with Google Digital manufacturing and servicing of their
demand for high-quality African food,
Garage, working with our existing partner, customers as well as re-open retail outlets
something previous market research
Be the Business, to deliver a number of and serve their local school communities.
had uncovered.
free events across the country. This is in
We continue to work closely with business
response to the Government’s recent Customers now range from shops, hotels customers of all shapes and sizes and
announcement to increase the number and schools, to private customers with across sectors to help guide them
of female entrepreneurs by 50 per cent a well-established link to the UK African through the ongoing challenge the
by 2030, equivalent to nearly 600,000 community. From tasting sessions, UK economy faces.”
additional female entrepreneurs. cooking demonstrations, weddings,
parties and banquets to even having Alex Fernando
Our partnership with Foundervine
their own TV show, the move to Kent will Manufacturing, Consumer & Leisure
will provide educational and practical
continue to enhance their international Sectors, Lloyds Bank
programmes to help Black entrepreneurs, Eko Food brings a
reputation for high-quality food products
and our partnership with the Black
and services.
Business Network will help us to build
a strong, engaged and highly visible ‘taste of Africa’ to the
audience of Black entrepreneurs through
sponsoring events such as Black Investor
garden of England
360 in 2020 and 2021.
In 2021, our Black Business Advisory
Committee will develop recommendations
on addressing barriers to growth for the
Black business community.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 48
Our environmental and social Helping Britain get a home
performance: Progress in 2020
Helping Britain We support UK housebuilders, large and
small, helping them buy land and build
“HGP has enabled us to achieve the
get a home new homes every day. We also support
immediate growth that we knew our
their supply chain and their consumers,
business was capable of and that our
being the UK’s leading mortgage provider
E S G region needed with an SME housebuilder
to the new build market.
to compete in a market dominated by just
The housebuilding sector is important a few national housebuilders. HGP has
Highlights to the Group and we provide backing for been a true ‘partner’ in every sense of the
W e’ve delivered close to £9 billion of initiatives such as HGP, which provides word, supporting us in the nurturing of
finance for the social housing sector financial support and mentoring to small our business plan, providing mentoring
since 2018 and mid-sized housebuilders. Over 2,000 and support when required, and opening
HGP-supported homes have been built doors to other stakeholders to assist
1 ,900 new homes were built through
across the UK to date with a total pipeline in the business progression. We are
the Housing Growth Partnership
of almost 4,000 homes. looking forward to a long and sustained
(HGP) by SMEs through our support
partnership as we continue to now evolve
W e have loaned over £39.7 billion to We recognise the importance of buying our business plan into a regional offering
first-time home buyers since 2018 a home in customers’ lives and we are with scope for further growth.”
making that process as simple and easy Genesis Homes
as possible, however people choose Nicky Gordon
Delivering affordable homes
to engage with us. This year we Managing Director at Genesis Homes
for everyone lent over £13 billion to first-time Genesis Homes is a Penrith-based development pipeline critical to the
buyers, and across the last three years housebuilder, established only four business’s aspirations. Plans for more
As the largest lender to the UK housing
have lent over £39.7 billion; this outcome years ago to deliver quality family equity support from HGP mean that
sector, we are committed to supporting
is significantly above our £30 billion homes across Cumbria, with the vision Genesis can be confident in its aim of
home ownership across the UK and we’re
commitment. of becoming the leading housebuilder delivering more than 100 family homes
working to make it an affordable reality for
in the region. every year from 2022 onwards.
millions of people. Achieving our objective In a challenging market environment,
of helping Britain get a home also requires we have supported customers complete Since 2018, HGP has provided Genesis From a standing start, Genesis Homes
support for homebuilders and social on their home purchases with product with equity commitments of £6.7 has grown to employ a great team of
housing alongside individual customers. extensions, which include providing a million across 6 development schemes, over 30 people who play an important
12-month completion window for our new totalling 222 units, helping Genesis grow role in the local community; among
We recognise that a lack of affordable
build range given longer construction from delivering 10 units in its first full other local initiatives, Genesis has
housing can be a potential barrier to
time linked to COVID-19 secure working financial year (to April 2018) to 75 units, teamed up with Carlisle College to set
tackling social disadvantage. We have
practices. We have increased the ways and revenue in excess of £20 million up an apprenticeship programme to
worked with over 200 housing associations
in which we support first-time buyers in 2020. support young people in the community
across all nations and regions of the UK,
in accessing the property market by to enter the housebuilding sector while
and in 2020 we have provided more than Despite the challenges in the funding
welcoming applications from the new supporting them through
£2.5 billion of new funding for the social market arising from COVID-19, HGP
Scottish First Homes Fund, making it their qualifications.
housing sector and close to £9 billion has continued to support Genesis
easier for those with little or no savings
since 2018. with new investment schemes in 2020,
to buy their first home.
enabling the company to roll out the
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 49
Our environmental and social Helping Britain get a home
performance: Progress in 2020
Abel Homes
Norfolk-based independent housebuilder “We’re pleasantly surprised with how
Abel Homes is seeing a renewed surge quickly the market has returned to
in demand for its properties following pre-COVID-19 levels. As a result of
the support of a £3 million green funding lockdown and working from home
package from Lloyds Bank. becoming more feasible, we’ve definitely
seen a behavioural shift among buyers.
Located in Watton, family-owned Abel
Homes has been building new-build People have been spending more time
properties across the county for more than ever at home, so space and access
than 30 years. The seven-figure residential to the great outdoors are even higher
development loan from Lloyds Bank on their priority lists.”
was made via its Clean Growth Finance
Paul LeGrice
Initiative, which provides discounted
funding to help businesses transition to
a lower-carbon, more sustainable future. Abel Homes has been a customer of
It means Abel Homes, already the only Lloyds Bank since 2011 when it was
medium-sized Norfolk developer building building 30 homes a year. Lloyds Bank’s
to A-rating EPC standard, can build even support, which has also included asset
more energy-efficient properties. finance on tools and vehicles, has enabled
the business to grow significantly, now
Following the disruption caused by the building in excess of 100 homes a year and
coronavirus pandemic, Abel Homes has growing its annual turnover to £25 million.
already benefited from the East Anglian
housing market rebounding. Overall, “Having the backing of Lloyds Bank and
enquiries for the firm’s properties are a relationship manager who understands
currently up by around a third compared the market has made all the difference.
with pre-lockdown times. Across many industries, there’s an
increasing focus on sustainability, and
Paul LeGrice, Managing Director at Abel property is no different. Lloyds Bank has
Homes, believes greater working flexibility encouraged our efforts to operate more
is drawing people from big cities to the sustainably and, with its ongoing support,
Norfolk countryside. we are looking to continue to grow our
business with a real focus on sustainable
energy-efficient new homes.”
Paul LeGrice
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 50
Our environmental and social Building financial resilience
SASB indicator:
performance: Progress in 2020
FN-CB-240a.4
Building financial At Lloyds Banking Group, we Our 2020 Consumer Digital Index shows a FutureDotNow
have an ongoing commitment new ambition for doing more online, with Lloyds Banking Group is a founding
resilience COVID-19 shining a light on necessity for
to improving the financial organisation of FutureDotNow, a coalition
digital access and skills.
wellbeing for customers, of leading companies in the UK dedicated
E S G Our 2020 Transformation with Tech Report to accelerating the UK’s digital skills at
colleagues and communities
showed nearly half of small businesses scale, with a focus on the employees
through the work we do. stated they would have ceased trading and customers of large organisations.
Highlights without digital technology. Encouragingly As lockdown started to impact
W e have facilitated digital training Access to financial services and their one-quarter of small businesses now have communities in the UK, Lloyds Banking
for 1.8 million people since 2018 effective use play a central role in an online presence for the first time. Group was heavily involved with the
to assist in narrowing the digital individuals’, households’ and society’s DevicesDotNow emergency campaign,
The digital skills thought leadership
skills gap wellbeing. helping with the call to industry for
launches attracted ministerial, policy-
devices, data and support for people
W e have facilitated the delivery of Financial inclusion is a state where maker and regulator attendance, and are who were shielding. The campaign raised
over 12,500 devices and through everyone is able to access the products now shaping the 2021 UK Governmental over £1.5 million and funding was secured
our We Are Digital Helpline and and services they need to manage Digital Strategy. The Group has 20,000 to deliver over 11,500 devices, data and
DevicesDotNow campaign, have their money effectively and to have the registered Digital Champions, providing support to customers.
assisted over 8,000 people to learn necessary awareness and understanding help and support to their communities.
digital skills to be able to access
to use them appropriately.
online services and connect virtually Lloyds Bank Academy
with family and friends
The digital skills gap
To facilitate the shift to a more digital
W e established a Domestic and
UK productivity is reliant on a healthy economy, Lloyds Banking Group has
Economic Abuse Team, conducted
digital economy; we know that digital developed the Lloyds Bank Academy.
training for our colleagues on how
skills enable businesses to trade overseas, The Academy teaches essential digital
to support customers facing these
streamline operations and attract and and workplace skills through online and
circumstances through strategic
grow their online consumer base. It also face-to-face courses, aiming to provide
partnerships, and supported
helps individuals find employment, support where, when and how people
charities assisting victims
re-train and upskill in roles they currently need it. During 2020, these courses shifted
have. Importantly it also helps them to online webinars due to lockdown
keep connected, particularly when restrictions.
locked down.
Lloyds Banking Group has facilitated
The 2020 Lloyds Bank Consumer Digital digital training for 1.8 million people
Index showed that 9 million UK adults through the Lloyds Bank Academy, client
struggle to use the internet and their onboarding and community propositions
devices by themselves. An estimated since 2018. The Academy curriculum
22 per cent of people in the UK are continues to expand having a breadth
without the digital skills needed for of content and partners, including large Additional information
everyday life and 7 per cent of the UK corporates, charities, credit unions and job
are still completely offline. Based on this seekers. L loyds Bank Consumer
trend it is estimated that by 2030 one- Digital Index
quarter of the UK will still have a very low
level of digital engagement. 2020 Transformation with
Tech Report
L loyds Bank Academy
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 51
Our environmental and social Building financial resilience
performance: Progress in 2020
We Are Digital
Helpline
In April 2020, in response to the COVID-19 Impact of the We Are Digital Helpline:
pandemic, Lloyds Banking Group
8 ,000 people helped, of which 1,000
delivered a new dedicated phone line
were people referred
which provides guidance and remote
by our charity partners
training to customers less able to see us in
branch to help them stay connected with Over 1,000 devices provided to people
everyday digital activities including online 9 5 per cent of users said they would
banking. Customers were contacted and recommend the service to others
able to access free and practical support
to help them connect online at a time
when gaining digital skills helped people
stay connected to their finances. With
guidance from We Are Digital’s agents,
users learn skills to help with everyday
digital tasks such as online shopping,
booking a doctor’s appointment using
the NHS website, and connecting virtually
with family and friends, as well as internet
banking. The service provides not just
remote help via a telephone but also
provided customers and charities in
need with basic tablet devices.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 52
Our environmental and social Building financial resilience
performance: Progress in 2020
Domestic and economic Highlighting the issues and separating finances. That’s why it’s I n order to support our communities
abuse We have developed and launched a suite vital to bring these charities, who have and to Help Britain Recover from the
invaluable insight, together with Lloyds ongoing pandemic, content is also
In January 2021, the Government “Surviving Economic Abuse is proud of advanced guidance taking colleagues Banking Group to explore how services available to everyone via our Lloyds
published a report on the role of to support Lloyds Banking Group on a journey to remove any biased can be improved. Bank Academy
e L p l m r o a y p c d t lo i s c y e B e a e r n s m k in p in l t g o a y c G e k r r li o ’ n . u g p d w o a m s e n s a t m ic e a d b u a s ‘ e b . e st i q m n u a d a y e l i b t li y v e e s e r e i x r n p v g i e c a r e i n e t n o in c f c i o n u r g s m t e o e c m d o e n a r o n s m d w h ic h i g o h - t r to e h l i a n d t k i i s o in c n l g o s , s h r u i e p r fl e s e , o c a f t n a o d b n c u t o s h e n e . s i n d a e t r u t r h e e o ir f r h e e a a c lt t h io y n D A co s u s s r t i i s n o t g a f n e 2 c m 0 e 2 e 0 P r , g r o w e g e n r c l a a y m u a n m c c c e h o e c m d o m v a e n o r i d E n a m g t i e t o h r n g e e a n n d cy W t i n o e l e in n h e s a u w ve r i e t w h t h o re a rk c t e o le d m a w r m n i i t e n h n g Y d o o a u u ti n t o c g n o s E m f n r e o t s e m r a p r t e r h i s e e
As a Group, we’re here to support our abuse. Financial services have It aims to increase colleague awareness one-to-one support. This is available to Money and Pensions Service. Providing
customers and colleagues through a crucial role to play in tackling and understanding of the nature and all Lloyds Banking Group colleagues and a curriculum that is relevant for a digital
difficult times. That’s why we’ve launched economic abuse and this is a impact of abuse to help them support their children, at no cost to them. During society and is quality marked gives
our Domestic and Economic Abuse brilliant example of the work being customers and colleagues who are this emergency stay, the colleague can educators confidence that the
Team to support victims and survivors of rolled out across the industry. It’s impacted to regain control of their receive additional support from our financial education material is of
financial abuse, offering support to help fantastic to be working with Tender finances and access additional help from Employee Assistance Programme which the highest quality
them regain control of their finances. on training Lloyds Banking Group appropriate third parties. This training will will help them through their next steps C ontent has been designed inclusively
The introduction of the Domestic and staff on how to better recognise the now form part of an ongoing programme and provide support as we want our to reach the most vulnerable in society,
Economic Abuse Team to help victims specific challenges victim-survivors which will be delivered across all customer- colleagues to never feel alone. We will providing equal access to quality
of financial and economic abuse is an face. This will encourage them to facing colleagues. also offer to change their work mobile education for all. This enables charities
come forward and be supported to
important next step in both raising number to prevent the perpetrator from such as the National Deaf Children’s
achieve the economic stability that Working with charities
awareness and supporting our customers. contacting them. Society within the communities to
hey need.”
We believe it is essential that customers We have partnered and worked build our content into their youth
know that they can speak to us and we Dr Nicola Sharp-Jeffs OBE continuously with SafeLives, Surviving Financial capability programmes
h th a e v i e r p a e s r p s e o c n i a a l l i s s i t t u te a a ti m on t . h T a h t e c a s n e r s v u ic p e p ort D Ec ir o e n c o to m r i o c f A S b u u rv s i e ving E th c e o n rig om ht i c su A p b p u o s r e t a a t n t d h T e e r n ig d h e t r t t im o p e, r ovide S o u u p r c p o o l r le ti a n g g u o e u v r o c l o u m nt m ee u r n in it g ie e s n t a h b ro le u s g h E t o m b p u l i o ld y e in rs t o c a th n e a ir ls a o p u p s r e e n th ti e c e c s o h n ip te a n n t d
provides financial guidance as well as and have actively brought their insight our colleagues to connect across the graduate enrichment programmes
directing customers to specialist charities and expertise into several internally
for emotional and practical support. The run Group-wide seminars. Through UK to help children and young adults Our material is available for all our
service provides assistance to customers these partnerships, we have trained understand the value of money and colleagues to support their own families,
on various financial issues including our colleagues to support customers manage their money day to day as they friends and communities
transition to financial independence.
how to manage joint accounts, options experiencing domestic and economic Access to banking
for opening new accounts, and advice abuse, and have engaged with a number As highlighted by the recent independent
on dealing with debts such as loans or of local charities to refer victims and report for the UK Strategy for Financial Lloyds Banking Group is committed to
mortgages. survivors into our Domestic and Economic Wellbeing, the pandemic is amplifying supporting access to mainstream banking
Abuse Team for support with their the need for financial wellbeing across for those who may be excluded, often
Through the year the UK has seen an
finances. the UK. Over the past year our financial due to the lack of availability of standard
increase in reports of economic and
capability and education reach have identification documents, such as those
domestic abuse. We are proud of the The Lloyds Bank Foundation for England increased through the following main who have been experiencing homeless,
support we have made available to victims and Wales supports approximately 100 areas in order to maintain a more victims of modern slavery, those fleeing
and survivors. Our engagement with the charities helping people affected by sustainable proposition. domestic abuse or ex-offenders. We have
charity Surviving Economic Abuse has domestic abuse across England and worked with a number of local charities
been critical to achieving this and working Wales. Through these charities, we know V irtual guides have been developed to ensure accounts can be opened for
with them, we have developed an ability that many victims and survivors face huge enabling colleagues to deliver financial people across the UK by developing
to support victims in separating financial challenges when it comes to accessing capability content across the UK flexible processes. The benefit for such
affairs quickly and, where appropriate, to including in deprived areas customers can be transformational.
offer forbearance from debt incurred as a
result of coercion.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 53
Our environmental and social Building financial resilience
performance: Progress in 2020
Helping people save for
the future
We recognise the importance of savings
to build financial resilience and to help
tackle disadvantage. We want to make
saving for the future as easy as possible
and we continue to improve choice,
flexibility and control for customers who
are investing, saving or planning for
retirement. The Group have had a
£45.6 billion growth in open book assets1
that we hold on behalf of customers in
retirement and investment products
Making our financial capability
since 2018.
material accessible Providing access to
The UN Sustainable Development Goals “It’s great to see Lloyds Banking Group banking services
encourage inclusive, quality education make their innovative new financial
for all, ensuring equal access, including literacy tool accessible for the deaf
A new customer visited the branch, accompanied by a Crisis
for people with disabilities. That is why, children and young people in the UK.
support worker, to open a new bank account. The customer had
throughout the development of our It’s so important that projects like
been homeless and needed an account to enable him to receive
financial capability material, we have this are designed to be as inclusive as
benefits which had previously been paid into a friend’s account,
liaised with agencies like the Digital possible, that includes incorporating
and he was struggling to get access to his money. The customer
Accessibility Centre, the National Deaf captions, sign language and adjustable
had often been unable to buy food for days. He had recently
Children’s Society (NDCS) and teachers background noise that can be adapted
found new accommodation with the help of Crisis and would
of the blind and deaf. based on deaf young people’s individual
use his new account to pay household bills.
preferences and levels of deafness.
All our materials have been developed
When companies create new tools in We were able to open a basic bank account allowing this
with multiple lenses including for those
this way, organisations such as ours can customer to normalise his finances and achieve financial
with disabilities and considering a range
incorporate the material easily to benefit independence. Additionally, he was able to commence the
of learning needs.
the deaf children and young people who process of putting money aside for future emergencies.
This accessibility and inclusivity is vital as we support through our programmes
we know that only 29 per cent of young within the UK.”
people who are deaf or blind manage Mark Bolton
their own finances. If charities like the Deputy Director at the National
NDCS can use our material to empower Deaf Children’s Society
more young people to manage their
money, that is a huge plus.
1. Growth in assets under administration on our
front books
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 54
Our environmental and social Supporting our communities
performance: Progress in 2020
Supporting our Our foundations The Group has offered further practical School for Social
As one of the UK’s largest corporate support in 2020 through engaging 324 Entrepreneurs
communities Foundation supported charities through
donors, we use our scale to reach our Digital Helpline (see page 51 We Are We retained our nine-year partnership
millions of people and help tackle social Digital) and Charity Response Forum (see with School for Social Entrepreneurs,
E S G disadvantage in communities across the page 55) – with 500 Group colleagues which provides grants and training
UK, donating £25.5 million to our four from across the country volunteering their for social entrepreneurs and charity
Highlights independent charitable Foundations time to work with 85 charities. We’ve also leaders tackling urgent social and
in 2020. supported Foundation staff by extending environmental issues. Since the start of
M ore than £51.2 million was provided Our Foundations are fundamental to our our colleague offer of free access to the the partnership we have helped over
for community investment in 2020 vision of tackling social disadvantage. Headspace app in addition to our own 2,300 social entrepreneurs to start up
£ 25.5 million was donated to support Spanning across the past 35 years, employees, to support the mental health or grow their businesses, which has Social
our four independent charitable our Foundations have been providing of their staff. collectively created more than 14,000
foundations in 2020 volunteering opportunities, over 4,000
essential funding and support to charities entrepeneurship
2 ,787 charities were supported across the UK and Channel Islands, In 2020, our total community investment jobs and positively impacted the lives of
in 2020 helping communities overcome complex was £51.2 million, which includes our over 760,000 beneficiaries. In response success
colleagues’ time, direct donations and to the pandemic, delivery moved online,
social issues and rebuild lives.
in-kind giving. allowing social entrepreneurs to access
In response to the increasing financial virtual support in challenging times. In Social enterprise Sahan Cares CIC
challenges that charities were facing due Lloyds Scholars 2020, a new cohort was recruited with was awarded the Third Sector Award
to COVID-19, the Foundations distributed Our award-winning social mobility ‘Trade Back’ grants that incentivise social for Enterprise in October 2020 as a
emergency funding to charities across programme Lloyds Scholars, established entrepreneurs to trade, while supporting result of significantly improving income
the UK and the Channel Islands in 2020, in 2011, has to date recruited more them to recover and rebuild. from its commercial activities in recent
enabling them to provide their service years. Sahan Cares provides in-home
than 1,000 students from low-income
in new and innovative ways, or plan for care, advice, training and support to
households across our nine partner
recovery and rebuild. This included the disadvantaged families dealing with
universities. Students benefit from financial
launch of a COVID Recovery Fund by the poverty, disability and lack of social
support by means of an annual bursary to
Lloyds Bank Foundation for England integration.
help with living costs, and employability
and Wales, which assists charities with a
skills gained through 10-week internships Since 2013, Sahan Cares has delivered
two-year unrestricted grant of £50,000 and
with Lloyds Banking Group. Employability more than 500,000 hours of care.
dedicated organisational development
and access to volunteering opportunities Revenues have grown from £30,000 in
support. Through this programme,
benefit local communities and provide its first year to more than £1.5 million last
the Foundation has awarded a total of
a skills boost to the students’ future year. Over 120 jobs have been created
£7.5 million to approximately 150 charities.
recruitment. As a result of the pandemic, locally and 150 people have been
Twenty-five per cent of this fund was set Lloyds Banking Group unprecedentedly Additional links trained as specialised carers. Clients
aside for Black, Asian and Ethnic Minority
had to suspend internships. Financial rate the company and its services very
led organisations. support was provided to those affected Lloyds Banking Group Foundations highly and 100 per cent of service
The Group’s commitment to maintain its and the recruitment of our 2020/21 cohort L loyds Banking Group Mental users say that Sahan Cares staff are
£25.5 million donation to our Foundations has been postponed. Health UK Partnership considerate, warm, welcoming and
in 2021 will help secure a more certain informative and made them feel safe
future for charities and safeguard their M ental Health UK – Bloom at home.
important societal contribution. School for Social Entrepreneurs
Colleague Volunteering
L loyds Scholars Programme
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 55
Our environmental and social Supporting our communities
performance: Progress in 2020
Charity partnership – Colleague virtual
Mental Health UK volunteering
During the fourth year of our Mental One of the major successes of virtual
“Having received the
Health UK partnership, £2.3 million has volunteering has been realised in
appropriate training from Bloom
been raised in 2020 with £13 million raised our charity response forums, where
UK, the school decided that this
overall by colleagues and customers over colleagues have supported charities
programme would be ideal for us to
four years. In-person fundraising was who are grant recipients from our
use with our pupils as part of their
challenging in 2020 and as a result independent Foundations. Since May
recovery curriculum. The targeted
more creative activities such as virtual 2020, over 500 Group colleagues from
lessons on resilience, friendships,
walking and cycling challenges and across the country have volunteered
examination stress, making decisions,
quizzes took place. their time to work with 85 charities who
social pressures, juggling time and
needed urgent help with crisis recovery,
Delivered in schools and colleges, managing studies, align with the
financial management, governance,
BLOOM equips young people with the school’s pastoral themes, seek to
managing teams, communications
tools and knowledge to maintain their give our pupils the additional support
and digital skills among other areas.
mental health through life’s transitions, which they need, and help them to
The forums are enabling colleagues to
both now and in the future. reintegrate back to school following
have a direct impact on the charity and
the extended period
A resource library was launched in 2020 of absence.” their beneficiaries, helping to make a
to support parents in parent-to-parent real difference. Partnering with Our partnership has three parts:
conversations on mental health and Teacher on the impact of Bloom
New woods
resilience of young people, a key issue Belfast Royal Academy the Woodland We will be creating 10 brand new ‘woods
in 2020.
within woods’ at existing Woodland Trust
The expansion of the Mental Health and Trust sites across the UK.
Money Advice service was implemented
Working with communities
to support the growing need for the
We are supporting the Woodland Trust
service due to the pandemic, and Mental We’re working in partnership with the
with their Community Tree Pack scheme
Health UK’s CLIC platform – an online Woodland Trust to plant 10 million trees
over the next three years, allowing us to
service providing peer-to-peer support over the next decade. These trees will
plant 500,000 trees.
for people living with mental health help to reduce the impact of climate
difficulties – was also expanded. change, potentially absorbing 2.5 million Supporting farmers’ low-carbon future
tonnes of carbon dioxide. We are also helping farmers and
Virtual volunteering has seen colleagues
landowners transition to a low-carbon
support charities through engaging with
future by offering preferential funding for
those isolated and supporting the Mental
individual investments of more than 0.5ha
Health UK CLIC platform as facilitators.
of new woodland.
This partnership is part of our overall
investment in creating a cleaner, greener
UK – financing a green future together.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 56
Our environmental and social Supporting our communities
performance: Progress in 2020
Trinity Winchester
Trinity Winchester is a charity funded “Sue said she went into the forum with
by the Lloyds Bank Foundation for no expectations, but thought if someone
England and Wales which helps to was reaching out with ideas, or giving
address the effects of homelessness and reassurance, it could only be a good
vulnerability, as well as provide proactive thing. The forum allowed her to have
prevention and empower positive an in-depth discussion about the role
change. They provide vital practical and of volunteers, and brainstorm how best
emotional support to over 650 people the charity could use them. As a result of
each year who are vulnerable to the the conversations with Lloyds Banking
effects of homelessness, addiction, Group staff, volunteer engagement and
physical and mental ill health, poverty, communication have now become a
social isolation and domestic abuse. priority, as well as how to deploy charity
volunteers in a more creative way.
Trinity Winchester, like many other
The forum also focused on Christmas
charities, has faced a number of
fundraising and how Trinity could still
challenges since the COVID-19 outbreak
make it happen despite the challenges
and engaged with the Group’s charity
they faced. Sue said the expertise of the
response forums for assistance.
volunteers ultimately gave the charity
Lloyds colleagues from various much more confidence for the future.”
divisions within the Bank took part in
Sue McKenna
the forum with Trinity Winchester and
Trinity Winchester CEO
brainstormed a range of different issues.
Sue McKenna, CEO of the charity,
provided some insight as to what she
thought about the support from Lloyds
Banking Group colleague volunteers:
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 57
Our environmental and social Supporting our colleagues
performance: Progress in 2020
Supporting our Workforce matters are a Key actions taken during 2020 to ensure Agile working
fundamental part of our Group ongoing operation of our facilities Lloyds Banking Group colleagues have
colleagues included:
strategy and the Board receives provided support for each other and
regular updates on priorities K eeping all in-use premises safe for their customers. Changing customer
E S G all employees and customers, moving demands, changing colleague needs and
and progress.
chairs, desks and IT equipment to expectations, a fluctuating and less stable
enable social distancing, with posters business environment, and significant
Highlights Key elements of our people strategy and floor markers to guide people economic issues have led the Group to
H ealth and safety of our colleagues are tracked, and the group completes consider how to reimagine the way
L aunching a comprehensive hygiene
and customers was a key COVID-19 a strategic workforce plan, which is we work.
regime delivering over 278,000
response focus, ensuring our offices refreshed on an annual basis. Meeting changing
enhanced branch cleans and just over Through this unique opportunity, Lloyds
and branches were compliant
with regulations, safe and able to Providing a safe work 16,500 enhanced office cleans by the Banking Group is transforming the way customer demand
end of 2020 we work and identifying a new normal
remain open environment
H ibernating 16 buildings while by envisaging the optimal workforce
O ver 50,000 colleagues were A key challenge for the Group in 2020 was maintaining them for re-occupation and the right attributes needed from The impact of COVID-19 has seen
supported in converting to a to ensure that the physical infrastructure of as soon as needed our workspaces to deliver success. This is some customers who would usually
w w IT o i t a h r s k s t in e is g c t h a f n n ro c o m e lo g h y o , m eq e u a i r p ra m n e g n e t m an e d nt t a it h n s e d a G p th p ro e ro u G x p r i m o re u a m p te a c l i y o n u 3 e 0 l d d m o c p o ill e n io n ti n n f o u c r u e c s t t u o o s m s to u e p m r p s e , o r s rt L w c o a o u ll r e n k a s c g t h a i u n ti e g o s n a t o e d q e e u n li i v a p e b m r l y e e s w n e t o r f v r o k ic r i n e 3 g 5 o , f 0 00 a t e o l n s v r o e i r p - o t r h n o i m n vi k e d m n in t o g al r l a e y s f s r i u g ie s n n t i a fi d i c n ly a a w n b t a l e o y s p a n p o d f o w rt o u r n k i i t n y g . h u te a s l i v e n e p g h b o o a u n n r k y o e s n d e l r i i n v n e i c b , e s r s a e n i c n c u s h r t e e e s a m d s e w . s I i n s tc a o h g r d i t n o e g r and
F c o re ll e e a a g cc u e e s s s t o w a th s e p H ro e v a id d e s d p a fo ce r a a l p l p, e b i r t a h n e c r h t e h s ro , m ug o h r e o t n h e a o n f 1 m 00 o r o e f fi th ce an s a 1 n ,6 d 0 d 0 ata from home Flexible working was largely positioned as t p o o p ss ro ib v l i e d s e e c r u vi s c t e o , m w e e r s h a w v i e th r e th tr e a b in e e s d t
and we have continued to train centres, or from home. S et up of five personal protective a colleague benefit, part of the employee and redeployed colleagues from the
colleagues to become mental equipment distribution hubs across value proposition. Agile working provides branch network to support other
health advocates The Group needed to provide rapid the UK, distributing over 64,000 litres of the Group with a way to meet our strategic service channels that were experiencing
solutions and support to meet the hand sanitiser, over 6 million disposable business goals whilst enabling colleagues higher than normal levels of customer
O ur colleague engagement surveys
evolving needs of our workforce and masks, 153,000 fabric masks, 20,000 to balance home and work effectively. demand.
indicated overall that colleagues felt
customers while at all times ensuring visors and 9.1 million antibacterial wipes
supported, that the company culture Prior to the pandemic, the Group This agility has allowed us to maintain
that we operate in line with Government
was more positive and caring, and Lloyds Banking Group jointly won an had approximately 35 per cent of our critical areas of our COVID-19 customer
and health authority guidance.
that there is an interest by colleagues Institute of Workplace and Facilities colleagues with an existing agile working support such as business lending,
to explore changing ways of working Business changes were implemented Management Impact Award for our arrangement. In 2020, where we all worked mortgage lending, customers who have
in the future to manage the pandemic from early COVID-19 response together with our changed significantly with over 50,000 suffered bereavement and maintaining
4 .1 million hours of training were 2020 and the Group has reviewed facilities management partner, Mitie. colleagues continuing to work from home. resourcing for critical support services
delivered to colleagues primarily every iteration of the UK Government’s During 2021, the Group will continue to such as our NHS and over-70s
via virtual training delivery advice. By the end of 2020, the Group had re-imagine work and use Behavioural telephone support.
coordinated over 3,000 risk assessments Experiments to test our thinking.
across our operations to ensure all
offices and branches are compliant with
legislation, and safe for our colleagues
and customers.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 58
Our environmental and social Health and wellbeing
performance: Progress in 2020
Health and wellbeing underpin peak leadership performance Our employee assistance Your Resilience
Healthy Finances
Lloyds Banking Group is committed to M -word chats pilot and help you focus on what you can programme The Group has partnered with Helix
control. The programme complements
supporting the health and wellbeing of F inancial health programmes and our broader health and wellbeing The employee assistance programme is Resilience to provide colleagues with a
all colleagues and offers a range of easily communications offerings such as Emerging Stronger run by Validium and provides colleagues free and confidential online space where
accessible support services for colleagues E mployee assistance programme – and Your Resilience, supporting you to with free confidential support and they can feel empowered to take positive
to use themselves or by their family. debt and financial wellbeing be your best and thrive both inside and advice on a range of issues from health steps to improve and maintain wellbeing
Our approach to wellbeing is to deliver support outside the workplace. and wellbeing related issues to financial and resilience both inside and outside the
support in four pillars of wellbeing and issues. The programme covers spouses workplace. An anonymous account can be
in 2020 we developed a new hub to help The OLRP is delivered by The Insight or partners living at the same address as accessed on all work or personal devices
colleagues access the support they need, Network, a team of highly skilled the colleague, and children aged 16–23 in and provides a self-service approach to
alongside increasing the presence of Healthy Relationships psychologists and clinicians. full-time education. It is available 24 hours education and personal learning journeys.
wellbeing in our internal communications. M y Family Care a day, 365 days a year, via Freephone as Over 13,800 colleagues have registered
We have also extended our partnership
The four pillars of our wellbeing G roup emergency assistance well as online from work or home. for Your Resilience since October 2019.
with Headspace, offering all colleagues
programmes are as follows: Through our partnership with Helix we
E mployee assistance programme – a free subscription to the market-leading
Your Coaching and Support meditation app, providing access to My family care continue to provide support with expert-
led webinars, monthly newsletters to
Healthy Minds L ine manager support during mindfulness modules covering a range Lloyds Banking Group has partnered registered users, and develop and deliver
Y our Resilience COVID-19 of topics from stress to self-esteem. with My Family Care of Bright Horizons, content to respond to the impacts of the
C olleague mental health These initiatives continue to help us to offering a range of resources and pandemic and to support the Group’s
H eadspace change our culture around mental health, family-friendly benefits to help support health and wellbeing priorities.
Colleague mental health and empower our colleagues to openly employees manage their caring
M ental health advocates Lloyds Banking Group has the ambition talk about, and take ownership for their responsibilities. The Work + Family Group emergency assistance
E mployee assistance programme – to shift mindsets to recognise the own wellbeing and take action to support space (online resource) provides
counselling support importance of mental health. By raising it. We have had 13,000 registrations on information, services and support with At Lloyds Banking Group, we believe
O ccupational health services awareness of mental health and taking the Headspace app with 9,000 since elder and childcare concerns and employers have a very real role to play
action, the Group is breaking down the extending the service in May 2020 and resources designed to guide and in supporting victims and survivors of
stigma associated with mental health 27 per cent of our colleagues using support employees. domestic and economic abuse, raising
it monthly. awareness and acknowledging and
Healthy Bodies conditions, and helping our colleagues to
Bupa responding to the issue. Work can be
B upa feel equipped to support customers and We have continued to further support a safe space. And yet, only 5 per cent
O ffice equipment support each other. To facilitate this, we have this culture change through growing our Colleagues are offered the opportunity of employers currently have a policy on
W orkplace adjustments at home introduced several wellbeing initiatives Mental Health Advocate programme, to purchase private medical cover domestic abuse.
and solutions to help support both our which now consists of over 1,800 colleague provided by Bupa which gives access
F uture of Work experiments colleagues and customers. volunteers who support colleagues and to good-quality medical care, including In 2020 we launched an Emergency
Occupational health services enable them to talk about mental health accommodation, nursing care and Assistance Programme for colleagues,
Operational leadership and signpost to any professional support specialist advice. Cover is also available for covering the cost of accommodation, food
resilience programme they require. family members by purchasing additional and one-to-one support for colleagues
benefits through Flex, an important and their children in an emergency
Maintaining personal resilience and element of the reward package, enabling situation.
focusing on your wellbeing are incredibly
colleagues to select benefits that suit
important at all times but particularly
them or a cash equivalent.
now given the current challenges of the
COVID-19 pandemic. This programme
uses strategies and resilience tools to
address key psychological factors which
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 59
Our environmental and social Health and wellbeing
performance: Progress in 2020
We recognise we are not experts on this As part of the adaptation of the Our new Group Executive proposition, Freedom of association
issue so we work with specialist charities programme to the current environment, ‘the edge’, was launched in February, and collective bargaining
including Surviving Economic Abuse, COVID-specific support content was constructed specifically to support cultural
Tender and Safe Lives, as well as the created to assist managers in supporting change, putting responsible leadership We support colleagues’ rights to exercise
Lloyds Bank Foundation for England their teams. The Group noted a 36 per at the heart of its design, to support our freedom of association and have extensive
and Wales, to help us develop our cent increase in virtual leadership training purpose, Helping Britain Prosper. consultation and collective bargaining
strategy, support tools and resources completed, as Your Best effectively processes in place, both in the UK
for colleagues. continues to deliver wide-scale training In our annual colleague survey, 85 per cent and overseas. We have a recognition
virtually. of colleagues responded positively to the agreement with two trade unions who
We run communication campaigns statement “Where I work, people have collectively consult and negotiate on
with colleagues to raise awareness, The programme has been shortlisted the skills and knowledge they need to be behalf of our UK workforce (around
host webinars with charities to answer for 21 external awards and has won their best”, 78 per cent to the statement 99 per cent of colleagues worldwide)
colleagues’ questions on the topic, have nine external awards including the “Colleagues are getting the training and Colleague engagement and have engagement with CEO, Group
launched training for all colleagues to Best Large Organisation for Culture development needed to keep up with The Group understands that engagement Executives and Board members. Union
help them spot the signs and have rolled in the Business Culture Awards, the customer demands” and 69 per cent to is a two-way process, so each year we membership is relatively high for our
out 15,000 posters on the backs of toilet Learning and Development award from the statement “I can see that the Group ask colleagues to share their views sector at approximately 45 per cent, and
doors in all our head offices and branches Investors in People and the Best Change commitment to learning is making a via our independently run colleague our relationship with the trade unions
to signpost support, including the Bright Management Initiative from the Personnel difference to me”. survey and participate in the annual allows all parties to work together to
Sky app. Today Awards. Banking Standards Board (BSB) Culture improve the working environment and
In January 2021, the Government Apprenticeships Assessment. ensure colleagues are rewarded fairly
recognised Lloyds Banking Group as a Colleague learning and At Lloyds Banking Group we offer for their contribution to the Group.
best practice employer in their report on development apprenticeships from Level 2 (GCSE Our 2020 BSB assessment indicated that Our engagement with the unions was
s th u e p p w o o r r t k f p o l r a d ce o . mestic abuse survivors in T p h o a a l n t e e d n d e s , u m w re ic it , c h f o a c l c o le e l a l - e g t a o u g - e f u a s e c a e s f e r l e e t d a y r i d r n e u in c r g i t n e g w d a t t h o s e e e in q q c u u lu i i v v d a a in l l e e g n n S t t ) ) o t in o ft 2 w L 5 e a v o re e c l c E 7 u n ( p g M a in a ti e s o e t n e r a i r n ’ l s g a D r , e e a g s r ee 9 G th 8 r r o o p u u e p g r h c h e a t n h s t e s o u p f p a c p n o o d ll r e e t a m e g d ic u t . e h s e i f r e w el e s l l t b h e a i t n t g h e p w to a h d r e t i i r s c e c u u w la s e r s l y h is e v s a l u d l e u m s a b a o s l r e e t h d t e h u y a r i n a n r g 1 o 0 t s 0 h e e m a p n e a d e n t e i d n n e g s m u s r i e c
Performance management – meet their immediate learning needs Leadership, Data Analyst, and Our spring Pulse colleague survey had a that our approach to health, wellbeing,
your best using virtual offerings provided by our Customer Services. Our Apprenticeship 66 per cent response rate and indicated reward and colleague support was
internal curriculum and external learning Programmes are delivered in partnership positive reflections related to colleagues reflective of needs and had the support
Your Best has seen over 250,000 hours of content providers. with expert training providers and feeling supported, the company culture of our union partners.
training rolled out to 65,000 colleagues, universities supporting colleagues being more positive and caring, and
over a 12-month phased approach Focusing on enhancing our leadership to develop the expertise, skills and indicated an interest from colleagues to
during 2019. The focus in 2020 has been development proposition, we launched behaviours valued by the Bank and explore changing ways of working in the
on embedding the Your Best approach, our new Leadership and Management supporting our aim to be the best Bank for future. Our autumn survey was completed
which focuses on continual coaching and Hub. customers. Between 2018 and 2020, 3,495 by 72 per cent of the organisation and
two-way colleague conversations and new and existing colleagues enrolled on showed further increases in pride,
Despite these circumstances, we
adapting performance management to an apprenticeship programme with Lloyds satisfaction and overall engagement.
exceeded our publicly stated target of
the impact of the pandemic. Banking Group. in 2020, 495 colleagues
4.4 million cumulative training hours,
completed their apprenticeship,
since the end of 2017, to develop the
demonstrating their resilience and
‘skills for the future’. We maintained focus
determination to succeed. Since the
on improving our Colleague Learning
introduction of new Apprenticeship
Journey.
Standards in England, almost 40% of
colleagues on an apprenticeship have
achieved a merit or distinction grade in
their external independent assessment,
well above the expected national norm.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 60
Our environmental and social Health and wellbeing
performance: Progress in 2020
Our decisions on pay, absence of leave, 2020 marks the first year of the significant number of votes opposing
holidays, volunteering and supporting implementation of the 2020 Directors’ these resolutions indicating that there
mental health and wellbeing ensured remuneration policy and we have were concerns with some aspect of our
colleagues had certainty and continued continued to engage thoroughly with our policy’s design. Following extensive
to be treated fairly. shareholders to ensure we deliver a clear and productive discussions additional
and simple reward package with strong clarity has been provided regarding the
All Group employees receive a
alignment to the Group’s purpose and discount applied to the Long Term Share
competitive and fair reward package.
strategic goals as the Group moves into Plan (LTSP), as well as detail regarding our
To encourage ownership, colleagues are
a new strategic phase. simplified balanced scorecard for 2021.
eligible to participate in HMRC-approved
share plans. Further information is The Remuneration Committee considers We have thought hard about the right
provided on page 115 of the 2020 Lloyds the need for significant restraint in respect choice and balance of measures for 2021
Banking Group Annual Report and of remuneration outcomes. The decisions and as a result, we have significantly
Accounts. of the Executive Committee earlier in reduced the number of balanced
the year to waive their right to any Group scorecard measures from fifteen to
Executive reward outcomes performance share awards was welcomed seven and rebalanced the scorecard to
and considered the right thing to do in ensure there is a clear weighting between
The Group wants to ensure that reward
support of our customers, colleagues and financial (50%) and strategic (50%) metrics
is clearly linked to the purpose and
communities. while appropriately capturing ESG, and
culture of the Group as well as meeting its
customer and risk dimensions. In addition
strategic goals. The balanced scorecard As the Group enters a new strategic
all measures are subject to consideration
is considered to be a transparent phase and focus turns towards Helping
of risk and conduct.
and effective tool to drive and assess Britain Recover, the Remuneration
Colleague remuneration In July, 40,000 predominantly customer- performance, enabling the Remuneration Committee has thought carefully about After extensive shareholder consultation,
facing colleagues received a £250 award Committee to assess the performance of the right choice of measures that should we have determined that the ESG
We committed to colleagues that to say thank you for their support and to a broad and optimum balance of business be included within a scorecard for 2021 to measures should be identified seperately
we would support them during this recognise the incredible commitment objectives, the outcome of which is used ensure Executive remuneration remains and quantifiable to ensure that we are
unprecedented time. Our priority was to shown to our customers and communities to determine variable reward outcomes aligned to the Group’s new purpose and specifically held to account for delivery
take away as much uncertainty as possible throughout the pandemic. For the April for our Executive Directors (see page 118 strategic objectives. For further details against these factors. For 2021, we
when it came to work, their families and 2021 pay review, the average pay award for of the 2020 Lloyds Banking Group Annual of the Group’s approach to Executive believe this focus should be ensuring
remuneration. This at times meant making our lowest-paid colleagues will be 1.7 per Report and Accounts). There are a number remuneration for 2021 and how ESG will management delivers its commitments
some difficult but important decisions, cent and up to 2.2 per cent, which is above of measures within the 2020 balanced play a role, please refer to pages 118 to centred around making the Group an
but ones we feel were in the interest inflation. scorecard that support our focus on 119 of the 2020 Lloyds Banking Group inclusive and diverse workplace and
of shareholders, colleagues and the ESG-related activity and goals in its Annual Report. our journey toward delivering net zero
communities we serve. To recognise further the considerable entirety. The Helping Britain Prosper carbon operations by 2030. We expect the
The Group is continuing to provide role that all colleagues have played in Plan targets are incorporated into the Engaging with our specific measures for these commitments
support on mental and physical supporting customers in 2020, and the Scorecard as well as other key governance shareholders on to evolve over time, most notably to reflect
w co e l l l l e b a e g in u g e s a t s h w e e ir l l f u a l s l s c a o l n ar ti y n , u n i o n g m t a o t t p e a r y p p a h r a t s t e h o ey f t w he ill G pl r a o y u i p n ’ s d s e t l r iv a e te ri g n y g , e th v e e r n y e xt m cu e lt a u s r u e r e an s d su e c n h g a a s g t e h m os e e n i t n , b re u l i a ld ti i o n n g to remuneration o cl u im r i a n t c e r e c a h s a i n n g g e r o g le o a in ls . supporting the UK’s
how the outbreak affects what they do permanent eligible colleague across colleague skills for the future and also We gained support at the 2020 AGM
for the Group or what their personal the Group will receive a £400 share wider stakeholder engagement. We for the amendments we made to our For further detail regarding the LTSP
circumstances are. award. These free shares that vest after believe this diverse set of measures Directors’ Remuneration Policy and structure and proposed simplified
three years ensure that each and every provides an appropriate balance of welcomed the majority votes for both the balanced scorecard please see page 118
colleague has a personal interest in the financial and non-financial measures when Policy and Long Term Share Plan (LTSP). to 119 of the 2020 Lloyds Banking Group
longer-term success of the Group. assessing performance and determining The Policy became effective for 2020 Annual Report and Accounts.
reward outcomes. however we recognise that there was a
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 61
Our environmental and social Conducting our business responsibly
SASB indicator:
performance: Progress in 2020
FN-CB-230a.2 FN-CB-510a.2
FN-CF-230a.3 FN-AC-510a.2
Conducting Code of Ethics and In 2020, colleagues reported 482
Behavioural experiments Responsibility concerns, of which 178 were formally
our business investigated following triage, with 41 per
during the pandemic At Lloyds Banking Group, being a cent of those investigations substantiated,
responsibly responsible business means operating resulting in remedial action. Other Group
ethically and inclusively; meeting our legal services also exist to support colleagues
As part of the Transform element When the COVID-19 crisis hit at the start
requirements; and always considering in trying to informally resolve grievances.
E S G of our Group strategy, over the past of 2020, this grounding of behavioural our impact on our customers, colleagues, A new informal resolution channel, ‘Let’s
three years we have accelerated experimentation provided a solid
communities and society, and the Talk’, supports colleagues to reflect on
our actions to advance our Values- foundation for colleagues to navigate
Highlights led culture. In 2018 we launched the small and large challenges we faced environment. The Code of Ethics and their concerns and understand their rights
Responsibility is a guide and reference and options so that grievances can be
4 82 concerns were raised through our ground-breaking behavioural as an organisation. Unsure of what to do, point for every colleague. It explains how effectively and appropriately resolved
our Speak Up line, of which 178 experiments programme. This colleagues naturally turned to behavioural we can work responsibly, living up to our through formal and informal channels.
were formally investigated with approach to solving business experiments to take decisive action Values and doing the right thing when All colleagues employed or contracted
41 per cent of those investigations challenges by using our Behaviours and try new ways of working at all levels we have to make decisions, and it applies to work for the Group are able to use
substantiated to design experiments has gone from of the organisation – all guided by our to all Lloyds Banking Group employees, the Speak Up service. This includes all
strength to strength. We’ve trained Values and Behaviours.
W e became members of the United contractors and agency employees, employees, contractors, temporary staff,
over 3,000 champions and have
For Wildlife Financial Taskforce Due to the ongoing success of our whether or not they are working with secondees, and those acting on behalf
approximately half of the organisation
W e co-sponsored the National actively experimenting. approach, we continue to embrace customers directly. The code is available of, or representing Lloyds Banking Group
Economic Crime Centre (NECC) Behavioural Experiments as a critical on our website. (such as consultants and other service
initiative to tackle criminals seeking way to learn and evolve for the future providers). This also includes former
to exploit the pandemic by using our Behaviours as a guiding Speak Up employees who have left the organisation.
principle.
S upplier expenditure was £5.1 billion Colleagues are encouraged to speak up, To encourage informal resolution, a
with over 95 per cent of our challenge and act if they witness anything new team discussion tool has been
third-party supplier spend inappropriate and we provide them with created which helps build a climate
incorporated in the UK Supporting colleagues to do Our Values and Behaviours have acted as a variety of channels to do this. They of psychological safety in a team by
£ 4 billion of taxes paid to the the right thing a moral compass during 2020. Decision- can report the matter directly to Group discussing scenarios.
making at all levels of the organisation has conduct investigations, or make use of our
UK Government All our colleagues must be equipped been guided by them. Colleagues have independent and confidential speak up
to make the right decisions. The Group also used our behavioural experiments whistleblowing service which is operated
supports this by consistently promoting approach to help navigate some of the by a third party, Speak Up. Speak Up is
and embedding our policies, processes large and small challenges we’ve faced designed to support the creation of an Additional links
and training. Our Values and Behaviours, so far this year, especially to help our environment where colleagues feel safe
alongside the Financial Conduct customers, by using our Behaviours to to raise concerns. Speak Up is critical in L loyds Banking Group Tax Strategy
Authority’s conduct rules, set out the identify solutions. promoting an open and honest culture
expectations of colleagues and they where colleagues are able to challenge Lloyds Banking Group Code of
are encouraged to make decisions inappropriate and unacceptable practices. Ethics and Responsibility
aligned to these. All concerns are taken seriously and if an
L loyds Banking Group Code of
investigation is required, it will be conducted
Supplier Responsibility
sensitively by an independent party.
L loyds Banking Group UN Global
Compact Communication on
Progress 2019
L loyds Banking Group Anti Bribery
Policy Statement
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 62
Our environmental and social Conducting our business responsibly
performance: Progress in 2020
Conduct risk and responsible challenged by the Group Product We’ll continue to review our ways
product development Governance Committee. The Group takes of working in order to best support
part in active engagement with regulatory our teams as we respond to
The Group takes a range of mitigating bodies and other stakeholders to develop government advice.
actions with respect to conduct risk and an understanding of concerns related to
remains focused on delivering a leading customer treatment, effective competition Although we worked extremely hard
customer experience. The Group’s and market integrity, to ensure that to get our colleagues working from
ongoing commitment to good customer the Group’s strategic conduct focus home, our reduced capacity to resolve
outcomes sets the tone from the top and continues to meet evolving stakeholder complaints throughout March and April
supports the development of the right expectations. meant customers had to wait longer
customer-centric mindset, strengthening than we’d like for a resolution to their
links between actions to support conduct, More information related to our approach complaint. This situation developed
culture and customer and enabling more and management of conduct risk can be from March to July and has continued to
effective control management. found on page 197 of the Lloyds Banking impact our service offering throughout
Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020. 2020; however, we continue to work hard
A simplified and enhanced customer policy to ensure we are resolving complaints as
and procedures are in place throughout Customer complaints quickly as possible.
the Group to ensure appropriate controls
and processes that deliver fair customer Our goal, in line with our purpose of To ensure that we supported our
Our Dilemmas outcomes, and support market integrity Helping Britain Prosper, is to support customers as a matter of urgency, we
and competition requirements. customers whenever they have cause introduced prioritisation principles to
to complain. We continue to do this ensure customers in challenging financial
We’ve developed a team game that’s By listening to one another, colleagues
Customer needs are considered through throughout the pandemic, supporting our situations were prioritised over those
about conversation not competition, to learn more about the human underneath
divisional customer plans, which include colleagues and customers through the less in need of support. These types
create psychological safety in teams and the uniform or work persona. This
an integrated conduct lens, and the plans national lockdown, and we will continue of complaints included severe financial
build colleague’s confidence to use their builds trust and understanding while
are reviewed and challenged by the to do so as we shape our future ways of hardship with some unable to feed
judgement. The game uses behavioural growing empathy and rapport, enabling
Group Customer First Committee. working to support Britain’s recovery. Our their children.
nudge theory to provide positive psychological safety to develop.
complaint volumes reduced in early 2020,
reinforcement and indirect suggestions We used behavioural experiment Continuous embedding of the customer as spending and customer interactions By resolving the most impactful
as ways to influence behaviour and methodology to develop the game vulnerability framework aligned with fell; however, complaints did start to complaints first, we’re assured we did
decision-making in groups and as through three test and learn cycles the FCA guidance on fair treatment of return to forecasted levels as lockdown our outmost to support our customers
individuals. Each dilemma scenario is in the summer of 2020. A library of vulnerable customers is expected to restrictions eased. in a difficult time. We reviewed c.35,000
based on a real-life experience from launch in Q1. Development and continued complaints and prioritised 2,300 of these
dilemma scenarios has been created
a colleague here at Lloyds Banking oversight of the implementation of the We started equipping our colleagues to our highest category, aiming to make
that are accessed via an internal online
Group. When teams play Our Dilemmas vulnerability strategy continues through to work from home in March 2020 and contact within 24 hours. In addition, where
resource hub. While approximately
together, they are encouraged to share the Group Customer Vulnerability by June, 80 per cent of our colleagues we saw a concentration of complaints,
50 playtests have been facilitated by
their views and experiences in relation to Committee (GCVC) operating at a were homeworking. This is something we we reviewed our working patterns to
Group culture, involving around
the scenario – this can be very cathartic. senior level to prioritise change, drive have maintained throughout COVID-19 support those customers. One example
750 colleagues, the effectiveness of
implementation and ensure consistency to support both our colleagues and is within general insurance where we saw
the game will continue to be monitored
across the Group. customers through an extremely additional complaints due to bad weather
in 2021 though observation of game
challenging time. Our switch to working which we actively responded to by training
play and downloading of resources An enhanced product governance
from home for our operational teams has 300 colleagues.
from the hub. framework ensures that products
been successful overall with 75 per cent of
continue to offer customers fair value, and
colleagues feeling they are as productive
consistently meet their needs throughout
at home as they were in the office.
their product life-cycle; reviewed and
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 63
Our environmental and social Conducting our business responsibly
performance: Progress in 2020
A review of how we did things expanded The Group also maintains strong communities caused by criminals and leading role in the launch of the industry
RESOLVING A CUSTOMER COMPLAINT
beyond our timelines, into how we and practised incident management terrorists. We are committed to managing voluntary code in May 2019, to reimburse
communicated with customers and how frameworks. These were invoked at the the economic crime risks associated customers if they fall victim to an
we explained our decisions, in order to onset of COVID-19 to ensure operational with our business. We operate systems authorised push payment scam, and A customer raised their complaint
best support our customers throughout continuity and ensure customer, colleague and controls which are appropriate and to which we are a signatory, and have online on 29 April which involved
this period. and business needs could be met. More effective within our stated risk appetite, made a voluntary contribution to a fund a series of complex issues such
recently, focus has been on responding and which meet legal and regulatory to reimburse victims when neither the as bereavement and payments
As we continue beyond 2020, we will to further COVID-19 waves and capturing requirements. The Group is playing victim nor the bank have fallen short of needing to be returned. We
review how we can continue to help our learnings from the pandemic to inform its part, building our capabilities, and the standards. prioritised the case and made
customers and improve their customer future ways of working. implementing a clear vision to protect our contact, with complete resolution
journey. This will include reviewing the In 2018, we established a three-year in 14 days. This included fully
bank, our customers and the economy
channels in which we serve our customers, Fraud and financial crime from financial crime. public-private partnership with the City of resolving the issue, registering the
working hard to remove issues that cause London Police (CoLP). In addition to our bereavement and organising funds
customers to complain, and developing The financial crime landscape is Policy framework and colleague expertise, we are contributing £1.5 million to be returned to the customer
quicker ways to resolve complaints when undergoing unprecedented change training during that time to support the delivery of by 14 May.
customer dissatisfaction occurs. in terms of both regulatory reform and There are currently four Group-wide the partnership’s key objectives. Among
evolving crime threats. New money economic crime policies covering other things, the partnership has delivered
Protecting customer data laundering regulations, corporate fraud, anti-money laundering and enhanced fraud-related training for law In 2020, we became members of the
and finances offences for tax evasion and reforms to the counter-terrorist financing, sanctions enforcement officers, launched a proof United For Wildlife Financial Taskforce.
suspicious activity reporting regime seek and prohibitions, and anti-bribery. These of concept to increase CoLP’s capability United For Wildlife is a Royal Foundation
Customers trust us to keep their money to strengthen the UK’s defences, while are core policies within the Group’s within their intelligence development working to tackle illegal wildlife trade
and data safe, and the Group deploys a series of scandals involving overseas Risk Management Framework which all function, and rolled out an educational by bringing together conservation
sophisticated technology to protect both. banks, have highlighted the global nature businesses must comply with. Each policy programme to schoolchildren across the organisations, governments and global
The Group also works continuously to of the threat. Criminal exploitation of sets out the fundamental requirements for country. This has already had a significant corporations. We are playing our part
bolster defences against cyber-attacks. new payment technologies and virtual businesses to perform risk assessments, impact by having the training available by educating our colleagues to look
We also recognise the importance of currencies require an agile response implement proportionate controls and for all police forces in the UK, the further out for indicators of wildlife trafficking,
secure behaviours and continue to from banks and law enforcement alike. ensure sufficient independent oversight disruption of criminal activity, an increase providing intelligence to and acting on
educate our customers and colleagues Meanwhile, fraudsters continue to target is maintained to assure the efficacy of in convictions and the recovery of assets intelligence received from bodies and
on the cyber threat. businesses and individuals, seeking to controls. A combined fraud and financial for the victims of fraud. law enforcement, and supporting and
R i e s x e s t u c e o e r , g n w a n l e i l s y i c n t o o g n p c ti y r n o b u t e e e r c t a t o s t c h a o e n l l G o ab n ro - o c u r o a p m t e a p n d et t it h iv e e e a s m c x v o a p a m n l r o e ie s i y t , t y i t m n h o v u o o f l s e s i e c c s e a . w T m f h r h a o t e u y m d G p a e a ro y s n u b d s p u e t c ’ h s v h e u a a d l u n s o s e r e p r o a t o m i b o f a l n e n v c i e a c k a e r n i y m n u p e a o m l l l i y c a b y n y r d e a a q l t l u o c i r o r y e l l m t e r a a e g i n n u i t n s e g s is . c u o n u d rs e e rt r a e k fl e e n c ting I N ( n N o 2 E r 0 B t 1 h R 9 C E , w a ). s e T t h b B e e u c N si a n E m e B s e R s C a R m e is s e a il m i e n n b o c n e e - r p o C r f o e t fi n h t t e r e p a W n ro e d m a U r o e n t i i a t n e ls g d o t F h a o e c r t w i W v o e i r l s d k u l o i p f f e p t . h o e rt e Ta rs s k o f f o S r t c o e p
wider industry. We continue as a founding of a risk-based approach to managing External engagement and partnership organisation which exists to support Scams UK. Stop Scams UK is a new
member of the Financial Services and mitigating fraud and financial crime Since December 2017, the Group has and help protect North East England organisation designed to stop scams at
Cyber Collaboration Centre, working risk ensures compliance with applicable used its in-house team of ‘mule hunters’ businesses from cyber-crimes and is the source by bringing together partners
with the Government’s National Cyber regulations via a control framework which to identify and stop the movement of funded by a range of public and private from various industry sectors. While still
Security Centre, and the Cross-Market focuses on those customers, products, money from scams. Over 39,000 accounts partners, including Lloyds Banking in its infancy, the financial services and
Operational Resilience Group. We also channels and jurisdictions that carry associated with mule activity have been Group. The NEBRC offers a wide range of telecoms sectors are already working
work closely with other banks recognising heightened risk. identified and closed, and c.£35 million business resilience services, delivered by together to identify opportunities to
the importance of collaboration when it of victims’ funds have been frozen. an expert team of trusted professionals, disrupt and stop scams, and our hope
comes to security, including as part of the The Group’s economic crime prevention Good progress continues to be made in seconded police officers and ethical is to extend this to social media
Cyber Defence Alliance (CDA). strategic vision is based on the principle ensuring funds obtained fraudulently are hacking students from Sheffield Hallam companies and online payment platforms.
of intelligence and data-led risk returned to victims who are customers of and Northumbria University. Our Group
management, to minimise customer other banks in a timely way. We played a Director of Fraud and Financial Crime
impact while reducing the harm to our Prevention chairs the Board.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 64
Our environmental and social Conducting our business responsibly
performance: Progress in 2020
This year, in response to COVID-19, the The Group has adopted policies and modern slavery survivors, the Group This flexed approach is governed by the
National Economic Crime Centre (NECC), procedures designed to detect and continues to create innovative solutions for Supplier Financial Health and Performance
co-sponsored by us, mobilised a new prevent the use of its banking network our customers. Forum. Results of the measures have
public-private initiative to tackle criminals for money laundering, terrorist financing, evidenced that our framework remains
seeking to exploit COVID-19. The aim was bribery, tax evasion, modern slavery, Responsible sourcing robust and fit for purpose.
to rapidly share information on changes human trafficking, wildlife trafficking
Our suppliers and supply chains are
to the economic crime threat posed by and activities prohibited by legal Tax
integral to how we fulfil our customers’
the pandemic and proactively target, and regulatory sanctions. Against a
needs. We work closely with our suppliers Our contribution
prevent and disrupt criminal activity, thus background of increasingly complex and
of goods and services to manage risks Tax is one of the ways in which businesses
protecting the public and businesses. detailed laws and regulations, and of
and drive continuous improvements in contribute to the societies in which they
We set the standard in industry reporting increased criminal and terrorist activity,
the standards of performance and quality. operate, and we are proud to be among
to the NECC, producing a weekly the Group regularly reviews and assesses
Through collaboration with our suppliers, We encourage suppliers to raise any the UK’s highest payers of corporate taxes.
intelligence summary and a number of its policies, procedures and organisational
we enable innovation to create value for concerns directly with their supplier
operational referrals. arrangements to keep them current, In 2020, we paid £2.1 billion of tax on
our customers. We work with around relationship manager. If this is not possible,
effective and consistent across markets maintaining our branch network, the
Meanwhile, we are at the forefront of 3,000 active suppliers of varying sizes, they can use our confidential Speak Up
and jurisdictions. operation of our business and generation
efforts to shape the evolving legislative most in professional services sectors such service, which is available 24 hours a day,
of profits, plus we collected an additional
and industry agenda on economic The Group requires mandatory training as IT, cyber, operations, management seven days a week.
£1.9 billion of taxes payable by our staff
crime. From engagement with and for all employees and specifically, the consultancy, legal, HR, marketing and
As with all industries we have had to on their wages, and by our customers on
support for the Government’s Economic anti-money laundering procedures communication. In 2020, our supplier
reassess and react to the disruption the products in which they invest.
Crime Strategy, including reform of which include ‘know-your-customer’ expenditure was £5.1 billion with over
caused by the pandemic, specifically in
the Suspicious Activity Reporting requirements, transaction monitoring 95 per cent of our third-party supplier Our approach to tax
terms of our supply chain management
(SARs) regime and the transposition of technologies, reporting of suspicions spend incorporated in the UK. Appropriate, prudent and transparent
framework.
EU directives, the Group provides the money laundering or terrorist financing to tax behaviour is a key component of
The Sourcing and Supply Chain
necessary thought leadership to address the applicable regulatory authorities, and As a result, we have made no changes corporate responsibility.
Management Policy applies to all
often complex issues, providing solutions interaction between the Group’s Financial to the framework or expectations of our
businesses, divisions, Group functions We comply with the HMRC Code of
that benefit the bank, our customers Intelligence Unit, external agencies and suppliers, but how we meet these has
and legal entities across the Group, Practice on Taxation for Banks. We do not
and society. other financial institutions. changed, including:
whether based in the UK or overseas, interpret tax laws in a way that we believe
Human rights and The Anti-Bribery Policy prohibits the including joint ventures. This policy has C onducting remote supplier assurance is contrary to the intention of Parliament,
payment, offer, acceptance or request been designed to assist in managing visits, since March, in order to avoid the and we do not promote tax avoidance
modern slavery of a bribe, including ‘facilitation payments’ the inherent risk in outsourcing services health risks that physical on-site reviews products to our customers.
The Board continues to make by any employee. and dealing with third-party suppliers. currently present, and protect human
enhancements to address the risks of The Group require suppliers to adhere rights across our supply chain We want to pay the taxes due on the
modern slavery and human trafficking Supporting vulnerable customers to relevant Group policies and to comply profits we make, in line with the letter and
and to provide specific training for Vulnerability for our customers can appear with our Code of Supplier Responsibility. E nabling suppliers to work from home, spirit of the law.
specialist colleagues. in many forms, from a specific life event This outlines our expectations for while still complying with the minimum For further information about the taxes we
to something long term. That’s why the responsible business, sustainability standards of our external policies
pay, and the economic value we generate
Group is committed to raising awareness, practice and behaviour, underpinning our
F acilitating ‘critical worker’ status for for the UK, you might like to take a look at
fighting stigma and providing meaningful efforts to share and extend good practice.
suppliers, where appropriate, in order our annual Tax Strategy document.
support across a range of challenging The Code encompasses the key social,
to allow services to our vulnerable
issues. Whether supporting our ethical and environmental principles that
customers to continue
customers’ financial worries following a we believe a responsible business should
cancer diagnosis or working with partners adhere to.
such as the anti-slavery NGO Hope for
Justice, to provide bank accounts for
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 65
Appendix 1 – ESG data sheet
This data sheet provides a holistic
overview of the Group’s performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DATA HEALTH AND SAFETY DATA
and discloses a selection of our key
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
financial, community and environmental
Underlying profit Total recorded
performance metrics, as well as those
before tax £2,193m £7,531m £8,066m £7,628m £6,782m £7,275m accidents
that demonstrate our economic and
involving injury 792 1,274 1,485 1,785 1,926 2,179
social impact. Data featured includes key
Statutory profit
performance indicators, specific impact
before tax £1,226m £4,393m £5,960m £5,275m £4,238m £1,644m Slips, trips and falls 334 408 443 544 551 576
proof points and our performance
against our 2020 Helping Britain Prosper Ordinary dividend RIDDOR
Plan targets. Further information on pence per share 0.57p 1.12p 3.21p 3.05p 2.55p 2.25p (Reporting of
our performance and initiatives can Injuries, Diseases
be found online at https://www. Statutory return on and Dangerous
lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/ tangible equity 3.7% 7.8% 11.7% 8.9% 6.6% 2.6% Occurrences
responsible-business.html. Regulations) 22 39 37 50 54 71
Cost:income ratio1 55.3% 48.5% 49.3% 51.8% 55.3% 54.2%
Common equity
tier 1 ratio2 16.2% 13.8% 13.9% 13.9% 13.0% 13.0%
Earnings per share 1.2p 3.5p 5.5p 4.4p 2.9p 0.8p
Net income £14,404m £17,142m £17,768m £17,742m £16,605m £16,873m
1 Cost:income ratio including remediation.
2 The CET1 ratio at 31 December 2019 is reported on a pro forma basis, reflecting the dividend paid up by the
Insurance business in the subsequent first quarter period.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 66
Appendix 1 – ESG data sheet
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT DATA
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Number of digitally active customers 17.4m 16.4m 15.7m 13.4m 12.5m –
New net lending to SMEs and Mid-Market businesses £5.7bn £340m £3bn £0.9bn £1.6bn >£2bn
New start-ups supported 32,344 109,108 124,182 124,000 121,000 105,000
Total new mortgage lending1 £47.434m £46,712m £43,717m £42,190m £38,733m £38,847m
Total new mortgage lending (residential only) £40,218m £41,679m £38,124m £36,441m £32,504m £31,592m
Amount lent to first-time buyers £13.6bn £13.8bn £12.4bn £13bn >£11bn >£11bn
Number of homes our Housing Growth Partnership² has committed to build with SME builders 264 799 837 – – –
New funding support provided for the social housing sector £2.5bn £2.3bn £4.1bn – – –
Growth in assets³ that we hold on behalf of customers in retirement and investment products £8.5bn £29.7bn £7.4bn – – –
Investment in the UK manufacturing sector through our financial support £1.1bn £1.0bn £1.5bn – – –
Number of clients helped to export for the first time 3,785 4,870 6,247 – – –
Share of social bank accounts we support 28.8%4 31.3% 33% – – –
Number of manufacturing apprentices, graduates and engineers trained as a result of our £1m
annual investment in the Lloyds Bank Advanced Manufacturing Training Centre 296 561 354 – – –
Number of individuals, SMEs and charities trained in digital skills, including internet banking 409,635 738,504 700,232 – – –
Staff costs: salaries £2,573m £2,539m £2,482m £2.679m £2,750m £2,808m
Tax paid £2.1bn £2.9bn £2.6bn £2.5bn £2.3bn £1.8bn
Tax collected £1.9bn £1.9bn £2bn £1.7bn £2bn £2.2bn
Total amount paid to suppliers £5.1bn5 £5.9bn £5.8bn £5.0bn £5.3bn £5.8bn
Helping Britain Prosper Plan targets achieved6 17 of 22 20 of 22 20 of 22 21 of 22 20 of 24 27 of 28
1 Figure includes buy to let as well as residential lending. 5 This figure is aligned from the Modern Slavery Statement. https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/
2 The Housing Growth Partnership is a socio-economic equity investment fund launched by Lloyds Banking Group responsible-business/downloads.html.
and the Homes and Communities Agency. 6 Link to Helping Britain Prosper Plan 2018 to 2020 and Helping Britain Prosper Plan 2014 to 2020 performance:
3 Growth in assets under administration on our front books. https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/responsible-business/downloads.html.
4 At October 2020.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 67
Appendix 1 – ESG data sheet
COMMUNITY DATA
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Total community investment 1 £51m £51m £56m £58m £63m £64m
Cash donations 1 £39m £34m £40m £38m £29m £27m
Employee time 1 £2.7m £5.3m £4.4m £4.8m £16m £20m
Management costs 1 £4.0m £3.7m £5.3m £7.1m – –
In-kind giving 1 £63,700 £65,245 £74,751 £147,065 £186,941 £239,390
Leverage 1 £5.7m £7.3m £6.4m £7.6m – –
Total amount donated to the Lloyds Bank, Halifax and Bank
of Scotland Foundations £25.5m £25.9m £25.2m £20.7m £18.5m £17m
Funds raised for Charity of the Year (including Matched Giving2) £2.3m £2.3m £3.8m £4.8m £6.1m £5m
Number of charities we support as a result of our £100m
commitment to the Group’s independent charitable Foundations 2,787 2,929 3,113 – – –
Number of colleague volunteering hours supporting 82k 247k 235k
community projects hours hours hours – – –
Colleague volunteers 10,9863 30,993 35,575 36,700 38,700 40,900
Annual commitment to Credit Unions for them to provide
additional sustainable lending for their customers across the UK – £1m4 £5.6m – – –
Number of Social Entrepreneurs supported through the Lloyds
Bank and Bank of Scotland Social Entrepreneurs Programmes 239 246 236 – – –
1 Collated in line with London Benchmarking Group reporting guidelines. 4 2019 is the final year of the Credit Union Development Fund. 2019 figure achieved
2 The Matched Giving scheme allows Lloyds Banking Group colleagues to claim up represents the additional sustainable lending made by Credit Unions as a result of
to £1,000 per calendar year for registered charities that meet the eligibility criteria. our annual commitment.
3 The number of volunteers have dropped in 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic has I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 (revised) assurance by Deloitte LLP for
been the primary reason and it has driven a material detrimental impact. the 2020 Annual Responsible Business Reporting. Deloitte’s 2020 assurance
statement and the 2020 Reporting Criteria are available online at https://www.
lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/responsible-business/downloads.html.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 68
Appendix 1 – ESG data sheet
PEOPLE DATA
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015
Employees (on a full-time equivalent FCA reportable complaints (per 1,000 accounts)
basis1) at 31 December 61,577 63,069 64,928 67,905 70,433 75,306 – H16 2.6 2.9 3.9 4.1 – –
UK1 60,803 62,327 64,222 67,172 69,649 74,553 FCA reportable complaints (per 1,000 accounts)
– H26 N/A10 3 3.4 4.2 4.3 –
Non-UK 774 742 706 733 784 753
Average formal learning days per FTE 9.75 10.4 8.0 5.6 6.0 5.7
Percentage of full-time colleagues 75% – – – – –
Percentage of colleagues completed mandatory
Percentage of part-time colleagues 25% – – – – – training on the Codes of Ethics and Responsibility 95% 95% 85% 87% 86% 97%
Percentage of colleagues split Junior: 56% Number of undergraduates from lower-income8
by level2 Middle: 34% households supported through our Lloyds
Senior: 10% – – – – – Scholars Programme 09 139 138 – – –
Percentage of colleagues split < 20: 1% Number of internal apprenticeship positions
by age >= 20 & <30: 18% created within the Group that result in
>=30 & < 40: 29% permanent employment 902 1,103 1,490 – – –
>=40 & <50: 26%
>=50 & < 60: 22% 1 Employee numbers include PPI; the UK number includes Guernsey, IOM, Jersey and Gibraltar.
> 60: 4% – – – – – 2 Junior grades are A to C (Assistant and Senior Assistant); Middle grades are D to E (Assistant Manager and Manager); and Senior grades
are F+ (Senior Manager and above).
Employee turnover rates (per headcount) 6.45% – – – – – 3 Lloyds Banking Group Family Leave policies include emergency dependants leave, maternity, adoption, paternity, shared paternal and
parental (statutory entitlement for parents to take up to 18 weeks’ unpaid leave prior to a child’s 18th birthday. In the case of a child with a
Number of colleagues who used family disability the entitlement is increased to 26 weeks). For further information: https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/careers/benefits.html.
and dependant leave permits3 7,210 – – – – – 4 Values and behaviours was not reported in 2019 and 2020.
5 Restated to reflect changes in measurement approach.
EEI – Employee Engagement Index 81% 74% 73% 76% 71% 70% 6 Overall FCA reportable complaints excluding Insurance & Pure Protection have continued to reduce in 2020. The FCA changed the approach
to complaint reporting in June 2016 and historical data is presented since this date. H2 2020 data not available at time of issue.
PEI – Performance Excellence Index 82% 79% 80% 83% 80% 79%
7 The average formal learning days is based on permanent colleagues only. The average formal learning days is down on 2019. The reduction
is primarily due to the impacts of the pandemic across the Group.
Values and Behaviours
8 With household income less than £25,000 and who meet Programme eligibility criteria.
(% Favourable4) – – 79% 80% 78% 78%
9 Recruitment of new students onto the scholars programme was cancelled in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Customer Satisfaction – Net Promoter 10 Data was not available at the time of report production.
Score 69.3 64.95 64.25 63.85 63.95 60.55
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 69
Appendix 1 – ESG data sheet
1 Group Executive Committee (GEC) assists the Group
DIVERSITY DATA Chief Executive in strategic, cross-business or Group-
wide matters, and is an input to the Board. Board and
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 GEC data as at 31 December 2020. ‘GEC and GEC
direct reports’ includes the Group Chief Executive,
Percentage of total employees who are female 57.9% 58.2% 58.2% 57.9% 58% 58.4% GEC and colleagues who report to a member
or attendee of GEC, excluding administrative or
Female managers 45.9% 46.2% 46.1% 46% 45.3% 45.5% executive support roles (Personal Assistant,
Executive Assistant).
Female senior managers 37% 36.8% 35.3% 34% 32.4% 31% 2 The apprenticeship and graduate percentages
are reflective of all of those who joined those
Percentage of female Board members 33.3% 30.8% 30% 25% 23% 23% programmes, both internally and externally
to the Group.
Percentage of female GEC1 & GEC direct reports 32.3% 31.1% - - - - 3 The mean pay gap is the difference between
the average hourly earnings of White colleagues
Percentage of female recruits in LBG’s graduate programme2 29% 41% 48% 47% 45% 46% (ethnicity) or male colleagues (gender) and the
average hourly earnings of Black, Asian and
Minority Ethnic colleagues (ethnicity) or females
Percentage of female recruits in LBG’s apprenticeship programme2 53% 52% 58% 54% 56% 53% colleagues (gender).
4 The report is completed with data from April to
Percentage of colleagues who identify as Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic 10.6% 10.2% 9.5% 8.3% 7.9% 6.8%
April. The 2020 report covers from April 2019 to
April 2020. The report is available at https://www.
Percentage of senior managers who identify as Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic 7.7% 6.7% 6.4% 5.6% 4.8% 3.7% lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/responsible-
business/downloads.html.
Percentage of colleagues who disclose they have a disability 3.2% 2.8% 1.7% 2.6% 2.2% 1.1% 5 The median pay and bonus gaps are based on
arranging all the pay amounts in numerical order
Percentage of colleagues who disclose they are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender 2.3% 2.2% 2% 1.7% 1.5% 1.2% and selecting the middle amounts.
6 The mean bonus gap is the difference between the
Mean ethnicity pay gap3 6.8%4 – – – – – mean average bonus payment received by White
colleagues (ethnicity) or male colleagues (gender)
Median ethnicity pay gap5 14.8%4 – – – – – and the mean average bonus payment received by
Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues (ethnicity)
Mean ethnicity bonus gap6 26.3%4 – – – – – or female colleagues (gender). This is calculated by
adding together the bonus payments received in
the 12-month period of each group of people and
Median ethnicity bonus gap5 32.5%4 – – – – – dividing the result by the number of people in
the group.
Mean gender pay gap3 30.5%7 30.9% 31.5% 32.8% – –
7 The report is completed with data from April to
April. The 2020 report covers from April 2019 to
Median gender pay gap5 33.6%7 33.5% 32.8% 32.8% – – April 2020. The report is available at https://www.
lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/responsible-
Mean gender bonus gap6 62.5%7 64.2% 66.4% 65.2% – – business/downloads.html.
Median gender bonus gap5 69.5%7 41.8% 60.8% 53.1% – –
Reporting scope: Data is sourced from HR system (Workday) which contains details of all permanent colleagues. I ndicator is subject to limited ISAE3000 (revised) assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2020 Annual Responsible
It includes international colleagues, those on parental/maternity leave, absent without leave (AWOL) and long-term Business Reporting. Deloitte’s 2020 assurance statement and the 2020 Reporting Criteria are available online at
sick. Excludes contractors, Group Non-Executive Directors, temps and agency staff. A permanent colleague is https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/responsible-business/downloads.html.
one who is paid via Lloyds Banking Group payroll and employed on a permanent or fixed-term contract (employed
for a limited period). Senior Managers: Grades F+. Managers: Grades D–E. Apart from gender data, all other
diversity information is based on colleagues’ voluntary self-declaration. As a result this data is not 100 per cent
representative; our systems do not record diversity data for the proportion of colleagues who have not declared
this information. Diversity scope: Calculation is based on headcount, not FTE (full-time employee value) as at
31 December 2020.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 70
Appendix 1 – ESG data sheet
Our market-based emissions are equal to location
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA based for 2016/2015. This is in accordance with GHG
Protocol guidelines in absence of appropriate residual
(COe – tonnes) 2020 20191 20181 20171 20161 2015 factors. Emissions in tonnes Coe in line with the GHG
2 2
Protocol Corporate Standard (2004) including revised
Total emissions (COe – market based) 71,704 101,856 115,961 303,065 340,261 395,543 Scope 2 guidance (2015) which discloses a market-
2
based figure in addition to the location-based figure.
Total emissions (COe – location based) 159,487 208,495 243,293 286,892 340,261 395,543 The current measure and reporting criteria for Scope
2
1, 2 and 3 emissions is provided in the Lloyds Banking
Total COe (COe – market based expanded scope) 120,308 180,153 197,484 – – – Group Reporting Criteria document available online
2 2 at https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/
Total COe (COe – location based expanded scope) 208,092 286,792 324,816 – – – responsible-business/downloads.html.
2 2 Scope 1 emissions include mobile and stationary
Scope 1 and 2 emissions (market based) 39,107 48,631 – – – – combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions figures have been calculated,
Scope 1 and 2 emissions (location based) 126,890 155,270 – – – – using the location-based and the market-based
methodology, in line with the GHG Protocol’s dual
UK Scope 1 and 2 emissions (market based) 38,806 47,946 – – – – reporting guidance.
1 2019/2018, 2018/2017, 2017/2016 and 2016/2015
UK Scope 1 and 2 emissions (location based) 126,209 152,893 – – – – emissions restatement of energy data to reflect actual
data instead of estimates – in line with disclosures in
Total Scope 1 emissions (COe) 39,107 48,246 49,299 51,935 53,023 58,851 2020 Annual Reporting suite.
2 2 Working from home emissions are calculated for
Scope 1 – direct COe emissions 28,508 35,157 36,215 37,100 38,387 44,623 2020 reporting year only. We expect these emissions
2 to increase next year due to the working from home
activity continuing over the UK winter months.
Scope 1 – direct methane emissions in COe equivalent 35 39 42 42 45 55
2 3 Intensity figures have been restated for 2019 and 2018
Scope 1 – direct NO emissions in COe equivalent 58 137 145 196 156 177 to reflect changes to emissions data only, replacing
2 2 estimated data with actuals; underlying income
figures for those years have not changed.
Scope 1 – direct HFC emissions in COe equivalent 10,507 12,913 12,897 14,597 14,435 13,996
2 4 2020 figure is based on total FTE of 61,577. This has
been used to calculate equivalent location-based
Total Scope 2 emissions (CO
2
e – market based) − 385 1,951 178,771 202,319 239,709
intensity per FTE.
Total Scope 2 emissions (CO
2
e – location based) 87,783 107,025 129,284 162,598 202,319 239,709 5
c
U
h
p
a
d
n
a
g
t
e
e d
o f
t o
o p
in
e
c
r
l
a
u
t
d
io
e
n
m
al
o
c
b
o
i
n
le
t r
b
o
r
l
a
.
nch fuel usage with
Total Scope 3 emissions (COe) 32,597 53,225 64,710 72,876 84,918 96,983 6 Renewable energy used in 2020 decrease due to
2 reducing total electricity usage not the proportion of
renewables used.
Total Scope 3 emissions (COe expanded scope) 81,202 131,522 146,233 – – –
2 7 Discounted lending provided through the Lloyds
Working from home emissions2 4,008 – – – – – Bank Lending Initiative.
2020 indicator is subject to limited ISAE3000
GHG emissions (COe) per £m of underlying income (location based) 10.4 11.53 13.0 15.5 19.4 22.4 (revised) assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2018
2 Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloitte’s 2020 assurance statement and the
GHG emissions (COe) per £m of underlying income (market based) 4.7 5.63 6.2 16.4 19.4 22.4
2 2020 Reporting Criteria are available online at
https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/
GHG emissions (COe) per £m of underlying income (location based expanded scope) 13.6 15.83 17.3 – – – who-we-are/responsible-business/downloads.
2
html.
GHG emissions (COe) per £m of underlying income (market based expanded scope) 7.9 9.93 10.5 – – –
2
Intensity ratio per FTE location based (as at 31 December) 2.594 3.31 3.75 4.23 4.83 5.25
Intensity ratio per FTE market based (as at 31 December) 1.164 1.61 1.79 4.47 4.83 5.25
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 71
Appendix 1 – ESG data sheet
Our market-based emissions are equal to location
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA CONTINUED based for 2016/2015. This is in accordance with GHG
Protocol guidelines in absence of appropriate residual
(COe – tonnes) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 factors. Emissions in tonnes Coe in line with the GHG
2 2
Protocol Corporate Standard (2004) including revised
Intensity ratio per FTE location based expanded scope (as at 31 December) 3.384 4.55 5.00 − − − Scope 2 guidance (2015) which discloses a market-
based figure in addition to the location-based figure.
Intensity ratio per FTE market based expanded scope (as at 31 December) 1.954 2.86 3.04 − − − The current measure and reporting criteria for Scope
1, 2 and 3 emissions is provided in the Lloyds Banking
Total energy consumption (GWh) 524.02 591.34 578.23 585.73 619.61 676.21 Group Reporting Criteria document available online
at https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/
UK total energy consumption (GWh)5 518.72 585.14 − − − − responsible-business/downloads.html.
Scope 1 emissions include mobile and stationary
Direct energy consumption by source – gas (GWh) 132.13 142.63 144.89 139.04 140.65 162.90 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions figures have been calculated,
Direct energy consumption by source – oil (GWh) 2.32 5.05 2.66 4.14 2.42 3.76 using the location-based and the market-based
methodology, in line with the GHG Protocol’s dual
Indirect energy consumption by source – electricity (GWh) 369.26 404.10 430.68 442.55 476.55 509.54 reporting guidance.
1 2019/2018, 2018/2017, 2017/2016 and 2016/2015
Total building energy (GWh) 503.71 551.78 − − − − emissions restatement of energy data to reflect actual
data instead of estimates – in line with disclosures in
Company vehicle energy (GWh) 14.44 29.99 − − − − 2020 Annual Reporting suite.
2 Working from home emissions are calculated for
Grey fleet energy (GWh) 5.88 9.58 − − − − 2020 reporting year only. We expect these emissions
to increase next year due to the working from home
activity continuing over the UK winter months.
Total fleet energy (GWh) 20.32 39.56 − − − −
3 Intensity figures have been restated for 2019 and 2018
Year-on-year percentage reduction in total energy 11.38% 5.15% 1.28% 5.47% 8.37% 6.69% to reflect changes to emissions data only, replacing
estimated data with actuals; underlying income
figures for those years have not changed.
Renewable energy used (MWh) 369,2596 403,131 425,974 − − −
4 2020 figure is based on total FTE of 61,577. This has
been used to calculate equivalent location-based
Self-generated renewable electricity (MWh) 0 0 0 − − −
intensity per FTE.
Business travel (COe) emissions (tonnes) 12,149 31,759 37,1135 36,681 42,443 47,435 5 Updated to include mobile branch fuel usage with
2 change of operational control.
Business travel (COe) emissions (tonnes) – expanded scope 15,635 41,103 48,394 − − − 6 Renewable energy used in 2020 decrease due to
2 reducing total electricity usage not the proportion of
renewables used.
Water consumption (m3) 939,845 1,096,146 1,097,210 1,095,371 1,122, 534 1,097,851
7 Discounted lending provided through the Lloyds
Operational waste (tonnes) 8,611 13,570 14,961 15,631 19,510 22,245 Bank Lending Initiative.
2020 indicator is subject to limited ISAE3000
Combined total waste (landfill and recycling) (tonnes) 8,099 12,644 14,036 14,686 18,444 20,831 (revised) assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2018
Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloitte’s 2020 assurance statement and the
Percentage of operational waste diverted from landfill 94.9% 73.6% 78% 78% 78%1 83%
2020 Reporting Criteria are available online at
https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/
Total tonnes of paper used 15,524 18,471 19,954 20,341 20,335 24,352 who-we-are/responsible-business/downloads.
html.
Percentage of paper from sustainable sources 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Average number of homes that could be powered as a result of our support of UK renewable
energy projects 5.00m 2.41m 2.67m − − −
Amount of commercial real estate space we will fund to become more energy efficient 1.7m 15.9m 1.4m
with green loans7 sq. ft. sq. ft. sq. ft. − − −
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 72
Appendix 2 – Equator Principles:
transactions screened by Lloyds Banking Group
Transactions approved*
PROJECT FINANCE ADVISORY SERVICES PROJECT FINANCE LOANS
Lloyds Banking Group is a signatory
to the Equator Principles 4, which is 31 December 2020 31 December 2020
Advisory by industry sector Number Value Number Value
a risk management framework for
determining, assessing and managing Infrastructure 0 £nil Loans by category1
environmental and social risk in project Mining and metals 0 £nil Category A 0 £nil
finance transactions, such as large-scale
Oil and gas 0 £nil Category B 7 £840.5m
energy, industrial or infrastructure
projects. It ensures that where we provide Power 0 £nil Category C 1 £60m
finance or advice for such deals, it is Telecommunications 0 £nil
executed in a responsible manner, and 31 December 2020
reflects the importance of environmental Transport 0 £nil Loans by region Number Value
impacts, ecology, climate change, local Other 0 £nil UK 8 £900.5m
communities, and ethical and moral
Europe 0 £nil
factors. Where any such impacts are 31 December 2020
unavoidable, they must be appropriately Advisory by region Number Value USA 0 £nil
mitigated or offset. UK 0 £nil Australasia 0 £nil
We have a robust approach to the Europe 0 £nil
review and reporting of Equator USA 0 £nil Loans by industry sector Number 31 December V 2 a 0 l 2 u 0 e
Principle transactions, due to our internal
Australasia 0 £nil Infrastructure 0 £nil
referral and risk assessment process.
This includes detailed environmental due Mining and metals 0 £nil
diligence and technical adviser reports
Oil and gas 1 £56.8m
being a key requirement in our analysis
of project finance transactions, alongside Power 5 £709.9m
engagement with environmental Telecommunications 2 £133.8m
consultants, enabling us to make
Transport 0 £nil
responsible business risk decisions.
Other 0 £nil
31 December 2020
Loans by country designation Value
Designated country 8
Non-designated country 0
Category A, B and C loans with an independent review 8
There were no project-related corporate loans or bridge loans reviewed in 2020.
1 Category A: Projects with potentially significant adverse social or environmental impacts that are diverse,
irreversible or unprecedented.
Category B: Projects with potentially limited adverse social and environmental impacts that are few in
number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation
measures.
Category C: Projects with minimal or no social or environmental impacts.
* Numbers reflect transactions completed in the year; In 2020, we declined no transactions on environmental or social grounds, nor approved
values reflect the final Lloyds Banking Group loan
any with exceptions. This is due to early identification of issues by Relationship Managers.
hold amounts approved for each transaction.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 73
Appendix 3 – Our full Helping Britain Prosper Plan
performance 2018–2020
As part of our purpose to help Britain prosper, we embrace our responsibility to help address some
2018 2019 2020 2020
of the social, economic and environmental challenges that the UK faces. We manage this through Achieved Achieved Achieved Target
our Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
Number of charities we support as a result of our 3,113 2,929 2,787 2,500
Launched in 2014 and revised annually, the Plan focuses on the areas in which we can make the biggest £100m commitment to the Group’s independent
difference. In 2018, we set specific targets aligned to our three year strategy and in 2019 we elevated a charitable Foundations
specific sustainability target to our priority metrics, all of which are highlighted in bold.
Share of social bank accounts we support 33% 31.3% 28.8%4 1 in 4
2018 2019 2020 2020 Annual commitment to Credit Unions5 for them to provide £5.6m £1m N/A N/A
Achieved Achieved Achieved Target
additional sustainable lending for their customers across the UK
Average number of homes that could be powered as a 2.6m 5.1m* 10.1m* 5m*
result of our support of UK renewable energy projects Number of colleague volunteering hours supporting 235,201 246,603 564,273* 720,000*
community projects (with a minimum of 50% used to (52%) (42%) (50%)
Amount of commercial real estate space we will fund to 1.4m sq.ft. 17.4m sq.ft.* 19.1m 5m sq.ft.* support skills-based activity such as mentoring)6
become more energy efficient with green loans¹ sq.ft.*
Amount raised by colleagues and communities for our £3.8m £2.3m £8.5m* £6m*
Amount of lending committed to help people buy £12.4bn £13.8bn £39.7bn* £30bn* charitable fundraising partners (including Matched Giving7
their first home from the Group’s independent charitable Foundations)
Number of homes our Housing Growth Partnership² 837 1,636* 1,900* 1,500* Number of Social Entrepreneurs supported through the 236 246 721* 700*
has committed to build with SME builders Lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland Social Entrepreneurs
Programmes
New funding support provided for the social housing sector £4.1bn £6.4bn* £8.9bn* £5.5bn*
Number of individuals, SMEs and charities trained 700,232 738,504 1.8m* 1.8m*
Growth in assets³ that we hold on behalf of £7.4bn £37.1bn* £45.6bn* £50bn*
in digital skills, including internet banking
customers in retirement and investment products
Number of undergraduates from lower-income8 138 139 277*9 405*
Increased amount of net lending to start-up, SME £3bn £3.4bn* >£6bn* £6bn*
households supported through our Lloyds Scholars
and Mid Market businesses
Programme
Investment in the UK manufacturing sector through our £1.5bn £2.6bn* £3.7bn* £3bn*
Number of internal apprenticeship positions created 1,490 1,103 3,495* 2,500*
financial support
within the Group that result in permanent employment
Number of clients helped to export for the first time 6,247 11,117* 14,902* 15,000*
Number of manufacturing apprentices, graduates 354 915* 1,211* 750*
Number of businesses we will help to start up 124,182 233,290* 265,634* 300,000* and engineers trained as a result of our £1m annual
investment in the Lloyds Bank Advanced Manufacturing
1 Discounted lending provided through the Lloyds Bank Green Lending Initiative. Training Centre
2 T he Housing Growth Partnership is a socio-economic equity investment fund launched by Lloyds Banking Group and the Homes and
Communities Agency. Percentage of senior roles to be held by women 35.3% 36.8% 37% 40%
3 Growth in assets under administration on our front books.
4 Figures as at October 2020.
Percentage of roles held by Black, Asian and Minority 9.5% 10.2% 10.6% 10%
5 2 019 is the final year of the Credit Union Development Fund. 2019 figure achieved represents the additional sustainable lending made by Credit
Unions as a result of our annual commitment. Ethnic colleagues
6 Skills-based activity added as part of the measure from 2019 onwards. % figure represents the in-year proportion of skills-based activity.
7 T he Matched Giving scheme allows LBG Group colleagues to claim up to £1,000 per calendar year for registered charities that meet the eligibility criteria. Percentage of senior roles held by Black, Asian and 6.4% 6.7% 7.7% 8%
8 With household income less than £25,000 and who meet Programme eligibility criteria.
Minority Ethnic colleagues
9 Recruitment of new students onto the Scholars programme was cancelled in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
* Cumulative 2018–2020
Metrics highlighted in bold are priority metrics for 2020.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 74
Appendix 4 – Principles for Responsible Banking Report
In September 2019, the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) launched the This is the first Lloyds Banking Group Principles for Responsible Banking Report and is an indication of our
Principles for Responsible Banking. Lloyds Banking Group is a founding signatory of the Principles, joining banks progress in implementing the Principles. This work further supports our efforts to be part of a responsible
from around the world to build a more sustainable future. banking industry integral to serving an inclusive society that uses its natural resources sustainably. We want
our products, services and relationships to support and accelerate the changes needed in our economies and
We recognise that change is happening. Our economies are becoming greener and the Principles provide a
lifestyles to achieve shared prosperity for both current and future generations.
single framework that embeds sustainability at strategic, portfolio and transactional levels across all business
areas. To continue our role in the UK economy in the 21st century, Lloyds Banking Group will show how it is
meeting society’s changing needs and demands by aligning our actions to those Principles.
Reference(s)/link(s) to bank’s full
Reporting and Self-Assessment Requirements High-level summary of bank’s response (limited assurance required for responses to highlighted items) response/relevant information
Principle 1: Alignment
We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement and relevant
national and regional frameworks.
1.1 Describe (high-level) your bank’s business Lloyds Banking Group is an integrated UK financial services provider. We are the largest UK retail and commercial financial services Page 3, About Lloyds
model, including the main customer segments provider with approximately 25 million customers and a presence in nearly every community within the UK. Banking Group, of the
served, types of products and services provided, 2020 ESG Report
The Group has a unique customer proposition enabling us to serve all of the financial needs of our customers. We operate multiple
the main sectors and types of activities, and
brands through three core divisions: Pages 12–13 of the 2020
where relevant the technologies financed across
Lloyds Banking Group
the main geographies in which your bank has R etail
Annual Report and
operations or provides products and services.
C ommercial Banking Accounts
I nsurance and Wealth
The Group’s main business activities include retail and commercial banking, general insurance and long-term savings, provided
through multiple well recognised brands including Lloyds Bank, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and Scottish Widows. More detail of the
nature of the Banks business model and services is available on page 3 of this Report and page 12-13 of the 2020 Annual Report and
Accounts.
1.2 Describe how your bank has aligned and/or is As part of the regular annual strategy meeting reviewing the Group’s strategic context and direction, the Board and the senior Pages 6–8, Our Purpose
planning to align its strategy to be consistent with management took part in a discussion on the evolving obligations to the society of the future, and how the Group can play a more and pages 14–18, Strategic
and contribute to society’s goals, as expressed in active role in responding to societal challenges in line with its purpose of Helping Britain Prosper. Recognising the continued need Review 2021, of the
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the to support the people, businesses and communities across the UK through the pandemic, the short-term response focuses on 2020 ESG Report
Paris Climate Agreement, and relevant national elping Britain to recover, whilst establishing a longer-term foundation for the Group to play a role in building a sustainable and
and regional frameworks. inclusive society and economy.
Our new focus for 2021 of Helping Britain Recover allows the Group to focus our business strategy, harness our expertise within
the Group to make an impactful contribution to addressing some of the issues highlighted in the SDGs, and assist in building a
more inclusive and sustainable economy.
Through our societal commitments published externally and wider ESG and responsible business activities, we are actively supporting the
UN’s sustainable development agenda, and supporting the UK in working towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Our unique position within the UK economy means that the successful transition to a more sustainable, low carbon economy is of
strategic importance to us. We support the aims of the 2015 Paris Agreement; the UK Government’s Net Zero target and Ten Point
Plan for a Green Industrial Revolution; and the recommendations of the TCFD.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 75
Appendix 4 – Principles for Responsible
Banking Report
Reference(s)/link(s) to bank’s full
Reporting and Self-Assessment Requirements High-level summary of bank’s response (limited assurance required for responses to highlighted items) response/relevant information
Principle 2: Impact and Target Setting
We will work to continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and environment resulting from our activities, products and services.
To this end, we will set and publish targets where we can have the most significant impacts.
2.1 Impact Analysis: Engaging and responding to stakeholders is fundamental to being a responsible business. Each year we gather a wide range of Page 9, Understanding the
Show that your bank has identified the areas in views through our formal materiality assessment with our stakeholders, which guides both our strategy and reporting. We engage issues that matter to our
which it has its most significant (potential) positive with stakeholders in many different ways during our regular business activities, in face-to-face meetings about specific issues such stakeholders, of the 2020
and negative impact through an impact analysis as regulation or financial performance, and increasingly through social media, such as digital broadcasts. We conduct a dedicated ESG Report
that fulfills the following elements: responsible business materiality assessment every year to help us shape our corporate reporting and inform our strategic thinking. Pages 14– 8, Strategic
More detail on our material issues identified through this process can be located on page 9 and 16 of this report.
a) Scope: The bank’s core business areas, products/ Review 2021, of the 2020
services across the main geographies that the bank As part of the regular annual strategy meeting reviewing the Group’s strategic context and direction, the Board and the senior ESG Report
operates in have been as described under 1.1. have management took part in a discussion on the evolving obligations to the society of the future, and how the Group can play a more
been considered in the scope of the analysis. active role in responding to societal challenges in line with its purpose of Helping Britain Prosper.
b) Scale of Exposure: In identifying its areas of most Building on these discussions, working with external advisers such as Social Finance and influenced by thinking of organisations
significant impact the bank has considered where such as Blueprint for Better Business, the Group reviewed societal trends shaping the lives and prospects for individuals and families
its core business/its major activities lie in terms of in the UK, and identified key areas of focus where the Group could play a more prominent role.
industries, technologies and geographies.
Alongside this, a strategic framework enabling the incorporation of societal considerations into the business operations was developed
c) Context & Relevance: Your bank has taken
to assist in the strategy development. Based on the outcomes of the Board and senior management discussions, the Group developed
into account the most relevant challenges and
both short and medium-term societal responses as part of formulation of business plans under the Strategic Review 2021.
priorities related to sustainable development in the
countries/regions in which it operates. Recognising the continued need to support the people, businesses and communities across the UK through the pandemic,
d) Scale and intensity/salience of impact: the short-term response focuses on helping Britain to recover, whilst establishing a longer-term foundation for the Group to play a
In identifying its areas of most significant impact, role in building a sustainable and inclusive society and economy.
the bank has considered the scale and intensity/
Our commitments for 2021 are summarised in Helping Britain Recover and can be found on pages 17 – 18 of this report.
salience of the (potential) social, economic and
environmental impacts resulting from the bank’s We will continue to build on our strengths to identify new opportunities to contribute to building a more sustainable and inclusive
activities and provision of products and services. society and take a leadership role to contribute and realise positive societal and business benefits.
(your bank should have engaged with relevant
To support our efforts, we will continue to embed societal considerations into our Group strategy, decision-making, processes and
stakeholders to help inform your analysis under
culture and evaluate our societal impact.
elements c) and d))
Show that building on this analysis, the bank has We have considered and consulted a wide range of stakeholders when developing our societal response and our Helping Britain
Recover commitments.
Identified and disclosed its areas of most significant
(potential) positive and negative impact
I dentified strategic business opportunities in
relation to the increase of positive impacts/
reduction of negative impacts
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 76
Appendix 4 – Principles for Responsible
Banking Report
Reference(s)/link(s) to bank’s full
Reporting and Self-Assessment Requirements High-level summary of bank’s response (limited assurance required for responses to highlighted items) response/relevant information
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Impact Analysis.
We recognise that the focus of the Group’s purpose must evolve in response to the current environment and changing customer needs and expectations.
With our evolution of strategy, we will further embed our purpose across all of our activities. This will ensure we contribute to creating an environmentally sustainable and inclusive future for the UK and by doing so build a
successful and sustainable business. The global pandemic will have lasting social and economic effects on the United Kingdom.
Its impact has been felt by everyone, whether through financial hardship, reduced choices, mental distress or personal loss. Our focus will therefore be to Help Britain Recover, and we are committed to working with others in
five areas where we can make the most difference.
2.2 Target Setting As a signal of our commitment we set an ambitious goal in 2020, working with customers, Government and the market to help reduce Page 19–35, Helping Britain
Show that the bank has set and published a minimum the emissions we finance by more than 50 per cent by 2030, on the path to net zero by 2050 or sooner, supporting both the UK transition to a sustainable
of two Specific, Measurable (can be qualitative or Government’s ambition and the 2015 Paris Agreement. low carbon economy, and
quantitative), Achievable, Relevant and Time-bound In July 2020, our Group Chief Executive, António Horta-Osório launched our Race Action Plan, which includes a new public goal to page 39, Championing
(SMART) targets, which address at least two of the specifically increase Black representation in senior roles from 0.6 per cent at senior grades to at least 3 per cent by 2025 to align with inclusion and diversity, of
identified “areas of most significant impact”, resulting the overall UK labour market. the 2020 ESG Report
from the bank’s activities and provision of products In addition to the above target we have specific targets for 2021 included in our focus on Helping Britain Recover committing to
and services. working with others in five focus areas where we can make the most difference.
Show that these targets are linked to and drive Through Helping Britain Recover and wider responsible business activities, we will be actively supporting the UN’s sustainable
alignment with and greater contribution to development agenda, using our key skills to focus our resources on making an impactful benefit to the UK and working towards
appropriate Sustainable Development Goals, the the realisation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
goals of the Paris Agreement, and other relevant
international, national or regional frameworks.
The bank should have identified a baseline
(assessed against a particular year) and have set
targets against this baseline.
Show that the bank has analysed and acknowledged
significant (potential) negative impacts of the set
targets on other dimensions of the SDG/climate
change/society’s goals and that it has set out
relevant actions to mitigate those as far as feasible to
maximize the net positive impact of the set targets.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Target Setting.
We will report on our progress in meeting our targets in our 2021 Annual Report and ESG Report.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 77
Appendix 4 – Principles for Responsible
Banking Report
Reference(s)/link(s) to bank’s full
Reporting and Self-Assessment Requirements High-level summary of bank’s response (limited assurance required for responses to highlighted items) response/relevant information
2.3 Plans for Target Implementation and Monitoring The Board and Executive Management team agreed in June 2020 that the Group’s purpose should be firmly embedded at the heart Pages 3 –45 of the 2020
Show that your bank has defined actions and of our strategy, with our immediate focus on Helping Britain Recover framing our strategic plan for 2021 as well as the associated Lloyds Banking Group
milestones to meet the set targets. priorities regarding our customer propositions, colleagues and Group capabilities. Annual Report and
Show that your bank has put in place the means Teams across the Group then helped translate these priorities into more detailed initiatives, ensuring that Helping Britain Recover Accounts.
to measure and monitor progress against the set remains the key focus. Pages 17–18 , Helping
targets. Definitions of key performance indicators, At an extended Board session in November, attended by both the then incumbent and incoming Chairmen, these initiatives were Britain Recover, of the
any changes in these definitions, and any rebasing subsequently discussed in the context of the investment required in 2021 and the Group’s longer-term financial plan. 2020 ESG Report
of baselines should be transparent. Since then, the Board have supported the development of detailed plans, with measurable outcomes designed to support successful
delivery and mitigate execution risks, as well as the communication approach for our evolution of strategy.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Plans for Target Implementation and Monitoring.
We will report on our progress in meeting our targets in our 2021 Annual Report and 2021 ESG Report.
2.4 Progress on Implementing Targets As a signal of our commitment we set an ambitious goal in 2020, working with customers, Government and the market to help Pages 19–22, Helping Britain
For each target separately: reduce the emissions we finance by more than 50 per cent by 2030, on the path to net zero by 2050 or sooner, supporting both transition to a sustainable
the UK Government’s ambition and the 2015 Paris Agreement. low carbon economy, and
Show that your bank has implemented the actions
it had previously defined to meet the set target. To support our overall climate ambition, we set ourselves seven leadership ambitions to support the UK’s transition to a sustainable page 41, Our 2020 Progress
future. on our Race Action Plan, of
Or explain why actions could not be implemented the 2020 ESG Report
/needed to be changed and how your bank is In 2020, we have focused on enhancing our green finance products and services to achieve our ambitions. Detail on actions taken
adapting its plan to meet its set target. to support the target are included on pages 20–23 of the 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report.
Report on your bank’s progress over the last In July 2020, our Group Chief Executive, António Horta-Osório launched our Race Action Plan, which includes a new public goal to
12 months (up to 18 months in your first reporting specifically increase Black representation in senior roles from 0.6 per cent at senior grades to at least 3 per cent by 2025 to align
after becoming a signatory) towards achieving each with the overall UK labour market.
of the set targets and the impact your progress Our progress on our implementation of this plan can be found on page 41 of the 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance
resulted in. (where feasible and appropriate, banks (ESG) Report.
should include quantitative disclosures) Our specific 2021 targets related to our Helping Britain Recover commitments will be reported in our 2021 Annual Report and
Accounts and 2021 ESG Report.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Progress on Implementing Targets.
We have made progress on our climate ambitions and Race Action Plan commitments and have reported against this performance in the 2020 ESG Report.
Our specific 2021 targets related to our Helping Britain Recover commitments will be reported in our 2021 Annual Report and Accounts and 2021 ESG Report.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 78
Appendix 4 – Principles for Responsible
Banking Report
Reference(s)/link(s) to bank’s full
Reporting and Self-Assessment Requirements High-level summary of bank’s response (limited assurance required for responses to highlighted items) response/relevant information
Principle 3: Clients and Customers
We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that create shared prosperity for current and future generations.
3.1 Provide an overview of the policies and The Group is committed to providing meaningful support to meet the needs of our customers, aiming to provide positive outcomes Pages 44 Assisting our
practices your bank has in place and/or is and working to mitigate or reduce the risk of financial harm. The COVID-19 pandemic has magnified existing challenges faced by Customers, of the
planning to put in place to promote responsible customers, and brought new challenges affecting health, income, and relationships. 2020 ESG Report
relationships with its customers. This should We have various policies and practices related to promoting responsible relationships with our customers. Our Values and Behaviours Pages 61–64, Conducting
include high-level information on any alongside the Financial Conduct Authority’s Conduct rules set out the expectations of colleagues and colleagues are encouraged to our Business Responsibly
programmes and actions implemented make decisions aligned to these. The Group’s Code of Ethics and Responsibility is available on our website. of the 2020 ESG Report
(and/or planned), their scale and, where
Colleagues are encouraged to speak up, challenge and act if they witness anything inappropriate and we provide colleagues with a
possible, the results thereof.
variety of channels to do this.
The Group believes in the importance of doing business in ways that value and respect the human rights of our colleagues, customers,
business partners and communities affected by our business.
The Group takes a range of mitigating actions with respect to conduct risk and remains focused on delivering a leading customer
experience. Our goal, in line with our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper, is to support customers whenever they have cause to
complain. Customers trust us to keep their money and data safe, and the Group deploys sophisticated technology to protect both.
3.2 Describe how your bank has worked with At Lloyds Banking Group we have an ongoing commitment to improving the financial wellbeing for customers, colleagues and Pages 44 Assisting our
and/or is planning to work with its clients and communities through the work we do. Customers, of the 2020
customers to encourage sustainable practices Access to financial services and their effective use play a central role in individuals’, households’ and society’s well-being. ESG Report
and enable sustainable economic activities. The Group is committed to providing meaningful support to meet the needs of our customers, aiming to provide positive outcomes Pages 45 Supporting
This should include information on actions and working to mitigate or reduce the risk of financial harm. businesses and SMEs,
planned/implemented, products and services of the 2020 ESG Report
developed, and, where possible, the impacts The pandemic has magnified existing challenges faced by customers, and brought new challenges affecting health, income, and
achieved. relationships. By adapting our support, proactively contacting customers, and using insight to understand what their needs are, we Pages 50 Building financial
continued to support customers in challenging times. resilience, of the 2020
ESG Report
Supporting businesses of all types and sizes is fundamental to helping Britain to both prosper and recover. The pandemic has had a
profound impact on the way we live our lives and on the global economy. We remain fully focused on helping our customers and
the UK economy recover, in collaboration with Government and our regulators.
Detailed actions and plans are included in detail 2020 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 79
Appendix 4 – Principles for Responsible
Banking Report
Reference(s)/link(s) to bank’s full
Reporting and Self-Assessment Requirements High-level summary of bank’s response (limited assurance required for responses to highlighted items) response/relevant information
Principle 4: Stakeholders
We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals.
4.1 D escribe which stakeholders (or groups/types We have considered and consulted a wide range of stakeholders when developing our societal response and our Helping Britain Page 16 Helping Britain
of stakeholders) your bank has consulted, Recover commitments. Recover, of the 2020
engaged, collaborated or partnered with for Lloyds Banking Group has brought together more than 900 businesses, community members, policy makers and subject-matter ESG Report
the purpose of implementing these Principles experts across the UK’s nations and regions to explore how we can help the UK recover from the impact of coronavirus. Pages 45, 47, Supporting
and improving your bank’s impacts. This should We have committed to various strategic partnerships to facilitate the implementation of our ambitions and targets highlighted businesses and SMEs,
include a high-level overview of how your bank throughout the 2020 ESG Report. of the 2020 ESG Report
has identified relevant stakeholders and what
Pages 19–64 of the
issues were addressed/results achieved.
2020 ESG Report
Principle 5: Governance & Culture
We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking
5.1 D escribe the relevant governance structures, Our Board level Responsible Business Committee (RBC) oversees the Group’s performance as a responsible business and delivery Page 8, Responsible
policies and procedures your bank has in place/ of our sustainability strategy. Business Governance and
is planning to put in place to manage significant Both the Board and RBC are supported by the Group Executive Committee, which is in turn supported by a dedicated Sustainability Accountability, of the 2020
positive and negative (potential) impacts Committee. ESG Report
and support effective implementation of the
Principles.
5.2 Describe the initiatives and measures your bank As the Group enters evolves it’s strategy and focus turns towards Helping Britain Recover, the Remuneration Committee has thought Page 60, Supporting our
has implemented or is planning to implement to carefully about the right choice of measures that should be included within a scorecard for 2021 to ensure Executive remuneration Colleagues, of the 2020
foster a culture of responsible banking among remains aligned to the Group’s new purpose and strategic objectives. ESG Report
its employees. This should include a high-level
overview of capacity building, inclusion in
remuneration structures and performance
management and leadership communication,
among others.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 80
Appendix 4 – Principles for Responsible
Banking Report
Reference(s)/link(s) to bank’s full
Reporting and Self-Assessment Requirements High-level summary of bank’s response (limited assurance required for responses to highlighted items) response/relevant information
5.3 Governance Structure for Implementation of Our Board level Responsible Business Committee (RBC) oversees the Group’s performance as a responsible business and delivery Page 8, Responsible
the Principles of our sustainability strategy. Business Governance
Show that your bank has a governance structure in Both the Board and RBC are supported by the Group Executive Committee, which is in turn supported by a dedicated Sustainability and Accountability, of the
place for the implementation of the PRB, including: Committee. 2020 ESG Report
a) target-setting and actions to achieve targets set
b) r emedial action in the event of targets or
milestones not being achieved or unexpected
negative impacts being detected.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Governance Structure for Implementation of the Principles.
Lloyds Banking Group has established a governance structure for ensuring that the Principles are effectively implemented, integrated into existing business strategy and commitments, including the setting and monitoring
of targets.
Principle 6: Transparency & Accountability
We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s goals.
6.1 Progress on Implementing the Principles for We regularly review our strategy in light of our changing operating environment to ensure that our focus remains the right one Pages 36–41 of the 2020
Responsible Banking for our customers, colleagues, shareholders and broader society. Over the past two years we have considered how we can build on Lloyds Banking Group
Show that your bank has progressed on the Group’s successful transformation, with a defining purpose further embedded in a refreshed strategy that can be at the heart of Annual Report and
implementing the six Principles over the last Britain’s recovery while delivering sustainable value to all our stakeholders. Accounts
12 months (up to 18 months in your first reporting Since 2011, we have significantly transformed our business for the benefit of our customers and other key stakeholders, while also Pages 14–18 of the 2020
after becoming a signatory) in addition to the positioning us well to succeed in a digital world. We are not complacent, however, and recognise that we need to continually evolve ESG Report
setting and implementation of targets in minimum in response to increasing customer and societal expectations, new technologies and a rapidly changing competitive environment.
two areas (see 2.1-2.4). Most importantly, we also recognise that we have a critical role to play in Helping Britain Recover from the COVID pandemic.
Show that your bank has considered existing and The Board have supported the development of detailed plans, with measurable outcomes designed to support successful delivery
emerging international/regional good practices and mitigate execution risks, as well as the communication approach for our evolution of strategy.
relevant for the implementation of the six Principles Teams across the Group then helped translate these priorities into more detailed initiatives, ensuring that Helping Britain Recover
for Responsible Banking. Based on this, it has defined remains the key focus.
priorities and ambitions to align with good practice.
Our focus will therefore be to Help Britain Recover, and we are committed to working with others in five areas where we can make
Show that your bank has implemented/is working the most difference.
on implementing changes in existing practices to
reflect and be in line with existing and emerging
international/regional good practices and has made
progress on its implementation of these Principles.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Progress on Implementing the Principles for Responsible Banking.
Lloyds Banking Group recognise that the focus of the Group’s purpose must evolve in response to the current environment and changing customer needs and expectations.
With our evolution of strategy, we will further embed our purpose across all of our activities. This will ensure we contribute to creating an environmentally sustainable and inclusive future for the UK and by doing so build a
successful and sustainable business.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 81
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative content index
Our ESG Report and this accompanying Index have been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting We include information and data related to our strategy, governance, key initiatives and processes, performance
Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. This GRI Index covers our material topics and follows GRI Standards 2016 and progress against our wider Responsible Business goals and our purpose to Help Britain Prosper. The main
and, where relevant, 2018. Our impacts mainly occur outside our organisation, the management of which is elements of our reporting suite are listed here; they, along with additional sustainability-related information,
principally through our Helping Britain Prosper Plan and in 2021 the new focus areas of Helping Britain Recover. can be found in the Downloads page of our website:
Additionally in 2020 we elevated the wellbeing and safety of our colleagues, amongst other topics, to reflect the
2020 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts (ARA), including our new focus of Helping Britain Recover
relevance of the pandemic to our business.
2020 Lloyds Banking Group ESG Report (ESG Report)
We use the GRI framework, as well as others such as TCFD and SASB, to maintain the rigour of our annual ESG
reporting. The reporting follows the calendar year (noting that our environmental indicators relate to the period Helping Britain Prosper Plan
1 October to 30 September) and covers to all of our legal entities. Note that occupational health and safety
data covers all employees and workers. Diversity data – from our HR system – covers all permanent colleagues 2020 Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
including international colleagues, those on parental/maternity leave, absent without leave and long-term sick;
2019 Human Rights Policy Statement
however, it excludes contractors, Group non-executive directors, temps and agency staff.
2020 Reporting Criteria
General Standard Disclosures
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION ESG REPORTING REFERENCES 2020 FURTHER COMMENTS
ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE
102-1 Name of the organisation ARA, Front Cover, Inside Front Cover
102-2 Primary brands, products, and services ARA, page 12, pages 52–55
Our Brands
102-3 Location of the organisation’s headquarters ARA, Back Cover
102-4 Countries of operation ARA, Inside Front Cover The Group primarily operates in the UK. Its main overseas operations are in the Americas
and Europe and are not significant in comparison.
102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form ARA, Inside Front Cover
102-6 Markets served ESG Report, page 3 ARA, page 8,
pages 40–41, pages 53-55
Our External Environment
102-7 Scale of organisation ARA, Inside Front Cover, pages 8–9, page 12, page 22
102-8 Information on employees and other workers ESG Report, pages 68–69 Employees are mainly in the UK and its region (Employee numbers include PPI; the UK
number includes Guernsey, IOM, Jersey and Gibraltar). The Group’s activities are not,
to any significant extent, performed by workers who are not employees. There are no
significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8 a, b and c.
102-9 The organisation’s supply chain ESG Report, page 64 ARA, page 51
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement,
pages 6–7
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 82
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION ESG REPORTING REFERENCES 2020 FURTHER COMMENTS
102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period ARA, page 4, page 57 No significant changes in the categories listed in disclosure 102-10.
102-11 Whether and how the precautionary approach or ARA, page 4, page 6, page 46, pages 57–58
principle is addressed
102-12 Externally developed economic, environmental ESG Report, page 5 Signatories to include:
and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Human Rights Policy Statement 2020, page 3 Equator Principles
to which the organisation subscribes or which Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, UN Global Compact
it endorses page 3 UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable Insurance
UN Principles for Responsible Investment
UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking
Mental Health Accessibility Standards
Financial Abuse Code of Practice
C limate Change Group Initiatives: RE100; EP100; EV100
Recognise and guided by:
UN Sustainable Development Goals
O rganisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines
for Multinational Enterprises
U N’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
International Bill of Human Rights
I nternational Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Core Labour Standards and its Tripartite
Declaration of Principles
102-13 Memberships of associations and national or ESG Report, page 24, page 64 Key memberships include:
international advocacy Trade Association Membership Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership
Human Rights Policy Statement, page 3 University of Cambridge Banking and Environment Initiative – Bank 2030
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, PRA and FCA Climate Financial Risk Forum
page 3 Business Integrity Forum of Transparency International
Coalition for Climate Resilient Investment
Joint Fraud Taskforce
Cyber Defence Alliance
Financial Services Cyber Collaboration Centre
Cross-Market Operational Resilience group
Apprenticeship Diversity Champions network
Joint Money Laundering Intelligence Taskforce
Business Disability Forum
Department for Work and Pensions Disability Confident Leadership
UK Living Wage Foundation
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 83
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION ESG REPORTING REFERENCES 2020 FURTHER COMMENTS
STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS
102-14 A statement from the most senior decision-maker ESG Report, page 4
of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability ARA, pages 4–6, page 10
to the organisation A year that changed the world
2019 CEO video [2:02 minutes in]
Ethics and integrity
102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour ESG Report, page 7, page 9, page 26, pages 36–38,
such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics pages 61–64
ARA, page 12
Code of Responsibility
Inclusion and Diversity
Governance
102-18 Governance structure, including committees of the ESG Report, page 8
highest governance body ARA, page 22
Stakeholder engagement
102-40 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation ESG Report, page 9
ARA, page 31
Reporting criteria, page 3
External environment
102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by ESG Report, page 60
collective bargaining agreements Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement page 4
102-42 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders ESG Report, page 9, page 19, page 25, page 33,
with whom to engage pages 63–64 ARA, page 46
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
page 5, page 11
102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement ESG Report, page 9, page 44
ARA, page 20, page 31
Working with suppliers
Code of supplier responsibility
102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised, ESG Report, page 9 ARA, page 5, page 20,
and how the organisation has responded pages 32–35, page 46, page 48, pages 50–51
The Big Conversation [report]
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 84
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION ESG REPORTING REFERENCES 2020 FURTHER COMMENTS
Report Practice
102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial ARA, page 205
statements
102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries ESG report, page 9
Reporting criteria, page 1, page 3, page 5, pages 7–11
102-47 List of material topics ESG Report, page 9
102-48 Restatements of information ESG report pages 34–35, pages 70–71
Reporting criteria, page 9
102-49 Changes in reporting The COVID-19 pandemic has raised the relative
prioritisation of colleague health, safety, and wellbeing,
as well as colleague training. Additionally, a new focus
area is the adaptation by the Group to the pandemic,
and the impact of it on the Group. Some intensification
of emphasis is placed on existing material topics such a
diversity and financial resilience.
102-50 Reporting period 2020 calendar year
ESG Report, page 34
102-51 Date of most recent report 2020
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact Us
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI ESG Report, page 81
Standards
102-55 GRI content index ESG Report, page 81
Downloads
102-56 External assurance ESG Report, page 89 (also pages 34–35, Selected data subject to Limited ISAE 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410 assurance.
page 68, pages 70–72) Deloitte LLP Independent Assurance Report.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 85
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
ECONOMIC
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
200: ECONOMIC TOPICS MANAGEMENT APPROACH (MA)
RELEVANT GRI RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC MA REFERENCES 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 FURTHER COMMENTS
CATEGORY
201 Transition to a low-carbon economy ESG Report, pages 20–24, 26–31, 32–35, 36–38
ARA, pages 20–24, page 57,
Risk management;
The Big Conversation;
Financing a green future together;
External Sector Statements
203 Access to skills ESG Report, pages 45–46, page 50, page 52, pages
54–55 ARA, page 17, pages 27–28, page 38, page 49
HBP Plan;
The Big Conversation;
The Lloyds Bank Advanced Manufacturing Training
Centre
203 Support for businesses and SMEs ESG Report, pages 17–18, pages 20–23, page 45,
page 50, page 54
ARA, page 27, page 51
HBP Plan;
The Big Conversation;
Financing a green future (including businesses and
agriculture)
203 Supporting vulnerable customers and vulnerable ESG report, pages 17–18, page 20–23, page 48,
groups pages 50–53, page 62 ARA, page 27–28
Lloyds Bank Academy
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement,
pages 3-5, page 8
203 Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Group ESG Report, pages 15–18, pages 58–60, page 64
ARA, page 32–33, pages 36–40, page 58
Agile working
Adapting to new ways of working
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 86
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
200: ECONOMIC TOPICS
GRI STANDARDS/Date of issue RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC REFERENCES 2020 FURTHER COMMENTS
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
201-2 Financial implications Transition to a low-carbon economy ESG Report, pages 19–20, pages 26–28, pages 29–31, page 34,
and other risks and page 73 ARA, pages 20–23
opportunities due to Financing a green future together
climate change External Sector Statements
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
203-2 Significant indirect Access to skills ESG Report, page 14, pages 45–46, page 50, page 52, page 54
economic impacts ARA, pages 27–28
HBP impact database – Volunteering, Digital skills
HBP Plan – Digital Skills
Lloyds Bank UK Consumer Digital Index
Lloyds Bank UK Business Digital Index
203-2 Significant indirect Support for businesses and SMEs ESG Report, page 13, pages 45–47, page 67
economic impacts ARA, page 27
HBP Plan;
The Big Conversation [report];
Helping Britain Recover;
Responsible sourcing and supplier management;
Code of Supplier Responsibility
203-2 Significant indirect Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Group ESG Report, pages 17–18, page 57, pages 58–60, pages 62–64
economic impacts ARA, pages 32–33, pages 36–41
Reporting Criteria, page 5
Agile working
Adapting to new ways of working
Coronavirus Updates
203-2 Significant indirect Supporting vulnerable customers and vulnerable ESG report, pages 17–18, page 20, pages 45–48, pages 50–56, page 58,
economic impacts groups page 60, page 64, pages 67–68, page 74 ARA, pages 27–29, page 37
HBP Plan;
HBP Plan performance;
The Big Conversation [report];
Helping Britain Recover;
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, page 12
203-2 Significant indirect Environmental risks in lending ESG Report, page 73
economic impacts ARA, page 24
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 87
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
ENVIRONMENTAL
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
300: ENVIRONMENTAL TOPIC MANAGEMENT APPROACH (MA)
RELEVANT GRI RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC MA REFERENCES 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 FURTHER COMMENT
CATEGORY
305 Transition to a low-carbon economy ESG Report, pages 20-24, 26–31, 32–34, 36–38
Reporting criteria pages 7–9
ARA, pages 20–23, 39, 113–114
Risk management; The Big Conversation;
305, 307 Environmental risks in lending ESG Report, page 36, pages 63–64 See also Scottish Widows Stewardship Policy; Scottish Widows
ARA, page 24 Exclusions Policy; Scottish Widows Responsible Investment
Code of Ethics and Responsibility Framework
The Lloyds Banking Group Sector Statements
300: ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS
GRI STANDARDS/Date of issue of Standard RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC REFERENCES 2020 FURTHER COMMENTS
305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Transition to a low-carbon economy ESG Report, pages 34–35, 71
emissions Reporting criteria page 7
ARA, pages 113–114
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Transition to a low-carbon economy ESG Report, pages 34–35, 71
GHG emissions Reporting criteria page 8
ARA, pages 113–114
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Transition to a low-carbon economy; ESG Report, pages 34–35, 71
GHG emissions Environmental risks in lending Reporting criteria page 9
ARA, pages 21–22, pages 113–114
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Transition to a low-carbon economy ESG Report, pages 71–72
Reporting criteria pages 7–8
ARA, page 113
307-1 Environmental compliance Environmental risks in lending ESG Report, pages 36–38 No non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations
ARA, pages 23–24 recorded.
The Lloyds Banking Group Equator Principles table;
Lloyds Banking Group Principles for Responsible
Banking Report
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 88
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
SOCIAL
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
400: SOCIAL TOPIC MANAGEMENT APPROACH (MA)
RELEVANT GRI RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC MA REFERENCES 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 FURTHER COMMENT
CATEGORY
403 Health and wellbeing of colleagues ESG Report, page 16, pages 57–60
ARA, page 31
Human Rights Policy Statement page 5, page 7
Health and Safety Policy (unpublished)
Helping Britain Recover
403 Adaptation to ways of working due to the pandemic ESG Report, page 4, pages 17–18, page 57
ARA, page 35, page 45, pages 58–59
Helping Britain Recover
403 Impact of the COVID 19 pandemic on the Group ESG Report, page 4, pages 15–18, page 57,
pages 58–60, pages 61–64 ARA, pages 32–33
Agile working
Adapting to new ways of working
404 Colleague training ESG Report, page 59
ARA, page 31
Colleague Policy (unpublished)
Code of Responsibility
405 Race action and inclusion ESG Report, pages 39–43
ARA, pages 25–26, page 31
Board diversity policy
Race Action Plan
Code of Supplier Responsibility
2020 Human Rights Policy Statement
Inclusion and diversity
Gender pay gap report 2020
Ethnicity pay gap report 2020
413 Supporting vulnerable customers and vulnerable groups ESG Report, pages 17–18, page 20, page 44, page 48,
pages 50–53, pages 61-64 ARA, page 31
Financial inclusion
The Big Conversation
Community programmes
Charitable Foundations
Lloyds Bank Academy
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement,
pages 3–5, page 8
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 89
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES
400: SOCIAL TOPIC MANAGEMENT APPROACH (MA)
RELEVANT GRI RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC MA REFERENCES 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 FURTHER COMMENT
CATEGORY
413 Financial resilience ESG Report, page 50, pages 52–53
ARA, page 28
The Big Conversation
Financial inclusion
Digital inclusion
Volunteering
HBP Plan – impact database: Social housing, First-time
buyers, Helping people save
413 Access to skills ESG Report, page 50, pages 53–54
ARA, page 17, pages 27–28
HBP Plan;
Community programmes; Charitable Foundations
413 Financial education ESG Report, page 50
ARA, page 28
Financial inclusion;
Lloyds Bank Academy; Lloyds Bank UK Consumer Digital
Index; Transformation with Tech Report
418 Customer data security ESG Report, page 64
ARA, pages30–31
Business model; Protect yourself from fraud hub [Lloyds
Bank]
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 90
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
SPECIFIC STANDARD SUPPLEMENTAL MA DISCLOSURES – 2018 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Standard update
2018 OHS Standard MA disclosures RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC MA References 2020 FURTHER COMMENT
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Health and wellbeing of ESG Report, page 16, pages 57–60
colleagues ARA, page 29, page 31
Human Rights Policy Statement page 5, page 7
Adaptation to ways Group Health, Safety and Fire Policy (unpublished)
of working due to the
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident ESG Report, page 57
pandemic
investigation Group Health, Safety and Fire Policy (unpublished)
403-3 Occupational health services ESG report, page 57, page 59
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication ESG report, page 16, page 43, page 57, page 59
on occupational health and safety ARA, page 37, page 45, page 48
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety ESG Report, pages 58-60
Group Health, Safety and Fire Policy (unpublished)
403-6 Promotion of worker health ESG report, page 16, page 43, page 57, page 59
ARA, page 45, page 48
Notes:
The definition of a ‘worker’ for LBG is an employee in an employment relationship with the organization according to national law or its application. The Group Health, Safety and Fire Policy applies to all colleagues including
contractors, temporary workers, university and work experience placements and suppliers to Lloyds Banking Group.
Disclosure 403-7 is excluded is omitted. Reason for omission: it is not relevant because none of the Group’s operations, products or services are directly linked to ‘significant occupational health and safety impacts by its
business relationships’ on any workers.
Disclosures 403-1 to 403-6 are supplementary MA disclosures from the OHS Standard revision in 2018.
400: SOCIAL TOPICS
GRI STANDARDS/Date RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC REFERENCES 2020 FURTHER COMMENTS
403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
403-9 Work-related injuries Health and wellbeing of colleagues ESG Report, page 65 403-9a(i) and (ii): zero fatalities; zero high-consequence injuries
ARA, page 29, page 31 403-9c: In LBG operations, there are no work-related hazards
Appendix 1: 2020 ESG Data Sheet that cause high-consequence risks in the workplace.
403-9f: Data excludes contractors, Group non-executive
directors, temps and agency staff.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 91
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
400: SOCIAL TOPICS
GRI STANDARDS/Date RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC REFERENCES 2020 FURTHER COMMENTS
403-10 Work-related ill health Health and wellbeing of colleagues ESG Report, pages 58–60, page 65 No worker fatalities are recorded from ill-health or injury.
ARA, page 29, page 45 Ill-health data are part of RIDDOR reporting, p65. We report
extensive mental and physical health support and benefits.
We do not report detail as required by GRI [403-10 (a) ii,
(b) ii, (d) or (e)], noting the GRI definition of ‘recordable
work-related ill-health’. Reason for omission: the data is not
broken down in our reporting system in this way, and
the necessary agile working arrangements are severely
limiting evidence of causality.
403-10 Work-related ill health Adaptation to ways of working due to the pandemic ESG Report, pages 4–5, page 57, pages 59–60
Impact of the COVID 19 pandemic on the Group ARA, page 29, page 45, page 48
Reporting Criteria, page 5
Agile working;
Adapting to new ways of working
404: Training and Education 2016
404-2 Programs for upgrading Colleague training ESG Report, page 57, page 60
employee skills and Adaptation to ways of working due to the pandemic ARA, page 29, page 45
transition
assistance programs
405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016
405-1 Composition of Race action and inclusion ESG Report, page 8, page 39, page 69 Group data excludes contractors, Group non-executive
governance bodies and ARA, pages 25-26 directors, temps and agency staff. Reason for omission: the
employees Ethnicity pay gap report 2020 pages 8–9 reason for their exclusion is due to availability of information.
Race Action Plan
Reporting Criteria, page 2
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Race action and inclusion ESG Report, page 69
remuneration of women Gender pay gap report 2020
to men
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 92
Appendix 5 – Global Reporting Initiative
content index
400: SOCIAL TOPICS
GRI STANDARDS/Date RELATED MATERIAL TOPIC REFERENCES 2020 FURTHER COMMENTS
413: Local communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local Supporting vulnerable customers and vulnerable ESG Report, page 11, page 14
community engagement, groups ARA, page 29, page 49
impact assessments, and Financial inclusion and education
development programs Adaptation to ways of working due to the pandemic Charitable Foundations
Tackling mental health issues
413-1 Operations with local Access to skills ESG Report, page 50, pages 54–55, page 67
community engagement, ARA, page 29, page 38–39, page 49
impact assessments, and HBP Plan;
development programs Community programmes;
Charitable Foundations
413-1 Operations with local Financial resilience ESG Report, page 50, page 53
community engagement, ARA, page 28
impact assessments, and HBP Plan (performance download)
development programs Building financial resilience in the agricultural sector
NI: building financial resilience after COVID-19
FS14 (elective Initiatives to improve access Support for vulnerable customers and vulnerable ESG report, page 44, page 74
use of GRI to financial services for groups ARA, page 26, page 46
G4 Sector disadvantaged people HBP Plan
Supplement) Financial inclusion and education
413-1, Operations with local Financial education ESG report, page 50
FS14 community engagement, HBP Plan (performance download);
impact assessments, and Financial inclusion;
development programs Lloyds Bank Academy;
Lloyds Bank UK Consumer Digital Index; Transformation
Initiatives to improve access with Tech
to financial services for ARA, page 27
disadvantaged people Tackling mental health issues
Financial inclusion and education
418: Customer privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints Customer data security ESG Report, pages 63–64
concerning breaches of ARA, page 30
customer privacy and Responsible Business Data Sheet 2019, page 2
losses of customer data Customer complaints monitoring
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 93
Appendix 6 – Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Lloyds Banking Group is reporting using the SASB disclosure framework for the first time in 2020. We continue indicator to allow investors to use the information for decision-making purposes in line with the SASB Framework
to review and enhance our methodologies and framework for reporting environmental, social and governance and Guidelines. If an indicator is applicable across more than one business area or the disclosure is at Group level,
(ESG) performance and, in doing so, we have identified the SASB disclosure framework as being an important this is shown in the table.
reporting tool that addresses the needs of our investors. We anticipate our disclosures will evolve each year and
We have included references to relevant information in our 2020 Annual Reporting Suite and any supplementary
that we will be able to enhance the depth of our reporting against the SASB framework, to include reporting
information that may support our disclosures.
against additional indicators in 2021.
Key
The table below details our disclosures against the SASB standards and indicators. It is noted that SASB is a
global framework with, at present, a US-focused approach to defining criteria. Lloyds Banking Group is a ARA: 2020 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts
UK-focused financial services provider and therefore, where required, certain indicators have been adapted ESG: 2020 Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report
to reflect this. We have adapted these indicators with the intention of preserving the spirit and meaning of the
Group-level indicators
The following disclosures are taken from individual standards and disclosed at a Group level to reflect a business-wide approach or apply to more than one business area
Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code
Customer Total amount of Note 36: Other provisions FN-CF-220a.2 Financial Amount of loans Our Helping Britain Prosper Priorities FN-CB-240a.1
Privacy monetary losses ARA, Pages 284–285 Inclusion & outstanding Increased amount of net lending to start-up,
as a result of legal Note 46: Contingent liabilities, commitments and Capacity qualified to SME and Mid-Market businesses
proceedings guarantees Building programmes ARA, Page 27
associated with ARA, Pages 295–296 designed to promote ESG, Page 11
customer privacy small business
and community
Data Security Description of Data risk FN-CB-230a.2 development
approach to ARA, Pages 199–200 FN-CF-230a.3
identifying and Protecting customer data and finances Number of no-cost The Helping Britain Prosper Plan FN-CB-240a.2
addressing data ESG, Page 63 retail checking Share of social bank accounts we support
security risks accounts provided to ESG, Page 73
previously unbanked
Card-related fraud Operational risk events by risk category FN-CF-230a.2 or underbanked
losses from card- (losses greater than or equal to £10,000), customers*
not-present fraud excluding PPI
and card-present ARA, Page 202 Number of The Helping Britain Prosper Plan FN-CB-240a.4
and other fraud participants in Number of individuals, SMEs and charities
financial literacy trained in digital skills, including internet banking
initiatives for ESG, Page 73
unbanked, Lloyds Bank Academy
underbanked, ESG, Page 50
or underserved We Are Digital Helpline
customers ESG, Page 51
Financial capability
ESG, Page 52
* Adapted for non-US markets.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 94
Appendix 6 – Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB)
Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code
Incorporation of Description of ESG lending and investment FN-CB-410a.2 Systemic Risk Exposure to derivative Derivative credit risk exposures FN-IN-550a.1
Environmental, approach to ARA, Page 24 Management instruments by ARA, Page 175
Social and incorporation of ESG, Pages 36–38 (Insurance) category: (1) total
Governance environmental, Responsible Investment | Scottish Widows potential exposure to
Factors in Credit social and Helping Britain transition to a sustainable non-centrally cleared
Analysis governance factors low-carbon economy derivatives, (2) total fair
in credit analysis ARA, Pages 20–23 value of acceptable
ESG, Pages 19–35 collateral posted
with the Central
Policies Discussion of ESG lending and investment FN-IN-410b.2 Clearinghouse, and
designed to products and/or ARA, Page 24 (3) total potential
incentivise product features ESG, Pages 36–38 exposure to centrally
Responsible that incentivise Responsible Investment | Scottish Widows cleared derivatives
Behaviour health, safety, and/ Helping Britain transition to a sustainable
or environmentally low-carbon economy Total fair value of Collateral FN-IN-550a.2
responsible actions ARA, Pages 20–23 securities lending ARA, Page 328
and/or behaviours ESG, Pages 19–35 collateral assets
Business Ethics Total amount of Note 36: Other provisions FN-CB-510a.1 Description of Capital risk FN-IN-550a.3
monetary losses ARA, Pages 284–285 FN-AC-510a.1 approach to ARA, Pages 188–189
as a result of legal Note 46: Contingent liabilities, commitments and managing capital
proceedings guarantees and liquidity-related
associated with ARA, Pages 295–296 risks associated
fraud, insider with systemic non-
trading, anti-trust, insurance activities
anti-competitive
behaviour, market System Risk Description of Funding and liquidity risk FN-AC-550a.2
manipulation, Management approach to ARA, Page 183
malpractice, or other (Asset incorporation
related financial Management & of liquidity risk
industry laws or Custodianship) management
regulations programmes into
portfolio strategy
Description of whistle- Speak Up FN-CB-510a.2 and redemption
blower policies and ARA, Page 104 FN-AC-510a.2 risk management
procedures ESG, Page 61
Systemic Risk Global Systemically Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible FN-CB-550a.1
Management Important Bank liabilities (MREL) and G-SIB indicators
score, by category ARA, Pages 190 and 196
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 95
Appendix 6 – Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB)
Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code
System Risk Total exposure to Capital and Risk Management Pillar 3 Report FN-AC-550a.3 Discriminatory Total amount of Note 36: Other provisions FN-MF-270b.2
Management securities financing Counterparty credit risk exposures: Analysis by Lending monetary losses ARA, Pages 284–285
(Asset transactions contract type as a result of legal Note 46: Contingent liabilities, commitments and
Management & Financial downloads - Lloyds Banking Group plc proceedings guarantees
Custodianship) associated with ARA, Pages 295–296
continued Net exposure Capital and Risk Management Pillar 3 Report FN-AC-550a.4 discriminatory
to written credit Net derivatives credit exposure mortgage lending
derivatives Financial downloads - Lloyds Banking Group plc
Transparent Total amount of Note 36: Other provisions FN-AC-270a.2
Selling Practices Number of FCA reportable complaints per 1,000 accounts FN-CF-270a.4 Information monetary losses ARA, Pages 284–285
complaints filed ARA, Page 15 and Fair Advice as a result of legal Note 46: Contingent liabilities, commitments and
with the Consumer for Customers proceedings guarantees
Financial Protection (Insurance & associated with ARA, Pages 295–296
Bureau* Wealth) marketing and
communication of
Total amount of Note 36: Other provisions FN-CF-270a.5
financial product
monetary losses ARA, Pages 284–285
related information
as a result of legal Note 46: Contingent liabilities, commitments and
to new and returning
proceedings guarantees
customers
associated with ARA, Pages 295–296
selling and servicing Total amount of Note 36: Other provisions FN-IN-270a.1
of products monetary losses ARA, Pages 284–285
as a result of legal Note 46: Contingent liabilities, commitments and
Lending Total amount of Note 36: Other provisions FN-MF-270a.3
proceedings guarantees
Practices monetary losses ARA, Pages 284–285
associated with ARA, Pages 295–296
as a result of legal Note 46: Contingent liabilities, commitments and
marketing and
proceedings guarantees
communication
associated with ARA, Pages 295–296
of insurance
communications
product related
to customers or
information to new
remuneration of
and returning
loan originators
customers
* Adapted for non-US markets.
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 96
Appendix 6 – Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB)
Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code
Employee Percentage of gender Championing inclusion and diversity FN-AC-330a.1 Transparent Description of Section 172(1) Statement and Statement of FN-IN-270a.4
Diversity and and racial/ethnic ARA, Pages 25–26 Information and approach to Engagement with Other Stakeholders FN-AC-270a.3
Inclusion group representation ESG, Pages 39–43 Fair Advice for informing ARA, 46
for (1) executive Customers customers about
management, (Insurance & products and services
(2) non-executive Wealth)
management,
(3) professionals, and Transparent Complaints-to-claims FCA reportable complaints per 1,000 accounts FN-IN-270a.2
(4) all other employees Information and ratio ARA, Page 15
Fair Advice for
Systemic Risk Description of Capital stress testing FN-CB-550a.2 Customers
Management approach to ARA, Page 152 (Insurance & Customer retention Customer satisfaction net promoter score FN-IN-270a.3
incorporation of Wealth) rate ARA, Page 15
results of mandatory
and voluntary stress
tests into capital
adequacy planning,
long-term corporate
strategy, and other
business activities
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 97
Appendix 6 – Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB)
Commercial Banking Retail
The following disclosures are taken from individual standards and disclosed for Commercial Banking only. The following disclosures are taken from individual standards and disclosed for Retail only.
Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code
Incorporation of Commercial and Capital and Risk Management Pillar 3 Report FN-CB-410a.1 Environmental Description of how Sectors with increased climate risk FN-MF-450a.3
Environmental, industrial credit Analysis of credit risk exposures by industry Risk to climate change and ARA, Page 22
Social and exposure by industry Financial downloads - Lloyds Banking Group plc Mortgaged other environmental Sectors with increased climate risk
Governance Helping Britain transition to a sustainable Properties risks are incorporated ESG, Page 29
Factors in low-carbon economy into mortgage
Credit Analysis ARA, Pages 20–23 origination and
ESG, Pages 19–35 underwriting
Activity Metrics Value of checking and Customer deposits FN-CB-000.A Lending Value of residential UK Mortgages FN-MF-270a.1
– disclosed savings accounts by ARA, Page 71 Practices mortgages of the ARA, Page 177
to allow for segment: (a) personal following types:
normalisation and (b) small business (a) Hybrid or Option
and comparison Adjustable-rate
of data Value of loans by Loans and advances to customers FN-CB-000.B Mortgages (ARM),
segment: (a) personal, ARA, Page 71 (b) Prepayment Penalty,
(b) small business, (c) Higher Rate,
and (c) corporate (d) Total, by FICO
scores above
or below 660
Value of (a) residential Retail forbearance FN-MF-270a.2
mortgage modifications, ARA, Page 179
(b) foreclosures, and
(c) short sales or deeds
in lieu of foreclosure, by
FICO scores above and
below 660
Activity Metrics Value of mortgages Commercial Banking UK Direct Real Estate FN-MF-000.A
– disclosed originated by ARA, Page 181
to allow for category: UK Mortgages
normalisation (a) residential and ARA, Page 177
and comparison (b) commercial
of data
Value of mortgages Commercial Banking UK Direct Real Estate FN-MF-000.B
purchased by ARA, Page 181
category: UK Mortgages
(a) residential and ARA, Page 177
(b) commercial
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 98
Appendix 6 – Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB)
Insurance & Wealth
The following disclosures are taken from individual standards and disclosed for Insurance & Wealth only.
Topic Accounting metrics Disclosure SASB code
Incorporation of Description of ESG lending and investment FN-IN-410a.2
Environmental, approach to ARA, Page 24
Social and incorporation of ESG ESG, Pages 36–38
Governance factors in investment Responsible Investment | Scottish Widows
Factors in management
Investment processes and
Management strategies
Incorporation of Description of ESG lending and investment FN-AC-410a.2
Environmental, approach to ARA, Page 24
Social, and incorporation of ESG, Pages 36–38
Governance ESG factors in Responsible Investment | Scottish Widows
Factors in investment and/or
Investment wealth management
Management processes and
and Advisory strategies
Description of proxy ESG lending and investment FN-AC-410a.3
voting and investee ARA, Page 24
engagement policies ESG, Pages 36–38
and procedures Responsible Investment | Scottish Widows
Activity Metrics (1) Total registered Divisional results – Insurance and Wealth FN-AC-000.A
– disclosed and (2) total ARA, Page 75
to allow for unregistered
normalisation assets under
and comparison management
of data
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 99
Appendix 7 – Deloitte Independent Assurance Report
Independent assurance For the reporting year ended 31 December What standards we used: What we did: key assurance
statement by Deloitte LLP to 2020, the community and diversity indicators basis of our work, criteria Our independence and procedures
Lloyds Banking Group plc on c 3 o 1 v D er e e c d e t m he b e p r e 2 r 0 io 2 d 0 1 a n Ja d n c u o a m ry p 2 r 0 is 2 e 0 d – o f: used and level of assurance competence in providing To form our conclusions, we undertook
selected non-financial Group We carried out limited assurance on the assurance to Lloyds the following procedures:
Sustainable Business indicators Community Investment selected key performance indicators Banking Group Interviewed management and those
within the Lloyds Banking Total Community Investment (£) in accordance with the International We complied with Deloitte’s with operational responsibility for
Group Annual Report 2020 Total cash donations (£) Standard on Assurance Engagements independence policies, which performance in the areas of corporate
Total in-kind giving (£) 3000 (ISAE 3000 (Revised)) and 3410 address and, in certain cases, responsibility we reviewed;
and online content. Total employee time (£) (ISAE 3410). To achieve limited assurance exceed the requirements of the Reviewed and evaluated the criteria for
Total management costs (£) the ISAE 3000 (Revised) and ISAE 3410 International Ethics Standards measurement and reporting for each
What we looked at: scope of requires that we review the processes, Board for Accountants’ Code of of the subject matters as set out in
our work Total leverage (£) systems and competencies used to Ethics for Professional Accountants the Reporting Criteria at https://www.
Diversity compile the areas on which we provide in their role as independent lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/
Lloyds Banking Group plc (“Lloyds Percentage of senior roles held by assurance. This is designed to give auditors, and in particular responsible-business/downloads.html.
Banking Group” or “the Company”) has women (Grades F+) (%) a similar level of assurance to that preclude us from taking financial, Understood, analysed and tested
engaged us to perform limited assurance obtained in the review of interim financial commercial, governance and
Percentage of all roles held by BAME on a non-statistical sample basis the
procedures on the Company’s Group information. It does not include detailed ownership positions which might
colleagues (%) key structures, systems, processes,
level compilation of selected Community, testing of source data or the operating affect, or be perceived to affect,
Diversity and Environment indicators Percentage of senior roles held by effectiveness of processes and internal our independence and impartiality, procedures and controls relating to the
for the year ended 31 December 2020. BAME colleagues (Grade F+) (%) controls. Our engagement provides and from any involvement in the collation, validation and reporting of
selected Group Sustainable Business
The assured data appears in the The environmental indicators assured limited assurance. The procedures preparation of the report.
performance data at Group level,
Lloyds Banking Group 2020 Annual covered the period 1 October 2019 – performed in a limited assurance
We have confirmed to Lloyds as indicated by footnote symbols
Report and ESG Report, and online at 30 September 2020 and comprised of; engagement vary in nature and timing
Banking Group that we have within the data sheet at https://www.
https://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/ from, and are less in extent than for,
investors/annual-report/annual-report- Environment a reasonable assurance engagement maintained our independence and lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/
objectivity throughout the year responsible-business/downloads.html
archive.html Total COe emissions (tCOe) and consequently, the level of assurance
2 2 and in particular that there were in accordance with their definitions
Total COe emissions (tCOe) – obtained in a limited assurance
2 2 no events or prohibited services and basis of reporting;
market based engagement is substantially lower than
provided which could impair our
l T o o c t a a t l i C on O b 2 e a s e e m d issions (tCO 2 e) – t o h b e t a a i s n s e u d ra h n a c d e a th r a e t a w so o n u a ld b l h e a a v s e s u b r e a e n n c e independence and objectivity. R R e e v p i o e r w t e a d g a th in e s c t o th n e te fi n n t d o in f g th s e o E f S th G e
engagement been performed. Our team consisted of a aforementioned procedures; and
Scope 1 emissions (tCOe)
2 combination of Chartered In performing our work, we applied
Scope 2 emissions (tCOe) – Accountants with professional
2 International Standard on Quality
market based assurance qualifications and
Control 1 and accordingly maintain
Scope 2 emissions (tCOe) – professionals with a combination a comprehensive system of quality
location based 2 of environmental, CR and control including documented policies
stakeholder engagement
Scope 3 emissions (tCOe) and procedures regarding compliance
2 experience, including many years’ with ethical requirements, professional
Total energy consumption (GWh) experience in providing corporate
standards and applicable legal and
Total water consumption (m3) responsibility report assurance. regulatory requirements.
Total operational waste (tonnes)
Lloyds Banking Group Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2020 100
Appendix 7 – Independent Assurance
Report – Deloitte
In relation to our work performed on the Roles and responsibilities
What we found: our Group Sustainable Business performance
Lloyds Banking Group:
assurance conclusion indicators for 2020, we note the following The Group Sustainable Business Team
specific limitations:
Based on the scope of our work are responsible for the preparation of
and the assurance procedures we Our testing did not include detailed the ESG Report and related information
performed, nothing has come to our testing of IT controls of the underlying and statements contained within the
attention that causes us to believe systems used by Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report. They are responsible
that the selected Group Sustainable and its partners to collate and report for determining the targets for Group
Business performance indicators are data for: Diversity, Environment and Sustainable Business indicators
materially misstated. Community metrics. and establishing and maintaining
The new Scope 3 Homeworking appropriate performance management
metric has been compiled for and internal control systems from which
Limitations the first time using a specifically the reported information is derived.
developed methodology as outlined
The process an organisation adopts to Deloitte:
online at https://info.eco-act.com/
define, gather and report data on its non- Or responsibility is to independently
en/homeworking-emissions-
financial performance is not subject to the express conclusions on the subject
whitepaper-2020. As a first-time
formal processes adopted for financial matters as defined within the scope
application of a bespoke methodology,
reporting. Therefore, data of this nature of work above to Lloyds Banking
we did not have access to prior
is subject to variations in definitions, Group in accordance with our letter
period measurements, nor broader
collection and reporting methodology, of engagement. Our work has been
external data points from comparable
often with no consistent, accepted undertaken so that we might state to
organisations, to inform the analytical
external standard. This may result in Lloyds Banking Group those matters
procedures that we typically perform
non-comparable information between we are required to state to them in this
on other metrics.
organisations and from year to year statement and for no other purpose.
within an organisation as methodologies To the fullest extent permitted by
develop. To support clarity in this process, law, we do not accept or assume
Lloyds Banking Group have developed responsibility to anyone other than
a Reporting Criteria document for 2020, Lloyds Banking Group for our work, for
which defines the scope of each assured this report, or for the conclusions we
metric and the method of calculation. have formed.
It should be read together with this
report, which is available at https://www.
lloydsbankinggroup.com/who-we-are/
responsible-business/downloads.html.
Deloitte LLP
London
23 February 2021