Our purpose is to Help Britain Prosper.
About us
We are the largest UK retail fi nancial services
provider with around 26 million customers
We are transforming the business into
and a presence in nearly every community.
The Group’s main business activities are a digitised, simple, low risk, fi nancial
retail and commercial banking, general
insurance and long-term savings, provided
services provider whilst creating a
under well recognised brands including
Lloyds Bank, Halifax, Bank of Scotland and
responsible business that focuses on
Scottish Widows.
Our shares are quoted on the London
customers’ needs. This is key to our
and New York stock exchanges and we
are one of the largest companies in the
FTSE 100 index. long-term success and to fulfi lling
Reporting our aim to become the best bank for
Just as we operate in an integrated way,
customers, colleagues and shareholders.
we aim to report in an integrated way.
We have taken further steps towards this
goal this year. As well as reporting our Business model on
fi nancial results, we also report on our pages 10 to 11
approach to operating responsibly and take
into account relevant economic, political,
social, regulatory and environmental factors.
This Annual Report and Accounts contains
forward looking statements with respect to
certain of the Group’s plans and its current
goals and expectations relating to its future
fi nancial condition, performance, results,
strategic initiatives and objectives. For
further details, reference should be made to
the forward looking statements on page 287.
This icon appears throughout Inside this year’s Annual Report
this report highlighting
how we are Helping Britain
Strategic report Risk management
Prosper. Read more online at
lloydsbankinggroup.com Group highlights 01 The Group’s approach to risk 106
Chairman’s statement 02 Emerging risks 108
View our Annual Report and Group Chief Executive’s review 04 Capital stress testing 110
Accounts and other information Key performance indicators 06 How risk is managed 110
about Lloyds Banking Group at
Our external environment 08 Risk governance 112
lloydsbankinggroup.com
Our business model 10 Full analysis of risk categories 114
Our strategic priorities 12
Refl ecting the needs of our stakeholders 16 Financial statements
Responsible Business 19 Independent auditors’ report 161
Helping Britain Prosper Plan 20 Consolidated fi nancial statements 170
Divisional overview 27 Parent company fi nancial statements 275
Risk overview 30
Other information
Financial results Shareholder information 284
Summary of Group results 37 Five year fi nancial summary 286
Divisional results 44 Forward looking statements 287
Other fi nancial information 48 Abbreviations 288
Alternative performance measures 288
The 2018 Annual Report and Accounts
incorporates the strategic report and the Governance Subsidiaries and related undertakings 289
consolidated fi nancial statements, both of which A letter from our Chairman 51
have been approved by the Board of Directors.
Board of Directors 52
Group Executive Committee 54
Corporate governance report 56
Directors’ report 79
On behalf of the Board
Directors’ remuneration report 82
Lord Blackwell
Chairman Other remuneration disclosures 100
Lloyds Banking Group
19 February 2019
02 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Chairman’s statement
Transforming the Group for success
in a digital world
At the heart of our
success is our purpose
to Help Britain Prosper
and we are playing a
vital role in supporting
people, businesses and
communities across
the UK.
Lord Blackwell
Chairman
Overview and strategy One important component of this to a more sustainable low carbon economy.
opportunity is the potential to provide a We recognise that the success of the Group is
The Group once again delivered strong
deeper range of financial planning, wealth inextricably linked to the health of the UK and
financial performance in 2018 while making
management and retirement solutions to our in this uncertain economic environment we are
major strides in executing our strategic
bank customers, drawing on the capabilities working hard to support the whole economy;
transformation. Nevertheless I am conscious
and expertise within Scottish Widows. During and to help businesses take advantages of
it was a frustrating year for shareholders,
2018, as well as completing the acquisition the continuing opportunities we have to build
with a disappointing share price performance
of the UK workplace pensions and savings a prosperous future for the nation. Given
despite this progress. While external factors
business from Zurich Financial Services, the UK’s ongoing competitive advantages
affecting UK investments are outside of
we were delighted to announce a strategic as an open, innovative economy we remain
our control, the Board are determined to
partnership with Schroders in October with optimistic about the long-term prospects.
continue building value for shareholders
by maintaining our focus on delivering the aim of creating a market leading wealth In line with these objectives I am delighted
continued improvement in our results whilst management proposition. that we have been named as a Top Ten
simultaneously investing in the transformation Capital return Employer for Working Families, Responsible
required to serve our customers and Business of the Year, and also The Times’ Top
operate effectively in a digital world. We At each year end the Board makes an 50 Employer for Women – showing that we’re
are committed to building a successful and assessment of the strength of the Group’s leading the way on gender equality too.
balance sheet and future prospects relative
sustainable Group we can all be proud of.
to uncertainties in the external environment. Customers and communities
The Board has been actively involved in the
In addition to the increased investment of
development and ongoing review of the Over the course of the year I have travelled
more than £3 billion over the plan period,
strategy and last year we announced the across Britain to meet with colleagues,
I am pleased to announce that, as a result
next phase of our strategic plan. We outlined customers and communities. These visits
of the financial progress in the year, the
our four transformation priorities focused enable me to see first-hand the work we do
Board has recommended an increased final
on the financial needs and behaviours of the to support our customers and respond to
ordinary dividend of 2.14 pence per share,
customer of the future: further enhancing their changing needs. Being truly customer
bringing the total ordinary dividend for
our leading customer experience; further focused is a prerequisite for success and I am
2018 to 3.21 pence per share, an increase of
digitising the Group; maximising Group always impressed by the fact it is an aspiration
5 per cent on last year. In line with the Group’s
capabilities; and transforming ways of and commitment shared by everyone I meet
policy to deliver a progressive and sustainable
working. This programme of change and in the Group.
ordinary dividend, whilst distributing surplus
renewal is all embracing, and our strong capital, the Board also intends to implement Our focus on customers also continues to be
capital build is enabling us to invest more than a share buyback of up to £1.75 billion. More recognised through various awards which
£3 billion in these strategic initiatives over the information on the intended share buyback is this year included being awarded Bank of the
current three year plan period (2018 to 2020), provided on page 40. Year for the sixth year running at The Banker
a significant increase over the prior period. awards; and for the third year in a row Scottish
During 2018, the Board were excited to see Our purpose Widows won five stars at the Financial Adviser
the excellent progress that had been made At the heart of our success is our continued Service Awards, a reflection on how financial
within the first year of this plan. We are now focus on Helping Britain Prosper. The Group advisers rate our products and services.
operating in an industry which is experiencing plays a vital role in supporting the prosperity During the year our colleagues raised close
more change through digitisation than in its of people, businesses and communities to £4 million for Mental Health UK, our charity
entire history. Our aim is not just to maintain across the UK, and in doing so builds deep, partner, bringing our total to over £8 million
our position as Britain’s biggest digital bank by long-term customer relationships. It is also since the partnership began in 2017. Seeing
competing more effectively, but also to seize important to the Board that our strategy is first-hand how our Foundations and colleague
opportunities to create more value from the fully consistent with our commitments as a fund raising is helping charities all over the
wider and deeper relationships we can build responsible business and during the year UK really brings perspective to the positive
with our customers through digital channels we have committed to becoming a leader in impact we are having in keeping with our
and service capabilities. supporting the UK to transition successfully purpose to Helping Britain Prosper.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 03
HELPING BRITAIN PROSPER
OUR CONTRIBUTION
TO THE UK
As the UK’s leading financial Communities Tax Investment
services provider we are £56 million to help £2.6 billion paid in 2018 More than £3 billion
making a significant positive communities in 2018 The UK’s largest corporate strategic investment spend
impact on the UK economy More than 200,000 tax payer over the plan period
Colleagues hours volunteered Lending Dividends
One of the largest Payments £64 billion SME and Mid £2.3 billion paid in dividends
employers in the UK £15 trillion of payments Markets lending portfolio to 2.4 million shareholders
processed in 2018 = Biggest mortgage lender
7 x UK GDP in UK with c.£290 billion
portfolio
There is of course much more to do, but Remuneration Outlook
I know we will do even greater good in the
During the year we were disappointed As we look ahead to 2019, the UK continues to
year ahead.
to receive a 20.78 per cent advisory vote face uncertainty around the near-term outlook
against our remuneration report, having for the economy reflecting both EU exit
Directors
previously had 98 per cent of votes support negotiations and wider global economic
We review the Board composition and the Directors' remuneration policy in 2017. risks. However we have a strong and resilient
diversity regularly and are committed to We have listened carefully to our shareholders business and, as we accelerate into the
ensuring we have the right balance of skills and other key stakeholders and have made second year of our strategic transformation,
and experience within the Board. During the a number of changes to simplify our process we believe that our customer focus and simple
year we have announced a number of Board for determining bonus awards for Executive business model with its multi-brand, multi-
changes, as outlined below. Directors and to enhance our disclosures. channel proposition will continue to provide
In October, Amanda Mackenzie joined the We continue to align our remuneration the best opportunities for competitive
Board as a Non-Executive Director, and principles to the Group’s strategic objectives advantage and future success.
will serve as a member of the Board Risk to ensure we reward performance and ensure I would like to thank all of our colleagues
Committee, Remuneration Committee our approach to remuneration is aligned to for their contribution to making 2018 such a
and Responsible Business Committee. the interests of our shareholders. successful year. It is the commitment, support
Further biography details can be found on Despite the Group’s strong financial and dedication from all of them that enables
page 53. At the end of December 2018, performance, the annual Group Performance us to succeed.
Deborah McWhinney stepped down as
Share (GPS) award for Executive Directors
a Non-Executive Director of the Group
has decreased relative to last year. As set
for personal reasons and Stuart Sinclair
out in the Remuneration Report, this reflects
succeeded Anita Frew as Chairman of the the assessed performance against other
Board Remuneration Committee. Anita will
stretching operational and strategic goals,
continue to be a member of the Committee, Lord Blackwell which, while strong in 2018, was a step down
alongside her roles as the Group’s Deputy Chairman
from the higher rating achieved in 2017.
Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Total GPS outcome remains a small
In addition, we’re also pleased to announce
proportion of underlying profit at 5.1 per cent
that Nigel Hinshelwood, Sarah Bentley and
and an even smaller proportion of overall
Brendan Gilligan joined as independent
revenues. Cash GPS awards are capped at
Non-Executive Directors of the Group’s Ring-
£2,000 with additional amounts paid in shares
Fenced Banks on 1 January 2019 where they
and subject to deferral and performance
serve alongside the Group Board Directors.
adjustment to ensure their ultimate value
More information on the ring-fencing
reflects sustained performance. More
restructure is provided on page 58.
information on how we ensure our approach
In October George Culmer announced that to remuneration supports our strategy can be
he would be retiring in the third quarter found in the Directors’ remuneration report on
of 2019, having served the Group so well pages 84 to 104.
since joining in 2012. I want to pay tribute
to George’s tremendous contribution and
to thank him on behalf of the Board, our We believe that our customer
colleagues and our shareholders.
focus and simple business
In February 2019, the Group was pleased to
model will continue to provide
announce that William Chalmers will succeed
George Culmer as Executive Director and the best opportunities for
Chief Financial Officer. I look forward to competitive advantage and
welcoming him to the executive team and
future success.
the Board.
04 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Group Chief Executive’s review
Another year of strong strategic
and financial performance
Our continued
strong performance
positions us well
to succeed in a
digital world.
António Horta-Osório
Group Chief Executive
In 2018 the Group has again delivered and grow our leading digital bank whilst 5 per cent on 2017 and is in line with our
significant benefits for our customers delivering strong financial performance and progressive and sustainable ordinary dividend
and a strong financial performance, with market leading returns. policy. In addition, the Board has announced
increased profits and returns. As a result its intention to implement a share buyback
of this performance, we have been able Financial performance programme of up to £1.75 billion, equivalent
to recommend an increased dividend and to 2.46 pence per share, up 76 per cent from
Statutory profit after tax of £4.4 billion
share buyback. Our differentiated, customer last year.
was 24 per cent higher than 2017 and
focused, UK business model continues to
earnings per share at 5.5 pence per share
position us well for sustainable success and Strategic progress
was 27 per cent higher. This was driven by
continuing to deliver our purpose of Helping
improved underlying profit including lower In February 2018, we launched the third
Britain Prosper.
remediation charges and we continue to stage of our strategic plan with an increased
I am clearly proud of our customer focus narrow the gap between underlying and strategic investment of more than £3 billion
and financial performance. To deliver this statutory profit, a trend we expect to continue over the three year plan period, building
sustainable success in the long-term we need as statutory profits increase further. As a on our unique competitive advantages,
to ensure we remain focused on enhancing result of this performance the Group has to transform the Group to succeed in a
customer experience. With this in mind, in delivered a further increase to our return digital world.
February 2018 we announced our ambitious on tangible equity, which is now a market Over the first year of the plan we have
strategy to transform the Group for success leading 11.7 per cent. Underlying profit of delivered significant progress against our
in a digital world, with a significant increase in £8.1 billion increased 6 per cent, reflecting strategic priorities of Leading customer
strategic investment. We have already made growth in income and lower costs, partly experience, Digitising the Group, Maximising
a great start in implementing the strategic offset by the expected increase in the the Group's capabilities and Transforming
initiatives which will further digitise the Group, impairment charge. Our relentless focus on ways of working as outlined on the next page.
enhance customer experience, maximise our cost efficiency led to a reduction in operating
capabilities as an integrated financial services costs despite increased strategic investment, Helping Britain Prosper Plan
provider and transform the way we work. and our cost:income ratio improved further
In addition, towards the end of the year we to 49.3 per cent. Asset quality remains strong The Group’s success is intertwined with the
also announced a strategic partnership with with the Group’s gross asset quality ratio UK’s prosperity and we acknowledge we have
Schroders to create a market leading wealth remaining flat at 28 basis points, while the net a responsibility to help address the economic,
proposition. Continued delivery against our asset quality ratio increased to 21 basis points, social and environmental challenges the
strategic priorities positions us well for future from 18 basis points, driven by expected lower country faces. We do this through our Helping
success and our confidence is reflected in releases and write-backs. Britain Prosper Plan, which was simplified
our guidance. and updated in 2018 to support our three
The Group’s loans and advances were
year strategy and focus on metrics that have
Given our UK focus, our performance is stable at £444 billion with growth in targeted
the most impact on people, businesses
inextricably linked to the health of the UK segments including SME, Mid Markets and
and communities.
economy. Over 2018, economic performance consumer lending offset by the sale of the
has remained resilient with record £4 billion Irish mortgage portfolio in the first During 2018 we lent over £12 billion to first
employment and continued GDP growth and, half of 2018. The Group’s capital position time buyers and increased lending to SME
whilst the near-term outlook remains unclear, remains strong with a pro forma CET1 ratio of and Mid Market businesses by £3 billion to
particularly given the ongoing EU withdrawal 13.9 after allowing for ordinary dividends and Help Britain Prosper and have committed to
negotiations, our strategy will continue to the share buyback. lending up to £18 billion in 2019 to businesses
deliver for our customers. Our strategy is as part of our continued support for the UK
Given the Group’s capital build of
framed by our purpose of Helping Britain economy. We have also provided digital skills
210 basis points in the year, the Board has
Prosper, being the bank with the largest retail training for more than 700,000 individuals,
recommended a final ordinary dividend
and commercial presence throughout the SMEs and charities, and supported over
of 2.14 pence per share, bringing the total
country. Our unique business model and 3,000 charities through our independent
ordinary dividend for the year to 3.21 pence
market leading efficiency will ensure we can charitable Foundations.
per share. This represents an increase of
continue to invest in customer propositions
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 05
STRATEGIC
PROGRESS
Significant progress has been made against our strategic priorities
since the launch of our strategic plan in February 2018
15.7m 24% >3m >1m
Digitally active customers Year-on-year increase in customers with access to of future skills training
technology spend Single Customer View hours delivered
Leading customer Digitising Maximising the Transforming
experience the Group Group’s capabilities ways of working
We are building a market leading We have increased investment in In 2018 we launched Single We recognise that our colleagues
digital experience, and in 2018 technology which now represents Customer View; a unique are critical to the success of
launched API-enabled Open 16 per cent of operating costs, capability already enabling over our transformation and are
Banking aggregation functionality with over two-thirds relating to 3 million customers to view in one therefore making our biggest ever
as well as enhanced security and enhancing existing capabilities place the pension and insurance investment in our people.
anti-fraud features. As part of and creating new ones. This has products they hold with the Group In 2018 we have increased
our multi-channel model we also driven operational efficiencies alongside their banking products. training hours by over
remain committed to maintaining and improved the experience of We have expanded our workplace 50 per cent, including more than
the UK’s largest branch network, customers and colleagues. pensions and savings offering 1 million hours dedicated to
with one out of five branches in the We are adopting new to over 2 million customers and developing skills of the future.
country, whilst tailoring it to meet technologies, introducing have seen net inflows of £13 billion We have also introduced more
customers’ complex needs more machine learning and creating into our financial planning and modern collaborative working
effectively. In the year we opened approximately 780,000 hours of retirement propositions. environments, simplified people
our flagship Halifax branch, additional colleague capacity We have also strengthened our processes by replacing several HR
increased our mobile branch fleet through the use of robotics for client relationship model and systems with a single platform and
to 44 and extended our remote simple repetitive tasks. We have improved online functionality for developed a new performance
advice coverage to 270 branches. also made targeted investments in Commercial Banking clients. Our management system ‘Your Best’
We are also delivering increasingly public and private cloud solutions, Schroders partnership announced which launched in January 2019.
targeted customer propositions. which will deliver more efficient in October is a key part of our We are also transforming the way
The success of our multi-channel, and scalable infrastructure going strategy to accelerate growth in in which change is delivered with
multi-brand approach is reflected forward, whilst collaborating Wealth by leveraging our multi- 15 per cent of teams now using
in our net promoter score which with fintechs to accelerate the channel customer reach and Agile methodologies.
increased to 62 in the year and is digital transformation of the Schroders’ investment expertise,
up c.50 per cent from 2011. business, as part of our broader with the aim of becoming a
innovation strategy. top three UK financial planning
Strategic priorities and focus for business within five years.
2019 on pages 12 to 15
In 2018, the Group became the first FTSE 100 We are already delivering a market leading Summary
company to set a public target to increase return on tangible equity and expect further
Framed by our purpose to Help Britain
representation of Black, Asian and Minority improvement in 2019 to 14 to 15 per cent
Prosper, the Group has again delivered a
Ethnic (BAME) colleagues, committing Capital build is expected to remain strong customer experience and financial
to 8 per cent of senior management and strong at 170 to 200 basis points per performance in 2018 whilst making significant
to 10 per cent of the total workforce by year with the Board's view of our CET1 progress in building new capabilities to
2020. At the end of the year 6.4 per cent of capital requirement remaining at around transform the Group to succeed in a digital
senior management and 9.5 per cent of all 13 per cent plus a management buffer of world. While the year ahead will bring its own
colleagues were from BAME backgrounds. around 1 per cent. As a result we continue challenges, given the ongoing economic and
In recognition of the importance the Group to expect to deliver progressive and political uncertainty, I continue to believe that
places on helping the UK transition to a low sustainable ordinary dividends whilst our simple, low risk business model is the
carbon economy, in 2019 we have included a maintaining the flexibility to return surplus right one. Our current strategic plan for 2018
specific sustainability metric in our Plan. This capital to shareholders to 2020, with continued strong investment,
signals our commitment and is supported
Our net interest margin is expected to be will further improve customer propositions
by a detailed sustainability strategy. More
c.2.90 per cent in 2019 and, as previously and grow our leading digital bank as part of
information on the sustainability strategy is
guided, remain resilient through the our multi-channel strategy, while continuing
provided on pages 24 and 25.
plan period to provide leading and sustainable returns to
our shareholders.
Outlook Our market leading efficiency continues
to be a competitive advantage and we
Over 2018 the UK economy has proven itself
now expect operating costs to be less
to be resilient with record employment and
than £8 billion in 2019, a year ahead of the
continued GDP growth. Whilst the near term
original target. We also continue to expect
outlook for the UK economy remains unclear,
a cost:income ratio, including remediation António Horta-Osório
we continue to believe that our simple, low
costs, in the low 40s as we exit 2020, with Group Chief Executive
risk business model will deliver strong financial
improvements in this ratio every year
performance and market leading returns with
a resilient net interest margin, lower operating Credit quality remains strong and, given our
costs enabling increased investment, strong low risk business model and the significant
asset quality and lower remediation costs. Our portfolio improvements in recent years, we
guidance demonstrates our confidence in the expect an asset quality ratio of less than
business model and the future prospects of 30 basis points in 2019 and the rest of the
the Group: plan period
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 11
...that underpin our clear strategy
to transform the Group for success
in a digital world...
In February 2018, we launched our new three year strategy to transform the Group for success in a digital world. We identified four strategic
priorities focused on the financial needs and behaviours of the customer of the future and are investing more than £3 billion in these
strategic initiatives over the plan period.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
pages 12 to 15
L eading customer M aximising the
experience Group’s capabilities
E M
TI S A X Driving stronger customer relationships Aligning the Group’s capabilities as the
GI IM through best-in-class propositions while UK's sole integrated financial services
DI
LEADING
IS
E
continuing to provide our customers provider to deepen customer relationships
CUSTOMER with brilliant servicing and a seamless and grow in targeted segments.
EXPERIENCE experience across all channels.
Digitising the Group T ransforming ways
TRANSFOR M Deploying new technology to improve of working
our efficiency and make banking simpler Enhancing colleague skills and processes,
and easier for customers. investing in agile working practices and
embracing new technology to drive
better outcomes for customers.
...enabling us to Help Britain Prosper
and deliver for all our stakeholders.
Successful implementation of our strategy will ensure we Help Britain Prosper and deliver sustainable success for all stakeholders including
customers, colleagues and shareholders.
KEY STAKEHOLDER OUTCOMES
Customers Shareholders Colleagues
Market leading digital proposition with Sustainable and low risk growth Enhanced customer focus culture
UK’s largest branch network
Market leading efficiency Transformed ways of working
Single home for our customers’ banking
Superior returns and lower cost of equity Enhanced colleague skills and capabilities
and insurance needs
Strong capital generation and attractive Compelling colleague proposition
Personalised customer propositions
distribution policy
Better experience across channels
pages 16 to 18
INTERNAL
We also face a number of internal challenges:
Operating as efficiently as possible while remaining the best bank for customers
Ensuring we have the right people and culture to meet evolving customer needs
Ensuring IT systems are effective and resilient and that we are prepared for the
threat of cyber risk
16 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders
Our Board actively engages with our stakeholders
Our aim is to be the best bank for customers, Customers Shareholders
colleagues and shareholders. As the UK’s
leading financial services provider we We aim to treat our customers fairly, making The Group has the largest shareholder
operate in, and support, communities it easy for them to find, understand and base in the UK and we undertake a
across the country and help British people access products that are right for them, comprehensive shareholder engagement
and businesses prosper. We have around whatever their circumstances. programme with regular feedback to
26 million customers, 2.4 million shareholders management and the Board.
and around 65,000 colleagues. Engaging The Group is focused on doing the
and responding to all our stakeholders right thing for customers and the Board I nvestor Relations has primary responsibility
is fundamental to the way we operate receives regular updates and reports on for managing and developing the Group’s
and maintaining the highest standards of progress. In particular the Board reviews external relationships with existing and
business conduct is vital to our corporate the Customer Dashboard results on a potential institutional equity investors
culture and the long-term success of the quarterly basis, and approves the annual and analysts. With support from senior
Group. This therefore remains a major focus customer plans management, they achieved this through
for senior management and the Board. more than 400 meetings in 2018, covering
The Group also looks to benchmark
One of the primary tasks of the Board is to performance among customers and uses approximately 800 institutions in various
develop a strategy which can achieve this insight from a range of internal and locations including the UK, North America,
long-term success and generate sustainable external research, including net promoter Europe and Asia
returns and this is only possible if we engage, scores (NPS) and the GFK customer index, The meetings were primarily aligned to
consult and act on the needs of stakeholders. to improve services results and included discussions on strategic
To enable this and ensure stakeholder progress and financial and operational
Our new strategy launched in February 2018
considerations are at the heart of all corporate performance. Feedback from meetings is
with the aim of meeting customers’
decision making, various papers relating to passed directly to senior management
needs more effectively in a digital world.
different stakeholder groups are presented
The Board was heavily engaged in its During 2018 senior management increased
regularly at Board. In addition all Board papers
development and ensuring the customer their investor engagement with over
submitted are required to consider the impact
was at the heart of strategic investment 300 investors seen during the year.
of proposals on key stakeholder groups.
In addition to the Group Chief Executive
The real focus on customers is not just
On occasion, some decisions may not provide and Chief Financial Officer, an increasing
evidenced by the regularity of presentations
a positive outcome for all stakeholders number of other executive committee
but also by the existence of the Group
however we aim to act in the best interests of members undertook investor meetings in
Customer First Committee. This is a
the Group and all stakeholders and be fair and the year
sub-committee of the Group Executive
balanced in our approach.
Committee which focuses on Group Various members of the Board have engaged
We engage with stakeholders in many customer experience, customer targets and with shareholders through the year, including
different ways and this section outlines the key plans and best practice externally the Chairman, the Senior Independent
stakeholder Groups, how we are interacting Director and the Remuneration Committee
with them and how they inform strategic To ensure Board members truly understand Chair. The Remuneration Committee Chair,
decision making. the needs of customers, a series of branch in particular, held numerous meetings with
visits and customer events were undertaken
investors to gain feedback following the
during 2018 enabling direct feedback
remuneration resolution outcome at the
We aim to treat all customers fairly and have 2018 Annual General Meeting (AGM)
specifically looked to ensure vulnerable
– More information on the 2018 AGM
customers are not disadvantaged.
advisory vote can be found on page 03
Our websites and mobile banking apps
are being accessibility accredited by In October, the Chairman and a number
AbilityNet and we have provided more of Non-Executive Directors hosted a
than 90,000 hours of vulnerable customer governance lunch with various major
training this year. We are the UK’s largest institutional investors covering key topics
provider of basic bank accounts, opening such as responsible business, remuneration
around 33 per cent of all basic bank and risk enabling us to provide an update
accounts in 2018. We also work with many on progress whilst enabling investors to
support organisations to remove the provide feedback on these subjects
barriers to accessing banking services
In addition to these meetings the Group
In January 2019 we launched Lend a Hand, We recognise the importance to customers communicates with its shareholders
specifically designed to help address the of both their data and their money being through regular results and strategy
biggest challenges that first time buyers face safe, and we use advanced technology announcements and has a comprehensive
whilst getting onto the property ladder. Lend to protect them, including systems that website on which detailed company
a Hand mortgage removes the need for a first prevent fraud and detect fraudulent information is available. To ensure effective
time buyer deposit - with this instead coming payments in real time. We are continuously communication with all shareholders, the
from savings from family or other supporters. improving our cyber defences and also Group Chief Executive specifically writes
Owning a home remains the number one life educate customers to improve their own to all shareholders, updating them on
goal for 18 to 35 year olds, but half say saving security by championing public awareness progress every six months
for a deposit is the biggest barrier. campaigns, including Take Five. Colleagues
also receive appropriate, ongoing training
£30bn and support, such as anti-bribery training to
help them protect our customers
lending to first time buyers by 2020
18 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders continued
Communities and environment Regulators and government Suppliers
As the largest retail and commercial bank We have a good relationship with our Given the size of our organisation we are
in the UK, we have representation across regulators and other government authorities reliant on external suppliers for a number of
the country. We specifically invest in local and liaise regularly. key services. Dealing with suppliers in the
communities across Britain to help them right way is important for future success.
prosper economically and build social During 2018 we had regular meetings
cohesion by tackling disadvantage. with our various regulators at different Our supply chain is crucial to the way
levels of the organisation from Board to we serve our customers, and through
Board members are directly involved with senior management it our reach is considerable. We use a
our considerable community engagement multi brand approach to deliver specific
Individual meetings took place between the
and environmental focus. Our Responsible products and services. We work with
PRA and members of the Board during the
Business Committee, a committee of the around 3,500 suppliers of varying sizes,
year to discuss subjects such as the Audit
Board, provides oversight and support for most in professional services sectors such
and Risk Committees, IT Resilience and
the Group’s Helping Britain Prosper Plan, and as IT, cyber, operations, management
Cyber and ring-fencing
the plans for delivering the aspirations to be consultancy, legal, HR, marketing and
seen as a trusted and responsible business FCA contact during the year with members communication. In 2018 our supplier
of the Board focused on governance, expenditure was £5.8 billion with 95 per cent
The Group’s Helping Britain Prosper Plan
culture and strategy of our direct suppliers located in the UK
is reviewed and approved annually by
the Board to ensure it focuses on what The newly appointed ring-fenced bank All material contracts are subject to rigorous
matters most to people, businesses and Directors went through a rigorous approval cost management governance and updates
communities in the UK process including interviews with the PRA on key supplier risks are provided to
ahead of appointment to ensure they met the Board
The Responsible Business Committee is
regulatory requirements
also responsible for overseeing the Group’s We assess how significant each supplier
approach to responding to global issues From a tax perspective in 2018, we paid is to our operations across the various
of environmental sustainability, including £2.6 billion in tax, one of the largest components of our extended supply chain
measurement and reporting. Following contributors to UK tax revenues. We are also and we conduct an annual programme
a 2018 Board review of our sustainability a major tax collector, gathering £2 billion of assurance reviews based on the risk
approach we have developed a new in 2018. We have a clear Tax Policy which criticality the supplier represents. We
sustainability strategy, read more on is part of our Board-approved Group Risk require suppliers to adhere to relevant
page 24 and 25 Management Framework. We comply Group policies and comply with our Code
with HMRC Code of Practice on Taxation of Supplier Responsibility. This defines our
Our four independent charitable
for Banks and the Confederation of British expectations of responsible business and
Foundations are key to our vision of
Industry’s Statement of Tax Principles. You behaviour, underpinning our efforts to share
tackling social disadvantage. Sara Weller,
can read more about our Tax Strategy and extend best practice
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the
online www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/
Responsible Business Committee joined The Group supports the UN Declaration
our-group/responsible-business/reporting-
the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England of Human Rights, and the International
centre/
and Wales as trustee during 2018 for an Labour Organisation (ILO) Fundamental
initial term of three years Conventions, whilst complying with all
relevant laws. We also support several
We recognise the importance of supporting
voluntary standards, including the UN
communities beyond our own banking
Guiding Principles on Business and
services, and over five years we have
Human Rights
invested £5 million to support the Credit
Unions sector. We signpost to local credit This year we made further enhancements
unions when we cannot support customers’ to address the risk of Modern Slavery in
borrowing needs our supply chain and provided training on
human trafficking and modern slavery for
In partnership with Macmillan, our Cancer
specialist colleagues
Support Team has helped support 3,100
customers and identified £411,000 in In 2019, we will lend up to
benefits from a range of products and £18 billion to businesses
services, to help them reduce the financial
across the UK. During
impact of a cancer diagnosis. We are also
these uncertain times, it is
raising awareness of financial and domestic
abuse through our ‘Acknowledge, Respond, important that our customers
Refer’ campaign, developed with support have financial support and
from the Lloyds Bank Foundation for expert guidance to navigate
England & Wales, and working closely with the challenges they may face.
Business in the Community and UK Finance
Whatever the future brings,
Read more on Responsible Business, our we will continue to support
Helping Britain Prosper Plan targets and UK businesses as part of
how we have supported the UK on page 20
our commitment to Help
Britain Prosper. £18bn
António Horta-Osório,
Group Chief Executive lending to UK businesses in 2019
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 19
Responsible Business
We have served Britain through our products and services for more than
250 years, across every community, and millions of households. Our success
is interwoven with the UK’s prosperity and we aim to Help Britain Prosper by
operating as a responsible, sustainable and inclusive Group. This underpins
our purpose and the way we deliver our strategy.
We recognise that we have a responsibility We are one of the UK’s largest corporate
to help address the economic, social and donors and use our scale and reach to
environmental challenges that the UK faces. tackle some of society’s more complex
Our approach to responsible business ensures challenges through our independent
that colleagues are equipped to make the charitable Foundations
right decisions supported by our values-based We have taken a leading role in
culture, and the way we embed responsible championing diversity and mental health,
business in our policies, processes and training. setting public goals for increasing
Black, Asian & Minority Ethnic (BAME)
Our areas of focus representation at all levels We can only help with the unprecedented
Each year we gather stakeholder views Our ambition is to take a leading role levels of change in Britain today by staying
through a dedicated materiality study. In 2018, in supporting the UK’s transition to a true to our purpose of Helping Britain Prosper.
they identified demonstrating responsibility sustainable low carbon economy Operating responsibly is fundamental to
at our core as a key priority, including how we everything we do, from lending to first time
keep customers’ data safe, support vulnerable buyers to tackling disadvantage in areas such
customers, lend responsibly, support Responsible business as mental health. Every colleague has a part
businesses and work with suppliers. Read of the year to play, and every part of the Group has its
more on our stakeholders on pages 16 to 18. own action plan for supporting customers,
Lloyds Banking Group has been voted while involving colleagues in our work
Stakeholders also identified building Responsible Business of the Year 2018 in communities.
capability and digital skills as a key issue, by Business in The Community, which
alongside tackling social disadvantage, highlighted our Helping Britain Prosper We believe we can make a substantial
inclusion and diversity and sustainability. Plan, commitment to delivering social contribution to Britain’s social and economic
We believe that the way we are addressing benefits through digital transformation prosperity. We’re developing a Skills
these issues places us in a unique position to and support for the lower carbon Academy, initially focusing on Digital Skills,
Help Britain Prosper: economy. Euromoney magazine has also in pilot in the North West of England. Through
ranked us Best Bank in Western Europe for our charitable Foundations we support
We are using our own capabilities in digital
Corporate Responsibility 2018. thousands of charities working with groups
banking to help develop the skills of people,
on issues such as domestic abuse and
businesses and charities
homelessness. As sustainability becomes
more of a priority for us all, we have a role to
play in supporting a lower carbon economy,
the UN's Sustainable Development Goals and
the UK Government's Clean Growth strategy.
Sara Weller
Non-Executive Director and Chair,
Responsible Business Committee
We are working with thought leaders to build
our understanding of operating responsibly,
and to help drive change across industry,
in how responsible business is considered. We are in the early stages of this
The Centre for Responsible Business exciting collaboration between Lloyds
(CFRB) is a unique joint venture between
Banking Group and the University
Lloyds Banking Group and the University of
of Birmingham. Moving from an
Birmingham’s Business School. This initiative
combines research with business, exploring initial idea, to challenge-centred
The Lloyds Banking how all businesses can work in an ever research and engagement, exploring
more responsible and ethical manner. The how businesses can be ‘rewired
outputs of this approach will have impacts responsibly’ to inform, shape and
Group Centre for
across a range of industries, benefitting the
energise Responsible Business. It’s a
entire economy.
unique opportunity to explore best
Responsible Business
The CFRB’s work aligns with our purpose to practice, and inform the evolution
Help Britain Prosper, and our support for the
of responsible business decision
UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. The
making, underpinning Lloyds Banking
Centre was established to help learn lessons
Group’s pioneering initiative, ‘Helping
from the past and to help us and others
work in a different way going forward. It will Britain Prosper’. It has been some
play a pivotal role in ensuring the worlds of journey so far, laying down the
academia, business and policy-making work foundations for future success.
together more effectively to drive change.
One area of focus will be exploring the Professor Ian Thomson, Director
regulatory, operational and ethical barriers to Lloyds Banking Group Centre
the implementation of artificial intelligence. for Responsible Business
20 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Responsible Business
Helping Britain Prosper Plan
As part of Helping Britain Prosper, we believe we have a responsibility to help
address some of the social, economic and environmental challenges that the
UK faces. We manage this through our Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
Launched in 2014 and revised annually, the
As a UK focused retail and
Plan focuses on the areas in which we can
make the biggest difference. commercial financial services
company, we recognise our
In 2018 we set specific targets aligned to our
responsibility to help address the
3 year strategy. It continues to unite and
inspire our colleagues and for 2019, we have economic, social and environmental
included a specific sustainability metric, challenges that the UK faces. We
alongside the six existing priority metrics, remain fully committed to Helping
highlighted in bold below. Britain Prosper.
visit lloydsbankinggroup.com/ António Horta-Osório
prosperplan Group Chief Executive
ICONS
ICONS 49
HELPING BRITAIN PROSPER PLAN 2019 17 ICONS: BLACK/WHITE VERSION
ICONN PO OS VERTY H ZE U R N O GER G A O N O D D W H E E L A L- L B T E H ING E Q D U U A C LI A T T Y ION E G Q EN U D A E LI R TY C A L N E D A S N A W N A IT T A E TIRCIONONS 49
Area of focus 2018 2019 20201 UN Sustainable
achieved targets targets Development Goals
Helping Britain get a home £12.4bn £10bn £137 I0CObNS:n BLACAFKFO/RWDAHBLIET AEN DVERSIONDECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION pREDaUCgED e 21 SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE
CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES C AN O D N P S R U O M D P U T C I T O IO N N
Amount of lending committed to help people buy their first home IICCOONNN P S O OS VERTY H ZE U R N O GER G A O N O D D W H E E L A L- L B T E H ING E Q D U U A C LI A T T Y ION E G Q EN U D A E LI R TY C A L N E D A S N A W N A IT TIACE TIRCIOONONNSS 4949
CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS
ACTION WATER ON LAND STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOR THE GOALS
Helping people save for the future £7.4bn £32bn2 £1715 7IC I0COONbNSS: B:n BLALACCAKFK/FOW/RWDHAHIBTLIEET A EVN DVERERSSIOIONNDECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION pREDaUCgED e 21 SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE
Growth in assets that we hold on behalf of customers in retirement N PO O C N PVO L O E E VR A ET N RY T E Y NERGY H ZE E UH ZR C N E U O O G R N N E O G O RE M R IC GROWTH G A A O N N G A O D D O N D I O WD N DH F WE R E L H E A A L E L- S L B A L T T -E L R H B T I U NE H C IGN T G URE E Q D U E Q U I A D U N C L U A E I AC Q TL T YI A U T ITO A Y IN L O IT N IES E G Q E A E GN UQ N ED A D N U E L D A C I R T E L O IY R T M Y MUNITIES T Fo H r S EC Au L N G sC AtE D C A aLL N Ai E N O O nDS NaA D N A B b S NW P S lNe A A R U AWDIN OL T M TeA A D IvEG T P TeT U R Al T O I E C oTO I pR TA O INm I O O N L eN N n S t
and investment products
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
T b h a e c k w g h ro it u e n i d co . n sho A Cu C LldI T M I b O A N eTE contained by its defiL W InF A Ee T E dB R E cLOoWlour, or black O LI N F E L AND S P T E R A O C N E G A IN N S D T J IT U U S T T IO IC NS E P FO A R R T T N H E E R G S O H A IP LS S
S In u cr p e p as o e r d t i a n m g o b un u t s o in f e ne s t s l e e s n d to in g s t t a o r s t t a u rt p -u a p n , S d M g E r a o n w d £3bn I I C C £O O 5N N bnS S 2 £6bn C A L F C A E F L FO AE FR N O A D R NE AD N B E A EN LB R E E L G A R E Y N G AD Y ND D EC ED EO C C E N E O CN ON ET M N O W I T MC WO I GC RO R G KR OR AK WO NA WT D H N T D H I A N N DI A N D U N D I S DN UT FI SR NR TY FA R, R YI S N A , T NI S N R O T N UR VO C A UT VT CU AI T OT RU NI E O R N E R IN pER IEN D Q E E UD UQ aCU AU EC LA D I gE TL D IIET SI e EISC O 2 NS 1 S A U4N S A S9D U N T S CD AT O I C AN MO IAN MM BAL UM BE N L U C I E NT I CT IITE IIET SIE SIE S S THE R C AGN E O R C ALD S N N E O O P P S D S N B O R U P P S OA N M O R U D S OL N PM U I D T SB GC P U I I T L OT O B CI E I O N T L A O NI E O N LNS
ICONS 49 For Sustainable Development
Mid Market businesses
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportion al 1 x 1.
17 ICONS: BLACK/WHITE VERSION T b h a e c k w g h ro it u e n i d co . n sh A Co C L A CuI T M C Ll I dI TO AM IN Tb O AE N eTE contained by its dL W eIF A fiL W EI T nF A E BEe TR E E dBL R E OcLWOoWlour, or black O LI N F O L EI NL F A E L NADND S P T E S P R A TO EC R A N E OG C N A E IGN N A SI D N N T S J I D TT U U J IT S T U U T IO S T IC N T IOS EIC NS E P FO AP FR R O A T TR RN H T T E E N H R G E E SR O G HS AO IHP LAS ISP LS S
Building capability and digital skills 700,232 17 ICO6NS:0 BL0ACNO,K0/WH0IT0E VERSIONZERO1.8m GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER C pLEAaN WgATEeR 21
POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION
Number of individuals, SMEs and charities trained in digital skills, N PO O VERTY H ZE U R N O GER G A O N O D D W H E E L A L- L B T E H ING E Q D U U A C LI A T T Y ION E G Q EN U D A E LI R TY C A L N E D A S N A W N A IT T A E T R ION T Fo HT Fr oS EH ru S EG stu a LG sit O na L ai BO bnale AB b Dle LA e D v GL ee lv OG oepl AO omp LA emn SL etn S t
including internet banking
WWhehne na na nic iocno nis i so no na as qsuqauraer,e t,h tahta st qsuqauraer em musuts bt eb ep rporpooprotriotinoanla 1l 1x x1 .1.
Tackling social disadvantage across Britain 3,1I1C3ONS 2,50 C C A A L L F F E E F F O O A A 0 R R N N D D E E A A N N B B E E L L R R E E G G A A Y Y N N D D D E D E C C E E O O C C N N E E N N O O 2 T T M M W W I I T bC C O O h a T bG G , R R e c h R R aK K5 kO O e c w gA A W W k whN N rgT T o iD D0 h H H t ru e o it n u ei d c n 0 io .d cno . ns hsohI A I A N N uo N N D D lu D D dU U l I I S S d N N bT T F F R R eb R R Y Y A A e, , c I I S S N N oc T T N N R R noO O U U tV V na C C A A t T T iT T an U U I I iO O e R R nN N E E de db yb yit sit sd edfienR I R I fi N N eE E n E E D D d Q Q eU U U U dcC C A A oE E c L L D D l I I oo T T l I I uo E E S S ru, ro, ro br lbalcakc k S S A A U U N N S S D D T T C C A A O O I I N N M M A A M M B B L L U U E E N NI C C I IC T T I I T T I IO E E I I E E S S S SNS 4 p R C R C A A 9 N N E E O O D D S S N N a P P P P S S O O R R U U O O g N N M M D D S S P P U U I I T T B B C C e I I T T L L O O I I E E O O N N N N 22
Number of charities we support as a result of our £100m
commitment to the Group’s independent charitable Foundations
CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS
ACTION WATER ON LAND STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOR THE GOALS
17 ICONS: BLACK/WHITE VERSIONCLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS
ACTION WATER ON LAND STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOR THE GOALS
C Pe h rc a e m nt p a i g o e n o in f s g e n B io ri r t r a o i l n e ’ s s h d el i d v e b r y s w it o y m en 35 I . C 3% ON N P S O O VERTY 36.7 H ZE U R N %O GER G A O N O D D W 4 H E E L A L- 0L B T E H IN % G E Q D U U A C LI A T T Y IO I N CON E G Q EN U S D A E LI R TY C A L N E D A S N A W N A IT T A E T R ION T T Fo H H r S E E u G G s 2 p ta L L i O O na 2 aB B ble A A D – gL L e v G G e 2 l O O o e p A A m 3 L L e s n S S t
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1. ICONS For S4us9tainable Development ICONS 49
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black
bWahcekng raonu incdo.n is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
Percentage of roles held by Black, Asian and Minority 9.5% 9.7% 10%
Ethnic colleagues C A L F E FO A R N D E A N BT bE Lh aR Ee Gc A Y kNw gDh ro it u e n i d co . n shoD EC uE O Cld N E N O bT M e W I C cO G oR R nK O t Aa W Ni T nD H ed by its dI A eN N fiD D Un I Se N T F dR R Y A c, I S oN T Nl R oO U Vu C Ar T ,T U IoO R Nr E black R IN E E D Q U U C A E L D IT IES S A U N S D T C A O IN M A M BL U E N C IT IT IE IE S S R C AN E O D S N P P S O R U O N M D S P U I T B C I T L O I E O N N
17 ICONS: BLACK/WHITE VERSION 17 ICONS: BLACK/WHITE VERSION
NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENNODER CLZEEARNO WATER GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER
Percentage of senior roles held by Black, Asian and Minority 6.4% POVERTY 7.2%HUNGER AND WE8LL-B%EING EDUCATION EQPUOAVLEIRTTYY ANHDU NSGAENRITATION AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION
Ethnic colleagues CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS
ACTION WATER ON LAND STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOR THE GOALS
H ec e o lp n i o n m g y t he transition to a sustainable low carbon 2.6m C A L F E FO A R N D E A N B E L R E G A Y ND 3.5D E m C E O C N EN O T M 2W IC O G R R K O A W N T D H I A N N D D U I S N T F R R Y5 A , I S N T N R Om U V C A T T U IO R N E R IN E E D Q U U C A E L D IT IES S A U NC AS DL FT E F C AO AO IRN NM DA EM AB N BL UE EL NR EC IG T AIT IY N E IE S DS T Fo H r S E u D E R C A G sCtE N E Oa L O C D SiN O nN EPa P S B bN O O R UleTA O M N M D D WS I L PeC U I vOG T B C eGI R T lLO OoR I EKp O NO A m N A W L eNn S TtD H I A N 2N pD D U I S 4N aT F R R Y A g, – I S N T N 2R eO U V C A 5T Ts U IO R N E R IN E E D Q U U C A E L D IT IES S A U N S D T C A O IN M A M BL U E N C IT IT IE IE S S R C AN E O D S N P P S O R U O N M D S P U I T B C I T L O I E O N N
When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
Average number of homes that could be powered as a result T
b
h
a
e
c k
w
g
h
ro
it
u
e
n
i
d
co
.
n should be contained by its defined colour, or black
of our support of UK renewable energy projects
CLIMATE LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PACRLTIMNAETRESHIPS LIFE BELOW LIFE PEACE AND JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS
ACTION WATER ON LAND STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOARC TTHIOEN GOALS WATER ON LAND STRONG INSTITUTIONS FOR THE GOALS
THE GLOBAL GOALS THE GLOBAL GOALS
1 Figures are all cumulative excluding tackling social disadvantage across Britain and championing Britain's diversity. For Sustainable Development For Sustainable Development
2 Figures are cumulative from 2018. When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1. When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1.
The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black
background. background.
22 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Responsible business continued
Tackling social Ethnicity
disadvantage across Britain We have a comprehensive Ethnicity Strategy
to help us meet our goals, which focus on
As one of the UK’s largest corporate attracting and retaining talented BAME
donors, we use our scale to reach millions of colleagues; building cultural awareness
people and help tackle social disadvantage at all levels; and increasing visibility of
in communities across the UK. Our four authentic role models from a wide range of
independent charitable Foundations are ethnic backgrounds. By the end of the year
fundamental to our vision of tackling social 6.4 per cent of senior managers were BAME
disadvantage. They cover the UK and the colleagues, compared with 5.6 per cent
Channel Islands, partnering with small and in 2017, while BAME colleagues made up
local charities to help people overcome 9.5 per cent of our total workforce, compared
complex social issues and rebuild their lives. with 8.3 per cent in 2017.
Our total community investment in 2018 was To achieve this, activities in 2018 included:
£56 million . This includes our colleagues’ developing our Authentic Leadership
time, direct donations, and the money we Programme for BAME senior managers
give to our Foundations, which receive a and our Career Development Programme
Taking a joined up share of the Group’s profits annually. The for BAME middle managers; actively
Foundations supported over 3,000 charities promoting our Race, Ethnicity and Cultural
in 2018, providing help for some of the Heritage Network, which now has around
approach to tackling most disadvantaged and vulnerable 4,000 members; and promoting our Ethnicity
people in Britain. Role Models List. In October, we signed
domestic abuse In addition to funding, we support the the UK Government’s Race at Work Charter
and already meet and exceed its principle
Foundations through volunteering, and
requirements. In 2018 we won the overall
more than 370 colleagues are also active as
In partnership with our independent Outstanding Employer Award at the inaugural
mentors to charities supported by each of
charitable Foundations, we’re providing Investing in Ethnicity Awards.
the Foundations. This year, we ran a pilot with
more than just traditional funding. Our
the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England and
Foundations are helping us work with Gender diversity
Wales to recruit some of our senior leaders as
charities they support to develop a deeper We remain committed to having women
charity trustees and launched a Community
understanding of the challenges faced fill 40 per cent of our senior management
Forum through which colleagues support
by customers affected by complex and roles by 2020 and have been included in
charities. Through these initiatives, our
sensitive issues. The Times ‘Top 50 employers for women’ in
Foundations help us better understand some
2018, for the seventh year running. This year
The charity Behind Closed Doors (BCD) of the social issues people may be facing
we continued sponsoring Women of the
helps people in Leeds exit harmful and we use these insights to help shape
Future Ambassadors, connecting successful
situations relating to domestic abuse. effective responses.
women with female students, and launched
Lloyds Bank Foundation for England
our Sponsoring Leaders programme,
and Wales provides financial support to Championing Britain’s
enabling women in senior roles to champion
help them deliver their vital services to
diversity the potential of women in more junior roles.
vulnerable people. To deepen the support
The promotion rate for the 100 colleagues
they can provide, the Foundation matched We champion inclusion and diversity (I&D)
who completed the programme in 2018 was
BCD with a senior Group colleague, Dave to reflect the diverse communities we serve.
around five times that of non-participants.
Moore, who has joined them as a charity We were the first FTSE100 company to set
From January 2019, the Group will be included
mentor and valued Board member, helping a public goal on gender diversity and this
in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for
them become sustainable, develop their year became the first FTSE100 company to
the first time.
offering and reach more people in need. set public goals to increase Black, Asian and
Minority Ethnic (BAME) representation at all For more information about Gender Pay
see pages 82 to 104
levels. Additionally, this year we enhanced
our focus on mental health, as this is key to
We were a top ten Trans-Inclusive employer
economic prosperity and social inclusion,
Dave is dynamic and energetic, and fifth employer overall in the Stonewall Top
and therefore to Helping Britain Prosper.
and he’s motivated the Board to 100 2018, the highest ranked financial services
We know that the most inclusive organisations company in the UK. Through our Rainbow
become more proactive. He’s
are the most successful, so we welcome and network colleagues raised almost £100,000 to
encouraged a business-like
value the unique difference of every colleague. support key charities and we continued our
approach, where we can more 2018 has been a year of significant progress sponsorship for Stonewall Young Campaigners,
easily consider the long-term against our I&D objectives, which we know is empowering young people aged 16 to 21
future, setting clear goals and a source of pride for our colleagues; this year to become campaigners for Lesbian, Gay,
a strategy for achieving them, 88 per cent of them agreed in our annual survey Bisexual and Transgender equality.
and he’s supported the Board to that the Group is an inclusive place to work.
Around 50 per cent of colleagues also belong Supporting people with disabilities
become more strategic in their
to or support one of our five diversity networks. Traditionally, employment of people with
governance role. It’s been great disabilities has focused on making changes
having his support. I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 (revised) to physical infrastructure or working
assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2018 Annual practices. We are moving the debate from
Louise Tyne R as e s s u p r o a n n s c i e b s le ta B te u m sin e e n s t s a R n e d p t o h r e t i 2 n 0 g 1 . 8 D R e e lo p i o tt r e ti ’ n s g 2 0 C 1 r 8 it eria accommodating disabilities to developing
Operational Director, BCD are available online at talent and careers. We offer bespoke
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/our-group/responsible- training, career development programmes
business/
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 23
and recruitment process adjustments for
colleagues and applicants with disabilities,
including those who have become disabled
while employed. Training includes courses
run with external disability consultants, which
have been described as life changing by
attendees. We give full and fair consideration
to applications from all candidates, offering
guaranteed interviews for candidates
declaring a disability, and meeting minimum
role requirements. We are unbiased in our
assessment, selection, appointment, training
and promotion of people. In 2018 we retained The Mental Health and Money Advice Service
our Business Disability Forum (BDF) Gold
Standard, and hold Disability Confident Leader
More than £8 million raised since 2017 has helped our
status with the Department for Work and
charity partner, Mental Health UK, open the Mental Health
Pensions. The BDF considers our workplace
and Money Advice Service – the UK’s first dedicated
adjustment process for disabled colleagues to
advice service for people with mental health and money I know I still have a way to
be ground breaking, creating a best practice
problems. These two issues are often inter-related, so the go, but thanks to Mental
case study that they have shared with around
new service is urgently needed.
400 other BDF member organisations. We Health and Money
It comprises a public website providing information across
are set to achieve Autism Friendly Bank and Advice I have improved
a number of issues including benefits, debt problems and
Employer accreditation from the National my confidence and built managing mental health. It also operates a referral only
Autistic Society in mid-2019. telephone advice service. up some skills to better
Mental health & wellbeing Since its launch in November 2017, the website manage my situation.
As a Group we believe that a shift in mindset is has received around 180,000 views and more than Stephen
needed amongst UK employers when it comes 1,000 people have been referred for confidential advice. Mental Health and Money
to mental health. We all have mental health More than 2,400 cases have been handled, with each Advice Service user
as well as physical health and our approach client on average about £1,000 better off as a result. By
focuses on removing the stigma attached to November 2018 a total annual saving of over £1.3 million
mental ill health, addressing it in the same way had been delivered.
as we would any physical condition; through a
culture of conversation and support.
Our mental health strategy supports colleagues Our Inclusion and Diversity data
and leaders through a mental health resource
centre and this year we stepped up mental 2018 20171
health training for colleagues at all levels. Gender
To date more than 40,000 colleagues have Board Members Male 9 9
completed training on mental health and Female2 4 3
we are training 2,500 colleagues to become
Senior Managers3 Male 4,701 4,939
mental health advocates by 2020. We enrolled
200 leaders in our new Optimal Resilience Female 2,573 2,544
Leadership Programme, which covers personal, Colleagues3 Male 30,458 31,216
mental and physical wellbeing and are now Female 42,372 42,956
working on extending this to the next level of
Ethnic Background
2,000 senior managers.
Percentage of colleagues from a BAME background 9.5% 8.3%
Through a targeted communication campaign
BAME managers 9.0% 8.3%
and personal stories shared at all levels, we
have encouraged colleagues to freely discuss BAME senior managers 6.4% 5.6%
mental health, with the number of those who Disability
tell us they have mental health issues up by Percentage of colleagues who disclose they have a disability4 1.7% 2.6%
22 per cent over the past three years. Sexual Orientation
We also extended the focus on mental Percentage of colleagues who disclose they are lesbian, gay,
health to our colleague wellbeing resources, bisexual or transgender 2.0% 1.7%
increasing private medical benefit cover for 1 2017 reporting scope excludes MBNA colleagues, who became part of Lloyds Banking Group plc in June 2017, as their
mental health to match that of physical health. separate grading structure could not be aligned to LBG grades at that point.
Our employee assistance programme now 2. Data as at 31 December 2018. Amanda Mackenzie joined the Board on 1 October 2018, and Deborah McWhinney retired
from the Board on 31 December 2018.
provides colleagues with access to counselling
3 Reporting scope: payroll headcount includes established and fixed term contract colleagues, parental leavers, MBNA
and cognitive behavioural therapy, and colleagues and Internationals. Excludes Leavers, Group Non-Executive Directors, contractors, temps, and agency staff.
our workplace adjustments programme 4 Percentage disclosure for disability has reduced due to the implementation of a new HR system in Nov 2018, with differing
increasingly offers support for mental as well categories. Not all disability data could be directly mapped across into the new system.
as physical types of disability. Diversity scope: Payroll headcount including parental leavers. Excludes contractors, temps and agency staff. Gender
information includes International colleagues and MBNA. All other diversity information is UK Payroll only. Senior
Recognition that mental health is an issue for Managers: Grades F+. Managers: Grade D-E. Data source: HR system (Workday). Apart from gender data, all diversity
our customers and the communities we serve, information is based on colleagues’ voluntary self-declaration. As a result this data is not 100 percent representative; our
systems do not record diversity data for the proportion of colleagues who have not declared this information.
inspired us to create our ‘Get the Inside Out’
advertising campaign to challenge mental
health stereotypes.
24 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
RReessppoonnssiibbllee bbuussiinneessss ccoonnttiinnuueedd
Helping the transition to Our ambition 2010. To ensure this plan supports the UK’s
a sustainable low carbon Our goal is to be a leader in supporting climate change priorities and our long term
the UK to successfully transition to a more strategy, we have a set of market leading
economy sustainable, low carbon economy. We have targets to improve the sustainability of our own
set ourselves seven ambitions anchored to the operations and supply chain. These include
Following a Board level review of our goals laid out in the UK Government’s Clean reducing our operational waste by 70 per cent
approach to environmental sustainability, we Growth Strategy, as these align closely to our by 2020 and 80 per cent by 2025 (compared to
have developed a new sustainability strategy business priorities: 2014/15), and reducing our CO 2 e emissions by
which focuses on the opportunities and 60 per cent by 2030 and 80 per cent by 2050
Business: become a leading UK commercial
threats related to climate change and the (compared to 2009) www.lloydsbankinggroup.
bank for sustainable growth, supporting our
need for the UK to transition to a sustainable com/our-group/responsible-business/
clients to transition to sustainable business
low carbon economy. sustainability-in-lloyds-banking-group. We
models and operations, and to pursue new
anticipate achievement of the 2050 target well
This strategy supports the Task Force on clean growth opportunities
before this date, driven by both our energy
Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
recommendations and incorporates an Homes: be a leading UK provider of efficiency improvements, direct investment
customer support on energy efficient, in renewable energy on our sites and through
implementation plan to address them and
sustainable homes purchasing Renewable Energy Guarantees
achieve full disclosure within five years. The
of Origin (REGOs) to cover our UK electricity
strategy maps to the key headings used Vehicles: be a leading UK provider of low
consumption. We are now able to state that
in the TCFD framework. emission/green vehicle fleets
100 per cent of our UK electricity comes
Strategy Pensions & investments: be a leading UK from renewable sources and to show our
pension provider that offers our customers commitment to supporting the transition
Our commitment and colleagues sustainable investment to the low carbon economy, we have joined
The UK is committed to the vision of a choices, and challenges companies we the RE100 campaign, a collaborative, global
sustainable, low carbon economy, and invest in to behave more sustainably initiative uniting businesses committed to
has placed clean growth at the heart of its and responsibly 100 per cent renewable energy.
industrial strategy. This will require a radical Insurance: be a leading UK insurer in Environmental section within Directors’
reinvention of the way people, work, live and Report see page 81
improving the resilience of customers’
do business.
lives against extreme weather caused
Governance
We have a unique position within the UK by climate change
We have established a dedicated governance
economy with our purpose of Helping
Green bonds: be a leading UK bank in the process to provide oversight and ownership
Britain Prosper. The successful transition
green/sustainable bonds market of the sustainability strategy. This includes
to a sustainable, low carbon economy that
the Responsible Business Committee
is resilient to climate change impacts and Our own footprint: be a leading UK bank
(RBC), a sub-committee of the Board, which
sustainably uses resources is of strategic in reducing our own carbon footprint and
meets quarterly and provides Board level
importance to us. We support the aims challenging our suppliers to ensure our
oversight. This committee is chaired by
of the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate own consumption of resources, goods and
Sara Weller, Group Non-Executive Director
Change, and the UK Government’s Clean services is sustainable
and includes the Chairman, Lord Blackwell
Growth Strategy.
For each ambition we will consider the as a member. At Executive level, we have
Government’s targets and current plans. established a Group Executive Sustainability
Our approach
We will use forward looking scenarios to Committee (GESC), which is a sub-committee
To meet our commitment, we will:
identify risks and opportunities over short, of our Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Take a strategic approach to identifying new medium and long term time horizons and and provides oversight and recommends
opportunities to support our customers assess how they impact the resilience of decisions to the GEC. The RBC, GEC and
and clients and to finance the UK transition our strategy. We are developing a series GESC have all been informed on key climate
to a sustainable low carbon economy, of propositions against each ambition and related issues by external industry experts.
embedding sustainability into Group have defined an implementation plan to
We have created a Group sustainability
strategy across all activities achieve a leadership position within three
team, supported by divisional Governance
years. We will work with Government and
Identify and manage material sustainability Forums and working groups led by divisional
other stakeholders on thought leadership to
and climate related risks across the Group, Managing Directors. This enables us to have
help inform the creation of the policies and
disclosing these and their impacts on the a coordinated approach to oversight, delivery
market conditions required for large scale
Group and its financial planning processes and reporting of the Group sustainability
investment in the transition to a sustainable,
in line with the TCFD recommendations strategy to the GESC, along with a mechanism
low carbon economy. To support these
for keeping management and the Board
Use our scale and reach to help drive propositions, we are equipping our business
updated on climate related issues impacting
progress towards a sustainable and relationship managers and other colleagues
the Group.
resilient UK economy, environment and with training and tools to have more informed
society through our engagement with conversations on climate related issues. As For the implementation of the TCFD
industry, Government, investors, suppliers part of our TCFD implementation plan, we will recommendations across the Group, we have
and customers also develop a forward looking approach to established a senior executive group TCFD
systematically reporting material financial risk forum. We aim to expand the consideration of
Embed sustainability into the way we do
and opportunity aggregated across the Group. sustainability and climate related issues into
business and manage our own operations
relevant Board and governance committees
in a more sustainable way Improving our own environmental footprint
including processes to monitor and oversee
is an important foundation for our activity.
progress against goals and targets related
We’ve consistently reduced our environmental
to climate issues. We will also consider how
impacts, thanks to the ambitious
sustainability might be incorporated into our
Environmental Action Plan we launched in
remuneration policies.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 25
Risk management Metrics and targets
Each division within the Group is responsible As part of our TCFD implementation plan we
for identifying and prioritising relevant climate are developing our approach to reporting
related risks and opportunities and integrating metrics and targets. This will include a
them into their risk management processes, long term reporting framework, enabling
which determine materiality and classify risks us to track our performance against our
into traditional risk categories. This includes sustainability strategy, and disclose the
identifying potential risks through horizon financial impact of climate change related
scanning of changes in regulation, technology risks and opportunities. We will define metrics
and consumer demand. Risks are classified linked to our green finance propositions and
in terms of whether they impact the Group the carbon exposure of our activities. Our
in the short, medium or long term. Examples targets will have specific time horizons against
include possible changes in the sustainability defined baseline years and will consider
of homes, how vehicles are powered, changes the level of historical and forward looking
in UK energy mix, through to changes in the projections that can be made available. We
frequency and severity of extreme weather aim to develop this new reporting framework
events. The Group sustainability team in the first half of 2019 and will start to
facilitates collaboration across divisions to include key quantified metrics in our next
increase understanding of consistent issues, annual report.
as well as our risk, opportunities and financial
We have made sustainability a focus area in
impact on an aggregated basis.
our Helping Britain Prosper Plan and have
During 2018, we reviewed our external sector defined metrics for it. We disclose our in-
statements to confirm that they align to our house greenhouse gas emissions, as shown
sustainability strategy and consider appropriate below, with supporting commentary detailed
climate related risk. We introduced a position in the directors report Environmental section Clean Growth
statement for coal and revised statements within Directors’ Report see page 81 and our
for defence, mining, oil and gas, power, and set of in house environmental targets on our
Finance Initiative
forestry. For more information on our sector website www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/our-
statements www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/ group/responsible-business/sustainability-in-
our-group/responsible-business/sustainability- lloyds-banking-group. In 2018 we launched a £2 billion Clean
in-lloyds-banking-group. In 2019, we will Growth Finance Initiative (CGFI) to
review these statements again, and consider Environmental section within Directors’ help British businesses reduce their
Report see page 81
developing statements for other sectors environmental impacts and benefit from
and topics. We will review ways to embed Find out more about our set of in-house the transition to a low carbon economy.
sustainability in the Group’s key policies. environmental targets at www.lloydsbanking. The CGFI aims to be the most inclusive
com/our-group/responsible-business/
Forward looking scenario analysis sustainabilityinlloyds-banking-group UK green funding proposition available,
incorporating physical and transition risk will incentivising all types of businesses
be utilised across the Group to systematically to invest in low carbon projects by
identify risks and opportunities. During 2018, providing discounted financing for
Commercial Banking undertook forward capital expenditure or investment with
looking scenario analyses including business a green purpose.
as usual and low carbon transition scenarios,
identifying sectors with a higher level of
climate related risk and opportunity. Detailed
assessments are now being undertaken
COe emissions (tonnes)
on higher risk sectors to understand the 2
potential financial impact to our customers
Oct 17-Sept 18 Oct 16-Sept 17 Oct 15-Sept 161
and to the Group. We will be completing
Total COe (market-based) 115,467 303,065 340,2612
further reviews of higher risk sectors in 2019 2
to inform portfolio analytics, counterparty Total CO 2 e (location-based) 244,407 286,892 340,261
risk and financial product development, Total Scope 1 48,461 51,419 53,023
while increasing the scope to also include Total Scope 2 (market-based) 1,976 178,771 202,3192
other divisions.
Total Scope 2 (location-based) 130,916 162,598 202,319
Total Scope 3 65,030 72,876 84,918
1 Restated 2017/2016 and 2016/2015 emissions data to improve the accuracy of reporting, using actual data to
replace estimates.
2 Note our market based emissions are equal to location based for 2016/15. This is in accordance with GHG protocol
guidelines in absence of appropriate residual factors.
Emissions in tonnes COe in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard (2004). We are now reporting to the revised
2
Scope 2 guidance, disclosing a market-based figure in addition to the location-based figure. The measure and reporting
criteria for Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions is provided in the Lloyds Banking Group Reporting Criteria statement available online at
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/ResponsibleBusiness
Scope 1 emissions include mobile and stationary combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions have been calculated in accordance with GHG Protocol guidelines, in both location and market
based methodologies.
I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 (revised) assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2018 Annual Responsible Business
Reporting. Deloitte’s 2018 assurance statement and the 2018 Reporting Criteria are available online at
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/our-group/responsible-business
26 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Responsible business continued
Non-financial information statement
This section of the strategic report constitutes Lloyds Banking Group's Non-Financial Information Statement, produced to comply with sections 414CA
and 414CB of the Companies Act. The information listed is incorporated by cross-reference.
Reporting requirement Policies and standards which govern our approach Information necessary to understand our business and its impact, policy due diligence and
outcomes
Environmental matters Environmental statement Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders:
Communities and environment, page 18
Helping the transition to a sustainable low carbon economy,
pages 24 to 25
Employees Ethics and Responsible Business Policy1 Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders: Colleagues, page 17
Ethical Policy Statement Championing Britain’s diversity, pages 22 to 23
Colleague Policy1
Code of Responsibility
Health and Safety Policy1
Respect for Human rights Human Rights Policy statement Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders:
Colleague Policy1 Suppliers, page 18
Pre-Employment vetting standards1 Championing Britain’s diversity, pages 22 to 23
Data Privacy Policy1
Anti-Slavery and Trafficking Statement
Information and Cyber Security Policy
Social matters Volunteering standards1 Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders: Customers, page 16
Matched giving guidelines1 Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders:
Communities and environment, page 18
Helping Britain Prosper Plan, page 20
Helping Britain get a home, Helping people save for the future,
Supporting business to start up and grow, Building capability
and digital skills, page 21
Tackling social disadvantage across Britain, page 22
Anti-corruption Anti-bribery Policy1 Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders:
and anti-bribery
Anti-bribery policy statement Customers, page 16
A nti-money laundering and counter terrorist Reflecting the needs of our stakeholders:
financing Policy1 Colleagues, page 17
Fraud Risk Management Policy1
Description of principal risks and impact of business activity Helping the transition to a sustainable low carbon economy:
Risk management, page 25
Risk overview 2018 themes, page 31
Our principal risks, pages 32 to 35
Description of the business model Our Business Model, Page 10
Non-financial key performance indicators Key performance indicators, pages 6 to 7
Our strategic priorities, pages 12 to 15
Helping Britain Prosper Plan, page 20
1 Certain Group Policies and internal standards and guidelines are not published externally.
2. The policies mentioned above form part of the Group’s Policy Framework which is founded on key risk management principles. The policies which underpin the principles define mandatory
requirements for risk management. Robust processes and controls to identify and report policy outcomes are in place and were followed in 2018.
30 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk overview
Effective risk management and control
Our approach to risk Risk as a strategic differentiator The Board is responsible for approving
the Group’s risk appetite statement at
As a Group, managing risk effectively is Risks are identified, managed and mitigated
least annually. Group Board-level metrics
fundamental to our strategy and future using our comprehensive Risk Management
are cascaded into more detailed business
success. We are a simple, low risk, UK-focused Framework, and our well-articulated risk
appetite metrics and limits.
financial services provider with a culture appetite provides a clear framework for
founded on strong risk management and decision-making. The principal risks we face, Business focus and accountability
a prudent through the cycle risk appetite. which could significantly impact the delivery Risk management is an integral feature of
These are at the heart of everything we do, of our strategy, are discussed on pages 32 how we measure and manage performance
and ensure constructive challenge takes to 35. – for individuals, businesses and the Group.
place across the business and underpins We believe effective risk management can In the first line of defence, business units are
sustainable growth. be a strategic differentiator, in particular: accountable for managing risk with oversight
Our approach to risk is founded on an effective from a strong and independent second line
Prudent approach to risk
control framework, which guides how our of defence Risk division.
colleagues work, behave and the decisions Being low risk is fundamental to our business
Effective risk analysis, management
they make. As part of this framework, risk model and drives our participation choices.
appetite – the amount and type of risk that Strategy and risk appetite are developed in and reporting
the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tandem and together outline the parameters Regular close monitoring and
tolerate in delivering our Group Strategy – is within which the Group operates. comprehensive reporting to all levels
of management and the Board ensures
embedded in policies, authorities and limits Strong control framework
appetite limits are maintained and subject
across the Group.
The Group’s Risk Management Framework to stressed analysis at a risk type and
Our prudent risk culture and appetite, along is the foundation for the delivery of effective portfolio level, as appropriate.
with close collaboration between Risk division risk control and ensures that the Group
and the business, supports decision-making risk appetite is continually developed
and has enabled us to continue to deliver and controlled.
against our strategic priorities in 2018.
Our approach to risk plays a key role in the
Group’s strategy of becoming the best bank
for customers, colleagues and shareholders.
Our risk management framework
The diagram below outlines the framework in place for risk management across the Group.
Accountability for ensuring risk is managed Confirmation of the effectiveness of
consistently within the Risk Management the Risk Management Framework and
Framework approved by the Board underlying risk and control
Setting risk appetite and strategy. Approval of
the Risk Management Framework and Group-wide Board Board authorities
risk principles role
Review risk appetite, frameworks and principles Through Board-delegated executive authorities
to be recommended to the Board. Be exemplars Senior there is effective oversight of risk management
of risk management management role consistent with risk appetite
Determined by the Board and senior management.
The risk appetite framework ensures our risks are
Business units formulate their strategy in line with Risk appetite managed in line with our risk appetite
the Group’s risk appetite
Supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide
behaviour and risk decision-making. Consistency Supports a consistent approach to enterprise-wide
is delivered through the policy framework and risk Governance framework behaviour and decision-making
committee structures
Maintains a robust control framework,
Monitoring, oversight and assurance ensure Three lines of defence identifying and escalating emerging risks and
effective risk management across the Group
supporting sustainable growth
Defined processes exist to identify, measure and Risk and control cycle Carried out by all three lines of defence and is an
control our current and emerging risks from identification to reporting integral part of our control effectiveness assessment
In line with our code of responsibility. Culture Risk Risk resources Processes and infrastructure are being invested in to
ensures performance, risk and reward are aligned culture and capabilities further improve our risk management capabilities
Risk-specific needs defined in detail for Primary risk categories Risk type specific sub-frameworks e.g. credit risk
implementation by each business
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 31
2018 themes Data We are simplifying and modernising
Our priorities for risk management have Our Group is trusted with large volumes our IT architecture, alongside deploying continued to evolve, alongside progression of data, which must be protected, whilst technologies such as cloud computing which
of the Group’s strategy and development of providing customers with ease of access offer greater levels of resilience, capacity
external factors. through our multi-channel model. Data is our management and speed of processing.
most valuable asset and so we must ensure We are a member of the UK’s Cyber Defence
Our principal risks are outlined over the next that the information we hold is accurate, Alliance, where a number of UK-based banks
few pages but a number of themes have secure and managed appropriately. We meet and law enforcement agencies collaborate
been particularly prevalent in 2018. the requirements of the General Data in the fight against cyber-attacks, sharing
EU exit Protection Regulation (GDPR) that came into expertise, intelligence and knowledge.
Given the vast majority of our business is in force in May 2018. The Group has taken this Within Lloyds Banking Group, our Chief
the UK, the direct impact on the Group from opportunity to implement new governance Security Office engenders a culture whereby
leaving the EU is relatively small and we are structures and demonstrate increased colleagues are considered to be our first line
well prepared to ensure continuity of our levels of accountability and transparency, of defence. Vigilance and training are key to
limited EU business activities. as establishing trust is critical to our vision preventing cyber-attacks.
Given our UK focus, our performance is of being the best bank for customers. Sustainability
inextricably linked to the health of the UK We have created a Group Data Protection The Group has been developing its
economy. Economic performance has Office (GDPO) to independently oversee sustainability strategy, to address more
remained resilient in recent years and compliance, reporting on this to Group broadly the opportunities and threats
whilst the near term outlook for the UK and Board Risk Committees. related to climate change, and the need for
economy remains unclear given the ongoing The Group drives a culture of compliance the UK to transition to a sustainable, lower
EU withdrawal negotiations, we have through its Data Privacy policy and control carbon economy. This is in line with our
contingency plans in place. framework and has implemented robust commitment to implement the Task Force
We have also taken a prudent approach to governance to oversee compliance with for Climate-related Financial Disclosures’
our balance sheet, increasing the amount of GDPR, as well as enhanced staff training. recommendations. For risk management,
liquidity held and pre funding some issuance. During 2019 the Group will continue to drive addressing the potential impacts of climate
Irrespective of the outcome, our customer enhancements to the maturity of our data change plays a key role in our approach to
focused strategy remains the right one. control environment. sustainability, and this year we have identified
We will continue to support our personal Cyber climate change as a top emerging risk.
and business customers and have already
Cyber threats are increasingly complex and
announced that we will lend up to £18 billion
like all financial services providers, attempts to UK businesses in 2019, reaffirming our
are made on a regular basis to attack our
support for the UK economy.
systems and services, and to steal customer
Guided by the overriding principle of Helping
and bank data. Given the significant threat
Britain Prosper, we will seek to minimise the
we continue to strengthen the resilience Emerging risks page 108
impact on our customers. We have also been
of our IT systems and invest in our cyber
working hard to ensure we are well prepared Operational risk page 136
control framework.
to provide customers with effective and Sustainability strategy page 24
timely support.
Environmental risk management page 135
Risk management – enhancing the customer experience
We recognise that the primary role of risk management is to protect our customers, colleagues and the Group, whilst enabling sustainable growth. We
are able to fulfil this purpose whilst also supporting the Group’s strategic priorities and delivering better outcomes for customers. Here are some of
the ways we have contributed to the Group’s strategic priorities and enhancing the customer experience this year.
Credit risk Operational risk
Leading customer experience Maximising the Group’s Digitising the Group Transforming ways of working
We are committed to adapting to capabilities Deploying new technology to Our nationwide Fraud analytics
changing customer expectations. We remain committed to make banking simpler and safer and insight team looks after the
With increasing competition and supporting our customers and for customers is a key priority for systems which detect fraud for
digital propositions in the market, their businesses across the the Group. the Group.
customers expect great service country. We have already implemented The team has embraced agile
and a frictionless experience. Within Commercial Banking we a number of significant working due to the nature of its
This year Risk division increased look specifically at how industry enhancements across various role: at short notice they might
the use of automated property risks impact success, and tailor products and services. For be called upon to respond to
valuations for the mortgage advice and lending based on example, from a risk perspective a new fraud attack, which can
application process through the dynamics of a segment or we have changed how we require working long hours or
Halifax, reducing the time it sector. One such example is in authenticate suspicious into the night. The team also
takes for us to offer customers our SME dairy sector which has transactions across personal supports a large number of the
a mortgage to buy a property experienced significant pressures debit and credit cards. Rather Group’s change programmes,
by an average of one week. By due to falling milk prices. than decline the payment and often working outside regular
speeding up this part of the Our relationship managers and request that the customer hours. To meet the needs of
process and removing an extra risk teams have been working contact us, we send a text with the colleague, the team and the
step, our customers have more together to understand each a unique code which enables Group, working patterns are
time to focus on what matters client’s farm and its changing our customer to quickly and agreed on an individual basis.
most during life-changing events needs so we can provide the easily verify that the transaction There has been a strong
such as buying a home. best support possible. This may is genuine. This has helped reduction in fraud losses over the
be through extending working to protect our customers and last five years; while some of this
capital or restructuring facilities, made the experience simpler is due to investment in systems,
in order to drive better outcomes by communicating in a method we place great reliance on having
for the businesses we serve. convenient to them. well trained, engaged and
Strategic priorities pages 12 to 15 motivated teams.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35
Governance Market Model
Against a background of increased The risk that our capital or earnings profile is The risk of financial loss, regulatory censure,
regulatory focus on governance and affected by adverse market rates, in particular reputational damage or customer detriment,
risk management, the most significant interest rates and credit spreads in the as a result of deficiencies in the development,
challenges arise from ensuring that the Group banking business, equity and credit spreads in application and ongoing operation of models
continues to demonstrate compliance with the Insurance business, and credit spreads in and rating systems.
the requirements to ring-fence core UK the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes.
financial services and activities, the potential Example
impact of EU exit and further requirements Examples
The consequences of inadequate models
under the Senior Manager & Certification
Earnings are impacted by our ability to could include: inappropriate levels of capital
Regime (SM&CR).
forecast and model customer behaviour or impairments; inappropriate credit or pricing
accurately and establish appropriate decisions; and adverse impacts on funding or
Examples
hedging strategies liquidity, or the Group’s earnings and profits
Inadequate or complex governance
The Insurance business is exposed indirectly
arrangements to address ring-fencing Key mitigating actions
to equity risk through the value of future
requirements and the potential impact
management charges on policyholder A comprehensive model risk
of EU exit could result in a weaker control
funds. Credit spread risk within the Insurance management framework
environment, delays in decision-making and
business primarily arises from bonds and loans
lack of clear accountability Defined roles and responsibilities, with clear
used to back annuities
ownership and accountability
Non-compliance with, or breaches of SM&CR
Narrowing credit spreads will increase the cost
requirements could result in lack of clear Principles regarding the requirements of
of pension scheme benefits
accountability, and legal and regulatory data integrity, development, validation,
consequences implementation and ongoing maintenance
Key mitigating actions
Regular model monitoring
Key mitigating actions Structural hedge programmes
implemented to manage liability margins Independent review of models
To meet ring-fencing requirements, core UK
and margin compression
financial services and activities have been Periodic validation and re-approval of models
ring-fenced from other activities of the Group Equity and credit spread risks are closely
and an appropriate control environment monitored and, where appropriate, asset and Key risk indicators
and governance structures are in place to liability matching is undertaken N/A
ensure compliance
The Group’s defined benefit pension schemes
A dedicated change programme is in place and continue to monitor their credit allocation as
Alignment to strategic priorities addressing the additional SM&CR requirements well as the hedges in place against nominal
and future focus
which will come into force during 2019 rate and inflation movements
A dedicated programme is in place to assess Digitising the Group
Key risk indicators
and address the potential impacts of EU exit The Group’s models play a vital role in
on the Group’s operations in Europe. The £1,146m supporting Group strategy to ensure
Group is in close and regular contact with profitable growth in targeted segments
regulators to develop and deploy our planned IAS 19 Pension surplus and the Group’s drive toward automation
operating and legal structure to mitigate the 2017: £509m and digital solutions to enhance customer
potential impacts of EU exit outcomes. Model risk management helps
Alignment to strategic priorities Evolving risk and governance arrangements and future focus ensure these models are implemented in
to ensure they continue to be appropriate to a controlled and safe manner for both the
comply with regulatory objectives Maximising the Group’s capabilities Group and customers.
We actively manage our exposure to Read more page 159
Key risk indicators
movements in market rates, to drive lower
N/A volatility earnings and offer a comprehensive
customer proposition with hedging strategies
to support strategic aims. Mitigating actions
Alignment to strategic priorities are implemented to reduce the impact of
and future focus market movements, resulting in a more stable
capital position. Effective interest rate and
Delivering a leading customer experience
inflation hedging has kept volatility in the
Ring-fencing ensures that we are safer and Group’s defined benefit pension schemes
continue to deliver a leading customer low. This combined with improved market
experience by providing further protection conditions has helped keep the schemes in
to core retail and SME deposits, increasing IAS 19 surplus in 2018. This allows us to more
transparency of our operations and facilitating efficiently utilise available capital resources
the options available in resolution. to better enable the Group to maximise its
Our governance framework and strong culture capabilities.
of ownership and accountability enabled Read more pages 154 to 159
effective, on time, compliance with the SM&CR
requirements and enable us to demonstrate
clear accountability for decisions.
Read more page 153
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
also included a £105 million loss on sale of the Irish mortgage portfolio and an adjustment to past service pension liabilities, both of which were recognised
in the first half of 2018.
The increase in amortisation of purchased intangibles to £108 million (2017: £91 million) and fair value unwind and other items to £319 million
(2017: £270 million) were both largely driven by the inclusion of MBNA.
The payment protection insurance charge of £750 million included an additional £200 million charged in the fourth quarter. The additional charge
was largely driven by an increase in average redress per case, additional operational costs to deal with potential complaint volatility and continued
improvements in data interrogation and the Group’s ability to identify valid claims, partly offset by lower reactive complaints which have been 12,000 per
week in the second half of 2018, compared with the Group’s assumption of 13,000 per week. The outstanding balance sheet provision at 31 December
2018 was £1.3 billion and continues to assume around 13,000 complaints per week until the timebar in August 2019.
Taxation
The tax expense was £1,560 million (2017: £1,728 million) representing an effective tax rate of 26 per cent (2017: 33 per cent). The lower effective tax rate
was driven by the reduction in non-deductible conduct provisions, including remediation. The Group continues to expect the effective tax rate to reduce
to around 25 per cent in 2020.
Return on tangible equity
The return on tangible equity was 11.7 per cent up from 8.9 per cent in 2017, reflecting the increase in statutory profit after tax, and slightly lower average
tangible equity. The underlying return on tangible equity increased to 15.5 per cent (2017: 14.0 per cent) reflecting increased underlying profit.
The Group continues to expect a return on tangible equity of 14 to15 per cent in 2019.
Balance sheet
At 1 Jan At 31 Dec
At 31 Dec 2018 Change 2017 Change
2018 (adjusted)1 % (reported) %
Loans and advances to customers2 £444bn £444bn – £456bn (2 )
Customer deposits3 £416bn £416bn – £416bn –
Loan to deposit ratio 107% 107% – 110% (3) pp
Wholesale funding £123bn £101bn 22 £101bn 22
Wholesale funding <1 year maturity £33bn £29bn 16 £29bn 16
Of which money-market funding <1 year maturity4 £21bn £15bn 44 £15bn 44
Liquidity coverage ratio – eligible assets £129bn £121bn 7
Liquidity coverage ratio 130% 127% 3pp
1 Adjusted to reflect the impact of applying IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018.
2 Excludes reverse repos of £40.5 billion (1 January 2018: £16.8 billion; 31 December 2017: £16.8 billion).
3 Excludes repos of £1.8 billion (1 January 2018: £2.6 billion; 31 December 2017: £2.6 billion).
4 Excludes balances relating to margins of £3.8 billion (1 January 2018: £2.1 billion; 31 December 2017: £2.1 billion) and settlement accounts of £1.2 billion (1 January 2018: £1.5 billion;
31 December 2017: £1.5 billion).
Loans and advances to customers were stable at £444 billion with growth in targeted segments offset by the £4 billion sale of the Irish mortgage portfolio
and a reduction of £2 billion in the closed mortgage book. The growth in targeted segments included £3 billion from start-ups, SME and Mid Markets and
£1 billion from UK Motor Finance whilst the open mortgage book remained broadly flat at £267 billion.
The Group continues to optimise funding and target current account balance growth, with Retail current accounts up 5 per cent to £74 billion
(31 December 2017: £70 billion) and Commercial current account balances at £35 billion (31 December 2017: £30 billion).
The loan to deposit ratio was stable at 107 per cent. Wholesale funding increased by 22 per cent to £123 billion, compared to £101 billion at 31 December
2017, as the Group refinanced Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme maturities and increased liquidity buffers.
The Group’s liquidity surplus continues to exceed the regulatory minimum and internal risk appetite with a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) of 130 per cent
(31 December 2017: 127 per cent) and LCR eligible assets of £129 billion (31 December 2017: £121 billion).
Capital
At 1 Jan At 31 Dec
At 31 Dec 2018 Change 2017 Change
2018 (adjusted)1 % (reported) %
Capital build2 210bp 244bp (34)bp 245bp (35)bp
Pro forma CET1 ratio3 13.9% 13.9% – 13.9% –
Pro forma transitional total capital ratio3 23.1% 21.5% 1.6pp 21.5% 1.6pp
Pro forma transitional MREL ratio3 32.6% 26.0% 6.6pp 26.0% 6.6pp
Pro forma UK leverage ratio3 5.6% 5.4% 0.2pp 5.4% 0.2pp
Risk-weighted assets £206bn £211bn (2) £211bn (2)
Shareholders' equity £43bn £42bn 2 £44bn –
Tangible net assets per share 53.0p 51.7p 1.3p 53.3p (0.3)p
1 Adjusted to reflect the impact of applying IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018, with transitional arrangements applied for capital.
2 Capital build is reported on a pro forma basis before ordinary dividends and share buyback.
3 The CET1, total, leverage and MREL ratios at 31 December 2018, 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2017 are reported on a pro forma basis, reflecting the dividends paid up by the
Insurance business in February 2019 and February 2018 respectively in relation to prior year earnings. The CET1 ratio is also reported post dividends and share buyback.
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong with capital build of 210 basis points, pre 2018 dividends, and a pro forma CET1 ratio of 13.9 per cent post
proposed buyback and Insurance dividend.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
A letter from our Chairman
Building robust stakeholder relationships
During the year, the
Board continued to
ensure corporate
governance was
embedded into the
thinking and processes
of the business.
Lord Blackwell
Chairman
Chairman’s letter Anita Frew stepped down as Chairman of two years in which we had undertaken internal
the Remuneration Committee in September reviews of board effectiveness. This process
This Corporate Governance Report details
and was replaced by Stuart Sinclair. Anita will ran between August 2018 and January 2019,
our approach to governance in practice, how
continue to be a member of the Committee, and was overseen by the Nomination and
the Board operates and the key activities
and remains as the Group’s Deputy Chairman Governance Committee. The process which
of the Board during the year, together with
and Senior Independent Director. Further was undertaken and the findings of the review
information on the annual Board evaluation
to the announcement in October that can be found on pages 62 to 63, together with
process. It also includes the reports from each
George Culmer would be retiring from the information about our progress against the
of the Board’s principal Committees.
Group in the third quarter of 2019, the Group 2017 review actions.
Strong Board oversight is vitally important announced, in February 2019 that, subject to
Corporate Governance Code
alongside the executive governance regulatory approvals, William Chalmers will
framework. A major focus over the last succeed George as Executive Director and During the year under review, the Group
year has been the implementation of our Chief Financial Officer. applied and was fully compliant with
strategic transformation programme, the UK Corporate Governance Code
following extensive Board engagement in Governance and the ring-fenced 2016. Additionally, in preparation for our
the conception and design of the strategy to bank structure adoption of the UK Corporate Governance
deliver the ‘Bank of the Future’. Building on the work carried out last year to Code 2018 from 1 January this year, the
This transformation programme is managed create our non-ring fenced bank, Lloyds Bank Group undertook a review of its Corporate
through multiple workstreams and initiatives, Corporate Markets plc, the Group has now Governance Framework. We also considered
and the scale and pace of change is highly completed the new regulatory requirements our approach to workforce engagement.
demanding. It has involved a significant shift in by establishing new governance around its Further information on workforce
organisational decision-making and controls ring-fenced banking activities – Lloyds Bank plc engagement can be found on page 17 and 64.
from business and functional lines to cross and Bank of Scotland plc (together the ‘Ring- We will report on our application of the UK
divisional workstreams. It has also required Fenced Banks’). These companies serve the Corporate Governance Code 2018 in next
a substantial investment in colleague skills Group’s personal and business clients in the year’s annual report.
and culture to support the re-shaping of roles UK and contain the vast majority of the Group’s The Board has engaged with the Group’s
around the new ways of working. The Board UK banking activities. Further information on stakeholders during the year, and further
has devoted considerable time to reviewing the governance structure for the Ring-Fenced details on this can be found on pages 16 to 18.
the way this is being implemented, with Banks can be found on page 58.
particular attention to the management of the Group Directors are also Directors of the
risks arising from the implementation of new Ring-Fenced Banks and, in addition, we have
technologies, the new ways of working and appointed three Non-Executive Directors to
Lord Blackwell
the overall pace of change. the Ring-Fenced Banks, who are independent
Chairman
Board and Committee changes of the Group (the ‘Ring-Fenced Bank only
Directors’). These three Ring-Fenced Bank only Strategy
There have been a number of changes
Directors were recruited during 2018 and took
to the Board and Committees during the The Board has been engaged with the
up their formal roles on 1 January 2019. They
year. Amanda Mackenzie was appointed Group’s strategy through multiple touchpoints
are Nigel Hinshelwood and Brendan Gilligan,
to the Board in October, and became a throughout the year. These have included:
who both have extensive experience of the
member of the Board Risk Committee and the annual cycle of two offsite meetings
financial sector, and Sarah Bentley, who has
the Responsible Business Committee. She to debate priorities and agree
significant experience in consumer-focused
is also joining the Remuneration Committee implementation plans;
industries as well as in digital technology. More
with effect from 1 March 2019. Also,
information is provided in the Nomination and a suite of formal Board metrics and
Nick Prettejohn is joining the Nomination
Governance Committee report on pages 67 to qualitative reporting to monitor
and Governance Committee with effect
69. Nigel Hinshelwood has been appointed as progress and risks;
from 1 March 2019. After three years on the
the Senior Independent Director of the ‘Deep dive’ sessions on key areas (see
Board, Deborah McWhinney decided to
Ring-Fenced Bank Boards. page 56 for more information);
leave the Group, for personal reasons, with
‘Gallery Walk’ sessions with workstream
effect from 31 December 2018. Deborah Board evaluation
teams in the Lab environment (more
provided valuable insight to the Board In accordance with the UK Corporate
information can be found on page 17); and
during her tenure, especially in respect of Governance Code the Board engaged
a wide range of informal interactions to
IT infrastructure and cyber security. She left Egon Zehnder to facilitate the annual review
‘feel the pulse’.
with our thanks and best wishes for the future. of the Board and its Committees, following
52 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Board of Directors1
Comprising Directors with the right mix of skills and experience, the Board
is collectively responsible for overseeing delivery of the Group’s strategy
1 2 3 4
NG Re RB Ri A NG Re RB Ri A NG Re Ri A Ri
5 62 73 8
A Ri Re RB Ri A NG Ri Re RB Ri
9 10 11 12
NG Re RB Ri
13
A Member of Audit Committee NG Member of Nomination and RB Member of Responsible
Governance Committee Business Committee
Re Member of Remuneration Ri Member of Board Risk Committee Chairman
Committee Committee
1 Deborah McWhinney served as a Director throughout the year and retired from the Board on 31 December 2018.
2 Amanda Mackenzie is to be appointed to the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 March 2019.
3 Nick Prettejohn is to be appointed to the Nomination and Governance Committee with effect from 1 March 2019.
Experience across a range of sectors,
1. Lord Blackwell Chairman 4. Simon Henry Independent Director
including banking, asset and investment
Appointed: June 2012 (Board), April 2014 Appointed: June 2014
management, manufacturing and utilities
(Chairman) Skills and experience:
Extensive experience as chairman in a range
Skills and experience: Deep international experience in board level
of industries
Deep financial services knowledge including strategy and execution
Strong board governance experience,
insurance and banking Extensive knowledge of financial markets,
including investor relations and remuneration
Significant experience with strategic planning treasury and risk management
Anita was previously Chairman of Victrex
and implementation Qualification as an Audit Committee Financial
plc, the Senior Independent Director of
Regulatory and public policy experience Expert
Aberdeen Asset Management and IMI plc, an
gained from senior positions in Downing Street, Executive Director of Abbott Mead Vickers, Strong board governance experience,
Regulators and a wide range of industries a Non-Executive Director of Northumbrian including investor relations and remuneration
Credibility with key stakeholders Water and has held various investment and Simon was formerly Chief Financial Officer
Strong leadership qualities marketing roles at Scottish Provident and the and Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell
Lord Blackwell is an experienced Chairman Royal Bank of Scotland. plc. He was also previously Chair of the
and Non-Executive Director within the External appointments: Chairman of Croda European Round Table CFO Taskforce and
financial services sector having previously International Plc and a Non-Executive Director a Member of the Main Committee of the
been Chairman of Scottish Widows Group. He of BHP Billiton. 100 Group of UK FTSE CFOs.
was previously Senior Independent Director External appointments: Non-Executive
3. Alan Dickinson Independent Director
and Chairman of the UK Board for Standard Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto
Life and Director of Group Development at Appointed: September 2014 Limited, Independent Director of PetroChina
NatWest Group. His past Board roles have Skills and experience: Company Limited, Member of the Defence
also included Chairman of Interserve plc, and Highly regarded retail and commercial banker Board and Chair of the Defence Audit
Non-Executive Director of Halma plc, Dixons Strong strategic, risk and core Committee, UK Government, Member of the
Group, SEGRO and Ofcom. He was Head of banking experience Advisory Panel of CIMA and of the Advisory
the Prime Minister’s Policy Unit from 1995 to Board of the Centre for European Reform.
Regulatory and public policy experience
1997 and was appointed a Life Peer in 1997.
Alan has 37 years’ experience with the Royal 5. Lord Lupton CBE Independent Director
External appointments: Governor of the
Bank of Scotland, most notably as Chief and Chairman of Lloyds Bank Corporate
Yehudi Menuhin School and a member of the
Executive of RBS UK. More recently, Alan was Markets plc
Governing Body of the Royal Academy of Music.
a Non-Executive Director of Willis Limited Appointed: June 2017
2. Anita Frew Deputy Chairman and and Chairman of its Risk Committee. He Skills and experience:
Senior Independent Director was formerly Chairman of Brown, Shipley Extensive international corporate experience,
& Co. Limited, a Non-Executive Director
Appointed: December 2010 (Board), especially in financial markets
of Nationwide Building Society where he
May 2014 (Deputy Chairman), May 2017 Strong board governance experience,
was Chairman of its Risk Committee and a
(Senior Independent Director) including investor relations and remuneration
Governor of Motability.
Skills and experience: Regulatory and public policy experience
External appointments: Chairman of
Significant board, financial and general Urban&Civic plc. Significant experience in strategic planning
management experience and implementation
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lord Lupton was Deputy Chairman of Significant experience in strategic planning and member of the Group’s Management
Baring Brothers, co-founded the London and implementation Committee. He was a Non-Executive Director
office of Greenhill & Co., and was Chairman Experience in consumer analysis, marketing of Santander UK and subsequently its
of Greenhill Europe. He was previously and distribution Chief Executive. He is also a former
Chairman of Trustees of Dulwich Picture Stuart is a former Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of the Court of the
Gallery, a Trustee of the British Museum, of TSB Banking Group plc, TSB Bank plc, Bank of England.
Governor of Downe House School and a LV Group, Virgin Direct and Vitality Health External appointments: Non-Executive
member of the International Advisory Board (formerly Prudential Health). Until recently he Director of EXOR N.V., Fundação
of Global Leadership Foundation. He became was the Interim Chairman of Provident Financial Champalimaud and Sociedade Francisco
a Life Peer in October 2015 and is a former plc. He was also a former Senior Independent Manuel dos Santos in Portugal, a member of
Treasurer of the Conservative Party. He served Director of Swinton Group Limited. In his the Board of Stichting INPAR Management/
on the House of Lords Select Committee executive career, he was President and Chief Enable and Chairman of the Wallace Collection.
on Charities. Operating Officer of Aspen Insurance after
11. George Culmer Executive Director
External appointments: Senior Advisor to spending nine years with General Electric as
and Chief Financial Officer
Greenhill Europe and Chairman of the Chief Executive Officer of the UK Consumer
Trustees of the Lovington Foundation. Finance business then President of GE Capital Appointed: May 2012 (Board)
China. Before that he was Chief Executive Skills and experience:
6. Amanda Mackenzie OBE Independent
Officer of Tesco Personal Finance and Extensive operational and financial expertise
Director
Director of UK Retail Banking at the Royal including strategic and financial planning and
Appointed: October 2018 Bank of Scotland. He was a Council member control
Skills and experience: of The Royal Institute for International Affairs Worked in financial services in the UK and
Extensive experience in responsible business (Chatham House). overseas for over 25 years
Considerable customer External appointments: Senior Independent George was an Executive Director and Chief
engagement experience Director and Chair of the Risk & Capital Financial Officer of RSA Insurance Group, the
Strong digital technology experience Committee at QBE UK Limited (formerly QBE former Head of Capital Management of Zurich
Significant marketing and brand background Insurance (Europe) Limited). Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer
Amanda was a member of Aviva’s Group 9. Sara Weller CBE Independent Director of its UK operations as well as holding various
Executive for seven years and Chief Marketing senior management positions at Prudential. He
and Communications Officer. Prior to her Appointed: February 2012 is a Non-Executive Director of Scottish Widows.
current role, Amanda was seconded from Aviva Skills and experience: External appointments: None.
as Executive Adviser to Project Everyone, to Background in retail and associated sectors,
help launch the United Nations Sustainable including financial services 12. Juan Colombás Executive Director
and Chief Operating Officer
Development Goals. She has over 25 years’ of Strong board governance experience,
commercial business practice, including director including investor relations and remuneration Appointed: November 2013 (Board), January
2011- September 2017 (Chief Risk Officer),
roles at British Airways AirMiles, BT, Hewlett Passionate advocate of customers, the
September 2017 (Chief Operating Officer)
Packard Inc, British Gas and Mothercare plc. community, financial inclusion and the
External appointments: Chief Executive of development of digital skills Skills and experience:
Business in the Community – The Prince’s Considerable experience of boards at both Significant banking and risk management
Responsible Business Network, a Life Fellow executive and non-executive level experience
of the Royal Society of Arts and Fellow of the Sara’s previous appointments include International business and management
Marketing Society. Managing Director of Argos, various senior experience
positions at J Sainsbury including Deputy Juan is responsible for leading a number
7. Nick Prettejohn Independent Director
Managing Director, Chairman of the Planning of critical Group functions and driving the
and Chairman of Scottish Widows Group
Inspectorate, Lead Non-Executive Director at transformation activities across the Group
Appointed: June 2014 the Department of Communities and Local in order to build the Bank of the Future. He
Skills and experience: Government, a Board member at the Higher was previously the Chief Risk Officer and an
Deep financial services experience, Education Funding Council, a Non-Executive Executive Director of Santander’s UK business.
particularly in insurance Director of Mitchells & Butlers as well as a Prior to this, he held a number of senior risk,
In-depth regulatory knowledge number of senior management roles for control and business management roles
and experience Abbey National and Mars Confectionery. across the Corporate, Investment, Retail
Governance experience and strong External appointments: Non-Executive and Risk Divisions of the Santander Group.
leadership qualities Director of United Utilities Group and He was previously the Vice Chairman of the
Significant experience in strategic planning Chair of their Remuneration Committee International Financial Risk Institute.
and implementation and a member of their Nomination External appointments: None.
Committee, Lead Non-Executive Director
Nick has served as Chief Executive of Lloyd’s 13. Malcolm Wood Company Secretary
at the Department for Work and Pensions, a
of London, Prudential UK and Europe and Appointed: November 2014
Governing Council Member of Cambridge
Chairman of Brit Insurance. He is a former Non-
University and Trustee of Lloyds Bank Skills and experience:
Executive Director of the Prudential Regulation
Foundation for England and Wales. Malcolm was previously General Counsel
Authority and of Legal & General Group Plc
and Company Secretary of Standard Life
as well as Chairman of the Financial Services 10. António Horta-Osório Executive Director
after a career as a corporate lawyer in private
Practitioner Panel and the Financial Conduct and Group Chief Executive
practice in London and Edinburgh. He has a
Authority’s Financial Advice Working Group.
Appointed: January 2011 (Board), March 2011 wealth of experience in governance, policy
He was previously a Member of the BBC Trust
(Group Chief Executive) and regulation. He is a Fellow of the Institute
and Chairman of the Britten-Pears Foundation.
Skills and experience: of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators
External appointments: Chairman of Reach
Extensive experience in, and understanding and a Member of the Corporate Governance
plc (formerly Trinity Mirror plc) and of their
of, both retail and commercial banking built Council and the GC100. Malcolm is an
Nomination Committee. He is also Chairman
over a period of more than 30 years, working attendee of the Group Executive Committee.
of the Royal Northern College of Music and a
both internationally and in the UK
member of the Board of Opera Ventures.
Drive, enthusiasm and commitment
8. Stuart Sinclair Independent Director to customers
Appointed: January 2016 Proven ability to build and lead strong
Skills and experience: management teams
Extensive experience in retail banking, António previously worked for Citibank,
insurance and consumer finance Goldman Sachs and held various senior
Governance and regulatory experience management positions at Grupo Santander
before becoming its Executive Vice President
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
including Deputy Group General Counsel ensuring we are ready to meet the future the Group Stephen was Chief Risk Officer at
and General Counsel for Group Legal. Kate expectations of our customers. Barclays Corporate and prior to that was Chief
is a trustee of the Lloyds Bank Foundation for Credit Officer for the UK Retail and Corporate
England and Wales and is a Non-Executive 8. David Oldfield Group Director, business in Barclays. In a 21-year career at
Director of Scottish Widows. Commercial Banking Barclays, Stephen undertook a variety of
Appointed: May 2014 (GEC) roles in the front office and risk. He was also
4. Paul Day Chief Internal Auditor (GEC a member of the Group Risk Executive team
Skills and experience: David was appointed as
attendee) and a Chair of Group Credit Committees.
Group Director for the Commercial Banking
Appointed: September 2016 (GEC) division in September 2017 responsible for Stephen is also the Group’s Executive Sponsor
for Gender Diversity and Equality.
Skills and experience: Paul joined the Group supporting corporate clients from SMEs and
as a contractor in September 2016 and was mid corporates through to large corporates
12. Jennifer Tippin Group People and
formally employed by the Group in June and financial institutions. David started
Productivity Director
2017. He joined from Deloitte where he his career with Lloyds Bank in 1986 on the
was a partner in the UK Financial Services graduate entrant programme and has held Appointed: July 2017 (GEC)
practice and led the UK Financial Services a number of key leadership roles across Skills and experience: Jen was appointed
Internal Audit business. Paul has specialised all Divisions of the Group since that time. as Group People and Productivity Director
in internal and external audit roles across Immediately prior to his current role he was in July 2017 and is responsible for leading
financial services for over 20 years, including Group Director Retail and Consumer Finance, the people function, property, sourcing,
10 years in various leadership roles in Barclays responsible for the Lloyds, Halifax, Bank of divestment and development teams and
Internal Audit. Scotland, Lex Autolease and Black Horse managing the Group’s cost base. Prior to
Brands including the retail branch networks, her current role, Jen held the roles of Group
5. Antonio Lorenzo Chief Executive, Scottish customer products and telephone banking, Customer Services Director and Managing
Widows and Group Director, Insurance in addition to Retail Business Banking and Director, Retail Business Banking. Jen
and Wealth UK Wealth businesses. David is a Fellow of has enjoyed a career spanning multiple
Appointed: March 2011 (GEC) the Chartered Institute of Bankers. He is also industries, including banking, engineering
Group Executive Sponsor for Disability. and the airline sector. Jen is a Non-Executive
Skills and experience: Antonio joined the
Director of Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets
Group as head of the Wealth and International
9. Jakob Pfaudler Group Director, plc and a Non-Executive Director of the Kent
division and Group Corporate Development,
Community Banking (GEC attendee) Community NHS Foundation Trust.
leading the Group’s strategic review and
subsequent programme of reducing Appointed: September 2017 (GEC)
13. Andrew Walton Group Corporate Affairs
non-core assets and exiting international Skills and experience: Jakob was appointed
Director
locations. From 2013, he assumed the role Group Director, Community Banking in
of Group Director, Consumer Finance & September 2017. From 2015 to 2017 he was Appointed: December 2018 (GEC)
Group Corporate Development, leading the Chief Operating Officer for the Retail Bank Skills and experience: Andrew joined the
division’s growth strategy whilst completing and prior to this he was Managing Director Group as Group Corporate Affairs Director,
the sale of TSB. At the end of 2015 he was of Asset Finance. Other previous roles taking on responsibility for internal and
appointed Chief Executive, Scottish Widows include Chief Operating Officer for Wealth & external communications, reputation
and Group Director, Insurance and during International, Managing Director International management and public affairs. Prior to
2017 he also assumed responsibility for Retail and International Banking and Lloyds, Andrew was Senior Managing Director
the Wealth Division. Antonio is also Group Wholesale Banking Operations Director. and Global Head of Financial Services for
Executive Sponsor for Emerging Talent. Jakob joined the Group in 2004 having spent the Strategic Communications segment of
Antonio joined the Group from Santander, six years with McKinsey & Company, in their FTI Consulting.
where he had worked in a number of different London office. Prior to McKinsey, Jakob spent
leadership roles and jurisdictions since time with Goldman Sachs and Oliver Wyman. 14. Malcolm Wood Company Secretary
1998. He was part of the management team (GEC attendee)
Jakob is also a Non-Executive Director of
that completed the take-over of Alliance & Appointed: November 2014 (GEC)
Scottish Widows.
Leicester and Bradford & Bingley and was
Skills and experience: Malcolm joined the
Chief Financial Officer of Santander UK.
10. Janet Pope Chief of Staff and Group Group as Company Secretary in November
Before Santander, Antonio spent over nine
Director, Responsible Business and Inclusion 2014. Read his full biography on page 53.
years at Arthur Andersen.
Appointed: January 2015 (GEC)
6. Vim Maru Group Director, Retail Skills and experience: Janet joined the Group
Appointed: September 2013 (GEC) in 2008 to run the Savings business. She was
previously Chief Executive at Alliance Trust Skills and experience: Vim was appointed
Savings, prior to which she was EVP Global
Group Director, Retail in September 2017. He
Strategy at Visa International. Janet spent
joined the Group in June 2011 as Managing
10 years at Standard Chartered Bank where
Director, Customer Products. Vim is also a
she held a variety of roles including Retail
UK Finance Board member, leading on Retail
Banking MD for Africa and non-executive
Banking. Previously Vim worked for over
directorships at Standard Chartered Bank
12 years at Santander, in a range of roles in
Zimbabwe, Kenya, Zambia and Botswana.
Corporate Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions,
Janet is Chair of the Charities Aid Foundation
the Life Division and most recently held the
Bank and a Non-Executive Director of
position of Director, Retail Products.
the Banking Standards Board. She is also
7. Zaka Mian Group Director, Transformation the Group’s Executive Sponsor for Sexual
Orientation and Gender Identity.
Appointed: August 2016 (GEC)
Skills and experience: Zak joined the Group 11. Stephen Shelley Chief Risk Officer
in 1989 as a Business Analyst in IT and has Appointed: September 2017 (GEC)
carried out multiple roles involving Retail
Skills and experience: Stephen was appointed
CIO, Head of IT Architecture and leading
Chief Risk Officer in September 2017. He
the Digital Transformation programme. He
joined the Group in May 2011 as Chief Credit
was appointed Group Director, Digital and
Officer for Wholesale, Commercial and
Transformation in 2016 and his responsibilities
International. In October 2012 he became
increased in September 2017 as the Group
Risk Director, Commercial Banking Risk
Director, Transformation. He is responsible
and was also a member of the Commercial
for the digital transformation of the Group,
Banking Management Group. Prior to joining
including all IT and business change, and
56 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report
Our Board in 20181
Gender diversity Skills and experience Board tenure Age
(Non-Executive Directors only)
A. Retail/Commercial Banking 7 out of 10 E. A. A.
C.
B. B.
Financial markets/wholesale banking/ 8 out of 10
B. corporate clients
Insurance 5 out of 10 D. C.
Prudential and conduct risk in 10 out of 10
A. Male: 9 financial institutions A. 0-2 years: 2 A. 46-55: 2
B. Female: 4 Core technology operations 5 out of 10 B. 2-4 years: 2 B. 56-65: 9
C. 4-6 years: 4 C. 66-75: 2
Government/regulatory 10 out of 10 D. 6-8 years: 4
E. 8+ years: 1
Consumer/marketing/distribution 8 out of 10
Strategic thinking 10 out of 10
1 Data as at 31 December 2018. Amanda Mackenzie joined the Board on 1 October 2018, and Deborah McWhinney retired from the Board on 31 December 2018.
Board and Committee composition and attendance in 20184
Nomination and Audit Board Risk Remuneration Responsible
Board member Board meetings Governance CommitteeCommittee Committee Committee Business Committee
Lord Blackwell (C) 8/8 7/7 C – 8/8 6/6 4/4
António Horta-Osório 8/8 – – – – –
Juan Colombás 8/8 – – – – –
George Culmer 8/8 – – – – –
Alan Dickinson 8/8 7/7 7/7 8/8 C 6/6 –
Anita Frew 8/8 6/7 7/7 8/8 6/6 C 3 4/4
Simon Henry 7/8 – 7/7 C 8/8 – –
Lord Lupton 8/8 – 6/7 8/8 – –
Amanda Mackenzie1 1/1 – – 2/2 – 1/1
Deborah McWhinney2 8/8 – 6/7 8/8 – –
Nick Prettejohn 8/8 – 7/7 8/8 – –
Stuart Sinclair 7/8 – – 7/8 6/6 C 3 4/4
Sara Weller 8/8 7/7 – 8/8 6/6 4/4 C
1 Amanda Mackenzie joined the Board and respective Committees on 1 October 2018.
2 Deborah McWhinney retired from the Board on 31 December 2018.
3 Stuart Sinclair succeeded Anita Frew as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 September 2018.
4 Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting s/he receives papers in advance and has the opportunity to provide comments to the Chair of the Board, or to the relevant Committee Chair.
C Chairman
‘Deep dive’ sessions
The Board regularly takes the opportunity to hold ‘deep dive’ sessions with senior
management outside formal Board meetings. The purpose of the sessions is to provide the
Board with deeper insight into key areas of strategic focus, whilst providing Directors with a
greater understanding and appreciation for the subject matter to help drive better quality of
debate and enhance knowledge. The sessions are structured to allow plenty of opportunity for
discussion and include presentations and videos.
In 2018 deep dive sessions were held on the following topics:
IT Architecture Strategy
People and ways of working (initial deep dive in April, and update meeting in October)
Open Banking
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc update
Scottish Widows strategy
Governance of GSR3 and value streams
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Key focus areas
The Board sets the strategy, oversees its Strategy Governance and stakeholders1
delivery and establishes the culture, values
and standards of the Group. The Board Two strategy away days to review Establishment of the operational,
ensures that the Group manages risk the progress in implementing the organisational and governance structure
effectively, monitors financial performance Group’s strategy for the Ring-Fenced Banks.
and reporting and ensures that appropriate
‘Deep dive’ on IT Architecture
and effective succession planning Board effectiveness and Chairman’s
Strategy
arrangements and remuneration policies performance reviews
are in place. It provides and encourages ‘Deep dive’ on Open Banking AGM documentation approval and
entrepreneurial leadership across the Group Consideration and approval of subsequent voting results briefing
within this framework.
large transactions Review and approval of the
Below are details of the Cloud strategy, which supports Corporate Governance Framework
m
by
a
t
in
h e
to
B
p
o
ic
a
s
rd
d
d
is
u
c
r
u
in
ss
g
e
t
d
h e
GITISE M AXIM
I
t
T
h e
a r
t
c
ra
h
n
it
s
e
f
c
o
t
r
u
m
re
a tion of the Group’s R
G
e
ro
vi
u
e
p
w
p
a
o
n
l
d
ic
a
ie
p
s
p
in
ro
c
v
lu
a
d
l o
in
f
g
v a
S
r
ig
io
n
u
i
s
n g Authorities,
year. DI C L U E S A T D O I M NG ER ISE Group Statement on Modern Slavery,
EXPERIENCE
and Board and GEC Members’
Dealing Policy
TRANSFORM
Investor Relations updates
Customers
Discussions and decisions Revised principal Committee responsibilities
Annual review of customer conduct Chairman’s fee review
framework and risks (without Chairman present)
Regular updates
Performance reviews against customer Non-Executive Directors’ fees review
dashboard (with Non-Executive Directors’ abstaining)
Group Performance Report
Deep dives on customer propositions, Going concern and viability statement
Finance report, including budgets,
including mortgage offerings and
forecast and capital positions Banking Standards Board update
transforming customer journeys
Risk reports Board appointments and Executive
Processes and outcomes for fair
succession plans
2018 customer performance dashboard treatment of customer complaints
and remediation 1 Further details regarding stakeholder engagement can be
Chairman’s report found on pages 16 to 18.
Progress in providing a ‘single
Reports from Chairmen of Committees
customer view’ of Group products and
and principal subsidiaries
supporting Open Banking developments
Supporting vulnerable customers and
Regulatory
customers in financial difficulty
Updates on our support for financial inclusion Ring-Fenced Banking updates
Financial
Whistleblowing updates
2018 budget Regulatory updates
Dividend approval Senior Manager and Certification
Culture and values
Regime updates
Update on structural hedging strategy
Pension scheme valuations ‘Deep dive’ on people and ways
of working in April, and an additional
Group Corporate Treasury Management
deep dive in October
information pack
Helping Britain Prosper Plan Risk management
GSR3 and four year operating plan
Conduct, culture and values –
Draft results and presentations to analysts
Culture dashboard Approval of Group risk appetite
Funding and liquidity plans
Responsible business report Cyber security briefings
Capital plan
Review and approval of conduct risk
Basel Pillar 3 disclosures
Review and approval of PRA and
Annual report and Form 20-F EBA stress testing results
Unconsolidated income statement Review and approval of the
Risk Management Framework
Group treasury plan 2019
58 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report continued
Governance in action
Schroders joint venture following a structured Request for Proposal process, involving two
rounds of bidding, due diligence, site visits, client references and joint
On 23 October 2018, the Group announced a strategic partnership
implementation workshops. An evaluation process indicated that
with Schroders plc to create a market-leading wealth management
Schroders would be the preferred bidder, with Schroders standing
proposition. The three key components of the partnership are:
out on strategic alignment as well as investment performance, which
(i) the establishment of a new financial planning joint venture (the ‘JV’); was seen as key to building a successful long-term relationship. The
(ii) the Group taking a 19.9 per cent stake in Schroders high net worth recommendation included the proposed strategic partnership with
UK wealth management business; and the Wealth business, which would benefit the Insurance business.
The recommendation to appoint Schroders to manage the funds was
(iii) the appointment of Schroders as the active investment manager of
accepted in principle by the Insurance Board, subject to approval of the
approximately £80 billion of the Scottish Widows and Lloyds Banking
proposed JV arrangements by the Group Board. Group Board approval
Group insurance and wealth related assets.
of the JV proposals was obtained on 2 October 2018.
This strategic partnership will combine the Group’s significant
The JV element of the partnership was considered by the main Group
client base, multi-channel distribution and digital capabilities with
Board. Initially papers were presented at scheduled Board meetings,
Schroders’ investment and wealth management expertise and
but as the proposal progressed, a Committee of the Board considered
technology capabilities.
and approved the project to provide flexibility, to better respond to the
As part of the structure of the partnership, the Board considered two needs of the business and engage in governance of the project, which
primary elements: was important for the implementation of the Group’s strategy in the
The management of the insurance and wealth related assets; and area of insurance and wealth, and for the Group as a whole. The Board
scrutinised the proposal to satisfy itself that the establishment of the
The establishment of the JV
JV was in the best interests of the Group’s customers. The Board
Management of the assets was largely the responsibility of the
considered, amongst other things, the process for referring Group
Insurance Business. In July 2018, a recommendation was made to the
customers to the JV and that the standards of customer service would
Insurance Board (and the Boards of all the other entities that were to be
meet the Group’s values and standards, ensuring that customers were at
parties to the arrangements) proposing that Schroders be appointed
the heart of the decision being made.
as core investment management and investment advisory partner
Revised Group governance arrangements and the ‘Equity sub-group’ under a new equity holding company, LBG
Group restructure to comply with ring-fencing Equity Investments Limited, under which the principal subsidiary is
Lloyds Development Capital Limited.
Following the financial crisis, UK legislation was passed to better protect
customers and the day-to-day banking services they rely on. The new
rules mean large UK banks must separate personal banking services Lloyds Banking Group plc
such as current and savings accounts from risks in other parts of the
business, like investment banking. This is called ring-fencing. Banks have Aligned Boards
taken different approaches on how they implement these rules with
effect from 1 January 2019.
Lloyds Bank plc1
Scottish
The Group, led by the Nomination and Governance Committee, has Lloyds Bank LBG Equity
Widows
worked closely with the Regulators to ensure that there is in place a HBOS plc Corporate Group Investments
Group structure and governance arrangements which are appropriate Markets plc Limited Limited
Bank of Scotland plc1
for the Group, and meet regulatory requirements. Lloyds Bank plc and
Bank of Scotland plc have been identified as the banks which have been
included within the ring-fence (together, the ‘Ring-Fenced Banks’).
Broadly, there are three key PRA principles that underpin the governance Ring-Fenced Banks1 Non Ring-Fenced Bank Insurance Equity Investments
structure for the Ring-Fenced Banks.
The board structure
Independent decision making by the Ring-Fenced Bank Boards – on
To facilitate effective governance, the boards of Lloyds Banking Group
any matters where there might be a conflict between the interests of
plc, Lloyds Bank plc, Bank of Scotland plc and HBOS plc are run on an
the Ring-Fenced Banks and the interests of another part of the Group,
aligned basis as the business of the Ring-Fenced Banks accounts for
ensuring that the Ring-Fenced Bank Boards act in the interests of the
the majority of the Group’s operations. This involves the Directors of
Ring-Fenced Banks.
Lloyds Banking Group plc also sitting on the Boards of the other three
Risks considered and managed from the Ring-Fenced Banks’ companies. To provide further support to the fulfilment of the three
perspective – this includes maintenance of the capital adequacy and key principles of governance of the Ring-Fenced Banks outlined above,
liquidity of the Ring-Fenced Banks.
three additional independent Non-Executive Directors have been
Clear and effective governance at both Ring-Fenced Bank and appointed to the Ring-Fenced Bank Boards.
Lloyds Banking Group plc level – including second and third lines of Consistent with the existing independent Scottish Widows Limited
defence in respect of risk management.
Board, Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc also has an independent
In order to meet ring-fencing requirements a major governance and Board. Further detail on the risk management framework of the Group
legal entity programme has been implemented across the Group, which and of each sub-group is set out on page 106.
has included the following aspects:
New directors of the Ring-Fenced Banks
Reorganisation During the first quarter of the year the Nomination and Governance
The reorganisation of the subsidiaries of the Group, which have now Committee oversaw the selection process and recommendation for
been restructured into four sub-groups under Lloyds Banking Group plc: appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors to the Boards
the ‘Ring-Fenced Bank sub-group’ containing Lloyds Bank plc and of Lloyds Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc. As described in the
Bank of Scotland plc (which includes the Halifax business and MBNA); Chairman’s introduction on page 51, Sarah Bentley, Brendan Gilligan and
the ‘LBCM sub-group’ under Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc, Nigel Hinshelwood were recruited during the year, and took office with
which now holds the Group’s subsidiaries and branches in the Crown effect from 1 January 2019. All the Ring-Fenced Bank only Directors sit
Dependencies, Singapore and the US. A number of client agreements on the Board Risk Committees of each of the Ring-Fenced Banks and
were also transferred from Lloyds Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc to two are members of the relevant Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc in order to comply with the ring- Nigel Hinshelwood, who is the Senior Independent Director of each of
fencing regulatory requirements which took effect on 1 January 2019; the Ring-Fenced Banks with effect from 1 January 2019, is also a member
of the Nomination Committee of each of the Ring-Fenced Banks.
the ‘Insurance sub-group’ under Scottish Widows Group Limited
(including Scottish Widows Limited); and
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Q&A with Alan Dickinson, Chair of the Board Risk Committee
Q: How do we remain focused on resolving Aside from the balance sheet impacts of such
legacy conduct, litigation and regulatory events, operational resilience has become
matters? ever more important as the processes and
systems by which banks provide their services
A: The Committee pays a great deal of
become ever more technologically reliant
attention to these issues. Whilst PPI mis-selling
and dependent upon continued smooth
is by far the most costly and well known issue,
running of services provided in-house and
there remain many smaller issues which
through expert third parties. The demand for
have been identified over the years since the
change and more sophisticated services in
financial crisis. The Group has established
itself brings operational risk as platforms are
very considerable resources to address
changed. Add on the increasing risk of cyber
these potential redress requirements and
attacks and operational resilience is receiving
has made material progress over the last
Q: What is the Group’s risk appetite and risk a very considerable amount of attention from
12 months in resolving these matters. In very
tolerance? the Board Risk Committee.
many cases our customers may have been
A: Taking risk is a critical part of what unaware of their potential claim. The Board Change also brings other risks. It is important
any bank must do. How well it does that Risk Committee has placed great emphasis to provide the ever more user friendly and
determines how well it meets the needs of on clearing up these issues and achieving sophisticated services that the banking
its customers and how successful it will be as resolution as rapidly as possible and reviews customers of tomorrow increasingly require,
an organisation. progress at each and every meeting. and will obtain from other suppliers if we do
The Board Risk Committee has three not. Changing processes and systems that
key responsibilities. Q: What are the biggest risk factors to our have been established over decades if not
industry and what steps are we taking to more and making the organisation agile and
The first is to review the environment in
address them? able to respond to demand, is a very material
which the Group is operating – factors such
as the economic and geopolitical climate A: Even in the best of times, it is essential risk and will take up a great deal of the Board
for example – and recommend for Board for banks to be aware of both inherent and Risk Committee’s time for many years ahead.
approval how much risk the Group should emerging risks of which there are many.
Q: What keeps you awake at night?
take – the ‘Risk Appetite’. This will usually be a The inherent risks receive regular scrutiny,
maximum level of risk in any one area – such but emerging risks require special attention A: Fortunately, I sleep pretty well. The
as how large a proportion of new mortgage particularly with a banking group the size of comprehensive work programme undertaken
loans should be represented by high loan to Lloyds Banking Group. by the Board Risk Committee means
value loans, typically to first time buyers. The sheer scale of our balance sheet and that most issues have been reviewed in
detail and actions taken or accelerated
The second is to ensure that the ways in the nature of banking in taking deposits and
where appropriate.
which the risk that is taken are effective and lending those deposits on to other customers
efficient, for example setting out policies means that we are mindful of the risks in The greater concerns lie where it is simply
and procedures to be followed and checks the UK economy at any time and indeed in impossible to be in control of events be
and balances to make sure that the right the global economy given that, as a trading they geopolitical or, say, operational such as
actions happen. This is the Risk Management nation, what goes on in the world will very cyber-security. It is much easier to predict with
Framework which is reviewed regularly by rapidly impact the UK. The geopolitical accuracy potential losses from lending on
the Board Risk Committee to give comfort situation and, closer to home, EU exit are very mortgage or credit card than the reputational
that it is still guiding the Group to do those important risk factors to be considered when and financial losses that might arise from a
things right. assessing the Group’s Risk Appetite. successful cyber-attack.
The third responsibility is to continually assess As economic cycles mature, it is important to Ensuring that the Group is as prepared as it
the ways in which Group colleagues have risk be mindful of the impact of the money supply possibly can be with the strongest defences
in mind when doing their jobs – what I would upon asset prices and to gauge the impact and tools at its disposal is the only prudent
call the ‘Risk Culture’. The role of the Board of a sudden reversal of asset price growth course to take and is one we have pursued
and its Risk Committee is to set the ‘tone from on investor sentiment, markets and the real vigorously in recent years to protect the
the top’ – to set an example as to what risks to economy. We are always wary of asset price Group and all of its customers from whatever
take and how to manage those risks. bubbles and the potential impact upon an might happen in the future.
ever more closely linked global economy of a
sudden reversal.
Beyond Board meetings Where further training or awareness is identified, such as new
technology, regulations or sector advances, deep dives are held
Non-Executive Directors regularly meet with senior management and
with the relevant field expert to provide overviews, chances to raise
spend time increasing their understanding of the business through
questions, and debate the impacts on business in an informal setting.
site visits, formal briefing sessions or more informal events including
Details of the new mandatory training that has been rolled out to the
breakfast meetings with senior staff. These informal meetings allow
Non-Executive Directors this year can be seen on page 63.
Directors greater time to discuss business in an informal setting,
ensuring that there is sufficient time for the Board to discuss matters of a The Board held joint discussions with Scottish Widows Group Limited
material nature at Board meetings. in April, and Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets plc in September. These
meetings are important in respect of both governance and the sharing
Non-Executive Directors see attendance at Board and Committee
of best practice. They also provide the opportunity for in-depth focus
meetings as only one part of their role. In addition to the annual
on both insurance and corporate markets matters. Performance and
schedule of Board and Committee meetings, the Non-Executive
business updates are also provided, and, in the case of Lloyds Bank
Directors undertake a full programme of activities and engagements
Corporate Markets plc, updates on key milestones in respect of the
each year, please see pages 16 to 18 for more information.
development of this new bank.
60 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report continued
How our Board works
Meetings, activities and processes
The right processes in place to deliver on our In the rare event of a Director being unable to attend a meeting, the
strategy Chairmen of the respective meetings discuss the matters proposed with
the Director concerned wherever possible, seeking their support and
During the year, there were eight scheduled Board meetings, with details feedback accordingly. The Chairman subsequently represents those
of attendance shown on page 56. In addition to formal meetings, the views at the meeting.
Board meets as necessary to consider matters of a time-sensitive nature.
The Board recognises the need to be adaptable and flexible to respond
The Chairman and the Chairmen of each Committee ensure Board
to changing circumstances and emerging business priorities, whilst
and Committee meetings are structured to facilitate open discussion,
ensuring the continuing monitoring and oversight of core issues.
debate and challenge.
The Group has a comprehensive and continuous agenda setting and
The Board is supported by its Committees which make
escalation process in place to ensure that the Board has the right
recommendations on matters delegated to them under the
information at the right time and in the right format to enable the
Corporate Governance Framework, in particular in relation to Board
Directors to make the right decisions. The Chairman leads the process,
appointments internal control risk, financial reporting, governance and
assisted by the Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary. The
remuneration issues.
process ensures that sufficient time is being set aside for strategic
The management of all Committees is in keeping with the basis on which discussions and business critical items.
meetings of the Board are managed. Each of the Committees’ structures
The process of escalating issues and agenda setting is reviewed at least
facilitates open discussion and debate, with steps taken to ensure
annually as part of the Board Effectiveness Review with enhancements
adequate time for members of the Committees to consider proposals
made to the process, where necessary, to ensure it remains effective.
which are put forward.
Details of the meeting process are provided on the next page.
The Executive Directors make decisions within clearly defined
The Non-Executive Directors also receive regular updates from the
parameters which are documented within the Corporate Governance
Group Chief Executive’s office including a weekly email which gives
Framework. However, where appropriate, any activities outside the
context to current issues. In-depth and background materials are regularly
ordinary course of business are brought to the full Board for their
provided via a designated area on the secure electronic Board portal.
consideration, even if the matters fall within the agreed parameters.
The Corporate Governance Framework helps to ensure that decisions A full schedule of matters reserved for the Board and Terms of
are made by management with the correct authority. Reference for each of the principal Committees can be found at
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com
Q&A with Anita Frew, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director
Regarding the Board as a whole, I act as concerns and as such I delegate much of
a trusted intermediary for the other Non- the day-to-day activity to these trusted
Executive Directors where this is required colleagues. I retain oversight over the team
to help them to challenge and contribute through regular catch up meetings and
effectively; and take the initiative in discussion have a direct reporting line for matters that
with the Chairman or other Board members require escalation to me. On an annual
if it should seem that the Board is not basis, I am responsible for presenting to the
functioning effectively. Board on the effectiveness of the Group’s
For the Group, as the Ring-Fenced Bank arrangements and this includes relevant case
structure is now in place, I also liaise and updates, industry perspective and whether
Q: What is your role as Senior Independent collaborate with the Ring-Fenced Bank Senior the internal processes are effective to handle
Director? Independent Director where appropriate. disclosures properly.
A: I have a number of different stakeholders to Q: Where does the Senior Independent Q: Are you satisfied the Company has
whom I am accountable, being shareholders, Director add value? a robust process in place in respect of
whistleblowing?
the Chairman, the other Directors and the A: The role of the Senior Independent
Group as a whole. I make myself available to Director has grown enormously in the past A: The Group’s whistleblowing arrangements
shareholders when there are concerns that few years, and I believe stakeholders really are subject to annual review by Group
have not or cannot be dealt with through the value this alternative contact within the Board, Internal Audit. This provides an opportunity
usual channels of the Chairman or Executive providing a highly versatile intermediary with for an independent party to review the
Directors. I also attend regular meetings with the Board and senior management. This is whistleblowing processes and test whether
major shareholders to ensure that there is a supported by me having a close relationship they are effective. The results to date from
balanced understanding of the issues and with the stakeholders to reinforce the trust these reviews have been positive compared
concerns that this group of shareholders have. and confidence needed to perform the to our peers. The Audit Committee and
I act as a sounding board for the Chairman role effectively. The majority of my role Board also receive regular reports regarding
and Group Chief Executive on Board and is undertaken during normal business whistleblowing.
shareholder matters, and have regular circumstances, but recognising that I will In addition, the Group has recently
meetings with both. In matters relating to need to step in when any issues arise. The participated in a benchmarking exercise
the Chairman such as his performance and relationships fostered during times of normal led by Protect. Protect (formerly known as
conduct evaluation, agreeing his objectives business provide a strong basis to deal with Public Concern at Work) provide external
and succession planning, I will Chair the any such issues effectively and independently. confidential advice. Colleagues can contact
Nomination and Governance Committee in Q: As Whistleblowing Champion for the the independent UK Whistleblowing charity,
his place to ensure independence. I will also Group, what are the reporting lines to you, and Protect who can talk you through your options
conduct his annual appraisal, and deal with how do matters get escalated to the Board? and help you raise a concern about risk,
any concerns regarding the Chairman that malpractice or suspected wrongdoing at
other members of the Board have. A: My role as the Group’s whistleblowing work. This exercise reviewed the governance,
Champion is to oversee the integrity,
engagement and operational arrangements
independence and effectiveness of the
and compared these to other financial
Group’s procedures for whistleblowing. There
and non-financial companies. The Group
is a dedicated team within the Group that
scored positively with the results showing a
is responsible for managing whistleblowing
favourable position.
62 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report continued
How our Board works
This is a well functioning Board underpinned by
Assessing our effectiveness a shared purpose, strong team dynamics and
robust processes.2
Board evaluation If Directors have concerns about the Company or a proposed action
which cannot be resolved, it is recorded in the Board minutes. Also
How the Board performs and is evaluated
on resignation, Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to provide a
In accordance with the three-year cycle, the 2018 effectiveness
written statement of any concerns to the Chairman, for circulation to
review was facilitated externally by Egon Zehnder1, an external
the Board. No such concerns were raised in 2018 and up to the date of
board evaluation specialist, between August 2018 and January 2019.
this report.
The annual effectiveness review, which is facilitated externally at
least once every three years, provides an opportunity to consider
ways of identifying greater efficiencies, maximising strengths and External evaluation process
highlighting areas of further development. The effectiveness review was
commissioned by the Board, assisted by the Company Secretary and Stage 1 – August 2018
overseen by the Nomination and Governance Committee. Details of this
Initial meetings with the Chairman took place to build on the
effectiveness review are provided below.
existing questionnaire and establish a discussion guide. Analysis
The Board conducted internal effectiveness reviews in 2016 and 2017. of the existing skills matrix was undertaken. This enabled Egon
These were led by the Chairman of the Board, and included a review Zehnder to understand the Board’s purpose and scope out the
of effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors effectiveness review.
with the support of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Stage 2 – September to November 2018
Performance evaluation of the Chairman is carried out by the Non-
Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, taking into Questionnaires were sent to the Directors ahead of the one-to-one
account the views of the Executive Directors. interviews with each Director. Egon Zehnder also attended the
November Board meeting. This enabled Egon Zehnder to witness
2018 evaluation of the Board’s performance
and evaluate the Board’s processes and behaviours.
The 2018 effectiveness review sought the Directors’ views on a range of
topics including: strategy; planning and performance; risk and control; Stage 3 – January 2019
Board composition and size; balance of skills and experience; diversity;
Findings were reviewed with the Company Secretary. The summary
culture and dynamics; the Board’s calendar and agenda; the quality and
findings were then shared and discussed with the Chairman and
timeliness of information; and support for Directors and Committees.
feedback on each of the Committees was shared with the relevant
The effectiveness review findings focus on both evaluation of principal Committees. The final summary was presented to the Board
effectiveness of the Board as a whole, and of the individual Directors. in January at a meeting facilitated by Egon Zehnder. Feedback on
individual Directors is shared with the Chairman.
Highlights from the 2018 review
The evaluation concluded that the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and each of the Directors continues to be effective.
All Directors demonstrated commitment to their roles.
The key findings and areas for consideration include the following:
Findings Areas for consideration
Purpose of creating the conditions for sound Despite strong engagement in strategy the Board agenda is
Purpose and
governance and renewed stakeholder perceived to be still overly rooted in regulatory compliance and risk
Strategy
confidence has been well executed mitigation. Looking ahead, there is an opportunity for the Board to
through tight controls and disciplined become more outwardly-focused.
risk management;
The strategy is clear and the Directors are
aligned on strategic priorities.
Controls and governance are very strong; Further streamlining of meeting papers and agendas to enable
Processes
Committees are broadly well chaired; more expansive discussion;
The 2018 strategy review process was hailed The increase in the number of Directors attending aligned
as a great success in allowing for wide- Board meetings may require different disciplines in the conduct
ranging and free-flowing debate. of meetings;
Large attendance of Committee meetings could inhibit debate.
The Chairman: Consideration as to whether there is scope for bringing further
People
– has focused on building an independently- technology know-how to the Board in due course;
minded, diverse Board, and has laid the Non-Executive Directors would like to offer greater support to the
foundations for an open Board culture; Chairman by leveraging their unique skills and experience more
– invests considerable one-on-one time with fully.
Non-Executive Directors, which provides
a platform for timely, two-way feedback,
and helps the new Non-Executive Directors
build confidence and a sense of belonging.
Board Directors are committed and suitably
inquisitive. They come well-prepared to
meetings and show a healthy balance
of supporting management and asking
pertinent questions.
1 At the time of the 2018 review Egon Zehnder provided certain Board and senior management level services from time to time, including in respect of succession planning as detailed on page 67,
otherwise Egon Zehnder has no other connection with the Group.
2 2018 Board Effectiveness Review.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Progress against the 2017 internal Board effectiveness evaluation
During the year, work focused particularly on Board papers and presentations. A summary of the Board’s progress against the actions arising from
the 2017 evaluation are set out below.
Recommendations from the 2017 evaluation Actions taken during 2018
Reduction in volume of Board papers. A review of the schedule of Board and Committee meetings took
Board
More concise reports, highlighting important place, and a number of meetings have been removed after being
papers and
points and avoiding unnecessary volume considered unnecessary.
presentations
and repetition. Instructions have been given to all those who produce Board papers
to the Board
Fewer and shorter presentations. to avoid repetition between presentations and briefing papers.
Bespoke training has also been provided by the Company Secretary.
In order to allow more time for discussion, challenge and debate,
certain items of the agenda at Board meetings had no presentations
although the responsible executives were available at the meeting
to respond to queries from the Board.
Enhanced video conferencing facilities have been installed in various
Group locations to improve the quality of remote participation in
meetings when attendance in person is not possible.
Increased feedback from stakeholders other The Group’s brokers attended the Board meeting in April to provide
Stakeholder
than regulators and customers, including investor feedback on the results and strategy announcements.
feedback
shareholders and bondholders. The bi-annual presentation to the Board on reputation contained
information on shareholder sentiment and was attended by the
Group Director of Investor Relations.
A governance lunch was held in November with key institutional
shareholders. This was hosted by the Chairman and the Chairmen of
the Board Committees, and feedback was reported to the Board.
As part of the monthly report to the Board, the CFO now reports
on the Bank of England’s ‘minimum requirements for own funds
and eligible liabilities’ and will continue to highlight significant
developments related to the Group’s debt funding.
Terms of Reference to be reviewed and The Terms of Reference were reviewed, and considered by the
Responsible
updated to avoid duplication of effort in Nomination and Governance Committee in April, and approved by
Business
areas covered by other Committees. the Board in November.
Committee
Terms of
Reference
Major change management; finance; These areas of experience will continue to be considered.
Non- accounting and data experience to be Amanda Mackenzie, appointed in October 2018 has a substantial
Executive considered for future recruitment of amount of experience in respect of change management.
Director Directors.
Recruitment
P rofessional development and training programme at a glance
In addition to the existing methods of training for the Directors, the Board agreed in 2017 that the Non-Executive Directors should be provided with
a mandatory training programme. This was trialled by members of the Nomination and Governance Committee and has since been rolled out to the
rest of the Directors.
Training modules were identified from a list of the topics used by Group colleagues, and following discussions between Group Secretariat, Risk and
Group Learning, the following themes were identified as being the most relevant for Non-Executive Directors:
Anti-Bribery
Competition Law
Information Security
Whistleblowing
Senior Manager and Certification Regime (SMCR) has also been included as an additional theme for all Non-Executive Directors.
Delivery of training
The training is delivered via an online training platform on the Group’s intranet. The Directors can access this at any time, and once the training is
completed, it is recorded on the system to provide a full audit trail. The Directors have completed the modules for 2018.
64 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report continued
How our Board works
Internal control
Board responsibility Control Effectiveness Review
The Board is responsible for the Group’s risk management and internal An annual Control Effectiveness Review (CER) is undertaken to evaluate
control systems, which are designed to facilitate effective and efficient the effectiveness of the Group’s control framework with regard to
operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting its material risks, and to ensure management actions are in place to
and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Directors address key gaps or weaknesses in the control framework. Business
and senior management are committed to maintaining a robust areas and head office functions assess the controls in place to address
control framework as the foundation for the delivery of effective risk all material risk exposures across all risk types. The CER considers
management. The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities in all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance
relation to the Group’s risk management and internal control systems controls. Senior management approve the CER findings which are
and for reviewing their effectiveness. reviewed and independently challenged by the Risk Division and Group
In establishing and reviewing the risk management and internal control Internal Audit and reported to the Board. Action plans are implemented
systems, the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal to address any control deficiencies.
risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its
Reviews by the Board
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, the likelihood
of a risk event occurring and the costs of control. The process for The effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems
identification, evaluation and management of the principal risks faced is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee, which
by the Group is integrated into the Group’s overall framework for risk also receives reports of reviews undertaken by the Risk Division and
governance. The Group is forward-looking in its risk identification Group Internal Audit. The Audit Committee receives reports from the
processes to ensure emerging risks are identified. The risk identification, Company’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (which include details
evaluation and management process also identifies whether the of significant internal control matters that they have identified), and has
controls in place result in an acceptable level of risk. a discussion with the auditor at least once a year without executives
At Group level, a consolidated risk report and risk appetite dashboard present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
are reviewed and regularly debated by the executive Group Risk The Group’s risk management and internal control systems are
Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board to ensure that regularly reviewed by the Board and are consistent with the guidance
they are satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and
mitigating actions. The report and dashboard provide a monthly view Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council and
of the Group’s overall risk profile, key risks and management actions, compliant with the requirements of CRD IV. They have been in place
together with performance against risk appetite and an assessment for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the
of emerging risks which could affect the Group’s performance over Annual Report. The Group has determined a pathway to compliance
the life of the operating plan. Information regarding the main features with BCBS 239 risk data aggregation and risk reporting requirements
of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the and continues to actively manage enhancements.
financial reporting process is provided within the risk management
report on pages 105 to 159. The Board concluded that the Group’s risk
management arrangements are adequate to provide assurance that
the risk management systems put in place are suitable with regard to
the Group’s profile and strategy.
Workforce engagement employees, contingent workers and third- discussion and debate to encourage a
party suppliers that work on the Group’s meaningful dialogue between the Board and
During the year, the Nomination and
premises delivering services to our customers the workforce.
Governance Committee made a
recommendation to the Board as to how and supporting key business operations. From the second quarter of 2019, the Board
the Board would engage with the ‘wider will receive a report on a quarterly basis to
Engagement activity and developing
workforce’ as a key stakeholder following provide further oversight and insight into
dialogue
the Financial Reporting Council’s recent workforce related activity and support with
Board members already participate in a
guidelines. The Board has discussed and key decision making.
number of key engagement activities such
agreed the approach to engagement as site visits, Q&A sessions, colleague For details of Board engagement with
during 2019, methods of gathering and feedback sessions, Chairman’s breakfasts, colleagues during 2018, please see page 17.
documenting workforce views, and
and the Helping Britain Prosper Live events.
considering how feedback provided by Raising concerns in confidence
Enhancements to current engagement
the workforce would be presented to and The Group’s existing whistleblowing channel
activities have been agreed to provide the
considered by the Board on a timely basis. provides an opportunity for both colleagues
opportunity for feedback, themes and
and the wider workforce to raise concerns in
The definition of the Group’s ‘workforce’ was viewpoints of the wider workforce to be
confidence.
considered and agreed as ‘our permanent brought to the attention of the Board for
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Complying with the UK Corporate Governance
Code 2016
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 (the ‘Code’) applied to the Lloyds Banking Group 2018 financial year. The Group confirms that it
applied the main principles and complied with all the provisions of the Code throughout the year. The Group has been subject to the provisions
of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 since January 2019, and will report on this next year. The Code is publicly available at www.frc.org.uk.
The following two pages explain how we have applied the Main Principles and the provisions of the Code during the year.
The Group has adopted the UK Finance Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure and its 2018 financial statements have been prepared in compliance
with its principles.
A. Leadership
A1. The Board’s Role The Group is led by an effective, committed unitary Board, which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the
Group. The Group’s Corporate Governance Framework, which is reviewed annually by the Board, sets out a number of key decisions and matters that
are reserved for the Board’s approval. Further details can be found online at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com and on page 60.
Independent Responsibilities
Chairman Lord Blackwell leads the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance. He sets the
Lord Blackwell Board’s agenda and builds an effective and complementary Board. The Chairman leads Board succession
planning and ensures effective communication with shareholders.
Executive Directors António Horta-Osório manages and leads the Group on a day-to-day basis and makes decisions on
Group Chief Executive matters affecting the operation, performance and strategy of the Group’s business. He delegates aspects
António Horta-Osório of his own authority, as permitted under the Corporate Governance Framework, to other members of the
Group Executive Committee.
Chief Financial Officer Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, George Culmer and Juan Colombás make and
George Culmer implement decisions in all matters affecting operations, performance and strategy. They provide specialist
knowledge and experience to the Board. Together with António Horta-Osório, George Culmer and
Chief Operating Officer
Juan Colombás design, develop and implement strategic plans and deal with day-to-day operations of
Juan Colombás
the Group.
Non-Executive Directors As Deputy Chairman, Anita Frew would ensure continuity of chairmanship during any change of
Deputy Chairman and chairmanship. She supports the Chairman in representing the Board and acts as a spokesperson.
Senior Independent She deputises for the Chairman and is available to the Board for consultation and advice.
Director The Deputy Chairman may represent the Group’s interests to official enquiries and review bodies.
Anita Frew As Senior Independent Director, Anita Frew is also a sounding board for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
She acts as a conduit for the views of other Non-Executive Directors and conducts the Chairman’s annual
performance appraisal. She is available to help resolve shareholders’ concerns and attend meetings with
major shareholders and financial analysts to understand issues and concerns.
Alan Dickinson
Simon Henry
Lord Lupton The Non-Executive Directors challenge management constructively and help develop and set the Group’s
strategy. They actively participate in Board decision-making and scrutinise management performance.
Amanda Mackenzie¹
The Non-Executive Directors satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and review the
Deborah McWhinney2 Group’s risk exposures and controls. The Non-Executive Directors, through the Remuneration Committee,
determine the remuneration of Executive Directors.
Nick Prettejohn
Stuart Sinclair
Sara Weller
Company Secretary The Company Secretary advises the Board on various matters including governance and ensures good
Malcolm Wood information flows and comprehensive practical support is provided to Directors. He maintains the Group’s
Corporate Governance Framework and organises Directors’ induction and training. The Company Secretary
communicates with shareholders as appropriate and ensures due regard is paid to their interests. Both the
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
1 Amanda Mackenzie joined the Board with effect from 1 October 2018.
2 Deborah McWhinney left the Board with effect from 31 December 2018.
A2. Division of responsibilities There is clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company, as noted above. As documented in the Group’s
Corporate Governance Framework there is clear separation between the role of the Chairman, who is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness
of the Board, and the Chief Executive, who is responsible for the running of the Company’s business.
A3. Role of the Chairman The Chairman has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness. The responsibilities
of the Chairman and his fellow Directors are set out above.
Lord Blackwell was independent on appointment.
66 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report continued
A4. Role of the Non-Executive Directors The Senior Independent All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary in
Director (‘SID’), Anita Frew, acts as a sounding board for the Chairman relation to the discharge of their duties.
and Group Chief Executive. She can be contacted by shareholders and B6. Board and Committee performance and evaluation An
other Directors as required. externally facilitated performance evaluation was completed in 2018,
The Non-Executive Directors challenge management constructively with internally facilitated evaluations having taken place in 2016 and
and help develop and set the Group’s strategy. 2017. More information can be found on pages 62 to 63, along with the
Meetings are held between the Non-Executive Directors in the absence findings, actions, and progress made during the year.
of the Executive Directors, and at least once a year in the absence of B7. Re-election of Directors At the 2019 AGM all Directors will seek
the Chairman. re-election or election. Being the first AGM following her appointment,
Further information on meeting arrangements and the responsibilities Amanda Mackenzie will stand for election, with all other Directors
of the Directors are given on pages 59 to 61 and 65 respectively. standing for re-election. The Board believes that all Directors continue
to be effective and committed to their roles.
B. Effectiveness
C. Accountability
B1. The Board’s composition The balance of skills, experience,
independence, and knowledge on the Board is the responsibility of C1. Financial and business reporting The Code requirement
the Nomination and Governance Committee, and is reviewed annually that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable is
or whenever appointments are considered. Having the right balance considered throughout the drafting and reviewing process and the
on the Board and its Committees helps to ensure that those bodies Board has concluded that the 2018 Annual Report is fair balanced
discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively. and understandable. The Directors’ and Auditors’ Statements
of Responsibility can be found on pages 81 and 161 respectively.
In particular, the Nomination and Governance Committee monitors
Information on the Company’s business model and strategy can be
whether there are any relationships or circumstances which may
found on pages 1 to 35.
affect a Director’s independence. Following the most recent review
of independence the Committee concluded that all Non-Executive C2. Risk management and internal control systems The Board is
Directors are independent in character and judgement as shown on responsible for the Group’s risk management and internal controls
page 65. systems; see page 64 for more detail regarding internal control. The
Audit Committee is responsible for the effectiveness of internal controls
More information on the annual Board effectiveness review can be
and the Risk Management Framework. Further information can be
found on pages 62 to 63 and information on the Board Diversity Policy
found on pages 70 to 73.
can be found on page 69.
The Board Risk Committee is responsible for the review of the risk
B2. Board appointments The process for Board appointments is led
culture of the Group, setting the tone from the top in respect of risk
by the Nomination and Governance Committee, which then makes a
management. Further information can be found on pages 74 to 77.
recommendation to the Board.
The Directors’ viability statement and confirmation that the business is a
More details about succession planning can be found on page 67.
going concern can be found on page 80.
More information about the work and focus of the Nomination and
C3. Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Board
Governance Committee can be found on pages 67 to 69.
has delegated a number of responsibilities to the Audit Committee,
B3. Time commitments Non-Executive Directors are advised of time including oversight of financial reporting processes, the effectiveness
commitments prior to their appointment and they are required to of the internal controls and the risk management framework,
devote such time as necessary to discharge their duties effectively. whistleblowing arrangements and the work undertaken by the external
The time commitments of the Directors are considered by the Board on and internal auditors. The Audit Committee Report which can be found
appointment and annually, and following the most recent review, the on pages 70 to 73, sets out how the Committee has discharged its
Board is satisfied that there are no Directors whose time commitments duties and areas of focus during the year.
are considered to be a matter for concern. External appointments,
which may affect existing time commitments for the Board’s business, D. Remuneration
must be agreed with the Chairman, and prior Board approval must be
obtained before taking on any new external appointments. D1. Level and elements of remuneration The Group is committed
to offering all colleagues a reward package that is competitive,
No Executive Director has either taken up more than one
performance-driven and fair and its Remuneration Policy is designed
Non-Executive Director role at a FTSE100 company or taken up
to promote the long term success of the Company. The Directors’
the Chairmanship of such a company.
Remuneration Report on pages 82 to 99 provides full details regarding
More information on Directors’ attendance at Board and Committee the remuneration of Directors. The Remuneration Policy can be found in
meetings can be found on page 56. the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and remains unchanged since last
B4. Training and development The Chairman leads the training and approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
development of Directors and the Board generally and regularly reviews
and agrees with each Director their individual and combined training D2. Procedure The work of the Remuneration Committee and its focus
and development needs. during the year can be found on page 96.
Ample opportunities, support and resources for learning are provided
E. Relations with Shareholders
through a comprehensive programme, which is in place throughout
the year and comprises both formal and informal training and E1. Shareholder engagement The Board actively engages with all
information sessions. stakeholders including shareholders and more information on our
The Chairman personally ensures that on appointment each Director approach to relations with shareholders can be found on pages 16 to 17.
receives a full, formal and tailored induction. The emphasis is on E2. Use of General Meetings The Board values the AGM as a key
ensuring the induction brings the business and its issues alive for opportunity to meet shareholders. The 2019 AGM will be held on
the new Director, taking account of the specific role they have been 16 May 2019. The whole Board is expected to attend and will be
appointed to fulfil and the skills/experience of the Director to date. available to answer shareholders’ questions.
Directors who take on or change roles during the year attend induction To facilitate shareholder participation, electronic proxy voting and
meetings in respect of those new roles. The Company Secretary voting through the CREST proxy appointment service are available.
maintains a training and development log for each Director. All votes are taken by way of a poll to include all shareholder votes cast.
B5. Provision of information and support The Chairman, supported A webcast of the AGM is carried out to allow shareholders who cannot
by the Company Secretary, ensures that Board members receive attend in person to view the meeting live.
appropriate and timely information.
The Group provides access, at its expense, to the services of independent
Key
professional advisers in order to assist Directors in their role.
Fully Compliant
Board Committees are also provided with sufficient resources to
discharge their duties.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Nomination and Governance Committee report
The Committee has overseen
further development of the
Group’s senior management
succession planning
programme.
Dear Shareholder capability, aspiration and adequacy of knowledge base required to enable robust
current development plans. The identified decision-making. Personal characteristics
Board and GEC changes characteristics are designed to represent around values, judgement and drive are
the particular leadership requirements of aligned with the Group’s target culture.
As reported in my introduction to the those undertaking GEC-level roles within the
Governance Report on page 51, there have Group as we build the Bank of the Future. UK Corporate Governance
been a number of changes to the Board Our ambition is to ensure an Executive Code
during the year, all of which have been team that embraces the diverse strengths of
overseen by the Nomination and Governance individual leaders and collectively exhibits The Financial Reporting Council published in
Committee (the ‘Committee’). The Committee the characteristics expected of a team July an amended UK Corporate Governance
conducted a rigorous process for identifying leading the Group to succeed in a digital Code (the ‘New Code’), which is applicable
and assessing candidates to recruit both world. The GEC characteristics align to the from 1 January 2019, with requirements
the Ring-Fenced Bank only Non-Executive leadership behaviours: inspire delivery; relating to the annual report applicable
Directors and an additional Group Non- encourage simplicity; develop confidence; to the report and accounts for the year
Executive Director. Details of this selection and build trust. Additional emphasis is placed ending 31 December 2019. The Group will
process can be found on page 69. The upon key capabilities required to lead cultural be reporting against this New Code in next
Committee has also overseen the transition transformation, including innovative strategic year’s annual report, but the requirements
from Anita Frew to Stuart Sinclair as the Chair thinking; agile change management; digital have been considered by the Committee and
of the Remuneration Committee Chairman, technology; collaborative team working and the Board during the year under review and
and as part of the succession plan which is in insightful customer perspectives. work has been done to implement changes to
place for senior management, have approved procedures, governance, culture and practice
The GEC characteristics will become the
the appointment of Kate Cheetham as in line with the New Code.
benchmark for the assessment of, and Company Secretary to replace Malcolm Wood
development planning for, GEC members
when he retires from the Group in June 2019. The Group’s Corporate
and attendees as well as successors into those
Following the announcement in October roles. The characteristics will be considered Governance Framework
that George Culmer would be retiring from in addition to knowledge and experience The Corporate Governance Framework was
the Group in the third quarter of 2019, the criteria around breadth of banking/financial updated in 2017 to anticipate the governance
Nomination and Governance Committee services and governance experience. Work requirements of ring-fencing on the basis
conducted a rigorous search process for his was undertaken in September 2018 to of discussions at that time. During 2018,
successor. This led to the announcement support identified successors in reviewing and the Corporate Governance Framework
in February 2019 that, subject to customary refreshing their development plans to ensure was further updated to include additional
regulatory approvals, William Chalmers would that these directly support their succession amendments to reflect commitments made to
join the Group in June 2019, becoming an readiness in line with the characteristics. the Regulator. These amendments included
Executive Director and Chief Finance Officer
During the year GEC members and wording to reflect the role of Risk Officer
when George steps down.
attendees have been assessed against the for the Ring-Fenced Banks, particularly in
GEC characteristics, with both a desktop relation to the Risk Committees, additional
Board effectiveness review
assessment and self-assessments by GEC detail on the conduct of aligned Board and
As highlighted in my letter on page 51, an members and attendees. These have been Committee meetings, and clarification of
externally facilitated Board effectiveness reviewed by the Group Chief Executive and the management of conflict issues. More
review was conducted during the year. me, and formed the basis for discussion information on the aligned meetings can
This was overseen by the Committee, and full with the Committee and other Board be found on page 58.
details are provided on pages 62 to 63. members about executive capabilities and The Committee has also overseen
succession plans. amendments to the Corporate Governance
Succession planning
Individual assessment scores against the GEC Framework to reflect the requirements of the
The Committee continued its work on characteristics have been shared with each New Code ahead of implementation in 2019.
succession planning during the year, focusing GEC member and attendee for discussion Lord Blackwell
on the level below the Group Executive with their line manager. Additional personal Chairman, Nomination and
Committee (GEC). This has included working development interventions have been agreed Governance Committee
with Egon Zehnder to review the changing as appropriate, with individual development
role requirements and characteristics for plans continuing to be owned and driven
bank leadership in the context of the by each Executive.
Bank of the Future. Overall, the results of the assessment evidence
The outcome of this review provided that the GEC collectively exhibit strong
a comprehensive view of the GEC role capabilities in the leadership characteristics
characteristics against which the current required to deliver the Bank of the Future.
senior management layer below GEC As a team, their breadth of banking and
can be assessed to ensure alignment of governance experience provides the
68 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report continued
Activities during the year
Key issues Committee review and conclusion
Recruitment of a new Non- The external search firm Russell Reynolds Associates1 provided a shortlist of candidates
Board
Executive Director for consideration. Interviews with various members of the Board were held, and the
composition
process resulted in the appointment of Amanda Mackenzie in October.
Change in Chairman of the Following Anita Frew’s decision to step down as the Remuneration Committee Chair,
Remuneration Committee the Committee recommended to the Board that Stuart Sinclair replace her in this role.
This recommendation was based on Board succession planning and the fact that Stuart
is an experienced Non-Executive Director, has been a member of the Remuneration
Committee since he joined the Company in January 2016, and has external experience
of chairing Board committees.
Structure and composition of From the ongoing assessment of the Board members, the Chairman creates a skills
the Board matrix which the Committee uses to track the Board’s strengths and identify gaps in the
desired collective skills profile of the Board, giving due weight to diversity in its broadest
sense. Recommendations are made to the Board as appropriate. The skills matrix was
considered in the appointment of Amanda Mackenzie, and the appointment of the
Ring-Fenced Bank only Directors.
Establishing the GEC During the year, the Committee, led by the Chairman, reviewed the succession plans
Executive
characteristics and identifying and development plans for key senior management roles, and established the GEC
succession
and supporting potential characteristics as described on page 67.
planning
successors into GEC-level roles This included updating the ongoing development plans for potential successors into
Executive Director roles, including Group Chief Executive.
Recruitment of the Ring-Fenced Russell Reynolds Associates was engaged to shortlist candidates for the positions of
Ring-Fenced
Bank only Directors three Ring-Fenced Bank only Non-Executive Directors. The recruitment process, led by
Bank
the Chairman, included interviews with various members of the Board and resulted in
the appointment of Nigel Hinshelwood, Sarah Bentley and Brendan Gilligan with effect
from 1 January 2019.
Annual effectiveness review of During the year the Committee selected Egon Zehnder to facilitate the review by the
Annual Board
the Board and its Committees Board and its Committees of their effectiveness and provided oversight for the process.
effectiveness
The Committee also reviewed its own effectiveness and found that it met its key
review
objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively. Full details of the review can be
found on pages 62 to 63.
The Committee provides A nnual review of the Corporate Governance Framework, amendments which took
Governance
oversight for various aspects into account the Group’s approach to compliance with the PRA’s Ring Fenced Banks
of corporate governance, and Governance Principles, and the requirements of recent regulatory developments
during the year key activities including the terms of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code. Our application
included the following: of the New Code will be reported upon next year;
C ontinuing oversight of the governance structure for the Ring-Fenced Banks;
A review of the Board/Committee responsibilities and the matters reserved for the
Board to assess any instances of overlap or gaps in coverage or escalation;
I n the light of the increasing importance of IT in the Group’s GSR3 strategy, a review of
the governance and oversight of the IT Programme;
C onsidering correspondence with shareholders;
A pproval of the appointment of Trustees to the Bank’s Foundations.
A review of the Diversity Policy The Board considered and approved the adoption of a public goal to increase ethnic
Diversity
was undertaken diversity in the senior management population, a first for a FTSE-100 company. This has
now been incorporated into the Board Diversity Policy which was approved by the Board
in January 2019. The Board Diversity Policy is available at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com.
Please see pages 22 to 23 and 69 for further information regarding diversity.
The Diversity Policy was a Diversity, in its broadest sense as detailed in the Policy, was taken into consideration as
consideration in recruitment part of the recruitment of Amanda Mackenzie and the Ring-Fenced Bank only Directors
during the year during the year.
Reviewing whether Non- In recommending Directors for re-election the Committee reviews the performance of
Independence
Executive Directors were each Non-Executive Director and their ability to continue meeting the time commitments
and time
demonstrably independent and required. It also takes account of any relationships that had been disclosed. Details
commitments
free from relationships and other of conflicts of interest can be found on page 79. A particularly rigorous review of
circumstances that could affect Lord Blackwell, Anita Frew and Sara Weller was undertaken as a result of having held the
their judgement position of Non-Executive Director for longer than six years. Based on its assessment for
2018, the Committee is satisfied that, throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors
remained independent2 as to both character and judgement. All Directors were
considered to have appropriate roles, including capabilities and time commitments.
Overseeing the roll out of In addition to existing methods of training for the Non-Executive Directors, at the end
Training
training to all Non-Executive of 2017, members of the Committee trialled an online mandatory training programme.
Directors This was subsequently rolled out to the rest of the Board. Full details can be found
on page 63.
1 Aside from assisting with senior recruitment and benchmarking, Russell Reynolds Associates have no other connection to the Company.
2 The Chairman was independent on appointment. Under the Code, thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Committee purpose and responsibilities Committee composition, skills and experience
The purpose of the Committee is to keep the Board’s governance, To ensure a broad representation of experienced and independent
composition, skills, experience, knowledge, independence and Directors, membership of the Committee comprises the Chairman,
succession arrangements under review and to make appropriate the Deputy Chairman, who is also the Senior Independent Director,
recommendations to the Board to ensure the Company’s arrangements the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and the Chairman of the
are consistent with the highest corporate governance standards. Responsible Business Committee. The Group Chief Executive attends
The Committee reports to the Board on how it discharges its meetings as appropriate.
responsibilities and makes recommendations to the Board, Details of Committee memberships and meeting attendance can be
all of which have been accepted during the year. The found on page 56.
Committee’s terms of reference can be found at
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/our-group/corporate-governance.
The Board diversity policy Process for new Group and Ring-Fenced Bank
The Board Diversity Policy (the Policy) sets out the Board of Lloyds Banking Non-Executive Director appointments
Group’s approach to diversity and provides a high level indication of the Board’s
approach to diversity in senior management roles which is governed in greater
Step 1
detail, through the Group’s policies, a summary of which is provided below.
The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that its membership reflects Russell Reynolds Associates was appointed by the Committee and
diversity in its broadest sense. A combination of demographics, skills, experience, provided with a remit of what skills and experience the candidates
race, age, gender, educational and professional background and cognitive and should have, based on the existing skills matrix of the Board, and
personal strengths on the Board is important in providing a range of perspectives, taking into account diversity in its broadest sense.
insights and challenge needed to support good decision making. Step 2
New appointments are made on merit, taking account of the specific skills
and experience, independence and knowledge needed to ensure a rounded Interviews were held between the Chairman and a shortlist of
Board and the diversity benefits each candidate can bring to the overall Board candidates.
composition. Amanda Mackenzie was the only Director to be appointed to
Step 3
Lloyds Banking Group plc during the year, and as part of her appointment
diversity was considered in its broadest sense. Amanda brings experience of The Committee considered the shortlisted candidates, having been
customer focus and leadership of Business in the Community, which will be a provided with an extensive report from Russell Reynolds Associates
major asset in supporting our mission of Helping Britain Prosper. which was based on interviews with the candidates and included
Objectives for achieving Board diversity may be set on a regular basis. details of their background, skills, experience and a full evaluation.
On gender diversity the Board has a specific objective to maintain at least Interviews took place with various members of the Committee. The
three female Board members and, recognising the target referred to in the Committee recommended the appointments to the Board, which
Hampton-Alexander Review for FTSE companies to move towards 33 per cent subsequently approved them, subject to regulatory approval where
female representation by 2020, to take opportunities to increase the number required.
of female Board Members over time where that is consistent with other skills
Step 4
and diversity requirements. Female representation on the Board is currently
25 per cent (based on three female Directors and nine male Directors). Formal offer letters were sent.
The Board also places high emphasis on ensuring the development of diversity
Step 5
in the senior management roles within the Group and supports and oversees
the Group’s objectives of achieving 40 per cent of senior roles held by female Regulatory applications were made to the PRA and the FCA in
executives by 2020, and of 8 per cent of senior roles being held by Black, Asian respect of the relevant Directors, and approval was obtained.
and Minority Ethnic (BAME) executives by 2020. This is underpinned by a range
Step 6
of policies within the Group to help provide mentoring and development
opportunities for female and BAME executives and to ensure unbiased career Formal appointment of the Directors took place.
progression opportunities. Progress on this objective is monitored by the Board
and built into its assessment of executive performance. A copy of the Policy is
available on our website at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/responsible-business
and information on Board diversity can be found on pages 22, 23 and 56.
Q&A with Amanda Mackenzie OBE,
Independent Director deliver on its purpose. The induction process has been wholehearted,
open, thorough and interesting. Given my background there are clearly
some areas in which I am not an expert and never will be, but I do need
to know enough and the induction process has not made me feel
foolish for the need to ask basic questions and by contrast has been
very welcoming of my knowledge where it is greatest and can help.
Q: What are your first impressions of how the Board functions and the
Group’s governance framework?
A: I left the first Board strategy away day I attended with one
overarching thought: the combined Board and Group Executive
are an incredible group of people and Lloyds Banking Group is an
amazing company. Of course there’s much to be done, but, with the
right approach, it will be. And no I wouldn’t say that if I didn’t believe it
Q: What did you think of the appointment and induction process?
or if I hadn’t seen some comparisons. So far I feel the Board functions
A: Exceedingly thorough! It gave ample opportunity for Lloyds extremely well and the governance framework is clear, as simple as it
Banking Group to learn about me and vice versa. A Non-Executive can be and the various lines of defence operate the way one should
Director role today comes with a much greater amount of obligation expect they do.
and scrutiny, rightly so, but it does mean you have to be assured
of the company you are joining and of course they of you. I have to Q: What are you looking to bring to the Board / What excites you
say the Group’s very clear purpose of ‘Helping Britain Prosper’ and about your role with Lloyds?
the determination of everyone I met to make that a reality was very A: I certainly hope I can bring my expertise to the Board. I am very
appealing. The Group is prepared to make some tough decisions to thrilled to be part of it and play my part in Helping Britain Prosper.
74 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report continued
Board Risk Committee report
The environment within
which the Group operates
is increasingly subject to
considerable change.
Dear Shareholder help support the Group in achieving its core full access to the Committee and attends
aim of operating as a digitised, simple, low risk all meetings. The Chief Internal Auditor
I am pleased to report on how the Board Risk
financial services provider. and members of the Executive also attend
Committee (the ‘Committee‘) has discharged
its responsibilities throughout 2018. Alan Dickinson meetings, as appropriate.
Chairman, Board Risk Committee Annually the Committee undertakes an
During the year, the Committee gave detailed
effectiveness review. The review forms
consideration to a wide range of existing
Committee purpose part of the Board evaluation process with
and emerging risks, recognising that the
and responsibilities Directors being asked to complete parts of
environment within which the Group operates
the questionnaire relating to the Committees
is increasingly subject to considerable change. The purpose of the Committee is to review of which they were members. The findings of
This is achieved through effective planning of the risk culture of the Group, setting the tone the review were considered by the Committee
the agenda which ensures specific attention from the top in respect of risk management. at its January 2019 meeting. On the basis of
is given to those emerging risks which are The Committee is also responsible for the evaluation, the feedback was that the
considered to be of ongoing importance to the ensuring the risk culture is fully embedded performance of the Committee continues
Group and its customers, alongside standing and supports at all times the Group’s agreed to be effective. Details of Committee
areas of risk management. The Committee risk appetite, covering the extent and membership and meeting attendance can be
continues to make use of dedicated categories of risk which the Board considers found on page 56.
sub-committees to provide additional focus as acceptable for the Group.
on particular areas of significance. As the most senior risk committee in the
In seeking to achieve this, the Committee Group, the Committee interacts with other
The Committee considered delivery of key assumes responsibility for monitoring the related risk committees, including the
regulatory change programmes such as Group’s Risk Management Framework, executive Group Risk Committee. Such
ring-fenced banking, together with other which embraces risk principles, policies, interaction assists with the agenda planning
areas of regulatory attention such as data methodologies, systems, processes, process, where in addition to annual
governance and operational resilience, procedures and people. It also includes the agenda planning, matters considered by
where the Group continues to strengthen its review of new, or material amendments to the Group Risk Committee are reviewed to
control environment. Focus was also given risk principles and policies, and overseeing ensure escalation of all relevant matters to
to management of customer rectifications, any action resulting from material breaches the Committee.
where good progress continued to be made of such policy.
with reduction of the volume of rectification
More details on the Group’s wider approach Matters considered by
programmes and customers impacted.
to risk management can be found in the risk the Committee
Stress testing undertaken by the Group,
management section on pages 105 to 159.
which included the impacts of IFRS 9 for Full details of the Committee’s responsibilities Over the course of the year the Committee
the first time and considered the potential are set out in its terms of reference, which can considered a wide range of risks facing the
impacts of severe economic scenarios on the be found at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/ Group, both standing and emerging, across all
Group’s business model, also continued to be our-group/corporate-governance key areas of risk management, in addition to
reviewed and challenged by the Committee. risk culture and risk appetite, as noted above.
Each of these areas will be subject to ongoing
Committee composition, skills, As part of this review, certain risks were
focus in 2019.
experience and operation identified which required further detailed
Looking ahead, other areas of focus will consideration. Set out on the following pages
include continued improvements in the Alan Dickinson, Chairman of the Committee, is a summary of these risks, with an outline
Group’s treatment of customers in financial is a highly regarded retail and commercial of the material factors considered by the
difficulty, and consumer indebtedness more banker, having spent 37 years with the Committee, and the conclusions which were
generally, operational resilience and ever Royal Bank of Scotland, most notably as ultimately reached.
evolving cyber risks, together with risks Chief Executive of RBS UK, overseeing the
During 2018, the Committee continued to
associated with delivery of the Group’s overall group’s Retail and Commercial operations
utilise established sub-committees to provide
strategy and change portfolio. Uncertainties, in the UK. The Committee is composed
additional focus on areas such as IT resilience
particularly around the EU Exit, inevitably of Non-Executive Directors, who provide
and cyber, and stress testing and recovery
continue to provide challenges and potential core banking and risk knowledge, together
planning. These sub-committees enable
impacts for the Group’s risk profile; the with breadth of experience which brings
members of the Committee to dedicate
Committee continues to closely monitor knowledge from other sectors, and a clear
additional time and resource to achieving a
developments in these areas. awareness of the importance of putting
more in-depth understanding of the topics
the customer at the centre of all that the
The Committee has concluded that the Group covered, and enable further review and
Group does.
continues to have strong discipline in the challenge of the associated risks.
management of both emerging and existing All Non-Executive Directors are members of
risks, and the Committee’s work continues to the Committee. The Chief Risk Officer has
76 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report continued
Key issues Committee review and conclusion
The Committee The Committee has reviewed the stress testing outputs from both the internal and regulatory
Stress testing continues to review the exercises. This year, PRA stress testing included the impact of IFRS 9 for the first time, which
key vulnerabilities of requires us to recognise expected lifetime losses rather than reflecting incurred losses and
the Group to adverse accelerates loss recognition. This was a key area of focus and challenge at the Committee,
changes in the economic which reviewed the evolution of balances through IFRS 9 stages under stress, and associated
environment, ensuring impairment impact. In addition the Committee assessed the usage and governance of models
that there are adequate in the stress testing process to ensure the results were satisfactorily produced.
financial resources in Conclusion: The Group continues to review the impact of severe economic scenarios on our
the event of a severe yet business model, whilst the Committee ensures the necessary risk oversight via review and
plausible downturn. challenge of the internal and regulatory stress tests.
Operational risk
Operational resilience is Key areas of focus for the Committee have included updates on the Group’s cloud strategy, review
Operational one of the Group’s most of the updated operational resilience strategy and response to the Bank of England’s discussion
resilience important non-financial paper. In addition, the Committee has reviewed papers relating to key risk reduction programmes
risks. Key focus in 2018 including Identity and Access Management, insider risk and updates to the Group’s approach to
has been to enhance managing its third-party suppliers.
the existing approach to Given the significance of the risk to the Group, the Committee has a sub-committee specifically
operational resilience and focused on IT and cyber risks.
strengthen the control
Conclusion: The Committee takes the operational resilience of its services very seriously and has
environment, to improve
taken valuable insight from having independent advice and guidance. It has agreed risk appetite
the Group’s ability to
statements for critical services and has strengthened these over the last period to reflect the
respond to incidents and
increased focus on resilience. The Committee considers that governance of operational resilience
continue delivering key
risk is robust and that activities in plan will ensure the ongoing resilience of key services to the
services to our customers.
Group’s customers.
The Committee continues Data risk continues to be an area of significant regulatory and media attention and the
Data risk to focus on data Committee has overseen the implementation of robust governance, to ensure compliance
governance and privacy with GDPR. Clear accountabilities have been established by the creation of Divisional Data
risks including oversight of Privacy Accountable Persons, driving a culture of compliance. A Group Data Protection Office
the Group’s compliance (GDPO) has been established to independently oversee compliance. The Group continues
with the General Data to drive enhancements to the control environment to ensure value is harnessed from the data
Protection Regulation that we hold, enabling delivery against key strategic priorities, whilst ensuring transparency and
(GDPR), and the associated trustworthiness to our customers and colleagues.
risks and controls. Conclusion: The Group continues to heighten the controls required to manage data risk. In 2019
data risk has been classified as a primary risk type.
The Committee recognises The Committee continued to focus on the People risk profile, recognising the challenges
People risk the importance of People faced in successfully delivering the Group strategic and extensive regulatory change agenda.
risk management to ensure The Group recognises the increasing demands on colleagues and is monitoring colleague
the Group has the right wellbeing and engagement as well as developing colleague skills to achieve capability
capabilities and culture enhancement for a digital era. Particular consideration is given to critical and high performing
as we build the Bank of individuals. The Group has made significant progress in evolving and refining the compliance
the Future. control environment for the Senior Manager and Certification Regime (SMCR). The delivery of
the SMCR extension will remain a focus for 2019.
Conclusion: The Committee provides oversight of People risk, which will remain a key focus as
the Group delivers simplified colleague processes and maximises colleague skills and capability
to achieve the workforce of the future.
The Committee Recognising the extent of our transformation agenda, the Committee has received regular
Change and continues to recognise monitoring of key change and execution risk indicators. Metrics have been developed and
execution risk risks associated with an refined throughout the year, alongside regular reporting.
extensive strategic change The effectiveness and model for change oversight has been reviewed and refreshed to ensure
agenda, incorporating that there is risk-based assessment of strategic change activity. Similarly, the risk governance with
both discretionary and respect to strategic change has been reviewed.
regulatory change.
Conclusion: There is significant work needed to transform how change is delivered, impacting
Focus areas include new
both capacity and required change capability. This reorganisation is happening concurrently
execution risk metrics,
with change delivery. Further focus is required to manage dependencies and associated risks
effective change oversight
alongside refinement of execution risk metrics, and change/execution risk reporting.
and governance.
Negotiations continue to The key risks for the Group include volatility and possible discontinuities in financial markets,
EU Exit determine the final terms of impact on our customers’ trading performance, financial position and credit profile, and ability
planning the UK’s exit from the EU. to operate cross-border. When reviewing the possible impacts of the EU Exit, the Committee
The ongoing uncertainty has given particular consideration to the Group’s strong UK focus and UK-centric strategy.
regarding the options, The Committee continues to closely monitor developments, with specific focus on the trading,
timing and the process financial and operational impacts for the Group, and the continued support of our customers.
itself could affect the Conclusion: The EU exit plans continue to be closely monitored by the Committee via specific
outlook for the UK and regular updates, a suite of early warning indicators and corresponding risk mitigation plans.
global economy.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Key issues Committee review and conclusion
Financial crime is a The Committee considered the unprecedented volume of regulatory and legislative change,
Money priority for the UK noting the Group’s response to the updated Money Laundering Regulations and UK Criminal
laundering Government, law Finances Act. Accordingly, the Committee reviewed the Annual Group Money Laundering
enforcement and Officer’s Report (MLRO report) and was satisfied with the standard of compliance detailed
regulators. The within. Additionally, the Committee acknowledged the strategic plans in place to continually
Committee continues improve the Group’s Financial Crime control framework.
to monitor the Group’s The Committee noted the positive outcome of the FCA Systematic Anti-Money Laundering
management of Programme review, recognising the Group’s ‘largely effective Financial Crime control framework’
financial crime risk and ‘strong tone from the top’. Additionally, the Committee noted the progress in the Group’s
in light of significant money mules strategy which has resulted in a significant improvement in the identification and
regulatory change. prevention of illicit funds being laundered through Group accounts.
Conclusion: The Committee noted satisfaction with the standard of compliance documented
in the MLRO report, and acknowledged the action plans in place across the Group to further
enhance the Group’s position.
The Committee The Committee considered the challenging and evolving nature of the fraud risk environment
Fraud continues to closely influenced by factors such as an increasing sophistication of fraud typologies, third-party data
monitor the Group’s breaches, and an uplift in social engineering fraud. The Group continues to invest in new and
management of innovative controls, as well as working in collaboration with the public sector to prevent, detect,
fraud risk, whilst and respond to fraud risks. As such, the Committee was updated on strategic plans which will
minimising the impact deliver enhanced controls enabling the Group to continue to manage fraud risk within appetite.
of controls on genuine Additionally, the Committee acknowledged the leading role the Group has played in the
customer journeys. development of an industry code for authorised push payment fraud. The code will be agreed
in early 2019 and the Group is well positioned to manage the impact.
Conclusion: The Committee noted the positive work undertaken in the detection and
prevention of fraud; acknowledged the need to maintain momentum, and therefore parity,
with our peers; and, recognised the continuing efforts of the Group to protect the integrity of
genuine customer journeys.
Regular reporting categories
Managing regulatory The Committee has continued focus on ensuring effective controls and oversight to comply with
Regulatory risk continues to be a existing regulatory obligations, as well as receiving regular updates on emerging legal trends.
and legal risk key focus within the There have been ongoing significant regulatory change programmes in which the Board has placed
Group due to the increased focus in order to ensure successful execution, including the Basel Committee on Banking
significant amount Supervision (BCBS 239) and Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II. Due consideration to the
of highly complex governance and compliance of the ring-fenced bank has also been considered by the Committee,
and interdependent including monthly programme reporting until the ring-fencing legislation took effect.
regulatory reform that Conclusion: The Group continues to place significant focus on complex regulatory changes, as well
we have managed in as ensuring effective horizon scanning of upcoming trends. Regulatory risk will remain a priority
2018, and will continue to area of focus for the Committee in 2019.
manage in 2019.
The Committee During the year the Committee discussed the current model risk profile, with specific focus on
Model risk continues to recognise the new IFRS 9 Impairment models, trends in performance and actions being taken to resolve
the importance of the material model issues. The Committee considered wider model issues such as the increase in
Group Executive and automation and analytics required to support the Bank’s strategic aims, regulatory issues and
the Board holding a the action being taken by the Group to address these, as well as benchmarking the Group’s
strong understanding approach to model risk management compared to the industry.
of the Group’s models, Conclusion: Whilst good progress was made in 2018, the demand for models and model related
their associated risks activity is expected to continue to increase, with key drivers being the Group strategy, and the
and performance. need to meet new regulatory requirements in the longer-term.
The Committee The Committee continues to focus on ensuring the Group has an effective framework for
Complaints continues to focus on managing complaints including root cause analysis to establish lessons learned and help prevent
ensuring the Group similar issues in the future. Consideration has been given to complaint metric performance and
is resolving customer quality as measured by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
complaints in a timely Conclusion: The Group continues to make good progress however focus needs to remain on
manner and eradicating reducing the reasons for customers to complain in 2019 and to learn from root cause analysis.
the causes for complaints.
Vulnerable customers The Committee considered progress on implementing the Group’s strategy for vulnerable
Vulnerability represent a significant customers which is aligned to UK Finance Vulnerability Taskforce Principles.
proportion of the The Committee noted the actions in train, including enhanced guidance, more detailed
Group’s customer base evidencing of embedding, enhancement of the control framework and developing
and continue to be an improved management information.
area of close focus.
The Group’s signature actions for 2019 will focus on Mental Health, Critical Illness, Financial Abuse,
Age Vulnerability and Access to Service.
Conclusion: The Committee recognise the ongoing activity and the progress made, coupled
with the significant focus required to deliver effectively on both the Group’s aspirations and
external expectations.
78 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Corporate governance report continued
Responsible Business Committee report
Doing business in a responsible
way is key to the successful
delivery of our purpose to Help
Britain Prosper
Dear Shareholder How the Committee Business; the approach to communicating
the Company’s role as a responsible business;
I am pleased to report on the activity of spent its time in 2018 the Company’s policies relating to responsible
the Responsible Business Committee During the year, the Committee undertook a business including the Code of Responsibility
(the Committee) in 2018. detailed exercise to consider how its role and and the Statement on compliance with the
During the year, as well as overseeing remit would develop to ensure it remained Modern Slavery Act.
progress against the Helping Britain Prosper best placed to assist with the delivery of the At each meeting, updates have been
Plan as a whole, the Committee focused Company’s strategy by concentrating on provided on the performance against the
on some major and emerging Responsible overseeing the key initiatives to deliver the metrics of the Helping Britain Prosper Plan
Business themes. responsible business strategy. on which a report is provided on page 20.
The four Lloyds Banking Group charitable The Committee agreed that its approach
Foundations do critical work to tackle should focus on three material areas aligned Committee purpose
disadvantage across the UK. The Committee to the Bank of the Future with the aim of and operation
met with Baroness Fritchie, chair of the Lloyds enabling people, businesses and communities
The Committee’s role is to support the Board
Bank Foundation for England and Wales, to be ready for the future.
in overseeing the Group’s performance as a
to discuss how we could jointly do more to Digital Skills has been a significant area
responsible business by providing oversight
support activity in key areas such as domestic for review and debate during the year, with
of, and support for, the Group’s strategy
abuse or homelessness. regular updates provided on the direction of
and plans for delivering the aspiration, to
The Committee took a comprehensive and progress with the establishment of the be seen as a trusted, responsible business,
deep dive to review the Company’s emerging Lloyds Bank Academy. The Committee has as part of the Company’s purpose to Help
sustainability strategy. The Group committed provided input and challenge to the team Britain Prosper. This role is fulfilled by
to supporting the country’s transition to a lower working on the Academy programme and providing oversight and challenge on those
carbon economy, in line with the Government’s supported the pilot programmes undertaken activities which impact on the Company’s
Clean Growth Plan, and directors from all in Manchester. behaviour and reputation as a trusted,
business areas described how their activity The development of the Company’s responsible business and by considering and
contributed to the overall plan. Sustainability strategy was considered with recommending to the Board for approval the
I had great pleasure in attending the regional input from external advisers. The Committee Responsible Business Report and Helping
launch of our Digital Academy in Manchester engaged with the leaders of business Britain Prosper Plan.
in December. Improving digital skills, is a key areas on the application of the approach The Chairman of the Committee reviews
plank of Britain’s plan to increase productivity, to helping customers in a sustainable way. the forward agenda regularly to ensure that
and the Academy works with local These included the assistance provided for the focus of the Committee’s work is on its
organisations and national partners to deliver customers who are victims of flooding, work key priorities and members have sufficient
a range of training, including basic skills to support the transition to a low carbon time at meetings to raise issues of concern
(like preparing a CV) as well as more advanced economy and the development of green and to engage in constructive dialogue
activity, and is accessible to all members of loans. The Company’s sustainability strategy with colleagues.
the community. was recommended to the Board for approval
Further information on the activities which the in September 2018 and published on the Committee composition,
Company’s website www.lloydsbankinggroup.
Committee keeps under review are set out attendance at meetings
com/our-group/responsible-business/
in the 2019 Helping Britain Prosper Plan on
sustainability-in-Lloyds-banking-group. and effectiveness review
page 19. The Plan sets out how the Company
seeks to help people, communities and The alignment of the working relationship Representatives from Group Internal Audit
businesses prosper. between the Company and the charitable and the Chief Operating Office are invited to
Foundations was a key area of focus. meetings as appropriate.
In conclusion, I would like to thank the many
The Committee considered and supported
colleagues across the Group for their hard During the year, the Committee met
the development of plans to work in
work and extraordinary commitment to its key objectives and carried out its
partnership with the Foundations to support
supporting Responsible Business activity responsibilities effectively, as confirmed
the Charitable Sector through strengthening
in their ‘day jobs’, as well as by volunteering by the annual effectiveness review.
skills-based volunteering across Foundations-
over 235,000 hours of their time and helping The Committee will consider the output from
supported charities.
to raise £3.8 million for our charity of the year, the 2018 effectiveness review and whether
Mental Health UK. In other activities, the Committee amendments could be made to its current
considered reports on: an outline for an working arrangements.
The report that follows gives more examples
assurance process on responsible business
of our activity to Help Britain Prosper in Details of committee membership
activities within business areas; colleague
2018, and I hope you find it both interesting and meeting attendance can be found
engagement in responsible business
and informative. on page 56.
activities; the partnership with the University
Sara Weller of Birmingham’s Centre for Responsible
Chairman, Responsible Business Committee
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Directors’ report
Corporate governance statement Change of control
The Corporate Governance report found on pages 50 to 78 together The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take
with this Directors’ report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company
of the Corporate Governance Statement for the purpose of the Financial following a takeover bid. There are no agreements between the
Conduct Authority’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTR). Company and its Directors or employees providing compensation for
loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Profit and dividends
Directors’ indemnities
The consolidated income statement shows a statutory profit before tax
for the year ended 31 December 2018 of £5,960 (2017: £5,275 million). The Directors of the Company, including the former Director who retired
The Directors have recommended a final dividend for 2018, which is during the year, have entered into individual deeds of indemnity with the
subject to approval by the shareholders at the AGM, of 2.14 pence per Company which constituted ‘qualifying third-party indemnity provisions’
share (2017: 2.05 pence per share) totalling £2,288 for the year (2017: for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006. The deeds indemnify
£1,475 million). The final dividend will be paid on 21 May 2019. the Directors to the maximum extent permitted by law and remain in
The final dividend in respect of 2017 of 2.05 pence per ordinary share force. The deeds were in force during the whole of the financial year
was paid to shareholders on 29 May 2018, and an interim dividend for or from the date of appointment in respect of the Director appointed
2018 of 1.07 pence per ordinary share was paid on 26 September 2018; in 2018. Deeds for existing Directors are available for inspection at the
these dividends totalled £2.24 billion. Further information on dividends Company’s registered office.
is shown in note 44 on page 234 and is incorporated by reference. The Company has also granted deeds of indemnity by deed poll and
The Board continues to give due consideration at each year end to by way of entering into individual deeds, which constitute ‘qualifying
the return of any surplus capital and for 2018, the Board intends to third-party indemnity provisions’ to the Directors of the Group’s
implement a share buyback of up to £1.75 billion, equivalent to up to subsidiary companies, including to former Directors who retired during
2.46 pence per share. This represents the return of capital over and the year and since the year end, and to Group colleagues subject
above the Board’s view of the current level of capital required to grow to the provisions of the Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
the business, meet regulatory requirements and cover uncertainties. Such deeds were in force during the financial year ended 31 December
2018 and remain in force as at the date of this report.
The share buyback programme is intended to commence in March 2019
and is expected to be completed during 2019. Given the total ordinary Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to the
dividend of 3.21 pence per share and the intended share buyback, Trustees of the Group’s Pension Schemes, which were in force for the
the total capital return for 2018 will be up to 5.67 pence per share, an whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the date of this report.
increase of 27 per cent on the prior year, equivalent to up to £4.0 billion.
Power of Directors in relation to shares
The Company intends to use the authority for the repurchase of ordinary
shares granted to it at the 2018 AGM to implement the proposed share The Board manages the business of the Company under the powers set
buyback. Details of this existing authority are set out under ‘Power of out in the articles of association, which include the Directors’ ability to
Directors in relation to shares’. issue or buyback shares. The Directors were granted authorities to issue
and allot shares and to buyback shares at the 2018 AGM. Shareholders
Appointment and retirement of Directors will be asked to renew these authorities at the 2019 AGM. The authority
in respect of purchase of the Company’s ordinary shares is limited to
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the
7,219,629,615 ordinary shares, equivalent to 10 per cent of the issued
Company’s articles of association, the UK Corporate Governance Code
ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date
and the Companies Act 2006. The Company’s articles of association
prior to publication of the 2018 AGM circular.
may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders in a
general meeting. The Company undertook a share buyback programme, between
8 March 2018 and 24 August 2018, repurchasing in aggregate
Amanda Mackenzie has been appointed to the Board since the 2018
1,577,908,423 ordinary shares for an aggregate consideration of
AGM and will therefore stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
£1 billion (aggregate nominal value of the shares £157,790,842.30) as a
In the interests of good governance and in accordance with the
means by which to return capital to shareholders, given the amount of
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors
surplus capital. The 2018 buyback also assisted in the normalisation of
will retire, and those wishing to serve again will submit themselves for ordinary dividends, and gave the flexibility that a buyback programme
re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
offers. All of the repurchased shares were cancelled, and together
Biographies of current Directors are set out on pages 52 to 53. Details represented 2.22 per cent of the called up share capital of the Company
of the Directors seeking election or re-election at the AGM are set out in at completion of the programme. Further information in relation to the
the Notice of Meeting. 2018 share buyback programme is provided on page 49.
Board composition changes Conflicts of interest
Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2018 up to the The Board has a comprehensive procedure for reviewing, and as
date of this report are shown in the table below: permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Company’s articles
of association, approving actual and potential conflicts of interest.
Joined the Board Left the Board
Directors have a duty to notify the Chairman and Company Secretary
Amanda Mackenzie 1 October 2018 as soon as they become aware of actual or potential conflict situations.
Deborah McWhinney 31 December 2018 Changes to commitments of all Directors are reported to the Nomination
and Governance Committee and the Board and a register of potential
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance conflicts and time commitments is regularly reviewed and authorised by
the Board to ensure the authorisation status remains appropriate.
Throughout 2018 the Group had appropriate insurance cover in place
to protect Directors, including the Directors who retired or resigned Stuart Sinclair is a Senior Independent Director at QBE UK Limited, a
during the year, from liabilities that may arise against them personally in general insurance and reinsurance company. Lord Lupton is a senior
connection with the performance of their role. advisor to Greenhill Europe, an investment bank focused on providing
financial advice on significant mergers, acquisitions, restructurings,
As well as insurance cover, the Group agrees to indemnify the Directors
financings and capital raising to corporations, partnerships, institutions
to the maximum extent permitted by law. Further information on
and governments. The Board has recognised that potential conflicts
the Group’s indemnity arrangements is provided in the Directors’
may arise as a result of these positions. The Board has authorised the
indemnities section.
potential conflicts and requires Mr. Sinclair and Lord Lupton to recuse
themselves from discussions, should the need arise.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
the fourth year of the operating plan are likely to be less reliable. As Omissions
a result, the Board considers that a three year period continues to Emissions associated with joint ventures and investments are not
present a reasonable degree of confidence over expected events and included in this disclosure as they fall outside the scope of our
macroeconomic assumptions, whilst still providing an appropriate operational boundary. The Group does not have any emissions
longer-term outlook, although the remaining period of the operating associated with heat, steam or cooling and is not aware of any other
plan contains no information which would cause different conclusions to material sources of omissions from our reporting.
be reached over the longer-term viability of the Company and Group.
Independent auditor and audit information
Information relevant to the assessment can be found in the following
sections of the annual report and accounts: Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report
confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit
The Group’s principal activities, business and operating models information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware and each
and strategic direction are described in the strategic report Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
on pages 1 to 35; as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
Emerging risks are disclosed on pages 108 to 109; information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that
information. This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in
The principal risks, including the Group’s objectives, policies and accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
processes for managing credit, capital, liquidity and funding, are
Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
provided in the risk management section on pages 115 to 159; and
LLP as auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to set its
The Group’s approach to stress testing and reverse stress testing, remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
including both regulatory and internal stresses, is described on page 110. Statement of directors’ responsibilities
Based upon this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the
expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue
Directors’ remuneration report and the financial statements in
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires
years to 31 December 2021.
the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under
Greenhouse gas emissions that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
The Group has voluntarily reported greenhouse gas emissions and Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company
environmental performance since 2009, and since 2013 this has been law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they
reported in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of
Our total emissions, in tonnes of CO equivalent, are reported in the the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company
2
strategic report on page 25. and Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the
Deloitte LLP has provided limited level ISAE 3000 (Revised) assurance Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then
over selected non-financial indicators as noted by . Their full, apply them consistently; make judgements and accounting estimates
independent assurance statement is available online at that are reasonable and prudent; and state whether applicable IFRSs as
www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/rbdownloads. adopted by the European Union have been followed.
Methodology The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records
The Group follows the principles of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate our Scope 1, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
2 and 3 emissions from our worldwide operations. The reporting period Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial
is 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018, which is different to that of statements and the Directors’ remuneration report comply with the
our Directors’ report (January 2018 – December 2018). This is in line with Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements,
Regulations in that the majority of the emissions reporting year falls Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding
within the period of the Directors’ report. Emissions are reported based the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable
on an operational boundary. The scope of reporting is in line with the steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
GHG Protocol and covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website at
Reported Scope 1 emissions cover emissions generated from gas and oil www.lloydsbankinggroup.com. The Directors are responsible for the
used in buildings, emissions from UK company-owned vehicles used for maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation in the
business travel and emissions from the use of air conditioning and chiller/ UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
refrigerant plant. Reported Scope 2 emissions cover emissions generated may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
from the use of electricity, calculated using both the location and market- Each of the current Directors who are in office as at the date of this
based methodologies. Reported Scope 3 emissions relate to business report, and whose names and functions are listed on pages 52 to 53 of
travel undertaken by colleagues and emissions associated with the this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
extraction and distribution of each of our energy sources – electricity, gas
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
and oil. A detailed definition of these emissions can be found in our 2018
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true
Reporting Criteria online at www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/rbdownloads.
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or
Intensity ratio
loss of the Company and Group; and
Oct 2017 – Oct 2016 – Oct 2015 –
the management report contained in the strategic report and the
Sept 2018 Sept 2017 Sept 2016
Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and
GHG emissions (COe) per £m of
2 performance of the business and the position of the Company
underlying income (Location Based)1 13.1 15.5 19.4
and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and
GHG emissions (CO 2 e) per £m of uncertainties that they face.
underlying income (Market Based) 6.2 16.4 19.4
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken
1 L ocation based intensity levels have been restated for 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 to reflect as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
changes to emissions data only, replacing estimated data with actuals; underlying income
figures for those years have not changed. information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s
position and performance, business model and strategy. The Directors
This year, our overall location based carbon emissions were 244,407
have also separately reviewed and approved the strategic report.
tCOe; a 15 per cent decrease since 2017, and 57 per cent against our
2009 2 baseline. Reductions achieved are attributable to our Environmental On behalf of the Board
Action Plan (EAP), launched in 2010, which has delivered a reduction in gas
and electricity consumption through an extensive energy management
programme, alongside decarbonisation of the UK electricity grid.
Additionally, we are now disclosing market based emissions figures.
Malcolm Wood Company Secretary
For 2018, this is equal to 115,467 tCOe – a comparative decrease
2 19 February 2019
of 62 per cent year on year and 79% against 2009 baseline. Further
Lloyds Banking Group plc
reductions in market emissions are attributable to the purchase of solar,
Registered in Scotland
wind, hydro and biomass Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin
Company number SC95000
(REGOs) equivalent to total UK electricity consumption in 2018.
82 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration Committee Chairman’s statement
The Committee is particularly mindful
of its obligation to ensure that reward
for Executive Directors is clear and
transparent, is encouraging strong
and sustainable performance, and
that the variable components of
remuneration are truly variable.
KEY MESSAGES Dear Shareholder remuneration report. It became clear in
U nderlying profit increased 6 per cent On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to these discussions that, while disclosure
to £8,066 million present our Directors’ remuneration report levels were generally considered good,
the way we determined bonus awards for
E xecutive Director single figure for the year ended 31 December 2018. This Executive Directors was perceived to be too
remuneration outcomes are approximately is my first report to you, and on behalf of complex, and we could make clearer both
2 per cent lower than prior year the Board I would like to thank Anita Frew how the annual awards were calculated and
for her chairmanship of the Committee in
G ender pay gap reduced 1.3 per cent to where judgement or discretion had been
the period to September 2018, when I took
31.5 per cent – better than the average applied by the Committee. This report has
over. I hope to continue the excellent work
for Financial Services been designed in part to respond to that
Anita did in ensuring that remuneration
feedback and I believe we have listened to,
P ay budget increase of 2.6 per cent for is actively debated and transparent to all
and addressed, the concerns raised. I have
all colleagues – increases for Executive relevant stakeholders.
summarised the key changes below.
Directors and other senior colleagues set This report covers the information required
We are not seeking to make any changes
lower at 2 per cent to meet the Group’s regulatory disclosures,
to the Directors’ Remuneration Policy for
but also provides additional context and
M inimum full time salary for all colleagues 2019, however we will consult widely on
detail on the Group’s broader remuneration
now exceeds National Living Wage by policy changes ahead of the Annual General
framework, its alignment with our strategy
7 per cent Meeting in 2020.
and other factors considered relevant by
F inancial and strategic performance in 2018 the Committee.
Our performance and
delivered a Group Balanced Scorecard
outcome of 83 per cent of maximum Responding to feedback remuneration philosophy
G roup Performance Share outcome is down We were disappointed that our report We continue to operate four core
3 per cent year-on-year when adjusted for for 2017 did not receive the high level of reward principles:
changes to eligible population. The total support from shareholders at the 2018 AGM
C ustomer alignment
pool for 2018 is £464.5 million. that we had previously experienced. We
2 016 Long Term Incentive Plan is vesting place great importance on the opinions of S imple, affordable and motivating
at 68.7 per cent our shareholders and other stakeholders S hareholder alignment
when considering our remuneration policy
and its implementation. C ompetitive, performance-driven and fair
Composition of Executive Director Remuneration During 2018, I took the opportunity to These principles underpin all our decisions
meet a broad selection of shareholders and ensure that our remuneration approach
30% 70% and other key stakeholders, to obtain and outcomes are aligned to the Group’s
Fixed Variable feedback on our approach. This included purpose and priorities.
shareholders who opposed the 2017
Salary, Fixed Share Group Performance
Award, Pension, Share, Group
Benefits Ownership Share
What we have changed in response to your feedback
Variable Reward Components
To provide greater clarity on the process for In this report we have published details of
c.70% c.30%
determining variable remuneration for our CEO pay ratio, which can be found on
Long-term Short-term Executive Directors, on page 87 we have page 95. We have also provided an overview
3+ years 1 year provided a step-by-step walk-through of of activity that the Board will undertake with
the approach to bonus awards. This shows regard to understanding the views of the
95% 5% how we determine the proportion of profit wider workforce on page 64. We anticipate
allocated to variable pay for on target that the role of the Committee will evolve
Shares Cash
performance, which remained at 5.1 per cent and develop during 2019 and intend to
for 2018, and the mechanical approach to provide full details in 2020. Other aspects
determining individual awards. the Committee intends to focus on in 2019
The Committee is also mindful of the include post employment shareholding and
changes to corporate governance and pension contributions of Executive Directors
reporting regulations which take effect from relative to the majority of the workforce.
next year and has begun to prepare for their
formal introduction and reporting.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
As in previous years, we believe any 2018 remuneration in As a result of taking on the role of Chief
remuneration awarded to Executive Directors the context of business Executive of the Ring-Fenced Bank from
must be supported by strong performance 1 January 2019 in addition to his existing
performance and the
achieved with the interests of all our responsibility as Group Chief Executive, it has
stakeholders in mind. perspective of our wider been determined that the Fixed Share Award
The remuneration awarded to Executive stakeholders for António Horta-Osório should be increased
Directors is heavily weighted towards the We have taken on board feedback received to £1.05 million. At the same time, the Group
delivery of long-term, sustainable performance in 2018 that suggests our approach to Chief Executive has agreed to reduce his
that aligns with shareholder experience. measurement of Group performance was overly Pension Allowance to bring this closer to
For the variable awards made under the Group complex. For 2018, we operated a scorecard that of the majority of the colleagues. His
Performance Share and Group Ownership with 20 measures across five blocks (as set out Pension Allowance will reduce from its current
Share plans in respect of performance in in full on page 86), but have reduced this to contractual level of 46 per cent of base salary
2018, over 95 per cent is awarded in shares, 15 measures and four blocks for 2019. We have to 33 per cent of base salary. This results in a
and 70 per cent is subject to performance weighted the scorecard measures to provide decrease in total remuneration and greater
conditions applying over three years. a balance of performance expectations across value delivered in shares subject to a longer-
term release schedule. Details are provided
financial, customer and colleague related
Delivery through collective on page 93.
outcomes. We will disclose details of the 2019
success targets in 2020, but the revised balance of Variable remuneration for Executive Directors
measures is summarised as follows: and other senior colleagues is weighted heavily
We believe it is important that all our toward long-term performance, ensuring our
colleagues share in the collective success colleagues build an ownership interest in the
33% of the Group when we deliver at our best. 33% 33% Colleague Group and are motivated by delivering superior
Therefore for 2019, significant changes are Financial Customer and and sustainable returns for shareholders.
being made to the Group’s performance
Conduct All colleagues, including Executive Directors,
management framework. Our new approach,
participate in the Group Performance Share
which we are calling Your Best, is a simpler
approach to performance management, The ‘Remuneration Overview’ section on the plan. This single approach to bonus awards
with a stronger emphasis on teamwork and a following pages provides a summary of the ensures there is a fair and transparent link
greater focus on personal growth, skills and 2018 remuneration outcomes and policy for between individual remuneration outcomes
development. This is highly relevant to all Executive Directors. and Group performance.
colleagues in this fast changing economy. The Committee places great importance The approach to determining awards for
Our colleagues are the stewards of the on ensuring there are clear links between Executive Directors is as follows:
Group’s future. We are therefore investing remuneration and delivery of both financial Evaluation of performance: The
significantly in transforming ways of working to and strategic objectives aligned to the Committee reviews financial and
enhance our colleagues’ skills and capabilities. long-term sustainable success of the Group. non-financial performance against the
All eligible colleagues in the Group will receive In 2018, the Group made significant Balanced Scorecard objectives. Judgement
a Colleague Group Ownership Share award business progress, providing a strong may then be used to ensure that mechanical
in 2019, continuing our practice of promoting platform for the Group’s strategic scorecard outcomes are aligned to
long-term ownership and alignment development and delivery of key priorities. individual contribution, including how
to shareholder interests. 99 per cent of The Group delivered strong financial Executive Directors have performed.
colleagues hold shares in the Group. performance in a period of political and Full details are provided on page 86.
To ensure that the Committee understands economic uncertainty. This uncertainty Determination of Group Performance
the views of a broad range of stakeholders, weighed heavily on the Group’s share price Share award: The performance assessment
I have consulted with the Group’s recognised during 2018; however, the Group’s resilient determines the maximum opportunity
unions who represent the interests of around and low risk business model enabled strong and the range that judgement can be
30,000 colleagues. I am pleased to confirm underlying performance. Underlying Profit applied within.
that the unions have agreed our pay approach increased by 6 per cent and the Group’s
Full details are provided on page 87.
for 2019 receiving overwhelming support capital position strengthened. The Group’s
from their members. The total pay budget cost:income ratio remains market leading Final awards: To ensure fairness with all
of 2.6 per cent for 2018 for all colleagues at 49.3 per cent. other colleagues, awards are adjusted to
has been allocated such that higher pay Reflecting the Group’s performance in 2018, reflect the final pool funding.
increases are made to colleagues who are the Committee determined that the total Full details are provided on page 87.
positioned lower in the pay range for their Group Performance Share funding should In 2018, the Committee did not exercise any
role, supporting a policy of real wage growth be 3 per cent down year-on-year (adjusted discretion over remuneration outcomes.
and pay progression. Increases range from for changes in eligible population). Individual Further details on how the use of discretion
0.25 per cent to 9.9 per cent. The proposed awards for Executive Directors reduced on was considered can be found on page 89
salary increases for Executive Directors for average by 12 per cent year-on-year. Awards in respect of the 2016 LTIP vesting outcome
2019 have been set at 2 per cent, in line with for Executive Directors were determined and page 87 in respect of the 2018 Group
other senior colleagues but lower than the at 67.6 per cent of maximum. Performance Share awards.
overall colleague population.
The value of the 2016 Long Term Incentive I hope you find the additional explanation in
From April 2019, all full-time colleagues in the Plan awards has vested at 68.7 per cent in this report helpful in clarifying our approach.
Group will be paid a minimum salary of £17,510, respect of the three-year performance period
7 per cent above the National Living Wage, ending 31 December 2018. This reflects the 2019 Annual General Meeting
and where eligible will receive a minimum significant progress made by the Group
Together with my Committee members,
pay increase of £600 in 2019. This reflects the towards its strategic and financial goals,
I look forward to hearing your views on the
Group’s commitment to offering colleagues while reflecting the fall in share price over
remuneration arrangements outlined in this
a competitive reward package, which the performance period.
report, and to welcoming you to the 2019
aims to reward all colleagues fairly for their
contribution. The Group has been recognised How we determine AGM where I hope you will support the
resolution relating to remuneration.
as a Living Wage employer since 2015. remuneration for Executive
The Group has also made progress in Directors and our wider
reducing the Gender Pay Gap by 1.3 per cent, colleague population
with the median gap reducing from
32.8 per cent to 31.5 per cent, lower than The Committee seeks to be transparent Stuart Sinclair
the average for Financial Services, through in its approach to setting and delivering Chairman, Remuneration Committee
a combination of targeting our salary remuneration. Our policy for 2019 and the
increases and our efforts to increase female implementation report for 2019 can be found
representation at senior levels in the Group. on pages 97 and 93.
94 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Strategic priorities Measure Basis of payout range Metric Weighting
Group Creating the best Customer satisfaction Major Group average Threshold: 3rd 10%
Ownership customer experience ranking over 2021 Maximum: 1st
Share Digital net promoter Set relative to 2021 Threshold: 65.3 7.5%
continued score targets Maximum: 68.3
FCA total reportable Set relative to 2021 Threshold: 2.88 10%
complaints and Financial targets Maximum: 2.60
Ombudsman Service Average rates over 2021 Threshold: =<29%
(FOS) change rate Maximum: =<25%
Becoming simpler and Statutory economic Set relative to 2021 Threshold: £2,210m 25%
more efficient profit1 targets Maximum: £3,315m
Cost:income ratio Set relative to 2021 Threshold: 45.9% 10%
targets Maximum: 43.4%
Delivering sustainable Absolute total Growth in share price Threshold: 8% p.a. 30%
growth shareholder return (TSR) including dividends over Maximum: 16% p.a.
3-year period
Building the best team Employee engagement Set relative to 2021 Threshold: +5% vs. UK norm 7.5%
index markets norms Maximum: +2% vs. UK high
Performing norm
1 A measure of profit taking into account expected losses, tax and a charge for equity utilisation.
Performance adjustment is determined by the Remuneration Judgement on individual performance adjustment is informed
Committee and/or Board Risk Committee and may result by taking into account the severity of the issue, the individual’s
Performance
in a reduction of up to 100 per cent of the GPS and/or GOS proximity to the issue and the individual’s behaviour in relation
adjustment
opportunity for the relevant period. It can be applied on a to the issue. Individual adjustment may be applied through
collective or individual basis. When considering collective adjustments to balanced scorecard assessments and/or
adjustment, the Senior Independent Performance Adjustment through reducing the GPS and/or GOS outcome.
and Conduct Committee (SIPACC) submits a report to Awards are subject to clawback for a period of up to seven
the Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee years after the date of award which may be extended to
regarding any adjustments required to balanced scorecards or 10 years where there is an ongoing internal or regulatory
the overall GPS and/or GOS outcome to reflect in-year or prior investigation.
year risk matters.
The application of clawback will generally be considered when:
The application of malus will generally be considered when:
there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or
there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour material error; or
or material error or that they participated in conduct which
resulted in losses for the Group or failed to meet appropriate there is material failure of risk management at a Group,
standards of fitness and propriety; business area, division and/or business unit level.
there is material failure of risk management at a Group,
business area, division and/or business unit level;
the Committee determines that the financial results for a
given year do not support the level of variable remuneration
awarded; and/or
any other circumstances where the Committee consider
adjustments should be made.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees in 2019
The annual fee for the Chairman was increased by 2 per cent to £757,700, in line with the overall salary budget for the executive population.
The annual Non-Executive Director fees were increased by 2 per cent, in line with the base salary increase awarded to the senior management of the
Group. These changes took effect from 1 January 2019.
2019 2018
Basic Non-Executive Director fee £79,600 £78,000
Deputy Chairman £104,000 £102,000
Senior Independent Director £62,400 £61,200
Audit Committee Chairmanship £72,800 £71,400
Remuneration Committee Chairmanship £72,800 £71,400
Board Risk Committee Chairmanship £72,800 £71,400
Responsible Business Committee Chairmanship £41,600 £40,800
Audit Committee membership £33,300 £32,650
Remuneration Committee membership £33,300 £32,650
Board Risk Committee membership £33,300 £32,650
Responsible Business Committee membership1 £15,600 £15,300
Nomination and Governance Committee membership2 £15,600 £15,300
1 New members only.
2 Including payments to Chairmen of other Committees who are members.
Non-Executive Directors may receive more than one of the above fees.
96 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Gender pay targeting greater pay awards for lower graded
colleagues (where there is a majority of female Mean Pay Gap %
We reduced our gender pay gap by
colleagues), we have reduced our gender pay
1.3 per cent in 2018
gap by 1.3 per cent. An increase in part time
The Group is committed to offering 2018 31.5%
working at lower grades and a reduction in the
all colleagues a reward package that is number of female colleagues at the most senior 2017 32.8%
competitive, performance-driven and fair.
grades, offset the progress made in female
We recognise that supporting gender equality colleagues taking on more senior positions in
and diversity more broadly supports the the Group. As a result the mean bonus gap Mean Bonus Gap %
success of the UK as a whole. We regularly increased by 1.2 per cent from 2017 to 2018.
review our pay levels to ensure that men and Further information is available at: https:///www.
2018 66.4%
women are paid equally for doing equivalent lloydsbankinggroup.com/globalassets/our-
roles across the Group and the Group is group/responsible-business/reporting-centre/ 2017 65.2%
committed to increasing the number of women gender-pay-gap-report-2017-18-final.pdf.
in senior roles. As a result of progress made in
hiring female talent into senior positions and
Remuneration Committee
The Committee comprises Non-Executive Share methodology including performance continue to focus on implementing the revised
Directors from a wide background to provide measures included within the Group principles of the UK Corporate Governance
a balanced and independent view on Balanced Scorecard Code. In addition to continuous engagement
remuneration matters. During the year Anita 2018 Colleague Group Ownership Share with stakeholders, the Committee intends to
Frew stepped down as Chair of the Committee increase the level of engagement it has with
2018 Sharesave offer
and was replaced by Stuart Sinclair with effect the wider workforce on remuneration matters.
from 1 September 2018. Stuart has been a Approval of a simplified 2019 Balanced
member of the Committee since January 2016 Scorecard approach following Advice provided to the Committee:
and Anita remains a member of the Committee. stakeholder feedback Mercer is the appointed advisor to the
Committee, following a competitive tender
For details of membership and attendance at Review of the Group’s new approach to process in 2016 and was retained during the
meetings, please see pages 52 to 53 and 56. performance, ‘Your Best’ year. The Committee is of the view that Mercer
The purpose of the Committee is to set the Senior Executives and Executive Directors: provides independent remuneration advice
remuneration for all Executive Directors and Review of performance and remuneration to the Committee and does not have any
the Chairman, including pension rights and arrangements for Executive Directors and connections with the Group that may impair its
any compensation payments. It recommends key senior management independence. The broader Mercer company
and monitors the level and structure of provides unrelated advice on accounting and
Key Stakeholders:
remuneration for senior management and investments. Mercer is a founding member
material risk takers. It also considers, agrees Shareholder feedback following the 2018 and signatory to the UK Remuneration
and recommends to the Board an overall AGM in May Consultants Code of Conduct which governs
remuneration policy and philosophy for Feedback sessions following engagement standards in the areas of transparency,
the Group that is aligned with its long-term with the PRA/FCA integrity, objectivity, confidentiality,
business strategy, its business objectives, competence and due care, details of
Consideration of the revised UK Corporate
its risk appetite, values and the long-term which can be found at
Governance Code and how the Committee
interests of the Group that recognises the www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
intends to ensure compliance moving into
interests of relevant stakeholders, including 2019 and beyond During the year, Mercer attended Committee
the wider workforce. meetings upon invitation and provided
Consideration for ensuring a clear link
advice and support in areas such as
Annual effectiveness review between pay and performance following market and best practice, regulatory and
During 2018, the Committee met its key the launch of the Group’s new approach to governance developments, drafting the
objectives and carried out its responsibilities performance, ‘Your Best’ remuneration report, and benchmarking pay
effectively, as confirmed by the annual Review and approval of MBNA integration and performance.
effectiveness review. remuneration approach Fees payable for the provision of
Review and approval of LDC bonus Remuneration Committee services in 2018
How the Remuneration Committee spent
award approach were £89,870, based on time and materials.
its time in 2018
The Committee held five scheduled meetings Key Priorities for 2019 António Horta-Osório (Group Chief
Executive), Juan Colombás (Chief Operating
during 2018 where the following key matters We are not seeking to make any changes to
Officer), Jen Tippin (Group People and
were considered. our Directors Remuneration Policy for 2019
Productivity Director), Matt Sinnott (Group
Committee: but the Committee will undertake a full review
Reward Director), Stuart Woodward (Reward
of the Policy in 2019 ahead of the 2020 AGM.
Approval of terms of reference Regulation, Governance and Variable Reward
During 2019, the Committee will increase its
Results of the effectiveness review and level of oversight on remuneration matters Director) and Letitia Smith (Group Director,
suggestions for improvement for the wider workforce to support with key Conduct, Compliance & Operational Risk)
provided guidance to the Committee (other
Group wide remuneration approach: decision making when setting the policy.
than for their own remuneration).
This will include implementation of changes
D etermination of the overall 2017 Group supporting the Group’s new performance Stephen Shelley (Chief Risk Officer) and
Performance Share outcome management approach. George Culmer (Chief Financial Officer) also
A pproval of the 2015 LTIP vesting attended the Committee to advise as and
In light of the recent enhancements in
A pproval of the 2018 Group Performance corporate governance, the Committee will when necessary on risk, financial and other
operational matters.
Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting
The table below sets out the voting outcome at the Annual General Meeting in May 2018.
Votes cast in favour Votes cast against Votes withheld
Number of shares Percentage of Number of shares Percentage of Number of shares
(millions) votes cast (millions) votes cast (millions)
Directors’ remuneration policy (binding vote in 2017) 47,673 98.03% 959 1.97% 535
2018 annual report on remuneration (advisory vote) 39,664 79.22% 10,405 20.78% 645
100 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Other remuneration disclosures
This section discloses the remuneration staff. The Committee reviews the policy with the close participation of the Group’s
awards made by the Group to Material annually and Committee pays particular Risk team, to embed performance measures
Risk Takers (MRTs) in respect of the 2018 attention to the top management population, across the Group’s reward structure which
performance year. Additional information including the highest paid colleagues in each are challenging and reflect Group and
summarising the Group’s remuneration division, those colleagues who perform senior divisional achievement in addition to
policies, structure and governance is also management functions for the Group and personal contribution.
provided. These disclosures should be MRTs. Further details on the operation of the The use of a balanced scorecard approach
read in conjunction with the disclosures Remuneration Committee can be found on to measure performance enables the
for Executive Directors contained in the page 96 of the DRR. Remuneration Committee to assess the
Directors’ Remuneration Report (DRR) The Group has a robust governance performance of the Group and its senior
on pages 82 to 99, and together comply framework, with the Remuneration Committee executives in a consistent and performance-
with the requirements of Article 450 of the reviewing all compensation decisions for driven way. The Group’s remuneration policy
Capital Requirements Regulation (EU) No. Executive Directors, senior management, supports the business values and strategy,
575/2013 (CRR). The remuneration principles senior risk and compliance officers, high based on building long-term relationships
and practices detailed in the DRR apply to earners and any other MRTs. This approach to with customers and colleagues and managing
MRTs and non-MRTs in the same way as to governance is cascaded through the Group the financial consequences of business
Executive Directors (other than where stated with the Group People Committee having decisions across the entire economic cycle.
in this disclosure). oversight for all other colleagues. Further detail can be found in the DRR. In
The Group has applied the EBA Delegated particular, see pages 86 to 87, 89, 92 to 94 and
Regulation (EU) No 604/2014 to determine Governance and risk 97 to 99 of the DRR.
which colleagues should be identified management
as MRTs. MRTs are colleagues who are Design and structure of
considered to have a material impact on the An essential component of the approach
Group’s risk profile, and include, but are not to remuneration is the governance process remuneration
limited to: that underpins it. This ensures that the policy When establishing the remuneration policy
is robustly applied and risk is managed and associated frameworks, the Group
Senior management, Executive Directors, appropriately. is required to take into account its size,
members and attendees of the Group
In addition to setting the overall remuneration organisation and the nature, scope and
Executive Committee (GEC) and their
policy and philosophy for the Group, the complexity of its activities. For the purpose
respective executive level direct reports;
Remuneration Committee ensures that of remuneration regulation, Lloyds Bank
Non-Executive Directors colleagues who could have a material impact plc is treated as a proportionality level I firm
on the Group’s risk profile are provided and therefore subject to the more onerous
Approved persons performing
with appropriate incentives and reward to remuneration rules.
significant influence functions (SIFs) and/
or all colleagues performing a senior encourage them to enhance the performance Remuneration is delivered via a combination
management function of the Group and that they are recognised for of fixed and variable remuneration. Fixed
their individual contribution to the success of remuneration reflects the role, responsibility
Other highly remunerated individuals the organisation, whilst ensuring that there and experience of a colleague. Variable
whose activities could have a material is no reward for excessive risk taking. The remuneration is based on an assessment
impact on the Group’s risk profile Remuneration Committee works closely with of individual, business area and Group
the Risk Committee in ensuring the Group performance. The mix of variable and fixed
Decision making process for Performance Share (GPS) plan outcome is remuneration is driven by seniority, grade and
remuneration policy moderated. The two Committees determine role. Taking into account the expected value
whether the proposed GPS outcome and of awards, the performance-related elements
The Group has a strong belief in aligning performance assessments adequately of pay make up a considerable proportion
the remuneration delivered to the Group’s reflect the risk appetite and framework of the of the total remuneration package for MRTs,
executives with the successful performance Group; whether it took account of current whilst maintaining an appropriate balance
of the business and, through this, the delivery and future risks; and whether any further between the fixed and variable elements.
of long-term, superior and sustainable adjustment is required or merited. The The maximum ratio of fixed to variable
returns to shareholders. It has continued to Group and the Remuneration Committee are remuneration for MRTs is 200 per cent,
seek the views of shareholders and other key determined to ensure that the aggregate of which has been approved by shareholders
stakeholders with regard to remuneration the variable remuneration for all colleagues is (98.77 per cent of votes cast) at the AGM on
policy and seeks to motivate, incentivise appropriate and balanced with the interests of 15 May 2014.
and retain talent while being mindful of the shareholders and all other stakeholders.
economic outlook. An essential component Remuneration for control functions is set in
of the Group’s approach to remuneration is The Remuneration Committee’s terms of relation to benchmark market data to ensure
the governance process that underpins it. This reference are available from the Company that it is possible to attract and retain staff
ensures that the policy is robustly applied and Secretary and are displayed on the Group’s with the appropriate knowledge, experience
risk is managed appropriately. website, www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/our- and skills. An appropriate balance between
group/corporate-governance. These terms fixed and variable compensation supports
The overarching purpose of the Remuneration are reviewed each year to ensure compliance this approach. Generally, control function
Committee is to consider, agree and with the remuneration regulations and were staff receive a higher proportion of fixed
recommend to the Board an overall last updated in November 2018. remuneration than other colleagues and
remuneration policy and philosophy for
the aggregate ratio of fixed to variable
the Group that is defined by, supports and Link between pay and
remuneration for all control function staff does
is closely aligned to its long-term business
performance not exceed 100 per cent. Particular attention
strategy, business objectives, risk appetite
is paid to ensure remuneration for control
and values and recognises the interests of The Group’s approach to reward is intended
function staff is linked to the performance
relevant stakeholders. The remuneration to provide a clear link between remuneration
of their function and independent from the
policy governs all aspects of remuneration and delivery of its key strategic objectives,
business areas they control.
and applies in its entirety to all divisions, supporting the aim of becoming the best
business units and companies in the Group, bank for customers, and through that, for
including wholly-owned overseas businesses shareholders. To this end, the performance
and all colleagues, contractors and temporary management process has been developed,
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105
Risk management
All narrative and quantitative tables are
unaudited unless otherwise stated. The
audited information is required to comply
with the requirements of relevant International
Financial Reporting Standards.
The Group’s approach to risk 106
Emerging risks 108
Capital stress testing 110
How risk is managed 110
Risk governance 112
Full analysis of risk categories 114
A new fleet of hybrid and electric buses is arriving on the streets of £50m
London, with funding provided through our Clean Growth Finance
Initiative (CGFI). Metroline, one of the capital’s largest bus providers,
has used a £50 million asset finance facility to fund its fleet renewal asset finance facility to
programme, in line with London Mayor Sadiq Khan’s plans to fund Metroline’s fleet
renewal programme
make London the world’s greenest global city. Targets have been
set by Transport for London to operate low-emission transport
across the city and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 60 per cent
before 2025. Metroline is one of a number of businesses that have
accessed discounted funding to support low carbon projects
through the CGFI.
visit lloydsbankinggroup.com/
prosperplan
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Further information on risk management
can be found:
Risk overview 30
Note 52: Financial risk management 255
Pillar 3 report: www.lloydsbankinggroup.com
The Group supports the recommendations
made in the report ‘Enhancing the Risk
Disclosures of Banks’ issued by the Enhanced
Disclosure Task Force of the Financial Stability
Board in October 2012.
Supporting
green transport
in London
106 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk management
Risk management is at the heart of our strategy framework and is embedded into our policies, authorities and limits, to
guide decision-making and risk management. The Board is responsible
to become the best bank for customers.
for approving the Group’s risk appetite statement at least annually.
Our mission is to protect our customers, Group Board-level metrics are cascaded into more detailed business
appetite metrics and limits.
colleagues and the Group, whilst enabling
Group risk appetite includes the following areas:
sustainable growth in targeted segments. This is
Credit – the Group has a conservative and well-balanced credit portfolio
achieved through informed risk decision-making
through the economic cycle, generating an appropriate return on equity,
and superior risk and capital management, in line with the Group’s target return on equity in aggregate.
supported by a consistent risk-focused culture. Regulatory and legal – the Group complies with all relevant regulation
and all applicable laws (including codes of practice which have legal
The risk overview (pages 30 to 35) provides a summary of risk management
implications) and/or legal obligations.
within the Group. It highlights the important role of risk as a strategic
differentiator, key areas of focus for risk during 2018, and the role of risk Conduct – the Group’s product design and sales practices ensure that
management in enhancing the customer experience, along with an products are transparent and meet customer needs.
overview of the Group’s Risk Management Framework, and the principal
Operational – the Group has robust controls in place to manage
risks faced by the Group and key mitigating actions.
operational losses, reputational events and regulatory breaches.
This full risk management section provides a more in-depth picture of how It identifies and assesses emerging risks and acts to mitigate these.
risk is managed within the Group, detailing the Group’s emerging risks,
People – the Group leads responsibly and proficiently, manages its people
approach to stress testing, risk governance, committee structure, appetite
resource effectively, supports and develops colleague talent, and meets
for risk (pages 106 to 114) and a full analysis of the primary risk categories
legal and regulatory obligations related to its people.
(pages 114 to 159) – the framework by which risks are identified, managed,
mitigated and monitored. Capital – the Group maintains capital levels commensurate with a prudent
level of solvency, and aims to deliver consistent and high quality earnings.
Each risk category is described and managed using the following standard
headings: definition, exposures, measurement, mitigation and monitoring. Funding and liquidity – the Group maintains a prudent liquidity profile
and a balance sheet structure that limits its reliance on potentially volatile
The Group’s approach to risk sources of funding.
Governance – the Group has governance arrangements that support the
The Group operates a prudent approach to risk with rigorous
effective long-term operation of the business, maximise shareholder value
management controls to support sustainable business growth and
and meet regulatory and societal expectations.
minimise losses. Through a strong and independent risk function
(Risk division), a robust control framework is maintained to identify Market – the Group has robust controls in place to manage its inherent
and escalate current and emerging risks, support sustainable growth market risk and does not engage in any proprietary trading, reflecting the
within Group risk appetite, and to drive and inform good risk reward customer focused nature of the Group’s activities.
decision-making.
Model – the Group has embedded a framework for the management
To meet ring-fencing requirements from 1 January 2019, core UK retail of model risk to ensure effective control and oversight, compliance with
financial services and ancillary retail activities have been ring-fenced from all regulatory rules and standards, and to facilitate appropriate customer
other activities of the Group. The Group Risk Management Framework and outcomes.
Group Risk Appetite apply across the Group and are supplemented by risk
management frameworks and risk appetites for the sub-groups to meet Governance and control
sub-group specific needs. In each case these are aligned to the Group
The Group’s approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework
position. The Group’s Corporate Governance Framework applies across
and a strong risk management culture which are the foundation for the
Lloyds Banking Group plc, Lloyds Bank plc, Bank of Scotland plc and
delivery of effective risk management and guide the way all employees
HBOS plc. It is tailored where needed to meet the entity specific needs of
approach their work, behave and make decisions.
Lloyds Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc, and supplementary Corporate
Governance Frameworks are in place to address sub-group specific Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from the Board
requirements of the other sub-groups (LBCM, Insurance and LBG Equity down to individuals through the management hierarchy. Senior executives
Investments). See our revised Group governance arrangements and Group are supported by a committee based structure which is designed to ensure
restructure to comply with ring-fencing on page 58. open challenge and support effective decision-making.
Risk culture The Group’s risk appetite, principles, policies, procedures, controls and
reporting are regularly reviewed and updated where needed to ensure
Based on the Group’s conservative business model, prudent approach they remain fully in line with regulations, law, corporate governance and
to risk management, and guided by the Board, the senior management industry good-practice.
articulates the core risk values to which the Group aspires, and sets the
The interaction of the executive and non-executive governance structures
tone at the top, with a strong focus on building and sustaining long-term
relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by
relationships with customers through the economic cycle. The Group’s
both the Board and senior management.
code of responsibility reinforces colleague accountability for the risks they
Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior
take and their responsibility to prioritise their customers’ needs.
management in Group-wide risk issues at Group Executive Committee
level, ensures that escalated issues are promptly addressed and
Risk appetite
remediation plans are initiated where required.
We define our risk appetite as ‘the amount and type of risk that the Group
Line managers are directly accountable for identifying and managing risks
is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate’ in delivering our Group strategy.
in their individual businesses, ensuring that business decisions strike an
Group strategy and risk appetite are developed in tandem. Business appropriate balance between risk and reward and are consistent with the
planning aims to optimise value within our risk appetite parameters and Group’s risk appetite.
deliver on our promise to Help Britain Prosper. Clear responsibilities and accountabilities for risk are defined across the
The Group’s risk appetite statement details the risk parameters within Group through a three lines of defence model which ensures effective
which the Group operates. The statement forms part of our control independent oversight and assurance in respect of key decisions.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109
Risk Key mitigating actions
Uncertainty remains over UK monetary policy, and tightening US monetary – The Group has a robust through the cycle credit risk appetite, including
policy is pressuring some emerging markets with potential spill over effects appropriate product, sector and single name concentration parameters,
on growth and asset prices in other markets. robust sector appetite statements and policies, as well as affordability
Policy tightening in the US and China has weakened global growth and indebtedness controls at origination. In addition to ongoing focused
prospects; this is likely to bring a pause to US policy normalisation and monitoring, we conduct portfolio deep dives and quarterly larger
Chinese deleveraging of its high debt levels, in turn weakening crisis exposure reviews. We have enhanced our use of early warning indicators
management tools. including sector specific indicators.
– The Group is well positioned against an uncertain economic outlook and
is able to withstand potential market volatility and/or downturn due to its
selective and pre-emptive credit tightening, robust affordability controls
and close monitoring of internal and external trends.
Geopolitical shocks: Current uncertainties could further impede the global – Risk appetite criteria limits single counterparty bank and non-bank
economic recovery. Global events, as well as terrorist activity including exposures complemented by a UK-focused strategy.
cyber-attacks, have the potential to trigger changes in the economic – The Chief Security Office develops and maintains an Emerald Response
outlook, market risk pricing and funding conditions. Process to respond to external crisis events. This is a rapid reaction group,
incorporating Financial Stability Response where appropriate.
– The Chief Security Office also maintains the operational resilience
framework to embed resilience activities across the Group and limit the
impact of internal or external events.
– Hedging of market risk considers, inter alia, potential shocks as a result of
geopolitical events.
Financial services transformation impact on customers: The risk that – Group vulnerability strategy and associated actions being developed
transformation of the financial services industry and the Group does not throughout the transformation programme.
adequately consider vulnerable customers. As technology and innovation – Digital principles are being agreed across the Group, primarily aimed
move at increasing pace, the more vulnerable could be at a disadvantage. at preventing material conduct residual risk and giving customers an
The increase in execution only propositions due to digitisation may lead to optimal, informative and fair buying journey to mitigate the increased
increased conduct risk where customers (including vulnerable customers) risks.
choose unsuitable products. Our approach to customer segmentation will – Technology risks, including those related to machine learning, are
need to ensure conduct and reputational risks are well managed. escalated and discussed through governance to ensure ongoing
Further, there is an emerging risk of unintended consequences within monitoring of any emerging unintended consequences.
decision-making undertaken by machine learning which could occur on – Emerging customer risks, including those pertaining to vulnerable
a large scale in a short period of time, creating new operational risks that customers, are managed through customer segmentation strategy
affect financial and non-financial outcomes, for example credit portfolio governance throughout the change lifecycle.
anomalies or conduct impacts. This is relevant for the Group at present as
the delivery of GSR3 utilises new technologies.
Climate change: The key risks associated with climate change are physical – We have embedded Sustainability in our Helping Britain Prosper Plan and
risks arising from climate and weather-related events, and transition risks, Group Property Objectives.
which are the financial risks resulting from the process of adjustment – We are taking a strategic approach to align with the UK Government’s
towards a lower carbon economy. Both of these risks may cause the Clean Growth Strategy and have committed to adopting the approach
impairment of asset values and impact the creditworthiness of our clients, set out by the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related
which could result in currently profitable business deteriorating over the Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
term of agreed facilities. Conversely propositions currently outside of
– We are identifying new opportunities to support customers and clients
appetite may constitute an acceptable opportunity in the future.
and to finance the UK’s transition to a lower carbon economy.
There is increased focus on these risks by key stakeholders including – We will embed sustainability into the way we do business and manage
businesses, clients and investors, and the regulatory landscape is evolving our own operations in a more sustainable way, identifying and managing
to reflect these risks. material sustainability-related risks across the Group, and disclosing these
There is also a risk that campaign groups or other bodies could seek to take in line with the TCFD recommendations.
legal action (including indirect action) against the Group and/or the financial – We will ensure that appropriate training is provided to Relationship
services industry for investing in or lending to organisations that they deem managers and Risk colleagues to enable them to have effective
to be responsible for, or contributing to, climate change. sustainability conversations with their clients.
Transition from IBORs to Alternative Risk Free Reference Rates: – The Group is working closely with the Bank of England initiated Working
Widely used benchmark rates, such as the London Interbank Offered Group on Sterling Risk-Free Reference Rates on the transition away from
Rate (‘LIBOR’), have been subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny, with LIBOR in the UK.
regulators signalling the need to use alternative benchmark rates. As a – Maintain close engagement with the FCA on potential impacts.
result, existing benchmark rates may be discontinued or the basis on which
– Working closely with industry bodies to understand and manage the
they are calculated may change.
impact of benchmark transition in other geographies.
There is uncertainty across the whole UK Banking sector as to the impact – Transition project established and the appointment of an IBOR Transition
such discontinuation or changes may have and they may adversely affect Director as accountable executive.
a broad array of financial products, including any LIBOR-based securities,
– Working with our customers to ensure they understand the risks or
loans and derivatives.
outcomes they might face from transition.
Any discontinuation or changes could have important implications for both – Establish a clear client communication strategy for all new IBOR linked
the Group and our customers, for example: necessitating amendments to products. Consider appropriate client communications for legacy
existing documents and contracts; changes to systems and infrastructures; contracts as the market end-state position evolves.
and the possibility of disputes.
– Implement an internal communication strategy and ensure that all
relevant staff are aware and have the tools and training required.
110 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk management continued
Capital stress testing Methodology
Overview The stress tests at all levels must comply with all regulatory requirements,
achieved through comprehensive construction of macroeconomic
Stress testing is recognised as a key risk management tool by the Boards, scenarios and a rigorous divisional, functional, risk and executive review
senior management, the businesses and the Risk and Finance functions and challenge process, supported by analysis and insight into impacts on
of all parts of the Group and its legal entities. It is fully embedded in the customers and business drivers.
planning process of the Group and its legal entities as a key activity in
The engagement of all required business, Risk and Finance areas is
medium-term planning, and senior management is actively involved in
built into the preparation process, so that the appropriate analysis of
stress testing activities via a strict governance process.
each risk category’s impact upon the business plans is understood and
Scenario stress testing is used for: documented. The methodologies and modelling approach used for stress
Risk Identification: testing ensure that a clear link is shown between the macroeconomic
scenarios, the business drivers for each area and the resultant stress testing
Understand key vulnerabilities of the Group and its key legal entities outputs. All material assumptions used in modelling are documented
under adverse economic conditions. and justified, with a clearly communicated review and sign-off process.
Risk Appetite: Modelling is supported by expert judgement and is subject to the Group
Model Governance Policy.
Assess the results of the stress test against the risk appetite of all parts of
the Group to ensure the Group and its legal entities are managed within Governance
their risk parameters.
Clear accountabilities and responsibilities for stress testing are assigned
Inform the setting of risk appetite by assessing the underlying risks under to senior management and the Risk and Finance functions throughout
stress conditions. the Group and its key legal entities. This is formalised through the Group
Business Planning and Stress Testing Policy and Procedure, which are
Strategic and Capital Planning:
reviewed at least annually.
Allow senior management and the Boards of the Group and its
The Group Financial Risk Committee (GFRC), chaired by the Chief Risk
applicable legal entities to adjust strategies if the plan does not meet risk
Officer and attended by the Chief Financial Officer and other senior Risk
appetite in a stressed scenario.
and Finance colleagues, is the committee that has primary responsibility
Support the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) for overseeing the development and execution of the Group’s stress tests.
by demonstrating capital adequacy, and meet the requirements Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets (LBCM) Risk Committee performs a similar
of regulatory stress tests that are used to inform the setting of the function within the scope of LBCM.
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and management buffers
The review and challenge of the Group’s detailed stress forecasts, the
(see capital risk on pages 139 to 147) of the Group and its separately
key assumptions behind these, and the methodology used to translate
regulated legal entities.
the economic assumptions into stressed outputs conclude with the
Risk Mitigation: divisional Finance Directors’, appropriate Risk Directors’ and Managing
Drive the development of potential actions and contingency plans to Directors’ sign-off. The outputs are then presented to GFRC and Board
mitigate the impact of adverse scenarios. Stress testing also links directly Risk Committee for review and challenge, before being approved by the
to the recovery planning process of the Group and its legal entities. Board. There is a similar process within LBCM for the governance of the
LBCM-specific results.
Regulatory stress tests
In 2018 the Group participated in both the concurrent UK stress test run by How risk is managed in
the Bank of England (BoE) and in the European Banking Authority’s (EBA) Lloyds Banking Group
bi-annual EU-wide stress test. The EBA stress test did not contain a pass/
The Group’s Risk Management Framework (RMF) (see risk overview,
fail threshold and as announced in November, the Group demonstrated
page 30) is structured around the following components which meet and
its ability to meet applicable capital requirements under stress conditions.
align with the industry-accepted internal control framework standards.
In the case of the BoE stress test, despite the severity of the scenario, the
Group exceeded the capital and leverage hurdles after the application of The RMF applies to every area of the business and covers all types of risk.
management actions and as a consequence was not required to take any It is reviewed, updated and approved by the Board at least annually to
capital actions. reflect any changes in the nature of our business and external regulations,
law, corporate governance and industry best practice. The RMF provides
Internal stress tests the Group with an effective mechanism for developing and embedding
risk policies and risk management strategies which are aligned with
On at least an annual basis, the Group conducts macroeconomic stress
the risks faced by its businesses. It also seeks to facilitate effective
tests of the operating plan, which are supplemented with higher level
communication on these matters across the Group.
refreshes if necessary. The exercise aims to highlight the key vulnerabilities
of the Group’s and its legal entities’ business plans to adverse changes in Role of the Board and senior management
the economic environment, and to ensure that there are adequate financial
resources in the event of a downturn. Key responsibilities of the Board and senior management include:
setting risk appetite and approval of the RMF;
Reverse stress testing
approval of Group-wide risk principles and policies;
Reverse stress testing is used to explore the vulnerabilities of the Group’s
and its key legal entities’ strategies and plans to extreme adverse events the cascade of delegated authority (for example to Board
that would cause the businesses to fail, in order to facilitate contingency sub-committees and the Group Chief Executive); and
planning. The scenarios used are those that would cause the businesses to
effective oversight of risk management consistent with risk appetite.
be unable to carry on their activities. Where reverse stress testing reveals
plausible scenarios with an unacceptably high risk when considered Risk appetite
against the Group’s or its entities’ risk appetite, they will adopt measures to
Risk appetite is defined within the Group as ‘the amount and type of risk
prevent or mitigate that risk, which are then reflected in strategic plans.
that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate’ in delivering our
Other stress testing activity Group Strategy (see the Group’s approach to risk page 106).
The Group’s stress testing programme also involves undertaking Governance frameworks
assessments of liquidity scenarios, market risk sensitivities and scenarios,
The policy framework is founded on Board-approved key principles
and business specific scenarios (see the primary risk categories on pages
for the overall management of risk in the organisation. These are
114 to 159 for further information on risk-specific stress testing). If required,
aligned with Group strategy and risk appetite and based on a current
ad hoc stress testing exercises are also undertaken to assess emerging
and comprehensive risk profile that identifies all material risks to the
risks, as well as in response to regulatory requests. This wide ranging
organisation. The principles are underpinned by a hierarchy of policies
programme provides a comprehensive view of the potential impacts
which define mandatory requirements for risk management and control.
arising from the risks to which the Group is exposed and reflects the
These are consistently implemented across the Group.
nature, scale and complexity of the Group.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111
Robust processes and controls to identify and report policy breaches are Risk and control cycle from identification to
in place. These include clear materiality criteria and escalation procedures reporting
which ensure an appropriate level of visibility and prioritisation of
remedial actions. To allow senior management to make informed risk decisions, the
business follows a continuous risk management approach which includes
The risk committee governance framework is outlined on page 112.
producing appropriate, accurate and focused risk reporting. The risk
Three lines of defence model and control cycle sets out how this should be approached, with the
appropriate controls and processes in place. This cycle, from identification
The RMF is implemented through a ‘three lines of defence’ model which to reporting, ensures consistency and is intended to manage and mitigate
defines clear responsibilities and accountabilities and ensures effective the risks impacting the Group.
independent oversight and assurance activities take place covering
The process for risk identification, measurement and control is integrated key decisions.
into the overall framework for risk governance. Risk identification
Business lines (first line) have primary responsibility for risk decisions, processes are forward-looking to ensure emerging risks are identified.
identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their areas Risks are captured and measured using robust and consistent
of accountability. They are required to establish effective governance quantification methodologies. The measurement of risks includes the
and control frameworks for their business to be compliant with Group application of stress testing and scenario analysis, and considers whether
policy requirements, to maintain appropriate risk management skills, relevant controls are in place before risks are incurred.
mechanisms and toolkits, and to act within Group risk appetite parameters
Identified risks are reported on a monthly basis or as frequently as
set and approved by the Board.
necessary to the appropriate committee. The extent of the risk is
Risk division (second line) is a centralised function, headed by the Chief compared to the overall risk appetite as well as specific limits or triggers.
Risk Officer, providing oversight and independent constructive challenge When thresholds are breached, committee minutes are clear on the
to the effectiveness of risk decisions taken by business management, actions and timeframes required to resolve the breach and bring risk
providing proactive advice and guidance, reviewing, challenging and within given tolerances. There is a clear process for escalation of risks and
reporting on the risk profile of the Group and ensuring that mitigating risk events.
actions are appropriate.
All business areas complete a Control Effectiveness Review (CER) annually,
It also has a key role in promoting the implementation of a strategic reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls and putting in place
approach to risk management reflecting the risk appetite and RMF agreed a programme of enhancements where appropriate. The CER reports are
by the Board that encompasses: approved at divisional risk committees or directly by the relevant member
oversighting embedding of effective risk management processes; of the Group Executive Committee to confirm the accuracy of the
assessment. This key process is overseen and independently challenged
transparent, focused risk monitoring and reporting; by Risk division, reviewed by Group Internal Audit against the findings of
provision of expert and high quality advice and guidance to the Board, its assurance activities, and reported to the Board.
executives and management on strategic issues and horizon scanning,
Risk culture
including pending regulatory changes; and
Supporting the formal frameworks of the RMF is the underlying culture,
a constructive dialogue with the first line through provision of advice,
or shared behaviours and values, which sets out in clear terms what
development of common methodologies, understanding, education,
constitutes good behaviour and good practice. In order to effectively
training, and development of new risk management tools.
manage risk across the organisation, the functions encompassed within
The Chief Risk Officer is accountable for developing and leading an the three lines of defence have a clear understanding of risk appetite,
industry-wide recognised Risk function that adds value to the Group by: business strategy and an understanding of (and commitment to) the role
they play in delivering it. A number of levers are used to reinforce the
providing a regular comprehensive view of the Group’s risk
risk culture, including tone from the top, clear accountabilities, effective
profile for both current and emerging key risks, and associated
communication and challenge and an appropriately aligned performance
management actions;
incentive.
proposing Group risk appetite to the Board for approval (with input
from the business areas and Risk division), and overseeing performance Risk resources and capabilities
of the Group against risk appetite;
Appropriate mechanisms are in place to avoid over-reliance on key
developing an effective RMF which meets regulatory requirements for personnel or system/technical expertise within the Group. Adequate
approval by the Board, and overseeing its execution and compliance; and resources are in place to serve customers both under normal working
conditions and in times of stress, and monitoring procedures are in place
challenging management on emerging risks and providing expert risk
to ensure that the level of available resource can be increased if required.
and control advice to help management maintain an effective risk and Colleagues undertake appropriate training to ensure they have the skills
control framework.
and knowledge necessary to enable them to deliver fair outcomes for
The Risk Directors reporting to the Chief Risk Officer: customers.
provide independent advice, oversight and challenge to the business; There is ongoing investment in risk systems and models alongside the
Group’s investment in customer and product systems and processes.
design, develop and maintain policies, specific functional risk
This drives improvements in risk data quality, aggregation and reporting
type frameworks and guidance to ensure alignment with business
leading to effective and efficient risk decisions.
imperatives and regulatory requirements;
establish and maintain appropriate governance structures, culture,
oversight and monitoring arrangements which ensure robust and
efficient compliance with relevant risk type risk appetites and policies;
lead regulatory liaison on behalf of the Group including horizon
scanning and regulatory development for their risk type; and
recommend risk appetite and provide oversight of the associated risk
profile across the Group.
The primary role of Group Internal Audit (third line) is to help the
Board and executive management protect the assets, reputation and
sustainability of the Group. Group Internal Audit is led by the Group Chief
Internal Auditor. Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance
to the Audit Committee and the Board through performing reviews and
engaging with committees/executive management, providing opinion
and challenge on risk and the state of the control environment. Group
Internal Audit is a single independent internal audit function, reporting
to the Board Audit Committee of the Group and the Board Audit
Committee of the key subsidiaries.
112 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk management continued
Risk governance
The risk governance structure below is integral to effective risk management across the Group. Risk division is appropriately represented on key
committees to ensure that risk management is discussed in these meetings. This structure outlines the flow and escalation of risk information and reporting
from business areas and Risk division to Group Executive Committee and Board. Conversely, strategic direction and guidance is cascaded down from the
Board and Group Executive Committee.
Company Secretariat supports senior and Board-level committees, and supports the Chairs in agenda planning. This gives a further line of escalation
outside the three lines of defence.
Table 1.2: Risk governance structure
Reporting Reporting
Audit Board Risk
Board
Committee Committee
Group Chief Executive
Business area principal
Enterprise Risk Committees
Reporting First line of defence Reporting
– risk management
Group Chief Executive Committees Business area principal Risk Division Committees
Enterprise Risk Committees and Governance
Group Executive Committee (GEC)
Group Risk Committee (GRC) Commercial Banking Risk Committee Credit risk
Executive Credit Approval Committees
Group Asset and Liability Committee (GALCO) Retail Risk Committee C ommercial Banking Credit Risk Committees
Group Customer First Committee Insurance and Wealth Risk Committee Retail Credit Risk Committees
Group Cost Management Committee Community Banking Risk Committee Market risk
Group Market Risk Committee
Conduct Review Committee Group Transformation Risk Committees
Conduct, compliance and operational risk
Group People Committee Finance Risk Committee Group Conduct, Compliance and
Sustainability Committee People and Productivity Risk Committee Operational Risk Committee
Senior Independent Performance Group Corporate Affairs Risk Committee Fraud and financial crime risk
Adjustment and Conduct Committee Group Fraud and Financial Crime
Prevention Committee
Group Strategic Review 3 Committee
Financial risk
Group Financial Risk Committee
Capital risk
Group Capital Risk Committee
Model risk
Group Model Governance Committee
Insurance underwriting risk through
the governance arrangements for
Insurance Group (Insurance Group is a
separate regulated entity with its own Board,
governance structure and Chief Risk Officer)
ecnarussa
– ecnefed
fo
enil
drihT
tiduA
lanretnI
puorG
thgisrevo
ksir
– ecnefed
fo
enil
dnoceS
Aggregation, Aggregation,
escalation escalation
Group Chief Executive
Independent Independent
challenge Committees challenge
Risk Division
Committees and
Primary escalation Governance
Independent Independent
challenge challenge
Independent challenge of both
first and second lines of defence
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113
Board, Executive and Risk Committees
The Group’s risk governance structure (see table 1.2) strengthens risk evaluation and management, while also positioning the Group to manage the
changing regulatory environment in an efficient and effective manner.
Assisted by the Board Risk and Audit Committees, the Board approves the Group’s overall governance, risk and control frameworks and risk appetite.
Refer to the Corporate Governance section on pages 56 to 78, for further information on Board committees.
The Group’s Corporate Governance Framework applies across Lloyds Banking Group plc, Lloyds Bank plc, Bank of Scotland plc and HBOS plc. It is
tailored where needed to meet the entity specific needs of Lloyds Bank plc and Bank of Scotland plc, and supplementary Corporate Governance
Frameworks are in place to address sub-group specific requirements of the other sub-groups (LBCM, Insurance and LBG Equity Investments).
The divisional and functional risk committees review and recommend divisional and functional risk appetite and monitor local risk profile and adherence
to appetite.
Table 1.3: Executive and Risk Committees
In relation to the operation of Lloyds Banking Group plc, the Group Chief Executive is supported by the following:
Committees Risk focus
Group Executive Committee (GEC) Assists the Group Chief Executive in exercising his authority in relation to material matters having
strategic, cross-business area or Group-wide implications.
Group Risk Committee (GRC) Responsible for the development, implementation and effectiveness of the Group’s Risk
Management Framework, the clear articulation of the Group’s risk appetite and monitoring and
reviewing of the Group’s aggregate risk exposures and concentrations of risk.
Group Asset and Liability Committee (GALCO) Responsible for the strategic direction of the Group’s assets and liabilities and the profit and loss
implications of balance sheet management actions. The committee reviews and determines
the appropriate allocation of capital, funding and liquidity, and market risk resources and makes
appropriate trade-offs between risk and reward.
Group Customer First Committee Provides a Group-wide perspective on the progress of implementation of initiatives to enhance the
delivery of customer outcomes and customer trust, and sets and promotes the appropriate tone
from the top to fulfil the Group’s vision.
Group Cost Management Committee Leads and shapes the Group’s approach to cost management, ensuring appropriate governance
and process over Group-wide cost management activities and effective control of the Group’s cost
base.
Conduct Review Committee Provides senior management oversight, challenge and accountability in connection with the Group’s
engagement with conduct review matters as agreed with the Group Chief Executive.
Group People Committee Oversees the Group’s colleague policy, remuneration policy and Group-wide remuneration matters,
oversees compliance with Senior Manager and Certification Regime (SM&CR) and other regulatory
requirements, monitors colleague engagement surveys and ensures that colleague-related issues
are managed fairly, effectively and compliantly.
Sustainability Committee Recommends and implements the strategy and plans for delivering the Group’s aspiration to be
viewed as a trusted responsible business as part of the objective of Helping Britain Prosper.
Senior Independent Performance Adjustment Responsible for providing recommendations regarding performance adjustment, including the
and Conduct Committee individual risk-adjustment process and risk-adjusted performance assessment, and making final
decisions on behalf of the Group on the appropriate course of action relating to conduct breaches,
under the formal scope of the SM&CR.
Group Strategic Review 3 Committee Responsible for monitoring the progress of transformation across the Group, acting as a clearing
house to resolve issues and facilitate resolution of issues where necessary and to drive the execution
of the Group’s transformation agenda as agreed by the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Risk Committee is supported through escalation and ongoing reporting by business area risk committees, cross-divisional committees
addressing specific matters of Group-wide significance and the following second line of defence Risk committees which ensure effective oversight of
risk management:
Credit Risk Committees Review material credit risk, both current and emerging, and adherence to agreed risk appetite;
approve, or note the delegated approval of divisional and business level credit risk policy and
credit risk appetite; identify portfolio trends and risk appetite breaches and escalate to Group Risk
Committee as appropriate; sanction new credit initiatives for automated and manual decisioning
and collection and recoveries; oversight new business and portfolio credit risk performance, risks,
opportunities, and concentrations; and oversight performance of collections and recoveries.
Group Market Risk Committee Reviews and recommends market risk appetites. Monitors and oversights market risk exposures
across the Group and adherence to Board Risk Appetite. Approves the framework and designation
of books between the Trading Book and the Banking Book for regulatory purposes.
Group Conduct, Compliance and Acts as a Risk community forum to independently challenge and oversee the Group-wide risk and
Operational Risk Committee control environment, focusing on read-across of material events, key areas of regulatory focus and
emerging horizon risks. Uses lessons learned and undertakes read-across from the three lines of
defence to ensure that the Group-wide risk profile adapts to emerging risks, trends and themes, and
the control environment is sustainable to deliver the Bank of the Future.
114 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk management continued
Committees Risk focus
Group Fraud and Financial Crime Ensures development and application of fraud and financial crime risk management complies with
Prevention Committee the Group’s strategic aims, Group Corporate Responsibility, Group Risk Appetite and Group Fraud
and Financial Crime Policies. Provides direction and appropriate focus on priorities to enhance the
Group’s fraud and financial crime risk management capabilities in line with business and customer
objectives whilst aligning to the Group’s target operating model.
Group Financial Risk Committee Responsible for oversighting, reviewing, challenging and recommending to senior executives and
Board committees internal and Regulatory stress tests, Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Process, Pillar 3 Disclosures, Recovery and Resolution Plans, and other analysis as required.
Group Capital Risk Committee Responsible for providing oversight of all relevant capital matters within the Group including the
Group’s latest capital position and plans, risk appetite proposals, Pillar 2 developments, and the
impact from regulatory reforms and accounting developments specific to capital.
Group Model Governance Committee Responsible for setting the model governance framework, the associated policy and related
principles and procedures; reviewing and approving models, model changes, model extensions
and capital post model adjustments; recommending approval to Group Risk Committee (GRC) of
those models which require GRC approval; monitoring summary of model performance, approving
any appropriate corrective actions; and monitoring performance against risk appetite and escalating
as required.
Ring-Fenced Bank Perimeter Oversight Committee The Committee escalates perimeter control breaches to the Ring-Fenced Banks’ Board Risk
Committee and Boards.
Full analysis of risk categories
The Group’s risk framework covers all types of risk which affect the Group and could impact on the achievement of its strategic objectives. A detailed
description of each category is provided on pages 115 to 159.
Risk categories recognised by the Group are periodically reviewed to ensure that they reflect the Group risk profile in light of internal and external factors,
such as the Group Strategy and the regulatory environment in which it operates. As part of a review of the Group’s risk categories, the secondary risk
categories in the table below of Change, Data management and Operational resilience have been elevated to primary risk categories, and Strategic risk
has been included as a new primary risk category, in the Group’s Risk Management Framework. These changes will be embedded during 2019.
Primary risk categories Secondary risk categories
Credit risk – Retail credit – Commercial credit
Page 115
Regulatory and legal risk – Regulatory compliance – Legal
Page 135
Conduct risk – Conduct
Page 136
Operational risk – Business process – External service provision – Internal service provision
Page 136 – Change – Financial crime – IT systems
– Cyber and information security – Financial reporting – Operational resilience
– Data management – Fraud – Physical security/health and safety
– Sourcing
People risk – People
Page 138
Insurance underwriting risk – Insurance underwriting
Page 138
Capital risk – Capital
Page 139
Funding and liquidity risk – Funding and liquidity
Page 147
Governance risk – Governance
Page 153
Market risk – Trading book – Pensions
Page 154 – Banking book – Insurance
Model risk – Model
Page 159
The Group considers both reputational and financial impact in the course of managing all its risks and therefore does not classify reputational impact
as a separate risk category.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115
Credit Risk In addition, stress testing and scenario analysis are used to estimate
impairment losses and capital demand forecasts for both regulatory and
Definition internal purposes and to assist in the formulation of credit risk appetite.
As part of the ‘three lines of defence’ model, Risk division is the second
Credit risk is defined as the risk that parties with whom the Group has
line of defence providing oversight and independent challenge to key
contracted fail to meet their financial obligations (both on and off-
risk decisions taken by business management. Risk division also tests the
balance sheet).
effectiveness of credit risk management and internal credit risk controls.
This includes ensuring that the control and monitoring of higher risk
Exposures
and vulnerable portfolios/sectors is appropriate and confirming that
The principal sources of credit risk within the Group arise from loans appropriate loss allowances for impairment are in place. Output from these
and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities and reviews help to inform credit risk appetite and credit policy.
derivatives to customers, financial institutions and sovereigns. The credit
As the third line of defence, Group Internal Audit undertakes regular
risk exposures of the Group are set out in note 52 on page 255.
risk-based reviews to assess the effectiveness of credit risk management
In terms of loans and advances (for example mortgages, term loans and and controls. The Group’s external auditors also review adequacy at each
overdrafts) and contingent liabilities (for example credit instruments such quarter-end.
as guarantees and documentary letters of credit), credit risk arises both
Following the introduction of IFRS 9, underlying processes and key controls
from amounts advanced and commitments to extend credit to a customer
have been updated with additional management information produced
or bank. With respect to commitments to extend credit, the Group is
to assist in monitoring portfolio quality and provision coverage. Group
potentially exposed to a loss up to an amount equal to the total unutilised
governance and oversight of impairments remains largely unchanged.
commitments. However, the likely amount of loss may be less than the
total unutilised commitments, as most retail and certain commercial
Mitigation
lending commitments may be cancelled based on regular assessment
of the prevailing creditworthiness of customers. Most commercial term The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
commitments are also contingent upon customers maintaining specific
Prudent, through the cycle credit principles, risk policies and appetite
credit standards.
statements: the independent Risk division sets out the credit principles,
Credit risk also arises from debt securities and derivatives. The total credit risk policies and credit risk appetite statements. These are subject
notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative to regular review and governance, with any changes subject to an
and other contracts outstanding at 31 December 2018 is shown on approval process. Risk teams monitor credit performance trends, review
page 134. The notional principal amount does not, however, represent and challenge exceptions, and test the adequacy and adherence to
the Group’s credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of credit risk policies and processes throughout the Group. This includes
replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group. Such amounts are tracking portfolio performance against an agreed set of credit risk appetite
reflected in note 52 on page 255. tolerances.
Additionally, credit risk arises from leasing arrangements where the Robust models and controls: see Model risk on page 159.
Group is the lessor. Note 2(J) on page 181 provides details on the Group’s
Limitations on concentration risk: there are portfolio controls on
approach to the treatment of leases.
certain industries, sectors and products to reflect risk appetite as well as
Credit risk exposures in the Insurance and Wealth division largely result individual, customer and bank limit risk tolerances. Credit policies and
from holding bond and loan assets, together with some related swaps, appetite statements are aligned to the Group’s risk appetite and restrict
shareholder funds (including the annuity portfolio) and exposure to exposure to higher risk countries and potentially vulnerable sectors
reinsurers. and asset classes. Note 18(A) on page 255 provides an analysis of loans
and advances to customers by industry (for commercial customers) and
The investments held in the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes
product (for retail customers). Exposures are monitored to prevent both
also expose the Group to credit risk. Note 35 on page 219 provides further
an excessive concentration of risk and single name concentrations. These
information on the defined benefit pension schemes’ assets and liabilities.
concentration risk controls are not necessarily in the form of a maximum
Loans and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities limit on exposure, but may instead require new business in concentrated
and derivatives also expose the Group to refinance risk. Refinance risk is the sectors to fulfil additional minimum policy and/or guideline requirements.
possibility that an outstanding exposure cannot be repaid at its contractual The Group’s largest exposures are regularly monitored by the Board Risk
maturity date. If the Group does not wish to refinance the exposure then Committee and reported in accordance with regulatory requirements.
there is refinance risk if the obligor is unable to repay by securing alternative
finance. This may occur for a number of reasons which may include: the Defined country risk management framework: the Board sets a broad
maximum country risk appetite. Within this, the Executive Credit Approval
borrower is in financial difficulty, because the terms required to refinance
Committee approves the Group country risk framework and sovereign
are outside acceptable appetite at the time or the customer is unable
limits on an annual basis. Risk based appetite for all countries is set within
to refinance externally due to a lack of market liquidity. Refinance risk
the independent Risk division, taking into account economic, financial,
exposures are managed in accordance with the Group’s existing credit
political and social factors as well as the approved business and strategic
risk policies, processes and controls and are not considered to be material
plans of the Group.
given the Group’s prudent and through the cycle credit risk appetite. Where
heightened refinance risk exists exposures are minimised through intensive Specialist expertise: credit quality is managed and controlled by a
account management and, where appropriate, are impaired and/or classed number of specialist units within the business and Risk division, which
as forborne. provide for example: intensive management and control; security
perfection; maintenance of customer and facility records; expertise in
Measurement documentation for lending and associated products; sector specific
expertise; and legal services applicable to the particular market segments
The process for credit risk identification, measurement and control is
and product ranges offered by the Group.
integrated into the Board-approved framework for credit risk appetite and
governance. Stress testing: the Group’s credit portfolios are subject to regular stress
testing. In addition to the Group led, PRA, EBA and other regulatory stress
Credit risk is measured from different perspectives using a range of
tests, exercises focused on individual divisions and portfolios are also
appropriate modelling and scoring techniques at a number of levels of
performed. For further information on stress testing process, methodology
granularity, including total balance sheet, individual portfolio, pertinent
and governance see page 110.
concentrations and individual customer – for both new business and
existing lending. Key metrics such as total exposure, risk-weighted assets, Frequent and robust credit risk oversight and assurance: oversight and
new business quality, concentration risk and portfolio performance, are assurance of credit risk is undertaken by independent credit risk oversight
reported monthly to Risk Committees. functions operating within Retail credit risk and Commercial banking
risk which are part of the Group’s second line of defence. Their primary
Measures such as expected credit loss (ECL), risk-weighted assets,
objective is to provide reasonable and independent oversight that credit
observed credit performance, predicted credit quality (usually from
risk is being effectively managed and to ensure that appropriate controls
predictive credit scoring models), collateral cover and quality and other
are in place and being adhered to. Group Internal Audit also provides
credit drivers (such as cash flow, affordability, leverage and indebtedness)
assurance to the Board Audit Committee on the effectiveness of credit risk
are used to enable effective risk measurement across the Group.
management controls across the Group’s activities.
116 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk management continued
Collateral The Group seeks to avoid correlation or wrong-way risk where possible.
Under the Group’s repurchase (repo) policy, the issuer of the collateral and
The principal types of acceptable collateral include:
the repo counterparty should be neither the same nor connected. The
residential and commercial properties; same rule applies for derivatives. Risk division has the necessary discretion
to extend this rule to other cases where there is significant correlation.
charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts
Countries with a rating equivalent to AA- or better may be considered to
receivable;
have no adverse correlation between the counterparty domiciled in that
financial instruments such as debt securities; country and the country of risk (issuer of securities).
vehicles; Refer to note 52 on page 255 for further information on collateral.
cash; and Additional mitigation for Retail customers
guarantees received from third-parties.
The Group uses a variety of lending criteria when assessing applications
The Group maintains appetite parameters on the acceptability of specific for mortgages and unsecured lending. The general approval process
classes of collateral. uses credit acceptance scorecards and involves a review of an applicant’s
previous credit history using internal data and information held by Credit
For non-mortgage retail lending to small businesses, collateral may include
Reference Agencies (CRA).
second charges over residential property and the assignment of life cover.
The Group also assesses the affordability and sustainability of lending for
Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and
each borrower. For secured lending this includes use of an appropriate
advances is determined by the nature of the underlying exposure.
stressed interest rate scenario. Affordability assessments for all lending are
Debt securities, including treasury and other bills, are generally unsecured,
compliant with relevant regulatory and conduct guidelines. The Group
with the exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments such
takes reasonable steps to validate information used in the assessment of a
as covered bonds, which are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
customer’s income and expenditure.
Collateral is generally not held against loans and advances to financial
institutions. However, securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or In addition, the Group has in place quantitative limits such as maximum
securities borrowing transactions or where a collateral agreement has been limits for individual customer products, the level of borrowing to income
entered into under a master netting agreement. Derivative transactions and the ratio of borrowing to collateral. Some of these limits relate to
with financial counterparties are typically collateralised under a Credit internal approval levels and others are policy limits above which the Group
Support Annex (CSA) in conjunction with the International Swaps and will typically reject borrowing applications. The Group also applies certain
Derivatives Association (ISDA) Master Agreement. Derivative transactions criteria that are applicable to specific products for example applications for
with non-financial customers are not usually supported by a CSA. buy-to-let mortgages.
Commercial lending decisions must be based on an obligor’s ability to For UK mortgages, the Group’s policy permits owner occupier applications
repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal with a maximum LTV of 95 per cent. Applications with an LTV above
of any security provided. The requirement for collateral and the type to 90 per cent are subject to enhanced underwriting criteria, including higher
be taken at origination will be based upon the nature of the transaction scorecard cut-offs and loan size restrictions.
and the credit quality, size and structure of the borrower. For non-retail
Buy-to-let mortgages within Retail are limited to a maximum loan size
exposures if required, the Group will often seek that any collateral include
of £1,000,000 and 75 per cent LTV. Buy-to-let applications must pass a
a first charge over land and buildings owned and occupied by the
minimum rental cover ratio of 125 per cent under stressed interest rates,
business, a debenture over one or more of the assets of a company or
after applicable tax liabilities. Portfolio Landlords (customers with four or
limited liability partnership, personal guarantees, limited in amount, from
more mortgaged buy-to-let properties) are subject to additional controls
the directors of a company or limited liability partnership and key man
including evaluation of overall portfolio resilience.
insurance. The Group maintains policies setting out acceptable collateral
bases for valuation, maximum loan to value (LTV) ratios and other criteria The Group’s policy is to reject any application for a lending product where
that are to be considered when reviewing an application. Other than for a customer is registered as bankrupt or insolvent, or has a recent County
project finance, object finance and income producing real estate where Court Judgment or financial default registered at a CRA used by the
charges over the subject assets are required, the provision of collateral Group above de minimis thresholds. In addition, the Group typically rejects
will not determine the outcome of an application. Notwithstanding this, applicants where total unsecured debt, debt-to-income ratios, or other
the fundamental business proposition must evidence the ability of the indicators of financial difficulty exceed policy limits.
business to generate funds from normal business sources to repay a
Where credit acceptance scorecards are used, new models, model
customer or counterparty’s financial commitment.
changes and monitoring of model effectiveness are independently
The extent to which collateral values are actively managed will depend reviewed and approved in accordance with the governance framework set
on the credit quality and other circumstances of the obligor and type of by the Group Model Governance Committee.
underlying transaction. Although lending decisions are based on expected
cash flows, any collateral provided may impact the pricing and other terms Additional mitigation for Commercial customers
of a loan or facility granted. This will have a financial impact on the amount
Individual credit assessment and independent sanction of customer
of net interest income recognised and on internal loss given default and bank limits: with the exception of small exposures to SME
estimates that contribute to the determination of asset quality and returns. customers where certain relationship managers have limited delegated
Collateral values are assessed at the time of loan origination. The Group sanctioning authority, credit risk in commercial customer portfolios is
requires collateral to be realistically valued by an appropriately qualified subject to sanction by the independent Risk division, which considers the
source, independent of both the credit decision process and the strengths and weaknesses of individual transactions, the balance of risk
customer, at the time of borrowing. In certain circumstances, for Retail and reward, and how credit risk aligns to the Group and Divisional risk
residential mortgages this may include the use of automated valuation appetite. Exposure to individual counterparties, groups of counterparties
models based on market data, subject to accuracy criteria and LTV limits. or customer risk segments is controlled through a tiered hierarchy of
Where third-parties are used for collateral valuations, they are subject to delegated sanctioning authorities and risk based recommended maximum
regular monitoring and review. Collateral values are subject to review, limit parameters. Approval requirements for each decision are based on a
which will vary according to the type of lending, collateral involved and number of factors including, but not limited to, the transaction amount, the
account performance. Such reviews are undertaken to confirm that the customer’s aggregate facilities, credit policy, risk appetite, credit risk ratings
value recorded remains appropriate and whether revaluation is required, and the nature and term of the risk. The Group’s credit risk appetite criteria
considering for example, account performance, market conditions and for counterparty and customer underwriting is generally the same as that
any information available that may indicate that the value of the collateral for assets intended to be held to maturity. All hard underwriting must be
has materially declined. In such instances, the Group may seek additional sanctioned by Risk division. A pre-approved credit matrix may be used for
collateral and/or other amendments to the terms of the facility. The Group ‘best efforts’ underwriting.
adjusts estimated market values to take account of the costs of realisation
Counterparty credit limits: limits are set against all types of exposure in a
and any discount associated with the realisation of the collateral when
counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each
estimating credit losses.
exposure type. This includes credit risk exposure on individual derivatives
The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and securities financing transactions, which incorporates potential future
and collateral type with a view to ensuring that any potential undue exposures from market movements against agreed confidence intervals.
concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by changes to Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are set and limit breaches are
strategy, policy and/or business plans. subject to escalation procedures.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117
Daily settlement limits: settlement risk arises in any situation where a Non-performing exposures can be reclassified as Performing Forborne
payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a after a minimum 12 month cure period, providing there are no past due
corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities. Daily settlement limits amounts or concerns regarding the full repayment of the exposure. A
are established for each relevant counterparty to cover the aggregate minimum of a further 24 months must pass from the date the forborne
of all settlement risk arising from the Group’s market transactions on any exposure was reclassified as Performing Forborne before the account can
single day. exit forbearance. If conditions to exit forbearance are not met at the end
of this probation period, the exposure shall continue to be identified as
Master netting agreements
forborne until all the conditions are met.
It is credit policy that a Group approved master netting agreement must The Group’s treatment of loan renegotiations is included in the impairment
be used for all derivative and traded product transactions and must be policy in note 2(H) on page 180.
in place prior to trading. This requirement extends to trades with clients
and the counterparties used for the Bank’s own hedging activities, which Customers receiving support from UK government
may also include clearing trades with Central Counterparties (CCPs). Any sponsored programmes
exceptions must be approved by the appropriate credit sanctioner. Master To assist customers in financial distress, the Group participates in UK
netting agreements do not generally result in an offset of balance sheet government sponsored programmes for households, including the Income
assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, as transactions are usually Support for Mortgage Interest programme, under which the government
settled on a gross basis. However, within relevant jurisdictions and for paid all or part of the interest on the mortgage on behalf of the customer.
appropriate counterparty types master netting agreements do reduce the The Income Support for Mortgage Interest programme changed from a
credit risk to the extent that, if an event of default occurs, all trades with the benefit to a government loan, with effect from 6 April 2018. The Group
counterparty may be terminated and settled on a net basis. The Group’s estimates that customers representing approximately £0.4 billion (2017:
overall exposure to credit risk on derivative instruments subject to master £1.6 billion) of its mortgage exposures are receiving such support.
netting agreements can change substantially within a short period, since
this is the net position of all trades under the master netting agreement. The Group credit risk portfolio in 2018
Other credit risk transfers Overview
Credit quality remains strong with no deterioration in credit risk. Flow to
The Group also undertakes asset sales, credit derivative based transactions
arrears remains stable at low levels. The Group’s loan portfolios continue
and securitisations as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking
to be well positioned, reflecting the Group’s continued prudent, through
into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions.
the cycle approach to credit risk and benefiting from continued low
interest rates and a resilient UK economy
Monitoring
The gross asset quality ratio remains stable at 28 basis points, in line with
In conjunction with Risk division, businesses identify and define portfolios
2017 and 2016
of credit and related risk exposures and the key behaviours and
characteristics by which those portfolios are managed and monitored. The net asset quality ratio increased to 21 basis points (2017: 18 basis
This entails the production and analysis of regular portfolio monitoring points) and the impairment charge increased to £937 million in 2018
reports for review by senior management. Risk division in turn produces (2017: £795 million), driven by expected lower releases and write-backs,
an aggregated view of credit risk across the Group, including reports the inclusion of MBNA for a full year and a low impairment charge in
on material credit exposures, concentrations, concerns and other Secured compared to one-off write-backs in 2017
management information, which is presented to the divisional risk
The closed mortgage book continued to run off, reducing by a further
committees, Group Risk Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
£2.4 billion during 2018
Models Stage 2 loans as a proportion of total loans and advances to customers
have reduced to 7.8 per cent (1 January 2018: 11.3 per cent), with Stage 2 The performance of all models used in credit risk is monitored in line with
loans and advances down by £14.3 billion to £38.3 billion, driven by the
the Group’s governance framework – see Model risk on page 159.
sale of the Irish mortgage portfolio, model refinements to the Stage 2
Intensive care of customers in financial difficulty transfer approach for Secured and portfolio improvements. Coverage
of Stage 2 drawn balances increased to 4.1 per cent (1 January 2018:
The Group operates a number of solutions to assist borrowers who are
3.5 per cent)
experiencing financial stress. The material elements of these solutions
through which the Group has granted a concession, whether temporarily Stage 3 loans as a proportion of total loans and advances to customers
or permanently, are set out below. have remained stable at 1.9 per cent, with Stage 3 loans and advances
up £0.2 billion to £9.2 billion. Coverage of Stage 3 drawn balances
Forbearance
increased to 24.3 per cent (1 January 2018: 24.0 per cent).
The Group’s aim in offering forbearance and other assistance to customers
in financial distress is to benefit both the customer and the Group by Low risk culture and prudent risk appetite
supporting its customers and acting in their best interests by, where The Group continues to take a prudent approach to credit risk, with
possible, bringing customer facilities back into a sustainable position. robust credit quality and affordability controls at origination and a
prudent through the cycle credit risk appetite
The Group offers a range of tools and assistance to support customers
who are encountering financial difficulties. Cases are managed on an Credit portfolios are well positioned against an uncertain economic
individual basis, with the circumstances of each customer considered outlook and potential market volatility, including that related to the UK’s
separately and the action taken judged as being appropriate and exit from the EU
sustainable for both the customer and the Group.
The Group continues to grow lending to targeted segments while
The provision and review of such assistance is controlled through the maintaining a prudent risk appetite
application of an appropriate policy framework and associated controls.
The Group’s effective risk management ensures early identification and
Regular review of the assistance offered to customers is undertaken to
management of customers and counterparties who may be showing
confirm that it remains appropriate, alongside monitoring of customers’
signs of distress
performance and the level of payments received.
Sector concentrations within the portfolios are closely monitored and
The Group classifies accounts as forborne at the time a customer in
controlled, with mitigating actions taken where appropriate. Sector and
financial difficulty is granted a concession. Accounts are classified as
product caps limit exposure to certain higher risk and vulnerable sectors
forborne for a minimum of two or three years, dependent on whether the
and asset classes.
exposure is performing or non-performing when the concession is applied.
Forbearance measures consist of concessions towards a debtor that is
experiencing or about to experience difficulties in meeting its financial
commitments. This can include modification of the previous terms and
conditions of a contract or a total or partial refinancing of a troubled debt
contract, either of which would not have been required had the debtor not
been experiencing financial difficulties.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135
Environmental risk management The Group has been a signatory to the Equator Principles since 2008 and
has adopted and applied the expanded scope of Equator Principles III.
The Group ensures appropriate management of the environmental
The Equator Principles support the Group’s approach to assessing and
impact, including climate change, of its lending activities. The Group-wide
managing environmental and social issues in Project Finance, Project-
credit risk principles require all credit risk to be incurred with due regard to
Related Corporate loans and Bridge loans. The Group has also been a
environmental legislation and the Group’s code of responsibility.
signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) since
The Group’s business areas and sub-groups are each exposed to different 2012, which incorporate ESG (environmental, social and governance risk)
types and levels of climate-related risk in their operations. For example, considerations in asset management. Scottish Widows is responsible for
the general insurance function regularly uses weather, climate and the annual UNPRI reporting process.
environmental models and data to assess its insurance risk from covered
Within Commercial Banking, an electronic Environmental Risk Screening
perils such as windstorm and flood. A team of specialist scientists are
Tool is the primary mechanism for assessing environmental risk for lending
employed within underwriting to do this work and they also regularly
transactions. This system provides screening of location specific and sector
monitor the state of climate science to assess the need to include its
based risks that may be present in a transaction. Where a risk is identified,
potential impacts within pricing and solvency.
the transaction is referred to the Group’s expert in-house environmental risk
In 2018 we developed an implementation plan to address key team for further review and assessment. Where required, the Group’s panel
recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial of environmental consultants provide additional expert support.
Disclosure (TCFD). Further detail on planned activities is provided in
We provide colleague training on environmental risk management as part
the Sustainability Strategy and Task Force on Climate-related Financial
of the standard suite of Commercial Banking credit risk courses. To support
Disclosure Statement (see pages 24 to 25).
this training, a range of online resource is available to colleagues and
includes environmental risk theory, procedural guidance, and information
on environmental legislation and sector-specific environmental impacts.
Table 1.25: Environmental risk management approach
Group credit principles Initial transaction Detailed review Environmental Environmental
Environmental risk screening In-house team, due diligence risk approval
Relationship teams retained consultancy Panel consultants (including any
conditions)
Credit policies
Business unit
processes
Sector briefings
Supporting tools
Legislation briefings
Regulatory and legal risk frameworks, management information, standards and colleague training
to be implemented to identify and manage regulatory and legal risk.
Definition
Business units identify, assess and implement policy and regulatory
Regulatory and legal risk is defined as the risk that the Group is exposed requirements and establish local controls, processes, procedures and
to financial loss, fines, censure, or legal or enforcement action; or to civil resources to ensure appropriate governance and compliance.
or criminal proceedings in the courts (or equivalent) and/or the Group
Business units regularly produce management information to assist in
is unable to enforce its rights due to failing to comply with applicable
the identification of issues and test management controls are working
laws (including codes of practice which could have legal implications),
effectively.
regulations, codes of conduct, legal obligations, or a failure to adequately
manage actual or threatened litigation, including criminal proceedings. Risk and Legal provide oversight, proactive support and constructive
challenge to the business in identifying and managing regulatory and
Exposures legal issues.
Whilst the Group has a zero risk appetite for material regulatory breaches Risk conducts thematic reviews of regulatory compliance and provides
or material legal incidents, the Group remains exposed to them, driven by oversight of regulatory compliance assessments across businesses and
significant ongoing and new legislation, regulation and court proceedings divisions where appropriate.
in the UK and overseas which in each case needs to be interpreted,
Business units, with the support of divisional and Group-level bodies,
implemented and embedded into day-to-day operational and business
conduct ongoing horizon scanning to identify changes in regulatory and
practices across the Group.
legal requirements.
Measurement The Group engages with regulatory authorities and industry bodies on
forthcoming regulatory changes, market reviews and investigations,
Regulatory and legal risks are measured against a defined risk appetite
ensuring programmes are established to deliver new regulation and
metric, which is an assessment of material regulatory breaches and material
legislation.
legal incidents.
Monitoring
Mitigation
Material risks are managed through the relevant divisional level
The Group undertakes a range of key mitigating actions to manage
committees, with review and escalation through Group level committees
regulatory and legal risk. These include the following:
where appropriate, including the escalation of any material regulatory
The Board establishes a Group-wide risk appetite and metric for breaches or material legal incidents.
regulatory and legal risk.
Group policies and procedures set out the principles and key controls
that should apply across the business which are aligned to the Group risk
appetite. Mandated policies and processes require appropriate control
136 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk management continued
Conduct risk Cultural transformation, supported by strong direction and tone from
senior executives and the Board. This is underpinned by the Group’s
Definition values, behaviours and code of responsibility, to deliver the best bank
for customers.
The risk of customer detriment due to poor design, distribution and
Continued embedding of the customer vulnerability framework.
execution of products and services or other activities which could
The Customer Vulnerability Cross Divisional Committee continues to
undermine the integrity of the market or distort competition, leading
operate at a senior level to prioritise change, drive implementation
to unfair customer outcomes, regulatory censure and financial and
and ensure consistency across the Group. Significant partnership with
reputational loss.
Macmillan to support customers with cancer continues, alongside
ongoing activities to support all vulnerable customers, including those
Exposures
experiencing financial and domestic abuse.
The Group faces significant conduct risks, which affect all aspects of the Continued embedding and evolving of the Group’s customer journey
Group’s operations and all types of customers. strategy and framework to support our focus on conduct from an
Conduct risks can impact directly or indirectly on our customers and can end-to-end customer perspective.
materialise from a number of areas across the Group, including: business Enhanced product governance framework to ensure products continue
and strategic planning that does not sufficiently consider customer needs; to offer customers fair value, and consistently meet their needs
ineffective management and monitoring of products and their distribution throughout their product life cycle; reviewed and challenged by Group
(including the sales process); unclear, unfair, misleading or untimely Product Governance Committee (GPGC).
customer communications; a culture that is not sufficiently customer-centric;
Enhanced complaints management through effectively responding
poor governance of colleagues’ incentives and rewards and approval of
to, and learning from, root causes of complaint volumes and FoS
schemes which drive unfair customer outcomes; ineffective management
change rates.
and oversight of legacy conduct issues; ineffective management of
Review and oversight of thematic conduct agenda items at GPGC,
customers’ complaints or claims; and outsourcing of customer service and
ensuring holistic consideration of key Group-wide conduct risks.
product delivery via third-parties that do not have the same level of control,
oversight and culture as the Group. The Group is also exposed to the risk Enhanced recruitment and training, with a focus on how the
of engaging in or failing to manage conduct which could constitute market Group manages colleagues’ performance with clearer customer
abuse, undermine the integrity of a market in which it is active, distort accountabilities.
competition or create conflicts of interest. Ongoing engagement with third-parties involved in serving the Group’s
There is a high level of scrutiny regarding financial institutions’ treatment customers to ensure consistent delivery.
of customers, including those in vulnerable circumstances, from regulatory Monitoring and testing of customer outcomes to ensure the Group
bodies, the media, politicians and consumer groups. delivers fair outcomes for customers whilst making continuous
improvements to products, services and processes.
There continues to be a significant focus on market misconduct, resulting
from previous issues relating to London Inter-bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) Continued focus on market conduct through training and enhancements
and foreign exchange (FX). of procedures and controls, governed by the Market Steering
Committee which also provides read-across for the Group on
Due to the level of enhanced focus relating to conduct, there is a risk
industry issues.
that certain aspects of the Group’s current or legacy business may be
determined by the Financial Conduct Authority, other regulatory bodies or Implementation of enhanced change delivery methodology to enable
the courts as not being conducted in accordance with applicable laws or prioritisation and delivery of initiatives to address conduct challenges.
regulations, or in a manner that fails to deliver fair and reasonable customer Focus on proactive identification and mitigation of conduct risk in the
treatment. Group Strategic Review 3.
Active engagement with regulatory bodies and other stakeholders to
Measurement
develop understanding of concerns related to customer treatment,
To articulate its conduct risk appetite, the Group has sought more effective competition and market integrity, to ensure that the Group’s
granularity through the use of suitable Conduct Risk Appetite Metrics strategic conduct focus continues to meet evolving stakeholder
(CRAMs) and tolerances that indicate where it may be operating outside expectations.
its conduct risk appetite. These include Board-level conduct risk metrics
Monitoring
covering an assessment of overall CRAMs performance, out of appetite
CRAMs, Financial Ombudsman Service (FoS) change rates and complaints. Monitoring and reporting is undertaken at Board, Group and business
CRAMs have been designed for services and product families offered area committees. As part of the reporting of CRAMs, a robust outcomes
by the Group and are measured by a consistent set of common metrics. testing regime is in place to determine whether the Group is delivering fair
These contain a range of product design, sales and process metrics to outcomes for customers.
provide a more holistic view of conduct risks; some products also have a GCFC acts as the guardian of customer experience and has responsibility
suite of additional bespoke metrics. for monitoring and reviewing plans and actions to improve it, including
Each of the tolerances for the metrics are agreed for the individual product challenging divisions to make changes based on key learnings to support
or service and are regularly tracked. At a consolidated level these metrics the delivery of the Group’s vision and foster a customer-centric culture.
are part of the Board risk appetite. The Group continues to evolve its
approach to measurements supporting customer vulnerability, process Operational risk
delivery and customer journeys.
Definition
Mitigation
Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate
The Group takes a range of mitigating actions with respect to conduct or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events,
risk. The Group’s ongoing commitment to good customer outcomes which can lead to adverse customer impact, reputational damage or
sets the tone from the top and supports the development of the right financial loss.
customer-centric culture – strengthening links between actions to support
conduct, culture and customer and enabling more effective control Exposures
management. Actions to enable good conduct include:
The principal operational risks to the Group which could result in customer
Conduct risk appetite established at Group and business area level, with detriment, unfair customer outcomes, financial loss, disruption and/or
metrics included in the Group risk appetite to ensure ongoing focus. reputational damage are:
Conduct policies and procedures in place to ensure appropriate controls
A cyber-attack;
and processes that deliver fair customer outcomes.
Change and execution risk in delivering the Group’s change agenda;
Customer needs explicitly considered within business and product level
planning and strategy, through divisional customer plans, with integral Failure in IT systems, due to volume of change, and/or aged
conduct lens, reviewed and challenged by Group Customer First infrastructure;
Committee (GCFC).
Failure to protect and manage the Group’s and customers’ data;
138 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk management continued
arrangements to keep them current, effective and consistent across Mitigation
markets and jurisdictions. The Group requires mandatory training on
The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to people risk. Key
these topics for all employees. Specifically, the anti-money laundering
areas of focus include:
procedures include ‘know-your-customer’ requirements, transaction
monitoring technologies, reporting of suspicions of money laundering or Focusing on leadership and colleague engagement, through delivery
terrorist financing to the applicable regulatory authorities, and interaction of strategies to attract, retain and develop high calibre people together
between the Group’s Financial Intelligence Unit and external agencies with implementation of rigorous succession planning;
and other financial institutions. The Anti-Bribery Policy prohibits the
Continued focus on the Group’s culture by developing and delivering
payment, offer, acceptance or request of a bribe, including ‘facilitation
initiatives that reinforce the appropriate behaviours which generate the
payments’ by any employee or agent and provides a confidential
best possible long-term outcomes for customers and colleagues;
reporting service for anonymous reporting of suspected or actual bribery
Managing organisational capability and capacity through divisional
activity. The Sanctions and the Related Prohibitions Policy sets out a
people strategies to ensure there are the right skills and resources to
framework of controls for compliance with legal and regulatory sanctions.
meet our customers’ needs and deliver our strategic plan;
The Group has increased its focus on operational resilience and has
Maintain effective remuneration arrangements to ensure they promote
updated its operational resilience strategy to reflect changing priorities
an appropriate culture and colleague behaviours that meet customer
of both customers and regulators. At the core of its approach to
needs and regulatory expectations;
operational resilience are the Group’s Critical business processes which
drive all activity, including further mapping of the processes to identify Ensuring colleague wellbeing strategies and support are in place to
any additional resilience requirements such as impact tolerances in the meet colleague needs, and that the skills and capability growth required
event of a service outage. The Group continues to develop playbooks to build a workforce for the ‘Bank of the Future’ are achieved;
that address a range of interruptions from internal and external threats Ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to
and tests these through scenario based testing and exercising. SM&CR, embedding compliant and appropriate colleague behaviours in
line with Group policies, values and its people risk priorities; and
Monitoring
Ongoing consultation with the Group’s recognised unions on changes
Monitoring and reporting of operational risk is undertaken at Board, Group which impact their members.
and divisional risk committees. Each committee monitors key risks, control
effectiveness, key risk and control indicators, events, operational losses, risk Monitoring
appetite metrics and the results of independent testing conducted by Risk
People risks from across the Group are monitored and reported through
and/or Internal Audit.
Board and Group Governance Committees in accordance with the Group’s
The Group maintains a formal approach to operational risk event Risk Management Framework. Risk exposures are discussed monthly via
escalation, whereby material events are identified, captured and escalated. the Group People Risk Committee with upwards reporting to Group Risk
Root causes of events are determined, where possible, and action plans and Executive Committees. In addition, oversight, challenge and reporting
put in place to ensure an optimum level of control to keep customers and are completed at Risk division level to assess the effectiveness of controls,
the business safe, reduce costs, and improve efficiency. recommending follow up remedial action if required. All material people
The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with risk events are escalated in accordance with the formal Group Operational
recommendations being made to the Group’s senior management Risk Policy and People Policies to the respective divisional Managing
annually prior to each renewal. Insurers are monitored on an ongoing basis, Directors and the Group Director, Conduct, Compliance and Operational
to ensure counterparty risk is minimised. A process is in place to manage Risk.
any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
Insurance underwriting risk
People risk
Definition
Definition
Insurance underwriting risk is defined as the risk of adverse developments
The risk that the Group fails to provide an appropriate colleague and in longevity, mortality, persistency, General Insurance underwriting and
customer-centric culture, supported by robust reward and wellbeing policyholder behaviour, leading to reductions in earnings and/or value.
policies and processes; effective leadership to manage colleague
resources; effective talent and succession management; and robust control Exposures
to ensure all colleague-related requirements are met.
The major source of insurance underwriting risk within the Group is the
Exposures Insurance business.
Longevity and persistency are key risks within the life and pensions
The Group’s management of material people risks is critical to its capacity
business. Longevity risk arises from the annuity portfolios where
to deliver against its strategic objectives and to be the best bank for
policyholders’ future cash flows are guaranteed at retirement and increases
customers. The Group is exposed to the following key people risks:
in life expectancy, beyond current assumptions, will increase the cost of
Maintaining organisational skills, capability, resilience and capacity levels annuities. Longevity risk exposures are expected to increase with the
in response to increasing volumes of organisational, political and external Insurance business growth in the annuity market. Persistency assumptions
market change; are set to give a best estimate; however customer behaviour may result in
Senior Managers and Certification Regime (SM&CR) and additional increased cancellations or cessation of contributions.
regulatory constraints on remuneration structures may impact the
Property insurance risk is a key risk within the General Insurance business,
Group’s ability to attract and retain talent;
through Home Insurance. Exposures can arise, for example, in extreme
The increasing digitisation of the business is changing the capability mix weather conditions such as flooding, when property damage claims are
required and may impact our ability to attract and retain talent; higher than expected.
The increasing demands on colleagues and consequential impact The Group’s defined benefit pension schemes also expose the Group to
colleague wellbeing may impact on the Group’s ability to enhance longevity risk. For further information please refer to the defined benefit
colleague skills to achieve capability uplift for a digital era; and pension schemes component of the market risk section and note 35 to the
Colleague engagement may continue to be challenged by financial statements.
ongoing media attention on banking sector culture, conduct and
ethical considerations. Measurement
Measurement Insurance underwriting risks are measured using a variety of techniques
including stress, reverse stress and scenario testing, as well as stochastic
People risk is measured through a series of quantitative and qualitative
modelling. Current and potential future insurance underwriting risk
indicators, aligned to key sources of people risk for the Group such as
exposures are assessed and aggregated on a range of stresses including
succession, retention, colleague engagement, wellbeing and performance
risk measures based on 1-in-200 year stresses for Insurance’s regulatory
management. In addition to risk appetite measures and limits, people
capital assessments and other supporting measures where appropriate,
risks and controls are monitored on a monthly basis via the Group’s risk
including those set out in note 32 to the financial statements.
governance framework and reporting structures.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141
Minimum requirement for own funds The accrual for foreseeable dividends reflects the recommended final
and eligible liabilities (MREL) ordinary dividend of 2.14 pence per share.
The transitional total capital ratio, after ordinary dividends, increased by
The purpose of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible
1.7 per cent to 22.9 per cent, largely reflecting the issuance of new AT1 and
liabilities (MREL) is to require firms to maintain sufficient equity and liabilities
dated subordinated debt instruments, foreign exchange movements on
that are capable of credibly bearing losses in resolution. MREL can be
subordinated debt instruments, the reduction in the significant investments
satisfied by a combination of regulatory capital and certain unsecured
deduction from tier 2 capital, the increase in CET1 capital and the reduction
liabilities (which must be subordinate to a firm’s operating liabilities).
in risk-weighted assets, partially offset by the amortisation of dated tier 2
In November 2016 the Bank of England published a statement of policy on instruments and the annual reduction in the transitional limit applied to
its approach for setting MREL in line with EU requirements. grandfathered AT1 capital instruments.
Applying the Bank of England’s MREL policy to minimum capital
Total capital requirement
requirements from 1 January 2019, the Group’s indicative MREL
requirement, excluding regulatory capital buffers, is as follows: The Group’s total capital requirement (TCR) as at 31 December 2018,
being the aggregate of the Group’s Pillar 1 and current Pillar 2A capital
From 2020, 2 times Pillar 1 plus Pillar 2A, equivalent to 20.7 per cent of
requirements, was £26,124 million (31 December 2017: £28,180 million).
risk-weighted assets
Capital resources
From 2022, 2 times Pillar 1 plus 2 times Pillar 2A, equivalent to
25.4 per cent of risk-weighted assets An analysis of the Group’s capital position as at 31 December 2018
The Bank of England will review the calibration of MREL in 2020 before is presented in the following section on both a CRD IV transitional
setting final end-state requirements to be met from 2022. This review will arrangements basis and a CRD IV fully loaded basis. In addition the
take into consideration any changes to the capital framework, including the Group’s capital position reflects the application of the transitional
finalisation of Basel III. arrangements for IFRS 9.
During 2018, the Group issued £8.8 billion (sterling equivalent) of senior
unsecured securities from Lloyds Banking Group plc which, while not
included in total capital, are eligible to meet MREL. Combined with
previous issuances made over the last two years the Group remains
comfortably positioned to meet MREL requirements from 2020 and, as at
31 December 2018, had a transitional MREL ratio of 32.4 per cent of risk-
weighted assets.
Analysis of capital position
The Group’s CET1 capital ratio increased by 2.10 per cent on a pro forma
basis before ordinary dividends and the share buyback, primarily as a
result of:
Strong underlying capital build, net of remediation costs, of
1.95 per cent, largely driven by underlying profits
Dividends paid by the Insurance business in July 2018 and in February
2019, in relation to 2018 earnings generating an increase of 0.25 per cent
The completion of the sale of the Irish mortgage portfolio in the second
half of the year which resulted in a 0.25 per cent increase
Other movements, resulting in a net increase of 0.03 per cent, included
the impact of structural changes arising from transfers between Insurance
and the ring-fenced bank, risk-weighted asset reductions, market
movements and additional pension contributions
Offset by a reduction of 0.38 per cent relating to PPI charges
The implementation of IFRS 9 on 1 January 2018 resulted in an initial
reduction in CET1 capital of 0.30 per cent which, following the application
of transitional relief, reduced to 0.01 per cent. No additional relief has
been recognised at 31 December 2018 as Stage 1 and Stage 2 expected
credit losses (ECLs), net of regulatory expected losses, have not increased
beyond the position at 1 January 2018.
Overall the Group’s CET1 ratio has strengthened to 16.0 per cent on a
pro forma basis before ordinary dividends and the share buyback. After
ordinary dividends the Group’s CET1 ratio reduces to 14.8 per cent on
a pro forma basis. In addition the Board intends to implement a share
buyback programme of up to £1.75 billion, equivalent to 2.46 pence per
share. The buyback will impact the Group’s capital position in 2019 and
is expected to reduce CET1 capital by c. 0.9 per cent. Allowing for this at
31 December 2018 the pro forma CET1 ratio would be 13.9 per cent after
ordinary dividends (31 December 2017: 13.9 per cent pro forma, after
ordinary dividends and the share buyback).
Excluding the Insurance dividend paid in February 2019 the Group’s CET1
ratio has strengthened to 15.8 per cent before ordinary dividends and the
share buyback and 14.6 per cent after ordinary dividends (31 December
2017: 14.1 per cent).
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143
Movements in capital resources
The key difference between the transitional capital calculation as at 31 December 2018 and the fully loaded equivalent is primarily related to capital
securities that previously qualified as tier 1 or tier 2 capital, but that do not fully qualify under CRD IV, which can be included in additional tier 1 (AT1) or tier
2 capital (as applicable) up to specified limits which reduce by 10 per cent per annum until 2022. The key movements on a transitional basis are set out in
the table below.
Table 1.28: Movements in capital resources
Common Additional Total
Equity tier 1 Tier 1 Tier 2 capital
£m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2017 29,647 6,682 8,330 44,659
Banking profit attributable to ordinary shareholders1 3,759 – – 3,759
Movement in foreseeable dividends2 (48 ) – – (48 )
Dividends paid out on ordinary shares during the year (2,240 ) – – (2,240 )
Dividends received from the Insurance business1 750 – – 750
Share buyback completed (1,005 ) – – (1,005 )
Restatement of retained earnings on adoption of IFRS 9 (929 ) – – (929 )
IFRS 9 transitional adjustment to retained earnings 478 – – 478
Movement in treasury shares and employee share schemes 300 – – 300
Pension movements:
Removal of defined benefit pension surplus (453 ) – – (453 )
Movement through other comprehensive income 90 – – 90
Fair value through other comprehensive income reserve (401 ) – – (401 )
Prudent valuation adjustment 27 – – 27
Deferred tax asset 218 – – 218
Goodwill and other intangible assets (701 ) – – (701 )
Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and value adjustments 471 – – 471
Significant investments 28 105 543 676
Eligible provisions3 – – (120 ) (120 )
Movements in subordinated debt:
Repurchases, redemptions and other – (551 ) (824 ) (1,375 )
Issuances – 1,136 1,766 2,902
Other movements 176 – – 176
At 31 December 2018 30,167 7,372 9,695 47,234
1 Under the regulatory framework, profits made by Insurance are removed from CET1 capital. However, when dividends are paid to the Group by Insurance these are recognised through
CET1 capital. The £750 million of dividends received from Insurance during the year include £600 million in respect of their 2017 full year ordinary dividend and £150 million in respect of
their 2018 interim ordinary dividend.
2 Includes the accrual for the 2018 full year ordinary dividend and the reversal of the accrual for the 2017 full year ordinary dividend which was paid during the year.
3 The movement in eligible provisions reflects the adjustment made in respect of the application of the IFRS 9 transitional arrangements.
CET1 capital resources have increased by £520 million over the year, primarily reflecting:
– profit generation during the year
– receipt of the dividends paid by the Insurance business in February 2018 and July 2018
– movements in treasury shares and the employee share schemes
– a reduction in the deferred tax asset deduction
– a reduction in excess expected losses resulting from the partial absorption of the increase in impairment provisions following the adoption of IFRS 9 on 1
January 2018 (remaining expected losses deducted from capital relate specifically to equity exposures), offset by the impact on retained earnings (net of
transitional relief)
– largely offset by the interim dividend paid in September 2018, the accrual for the 2018 full year ordinary dividend, the completion of the share buyback
programme during the year, the increase in the defined benefit pension scheme surplus deduction, movements through the fair value through other
comprehensive income (FVOCI) reserve and an increase in intangible assets which are deducted from capital
AT1 capital resources have increased by £690 million in the period, primarily reflecting the issuance of a new AT1 capital instrument during the year,
partially offset by the annual reduction in the transitional limit applied to grandfathered AT1 capital instruments.
Tier 2 capital resources have increased by £1,365 million in the period largely reflecting the issuance of new dated subordinated debt instruments, foreign
exchange movements and a reduction in the significant investments deduction following the redemption by Scottish Widows of a subordinated debt
instrument issued to the Group, partially offset by the amortisation of dated instruments.
146 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk management continued
The table below summarises the component parts of the Group’s leverage ratio. Further analysis will be provided in the Group’s Pillar 3 Report.
Table 1.32: Leverage ratio
Fully loaded
At 31 Dec At 31 Dec
2018 2017
£m £m
Total tier 1 capital for leverage ratio
Common equity tier 1 capital 30,167 29,647
Additional tier 1 capital 6,466 5,330
Total tier 1 capital 36,633 34,977
Exposure measure
Statutory balance sheet assets
Derivative financial instruments 23,595 25,834
Securities financing transactions 69,301 49,193
Loans and advances and other assets 704,702 737,082
Total assets 797,598 812,109
Qualifying central bank claims (50,105 ) (53,842 )
Deconsolidation adjustments1
Derivative financial instruments (1,376 ) (2,043 )
Securities financing transactions (487 ) (85 )
Loans and advances and other assets (130,048 ) (140,387 )
Total deconsolidation adjustments (131,911 ) (142,515 )
Derivatives adjustments
Adjustments for regulatory netting (8,828 ) (13,031 )
Adjustments for cash collateral (10,536 ) (7,380 )
Net written credit protection 539 881
Regulatory potential future exposure 18,250 12,335
Total derivatives adjustments (575 ) (7,195 )
Securities financing transactions adjustments 40 (2,022 )
Off-balance sheet items 56,393 58,357
Regulatory deductions and other adjustments (8,163 ) (7,658 )
Total exposure measure2 663,277 657,234
Average exposure measure3 669,896
UK Leverage ratio2,5 5.5% 5.3%
Average UK leverage ratio3 5.5%
CRD IV exposure measure4 713,382 711,076
CRD IV leverage ratio4 5.1% 4.9%
1 Deconsolidation adjustments relate to the deconsolidation of certain Group entities that fall outside the scope of the Group’s regulatory capital consolidation, being primarily the
Group’s Insurance business.
2 Calculated in accordance with the UK Leverage Ratio Framework which requires qualifying central bank claims to be excluded from the leverage exposure measure.
3 The average UK leverage ratio is based on the average of the month end tier 1 capital position and average exposure measure over the quarter (1 October 2018 to 31 December 2018).
The average of 5.5 per cent compares to 5.3 per cent at the start and 5.5 per cent at the end of the quarter.
4 Calculated in accordance with CRD IV rules which include central bank claims within the leverage exposure measure.
5 The UK leverage ratio is 5.6 per cent on a pro forma basis reflecting the dividend paid by the Insurance business in February 2019 in relation to its 2018 earnings (31 December 2017: 5.4
per cent pro forma).
Table 1.33 : Application of IFRS 9 on a full impact basis for capital and leverage
IFRS 9 full impact
At 31 Dec At 1 Jan At 31 Dec
2018 2018 2017
Common equity tier 1 (£m) 29,592 29,060 29,647
Transitional tier 1 (£m) 36,964 35,742 36,329
Transitional total capital (£m) 47,195 44,636 44,659
Total risk-weighted assets (£m) 206,614 211,200 210,919
Common equity tier 1 ratio (%) 14.3% 13.8% 14.1%
Transitional tier 1 ratio (%) 17.9% 16.9% 17.2%
Transitional total capital ratio (%) 22.8% 21.1% 21.2%
UK leverage ratio exposure measure (£m) 663,182 656,886 657,234
UK leverage ratio (%) 5.4% 5.2% 5.3%
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 147
Further details on the Group’s adoption of the transitional arrangements Measurement
for IFRS 9 can be found in the Group publication entitled IFRS 9
Liquidity risk is managed through a series of measures, tests and reports
Financial Instruments Transition, published in March 2018
that are primarily based on contractual maturities with behavioural overlays and located on the Group’s website at
as appropriate. Note 52 on page 255 sets out an analysis of assets and
http://www.lloydsbankinggroup.com/investors/financial-performance/.
liabilities by relevant maturity grouping. The Group undertakes quantitative
The Group has opted to apply paragraph 4 of CRR Article 473a (the and qualitative analysis of the behavioural aspects of its assets and liabilities
transitional rules) which allows for additional capital relief in respect of in order to reflect their expected behaviour.
any post 1 January 2018 increase in Stage 1 and Stage 2 IFRS 9 expected
credit loss provisions (net of regulatory expected losses) during the Mitigation
transition period. As at 31 December 2018 no additional capital relief has
been recognised. The Group manages and monitors liquidity risks and ensures that liquidity
risk management systems and arrangements are adequate with regard
Stress testing to the internal risk appetite, Group strategy and regulatory requirements.
Liquidity policies and procedures are subject to independent internal The Group undertakes a wide ranging programme of stress testing
oversight by Risk. Overseas branches and subsidiaries of the Group
providing a comprehensive view of the potential impacts arising from
may also be required to meet the liquidity requirements of the entity’s
the risks to which the Group and its key legal entities are exposed. One
domestic country. Management of liquidity requirements is performed by
of the most important uses of stress testing is to assess the resilience of
the overseas branch or subsidiary in line with Group Policy. Liquidity risk
the operational and strategic plans of the Group and its legal entities to
of the Insurance business is actively managed and monitored within the
adverse economic conditions and other key vulnerabilities. As part of
Insurance business. The Group plans funding requirements over the life of
this programme the Group conducts macroeconomic stress tests of the
the funding plan, combining business as usual and stressed conditions. The
operating plans.
Group manages its liquidity position with regard to its internal risk appetite
In 2018 the Group participated in both the concurrent UK stress test run by and the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) required by the PRA and Capital
the Bank of England (BoE) and in the European Banking Authority’s (EBA) Requirements Directive and Regulation (CRD IV) liquidity requirements.
bi-annual EU-wide stress test. The EBA stress test did not contain a pass/
The Group’s funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its significant
fail threshold and as announced in November, the Group demonstrated its
customer deposit base, and is supported by strong relationships across
ability to meet applicable capital requirements under stressed conditions.
customer segments. The Group has consistently observed that in
In the case of the BoE stress test, despite the severity of the scenario, the
aggregate the retail deposit base provides a stable source of funding.
Group exceeded the capital and leverage hurdles after the application of
Funding concentration by counterparty, currency and tenor is monitored on
management actions, and as a consequence was not required to take any
an ongoing basis and where concentrations do exist, these are managed
capital actions.
as part of the planning process and limited by internal risk appetite, with
G-SIB indicators analysis regularly provided to senior management.
Although the Group is not currently classified as a Global Systemically To assist in managing the balance sheet, the Group operates a Liquidity
Important Bank (G-SIB), by virtue of the Group’s leverage exposure Transfer Pricing (LTP) process which: allocates relevant interest expenses
measure exceeding €200 billion the Group is required to report G-SIB from the centre to the Group’s banking businesses within the internal
indicator metrics to the PRA. The Group’s indicator metrics used within the management accounts; helps drive the correct inputs to customer pricing;
2018 Basel G-SIBs annual exercise will be disclosed from April 2019 and the and is consistent with regulatory requirements. LTP makes extensive use of
results are expected to be made available by the Basel Committee later behavioural maturity profiles, taking account of expected customer loan
this year. prepayments and stability of customer deposits, modelled on historic data.
Insurance businesses The Group can monetise liquid assets quickly, either through the
repurchase agreements (repo) market or through outright sale. In addition,
The business transacted by the insurance companies within the Group the Group has pre-positioned a substantial amount of assets at the Bank
comprises both life insurance business and General Insurance business. of England’s Discount Window Facility which can be used to access
Life insurance business comprises unit-linked business, non-profit business additional liquidity in a time of stress. The Group considers diversification
and with-profits business. across geography, currency, markets and tenor when assessing appropriate
Scottish Widows Limited (SW Ltd) holds the only with-profit funds holdings of liquid assets. The Group’s liquid asset buffer is available for
managed by the Group. Each insurance company within the Group is deployment at immediate notice, subject to complying with regulatory
regulated by the PRA. requirements.
The Solvency II regime for insurers and insurance groups came into force Liquidity risk within the Insurance business may result from: the inability to
from 1 January 2016. The insurance businesses are required to calculate sell financial assets quickly at their fair values; an insurance liability falling
solvency capital requirements and available capital on a risk-based due for payment earlier than expected; the inability to generate cash
approach. The Insurance business of the Group calculates regulatory inflows as anticipated; an unexpected large operational event; or from a
capital on the basis of an internal model, which was approved by the PRA general insurance catastrophe e.g. a significant weather event. Liquidity risk
on 5 December 2015, with the latest major change to the model approved is actively managed and monitored within the Insurance business to ensure
in November 2018. that it remains within approved risk appetite, so that even under stress
conditions, there is sufficient liquidity to meet obligations.
The minimum required capital must be maintained at all times throughout
the year. These capital requirements and the capital available to meet Monitoring
them are regularly estimated in order to ensure that capital maintenance
requirements are being met. Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address internal
and regulatory liquidity requirements. In order to meet ring-fencing
All minimum regulatory requirements of the insurance companies have
requirements from 1 January 2019, the shape and scale of liquidity
been met during the year.
reporting has increased with additional monitoring and reporting
requirements for the Ring-Fenced Bank (RFB) sub-group and non-ring-
Funding and liquidity risk fenced banking entities. The Group monitors a range of market and
internal early warning indicators on a daily basis for early signs of liquidity
Definition risk in the market or specific to the Group. This captures regulatory metrics
as well as metrics the Group considers relevant for its liquidity profile.
Funding risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have sufficiently
These are a mixture of quantitative and qualitative measures, including:
stable and diverse sources of funding. Liquidity risk is defined as the risk
daily variation of customer balances; changes in maturity profiles; funding
that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments
concentrations; changes in LCR outflows; credit default swap (CDS)
as they fall due.
spreads; and basis risks.
Exposure The Group carries out internal stress testing of its liquidity and potential
cash flow mismatch position over both short (up to one month) and longer-
Liquidity exposure represents the potential stressed outflows in any future
term horizons against a range of scenarios forming an important part of the
period less expected inflows. The Group considers liquidity exposure from
internal risk appetite. The scenarios and assumptions are reviewed at least
both an internal and a regulatory perspective.
annually to ensure that they continue to be relevant to the nature of the
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153
Governance risk Under the banner of the RMF, training modules are in place to support all
colleagues in understanding and fulfilling their risk responsibilities.
Definition The Group’s code of responsibility embodies its values and reflect its
commitment to operating responsibly and ethically both at a business and
Governance risk is defined as the risk that the Group’s organisational
an individual level. All colleagues are required to adhere to the code in all
infrastructure fails to provide robust oversight of decision-making and the
aspects of their roles.
control mechanisms to ensure strategies and management instructions are
implemented effectively. Effective implementation of the RMF mutually reinforces and is reinforced
by the Group’s risk culture, which is embedded in its approach to
Exposures recruitment, selection, training, performance management and reward.
The internal and corporate governance arrangements of major financial
Monitoring
institutions continue to be subject to a high level of regulatory and public
scrutiny. The Group’s exposure to governance risk is also reflective of the A review of the Group’s RMF, which includes the status of the Group’s
significant volume of existing and proposed legislation and regulation, principles and policy framework, and the design and operational
both within the UK and across the multiple jurisdictions within which it effectiveness of key governance committees, is undertaken on an annual
operates, with which it must comply. basis and the findings are reported to the Group Risk Committee, Board
Risk Committee and the Board.
Measurement
For further information on Corporate Governance see pages 56 to 78.
The Group’s governance arrangements are assessed against new or
proposed legislation and regulation and best practice among peer
organisations in order to identify any areas of enhancement required.
Mitigation
The Group’s Risk Management Framework (RMF) establishes robust
arrangements for risk governance, in particular by:
Defining individual and collective accountabilities for risk management,
risk oversight and risk assurance through a three lines of defence
model which supports the discharge of responsibilities to customers,
shareholders and regulators;
Outlining governance arrangements which articulate the enterprise-wide
approach to risk management; and
Supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide behaviour and
risk decision-making through a Group policy framework which helps
everyone understand their responsibilities by clearly articulating and
communicating rules, standards, boundaries and risk appetite measures
which can be controlled, enforced and monitored.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 157
The increase in the net interest income sensitivity to a down 100bps shock Defined benefit pension schemes
reflects the additional margin compression risk within retail savings as bank
base rate has risen. Exposures
The Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are exposed to significant
Basis risk, foreign exchange, equity, and credit spread risks are measured
risks from their assets and liabilities. The liability discount rate provides
primarily through scenario analysis by assessing the impact on profit before
exposure to interest rate risk and credit spread risk, which are partially offset
tax over a 12 month horizon arising from a change in market rates, and
by fixed interest assets (such as gilts and corporate bonds) and swaps.
reported within the Board risk appetite on a monthly basis. Supplementary
Equity and alternative asset risk arises from direct asset holdings. Scheme
measures such as sensitivity and exposure limits are applied where
membership provides exposure to longevity risk.
they provide greater insight into risk positions. Frequency of reporting
supplementary measures varies from daily to quarterly appropriate to each For further information on defined benefit pension scheme assets and
risk type. liabilities please refer to note 35 on page 219.
Mitigation Measurement
The Group’s policy is to optimise reward whilst managing its market risk Management of the schemes’ assets is the responsibility of the Trustees of
exposures within the risk appetite defined by the Board. The Group the schemes who are responsible for setting the investment strategy and
Market Risk Policy and procedures outlines the hedging process, and the for agreeing funding requirements with the Group. The Group is liable for
centralisation of risk from divisions into GCT, e.g. via the transfer pricing meeting the funding deficit, and as part of a triennial valuation process will
framework. GCT is responsible for managing the centralised risk and agree with the Trustees a funding strategy to eliminate the deficit over an
does this through natural offsets of matching assets and liabilities, and appropriate period.
appropriate hedging activity of the residual exposures, subject to the
Longevity risk is measured using both 1-in-20 year stresses (risk appetite)
authorisation and mandate of GALCO within the Board risk appetite. The
and 1-in-200 year stresses (regulatory capital).
hedges are externalised to the market by derivative desks within GCT and
Commercial Banking Markets. The Group has hedge accounting solutions Mitigation
in place, which reduce the accounting volatility arising from the Group’s The Group takes an active involvement in agreeing mitigation strategies
economic hedging activities by utilising both LIBOR and bank base with the schemes’ Trustees. An interest rate and inflation hedging
rate assets. programme is in place to reduce liability risk. The schemes have also
The largest residual risk exposure arises from balances that are deemed reduced equity allocation and invested the proceeds in credit assets as part
to be insensitive to changes in market rates (including current accounts, a of a programme to de-risk the portfolio. The merits of longevity risk transfer
portion of variable rate deposits and investable equity), and is managed and hedging solutions are regularly reviewed.
through the Group’s structural hedge. Consistent with the Group’s strategy
Monitoring
to deliver stable returns, GALCO seeks to minimise large reinvestment risk,
In addition to the wider risk management framework, governance of the
and to smooth earnings over a range of investment tenors. The structural
schemes includes two specialist pensions committees.
hedge consists of longer-term fixed rate assets or interest rate swaps and
the amount and duration of the hedging activity is reviewed regularly The surplus or deficit in the schemes is tracked on a monthly basis along
by GALCO. with various single factor and scenario stresses which consider the assets
and liabilities holistically. Key metrics are monitored monthly including
Whilst the bank faces margin compression in low rate environments, its
the Group’s capital resources of the scheme, the performance against risk
exposure to pipeline and prepayment risk are not considered material,
appetite triggers, and the performance of the hedged asset and liability
and are hedged in line with expected customer behaviour. These are
matching positions.
appropriately monitored and controlled through divisional Asset and
Liability Committees (ALCOs). Insurance portfolios
Net investment foreign exchange exposures are managed centrally by
Exposures
GCT, by hedging non-sterling asset values with currency borrowing.
Economic foreign exchange exposures arising from non-functional The main elements of market risk to which the Group is exposed through
currency flows are identified by divisions and transferred and managed the Insurance business are equity, credit spread, interest rate and inflation.
centrally. The Group also has a policy of forward hedging its forecasted Equity risk arises indirectly through the value of future management
currency profit and loss to year end. charges on policyholder funds. These management charges form part of
the value of in-force business (see note 24 on page 210). Equity risk also
Monitoring
arises in the with-profits funds but is less material.
The appropriate limits and triggers are monitored by senior executive
committees within the banking divisions. Banking assets, liabilities and Credit spread risk mainly arises from annuities where policyholders’
associated hedging are actively monitored and if necessary rebalanced to future cash flows are guaranteed at retirement. Exposure arises if the
be within agreed tolerances. market value of the assets which are held to back these liabilities, mainly
corporate bonds and loans, do not perform in line with expectations.
Interest rate risk arises through holding credit and interest assets mainly
in the annuity book and also to cover general insurance liabilities, capital
requirements and risk appetite.
Inflation exposure arises from a combination of inflation linked
policyholder benefits and inflation assumptions used to project
future expenses.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 159
Table 1.48: Trading portfolios: VaR (1-day 95 per cent confidence level) (audited)
At 31 December 2018 At 31 December 2017
Close Average Maximum Minimum Close Average Maximum Minimum
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Interest rate risk 0.6 0.7 1.8 0.4 0.5 0.6 2.1 0.2
Foreign exchange risk 0.1 0.1 2.1 – 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.0
Equity risk – – – – – – – –
Credit spread risk 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.2
Inflation risk 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.9 0.2
All risk factors before diversification 1.2 1.3 3.0 0.9 1.1 1.3 2.9 0.9
Portfolio diversification (0.4 ) (0.5 ) (0.4 ) (0.7 )
Total VaR 0.8 0.8 2.1 0.4 0.7 0.6 2.2 0.3
The market risk for the trading book continues to be low with respect to the Exposures
size of the Group and compared to our peers. This reflects the fact that the
There are over 300 models in the Group performing a variety of functions
Group’s trading operations are customer-centric and focused on hedging
including:
and recycling client risks.
capital calculation;
Although it is an important market standard measure of risk, VaR has
limitations. One of them is the use of limited historical data sample which credit decisioning, including fraud;
influences the output by the implicit assumption that future market
pricing models;
behaviour will not differ greatly from the historically observed period.
Another known limitation is the use of defined holding periods which impairment calculation;
assumes that the risk can be liquidated or hedged within that holding
stress testing and forecasting; and
period. Also calculating the VaR at the chosen confidence interval does
not give enough information about potential losses which may occur if market risk measurement.
this level is exceeded. The Group fully recognises these limitations and As a result of the wide scope and breadth of coverage, there is exposure to
supplements the use of VaR with a variety of other measurements which model risk across a number of the Group’s primary risk categories.
reflect the nature of the business activity. These include detailed sensitivity
analysis, position reporting and a stress testing programme. Measurement
Trading book VaR (1-day 99 per cent) is compared daily against both
The Group risk appetite framework is the key component for measuring
hypothetical and actual profit and loss. The 1-day 99 per cent VaR chart for
the Group’s model risk. Reported monthly to the Group Risk Committee
Lloyds Banking Group can be found in the Group’s Pillar 3 Report
and Board, focus is placed on the performance of the Group’s most
Mitigation material models.
The level of exposure is controlled by establishing and communicating
Mitigation
the approved risk limits and controls through policies and procedures
that define the responsibility and authority for risk taking. Market risk limits The model risk management framework, established by and with
are clearly and consistently communicated to the business. Any new or continued oversight from an independent team in the Risk division,
emerging risks are brought within risk reporting and defined limits. provides the foundation for managing and mitigating model risk within the
Group. Accountability is cascaded from the Board and senior management
Monitoring
via the Group Risk Management Framework.
Trading risk appetite is monitored daily with 1-day 95 per cent VaR and
stress testing limits. These limits are complemented with position level This provides the basis for the Group Model Governance Policy, which
action triggers and profit and loss referrals. Risk and position limits are defines the mandatory requirements for models across the Group,
set and managed at both desk and overall trading book levels. They are including:
reviewed at least annually and can be changed as required within the the scope of models covered by the policy;
overall Group risk appetite framework.
model materiality;
Model risk roles and responsibilities, including ownership, independent oversight
and approval; and
Definition key principles and controls regarding data integrity, development,
validation, implementation, ongoing maintenance and revalidation,
Model risk is defined as the risk of financial loss, regulatory censure,
monitoring, and the process for non-compliance.
reputational damage or customer detriment, as a result of deficiencies in
the development, application or ongoing operation of models and rating The model owner takes responsibility for ensuring the fitness for purpose
systems. of the models and rating systems, supported and challenged by the
independent specialist Group function.
Models are defined as quantitative methods that process input data
into quantitative outputs, or qualitative outputs (including ordinal The above ensures all models in scope of policy, including those involved
letter output) which have a quantitative measure associated with in regulatory capital calculation, are developed consistently and are of
them. Model Governance Policy is restricted to specific categories of sufficient quality to support business decisions and meet regulatory
application of models, principally financial risk, treasury and valuation, requirements.
with certain exclusions, such as prescribed calculations and project
appraisal calculations. Monitoring
The Group Model Governance Committee is the primary body for
overseeing model risk. Policy requires that Key Performance Indicators are
monitored for every model to ensure they remain fit for purpose and all
issues are escalated appropriately. Material model issues are reported to
Group and Board Risk Committees monthly with more detailed papers as
necessary to focus on key issues.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 161
Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Lloyds Banking Group plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements of Lloyds Banking Group plc (the Group) and the parent company financial statements (the financial statements):
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Group’s profit and the Group’s
and parent company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
– have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards
the parent company’s financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts (the Annual Report), which comprise: the consolidated
and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018; the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive
income for the year then ended; the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended; the consolidated and parent
company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant
accounting policies. We have also audited the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 1 January 2018.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. These are
cross‑referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK)
are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence
We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the
UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non‑audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or
the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements, we have not provided non‑audit services to the Group or the parent company in the
period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach
Overview
– Overall Group materiality: £360 million (2017: £350 million), based on 5 per cent of profit adjusted to remove the effects of certain items which were
considered to have a disproportionate impact.
– Overall parent company materiality: £360 million (2017: £350 million), based on 1 per cent of total assets.
– The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment, the financial
significance of components and other qualitative factors (including history of misstatement through fraud or error).
– We performed audit procedures over components considered financially significant in the context of the Group (full scope audit) or in the context of
individual primary statement account balances (audit of specific account balances). We performed other procedures including testing entity level controls,
information technology general controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the residual components.
The key audit matters which were of most significance in the audit and involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were:
– Expected credit loss allowances (Group)
– Conduct risk and provisions (Group)
– Insurance actuarial assumptions (Group)
– Valuation of certain level 3 financial instruments (Group)
– Defined benefit obligation (Group)
– Hedge accounting (Group)
– Privileged access to IT systems (Group and parent company)
These items were discussed with the Audit Committee as part of our audit plan communicated in April 2018 and supplemented with updates in
January 2019. These were the key audit matters for discussion at the conclusion of our audit.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis
of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.
116622 LLllooyyddss BBaannkkiinngg GGrroouupp AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt aanndd AAccccoouunnttss 22001188
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued
The scope of our audit
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we
looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions
and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud
Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non‑compliance with laws and regulations related to
breaches of banking laws and regulations such as, but not limited to, regulations relating to consumer credit and unethical and prohibited business
practices, and we considered the extent to which non‑compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We also considered those
laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the
Banking Reform Act. We evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the
risk of override of controls), and determined that the principal risks were related to posting manual journal entries to manipulate financial performance,
management bias through judgements and assumptions in significant accounting estimates and significant one‑off or unusual transactions. The Group
engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could
include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work. Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and/or
component auditors included:
– Discussions with management and those charged with governance including consideration of known or suspected instances of non‑compliance with
laws and regulation and fraud;
– Evaluation and testing of the operating effectiveness of management’s entity level controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities, in particular
their code of conduct and whistleblowing helpline;
– Assessment of matters reported on the Group’s whistleblowing helpline and the results of management’s investigation of such matters;
– Performed testing over period end adjustments;
– Incorporated unpredictability into the nature, timing and/or extent of our testing;
– Reviewing key correspondence with the FCA and PRA;
– Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to expected credit
losses; conduct risk and provisions; insurance actuarial assumptions; valuation of certain level 3 financial instruments; and defined benefit obligation (see
related key audit matters below); and
– Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any manual journal entries posted by infrequent users or senior management, posted on unusual
days, posted with descriptions indicating a higher level of risk, or posted late with a favourable impact on financial performance.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non‑compliance with laws and regulations is from
the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it. Also, the risk of not detecting a material
misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example,
forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together with
qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual
financial statement line items and disclosures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements
as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Group financial statements Parent company financial statements
Overall materiality £360 million (2017: £350 million). £360 million (2017: £350 million).
How we determined it 5 per cent of adjusted profit, which removes the 1 per cent of total assets.
effects of certain items which were considered to
have a disproportionate impact.
Rationale for benchmark applied Our starting point was 5 per cent of profit before tax, We have selected total assets as an appropriate
a generally accepted auditing practice. Profit before benchmark for parent company materiality. Profit
tax was adjusted to remove the disproportionate based benchmarks are not considered appropriate
effect of regulatory provisions as they are considered for parent company materiality as the Group is not
not to reflect the long term performance of the required to disclose a parent company profit & loss.
Group. Where the calculated parent company materiality
from total assets exceeds the Group overall
materiality level, the parent company overall
materiality has been restricted to equal the Group
overall materiality level.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The range of materiality
allocated across components was between £50 million and £100 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above £15 million (Group audit and parent
company audit) (2017: £20 million) as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking
into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is structured into three segments being Retail, Commercial Banking, and Insurance and Wealth. Each of the segments comprises a number of
components. The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of the components.
166 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Insurance actuarial assumptions We understood and tested key controls and governance around the processes for setting
Group actuarial assumptions.
Refer to page 70 (Audit Committee Report), page 177 We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and
(Accounting Policies) and pages 210, 215 and 218 therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes
(Notes 24, 31, 32 and Critical Accounting Estimates and of our audit.
Judgements). Our actuarial specialists assessed the reasonableness of the actuarial assumptions,
A number of subjective assumptions about future including considering and challenging management’s rationale for judgements applied
experience contribute as key inputs into the valuation of and any reliance placed on industry information. Where appropriate, assumptions were
the Group’s insurance contracts, participating investment benchmarked by comparing to the Group’s peers in the insurance market whilst
contracts (‘insurance contract liabilities‘) and value of overlaying an understanding of the specific policy features of the Group’s business.
in‑force business asset. For longevity, we assessed the appropriateness of how the Group’s own experience and
Some of the economic and non‑economic actuarial industry data were used in setting future assumptions and we compared resulting life
assumptions used in valuing the insurance contract expectancies to benchmarking data.
liabilities and the value of in‑force business asset are For maintenance expenses, we assessed the appropriateness of the judgements in
highly judgemental in nature, in particular persistency respect of costs deemed to be non‑attributable to insurance business and the resulting
(the retention of policies over time), longevity (the per‑policy costs assumptions. We reviewed the adjustments required reflecting the impact
expectation of how long an annuity policyholder will live of the Group’s outsourcing agreements, including any changes to the cost base that are
and how that might change over time), maintenance expected to be required due to Brexit.
expenses (future expenses incurred to maintain existing For credit default and illiquidity premium, we assessed the appropriateness of the
policies to maturity), credit default and illiquidity premium methodology against our knowledge and experience of regulatory requirements and
(adjustments made to the discount rate). industry practice. We challenged whether the asset mix used in the illiquidity premium
calculation remained an appropriate proxy to a market consistent portfolio by comparing
the proportion of illiquid assets held to those held by other similar companies based on
our understanding of the market and the most recent public information for other similar
companies.
For persistency, we considered the appropriateness of assumptions set by management
in light of actual experience and regulatory changes. For example, we considered how the
assumptions reflected expected persistency experience from the removal of commission
for qualifying pension schemes and the impact of increased options available to pension
policyholders (Finance Act 2014).
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies, modelled
assumptions, data used within the models and overlays to modelled outputs to be
appropriate.
Valuation of certain level 3 financial instruments We understood and tested the key controls around the valuation processes including the
Group independent price verification and valuation governance controls.
Refer to page 70 (Audit Committee Report), page 177 We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and
(Accounting Policies) and pages 241 and 271 (Notes 49, 54 therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes
and Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements). of our audit.
As part of the Group’s transition to IFRS 9, £10.2bn of With the support of our valuations specialists, we performed the following testing:
financial assets have been transferred from amortised – e valuating the appropriateness of the valuation methodologies and testing their
cost to fair value. These comprise two portfolios, each of application;
which are concentrations of similar, non‑traded assets – e valuating key inputs and assumptions, with reference to matters including historic
which are classified as level 3 instruments as their performance, market information and perspectives, servicer and trustee reports and
valuation is subjective and determined using bespoke investment prospectuses; and
models which rely on a range of unobservable inputs.
– a ssessing the reasonableness of the valuations and performing sensitivity analyses over
them.
Based on the evidence obtained, we determined that the methodologies, inputs and
assumptions are appropriate.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 169
Directors’ Remuneration
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
(CA06)
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also responsible for
such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as a going
concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to
liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Use of this report
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any
other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not
visited by us; or
– certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting
records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment
Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 21 December 1995 to audit the financial statements for
the year ended 31 December 1995 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 24 years, covering the years ended
31 December 1995 to 31 December 2018. The audit was tendered in 2014 and we were re‑appointed with effect from 1 January 2016. There will be a
mandatory rotation for the 2021 audit.
Mark Hannam (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
19 February 2019
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 251
Note 49: Financial instruments continued
Valuation methodology
Loans and advances to customers
The Group provides loans and advances to commercial, corporate and personal customers at both fixed and variable rates due to their short term nature.
The carrying value of the variable rate loans and those relating to lease financing is assumed to be their fair value.
To determine the fair value of loans and advances to customers, loans are segregated into portfolios of similar characteristics. A number of techniques are
used to estimate the fair value of fixed rate lending; these take account of expected credit losses based on historic trends, prevailing market interest rates
and expected future cash flows. For retail exposures, fair value is usually estimated by discounting anticipated cash flows (including interest at contractual
rates) at market rates for similar loans offered by the Group and other financial institutions. Certain loans secured on residential properties are made at a
fixed rate for a limited period, typically two to five years, after which the loans revert to the relevant variable rate. The fair value of such loans is estimated by
reference to the market rates for similar loans of maturity equal to the remaining fixed interest rate period. The fair value of commercial loans is estimated
by discounting anticipated cash flows at a rate which reflects the effects of interest rate changes, adjusted for changes in credit risk. No adjustment is made
to put it in place by the Group to manage its interest rate exposure.
Loans and advances to banks
The carrying value of short dated loans and advances to banks is assumed to be their fair value. The fair value of loans and advances to banks is estimated
by discounting the anticipated cash flows at a market discount rate adjusted for the credit spread of the obligor or, where not observable, the credit spread
of borrowers of similar credit quality.
Debt securities
The fair values of debt securities are determined predominantly from lead manager quotes and, where these are not available, by alternative techniques
including reference to credit spreads on similar assets with the same obligor, market standard consensus pricing services, broker quotes and other research
data.
Reverse repurchase agreements
The carrying amount is deemed a reasonable approximation of fair value given the short‑term nature of these instruments.
(B) Financial liabilities
Valuation hierarchy
The table below analyses the fair values of the financial liabilities of the Group which are carried at amortised cost by valuation methodology
(level 1, 2 or 3, as described on page 243).
Valuation hierarchy
Carrying value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
£m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2018
Deposits from banks 30,320 30,322 – 30,322 –
Customer deposits 418,066 418,450 – 412,283 6,167
Debt securities in issue 91,168 93,233 – 93,233 –
Subordinated liabilities 17,656 19,564 – 19,564 –
Repos included in above amounts:
Deposits from banks 21,170 21,170 – 21,170 –
Customer deposits 1,818 1,818 – 1,818 –
At 31 December 2017
Deposits from banks 29,804 29,798 – 29,798 –
Customer deposits 418,124 418,441 – 411,591 6,850
Debt securities in issue 72,450 75,756 – 75,756 –
Subordinated liabilities 17,922 21,398 – 21,398 –
Repos included in above amounts:
Deposits from banks 23,175 23,175 – 23,175 –
Customer deposits 2,638 2,638 – 2,638 –
Valuation methodology
Deposits from banks and customer deposits
The fair value of bank and customer deposits repayable on demand is assumed to be equal to their carrying value.
The fair value for all other deposits is estimated using discounted cash flows applying either market rates, where applicable, or current rates for deposits of
similar remaining maturities.
Debt securities in issue
The fair value of short‑term debt securities in issue is approximately equal to their carrying value. Fair value for other debt securities is calculated based on
quoted market prices where available. Where quoted market prices are not available, fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow techniques at a
rate which reflects market rates of interest and the Group’s own credit spread.
Subordinated liabilities
The fair value of subordinated liabilities is determined by reference to quoted market prices where available or by reference to quoted market prices
of similar instruments. Subordinated liabilities are classified as level 2, since the inputs used to determine their fair value are largely observable.
Repurchase agreements
The carrying amount is deemed a reasonable approximation of fair value given the short term nature of these instruments.
272 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
Note 54: Adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 continued
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
Impairment
The Group adopted IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018. In accordance with the transition requirements of IFRS 9, comparative information for 2017 has not
been restated and transitional adjustments have been accounted for through retained earnings as at 1 January 2018, the date of initial application; and
as a result shareholders’ equity reduced by £1,180 million, driven by the effects of additional impairment provisions following the implementation of the
expected credit loss methodology and measurement adjustments following the reclassification of certain financial assets to be measured at fair value
rather than amortised cost. It is not practicable to quantify the impact of adoption of IFRS 9 on the results for the current year.
The following table summarises the impact of the transitional adjustment on the Group’s loss allowances at 1 January 2018:
IAS 39 allowance Transitional IFRS 9 loss
at 31 December adjustment to loss allowance at
2017 allowance 1 January 2018
£m £m £m
Loans and advances to banks – 1 1
Loans and advances to customers 2,201 1,022 3,223
Debt securities 26 – 26
Other – 10 10
2,227 1,033 3,260
Provisions for undrawn commitments and financial guarantees 30 243 273
Total loss allowance 2,257 1,276 3,533
There were no impacts on the Group’s loss allowances as a result of changes in the measurement category of financial assets at 1 January 2018.
The net impact of IFRS 9 on transition was an increase in impairment allowances of £1,276 million which is analysed as follows:
Multiple
IAS 39 12‑month Lifetime Undrawn economic
Latent risk expected loss expected loss commitments scenarios Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Retail
Secured (561 ) 24 371 1 226 61
Unsecured (133 ) 279 251 161 8 566
UK Motor Finance (99 ) 112 72 1 1 87
Other (30 ) 30 29 13 4 46
(823 ) 445 723 176 239 760
Commercial Banking (190 ) 108 330 60 63 371
Insurance and Wealth (5 ) 15 6 – 1 17
Other (115 ) 51 144 – 48 128
Total (1,133 ) 619 1,203 236 351 1,276
The key drivers for the provision movements from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 for the Group are as follows:
– Latent risk: under IAS 39 provisions were held against losses that had been incurred at the balance sheet date but had either not been specifically
identified or not been adequately captured in the provisioning models. Under IFRS 9 assets which had not defaulted are allocated to Stages 1 and 2 and
an appropriate expected credit loss allowance made.
– 12‑month expected loss: IFRS 9 requires that for financial assets where there has been no significant increase in credit risk since origination (Stage 1) a
loss allowance equivalent to 12‑month expected credit losses should be held. Under IAS 39 these balances would not be specifically provided against
although a provision for latent risk would be held.
– Lifetime expected credit loss: financial assets that have experienced a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition (Stage 2) and credit
impaired assets (Stage 3) are required to carry a lifetime expected credit loss allowance. Under IAS 39, Stage 2 assets were treated as performing and
consequently no specific impairment provision was held, although a proportion of the provision held against latent risks was held against these assets.
Assets treated as impaired under IAS 39 carried a provision reducing the carrying value to the estimated recoverable amount.
– Undrawn commitments: IFRS 9 requires a loss allowance to be held against undrawn lending commitments. Previously, an impairment provision would
only have been held in the event that the commitment was irrevocable and a loss event had occurred.
– Multiple economic scenarios: IFRS 9 requires that the expected credit loss allowance should reflect an unbiased range of possible future economic
outcomes. This was not required under IAS 39.
274 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
Note 54: Adoption of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 continued
Remeasurements
There has been a pre‑tax charge of £229 million (£207 million net of tax) arising from the reclassification of financial assets and liabilities to fair value through
profit or loss and fair value through other comprehensive income and consequent remeasurement to fair value.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
The Group has adopted IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018 and in nearly all cases the Group’s existing accounting policy was consistent with the requirements of
IFRS 15; however, certain income streams within the Group’s car leasing business are now deferred, resulting in an additional £14 million being recognised
as deferred income at 1 January 2018 with a corresponding debit of £11 million, net of tax, to shareholders’ equity. As permitted by the transition options
under IFRS 15, comparative figures for the prior year have not been restated. The impact of adoption of IFRS 15 on the current period is not material.
Accounting policies applied for comparative periods
In accordance with the transition requirements of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, comparative information has not been restated. The comparative information
was prepared in accordance with IAS 39 and IAS 18. With the exception of certain income streams within the Group’s car leasing business, the Group
accounting policy under IAS 18 was substantially aligned with the requirements of IFRS 15 and is not reproduced here; the principal policies applied by the
Group under IAS 39 are set out below:
Impairment
At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether, as a result of one or more events occurring after initial recognition of a financial asset accounted
for at amortised cost and prior to the balance sheet date, there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets has become
impaired. Where such an event, including the identification of fraud, has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group
of financial assets, an impairment allowance is recognised. The amount of impairment allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and
the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate.
The Group assesses, at each balance sheet date, whether there is objective evidence that an available‑for‑sale financial asset is impaired. In addition
to the criteria for financial assets accounted for at amortised cost set out above, this assessment involves reviewing the current financial circumstances
(including creditworthiness) and future prospects of the issuer, assessing the future cash flows expected to be realised and, in the case of equity shares,
considering whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost. If an impairment loss has been incurred,
the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost (net of any principal repayment and amortisation) and the current fair value,
less any impairment loss on that asset previously recognised, is reclassified from equity to the income statement.
Classification and measurement
On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into fair value through profit or loss, available for sale financial assets, held to maturity investments
or loans and receivables. Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading liabilities and other financial liabilities designated at fair
value through profit or loss on initial recognition which are held at fair value. Financial instruments are classified at fair value through profit or loss where
they are trading securities or where they are designated at fair value through profit or loss by management. Derivatives are carried at fair value. Loans
and receivables include loans and advances to banks and customers and are accounted for at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Debt
securities and equity shares that are not classified as trading securities, at fair value through profit or loss, held‑to‑maturity investments or as loans and
receivables are classified as available‑for‑sale financial assets and are recognised in the balance sheet at their fair value, inclusive of transaction costs.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until the financial asset is either sold, becomes
impaired or matures, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income
statement. Interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement
Note 55: Future accounting developments
The following pronouncements are not applicable for the year ending 31 December 2018 and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
Save as disclosed below, the impact of these accounting changes is still being assessed by the Group and reliable estimates cannot be made at this stage.
With the exception of IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ and certain other minor amendments as at 19 February 2019 these pronouncements have been
endorsed by the EU.
IFRS 16 Leases
IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The Group’s accounting as a lessor will remain aligned to the current approach under IAS 17; however for lessee accounting there will no longer be
a distinction between finance and operating leases. The transition approach adopted by the Group will result in the recognition of right of use assets
and lease liabilities of approximately £1.8 billion in respect of leased properties previously accounted for as operating leases; there will be no impact on
shareholders’ equity. As permitted by the transition options under IFRS 16, comparative figures for the prior year will not be restated. Going forward, the
Group will recognise a finance charge on the lease liability and a depreciation charge on the right‑of‑use asset, whereas previously the Group included
lease rentals within operating expenses. The Group intends to take advantage of a number of exemptions within IFRS 16, including the election not to
recognise a lease liability and a right‑of‑use asset for leases for which the underlying asset is of low value.
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ and is currently effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021 although the International
Accounting Standards Board have proposed delaying implementation until 1 January 2022.
IFRS 17 requires insurance contracts and participating investment contracts to be measured on the balance sheet as the total of the fulfilment cash flows and the
contractual service margin. Changes to estimates of future cash flows from one reporting date to another are recognised either as an amount in profit or loss or
as an adjustment to the expected profit for providing insurance coverage, depending on the type of change and the reason for it. The effects of some changes
in discount rates can either be recognised in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income as an accounting policy choice. The risk adjustment is released to
profit and loss as an insurer’s risk reduces. Profits which are currently recognised through a Value in Force asset, will no longer be recognised at inception of an
insurance contract. Instead, the expected profit for providing insurance coverage is recognised in profit or loss over time as the insurance coverage is provided.
The standard will have a significant impact on the accounting for the insurance and participating investment contracts issued by the Group.
Minor amendments to other accounting standards
The IASB has issued a number of minor amendments to IFRSs effective 1 January 2019 and 1 January 2020 (including IAS 19 Employee Benefits,
IAS 12 Income Taxes and IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments). The Group will adopt the changes to IAS 12 Income Taxes with effect from
1 January 2019, resulting in the presentation of the tax benefit of distributions on other equity instruments in the Group’s income statement; these impacts
are currently recognised directly in equity. Comparative information will be restated. For the comparative year ended 31 December 2018, this will result in
the reclassification of a tax credit of £106 million (2017: £102 million). These changes will have no impact on the Group’s reported balance sheet or profit
before tax. The amendments to other accounting standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
Strategic
report
Financial
results
Governance
Risk
management
Financial
statements
Other
information
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 287
Forward looking statements
data and information resulting from increased threat of cyber and other
This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements with
attacks; natural, pandemic and other disasters, adverse weather and
respect to the business, strategy, plans and/or results of Lloyds Banking
similar contingencies outside the Group's control; inadequate or failed
Group and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial
internal or external processes or systems; acts of war, other acts of hostility,
condition and performance. Statements that are not historical facts,
terrorist acts and responses to those acts, geopolitical, pandemic or other
including statements about Lloyds Banking Group’s or its directors’ and/or
such events; risks related to climate change; changes in laws, regulations,
management’s beliefs and expectations, are forward looking statements.
practices and accounting standards or taxation, including as a result of the
Words such as ‘believes’, ‘anticipates’, ‘estimates’, ‘expects’, ‘intends’,
exit by the UK from the EU, or a further possible referendum on Scottish
‘aims’, ‘potential’, ‘will’, ‘would’, ‘could’, ‘considered’, ‘likely’, ‘estimate’ and
independence; changes to regulatory capital or liquidity requirements
variations of these words and similar future or conditional expressions are
and similar contingencies outside the Group's control; the policies,
intended to identify forward looking statements but are not the exclusive
decisions and actions of governmental or regulatory authorities or courts
means of identifying such statements. By their nature, forward looking
in the UK, the EU, the US or elsewhere including the implementation
statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and
and interpretation of key legislation and regulation together with any
depend upon circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
resulting impact on the future structure of the Group; the transition from
Examples of such forward looking statements include, but are not limited IBORs to alternative reference rates; the ability to attract and retain senior
to: projections or expectations of the Group’s future financial position
management and other employees and meet its diversity objectives;
including profit attributable to shareholders, provisions, economic profit,
actions or omissions by the Group's directors, management or employees
dividends, capital structure, portfolios, net interest margin, capital ratios,
including industrial action; changes to the Group's post-retirement defined
liquidity, risk-weighted assets (RWAs), expenditures or any other financial
benefit scheme obligations; the extent of any future impairment charges
items or ratios; litigation, regulatory and governmental investigations;
or write-downs caused by, but not limited to, depressed asset valuations,
the Group’s future financial performance; the level and extent of future
market disruptions and illiquid markets; the value and effectiveness of
impairments and write-downs; statements of plans, objectives or goals
any credit protection purchased by the Group; the inability to hedge
of Lloyds Banking Group or its management including in respect of
certain risks economically; the adequacy of loss reserves; the actions of
statements about the future business and economic environments in
competitors, including non-bank financial services, lending companies and
the UK and elsewhere including, but not limited to, future trends in
digital innovators and disruptive technologies; and exposure to regulatory
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit and equity market levels and
or competition scrutiny, legal, regulatory or competition proceedings,
demographic developments; statements about competition, regulation, investigations or complaints. Please refer to the latest Annual Report on
disposals and consolidation or technological developments in the
Form 20-F filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for a
financial services industry; and statements of assumptions underlying such
discussion of certain factors and risks together with examples of forward
statements.
looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual business, strategy, plans and/or results
Lloyds Banking Group may also make or disclose written and/or oral
(including but not limited to the payment of dividends) to differ materially
forward looking statements in reports filed with or furnished to the US
from forward looking statements made by the Group or on its behalf
Securities and Exchange Commission, Lloyds Banking Group annual
include, but are not limited to: general economic and business conditions
reviews, half-year announcements, proxy statements, offering circulars,
in the UK and internationally; market related trends and developments;
prospectuses, press releases and other written materials and in oral
fluctuations in interest rates, inflation, exchange rates, stock markets and
statements made by the directors, officers or employees of Lloyds Banking
currencies; the ability to access sufficient sources of capital, liquidity and
Group to third parties, including financial analysts. Except as required by
funding when required; changes to the Group's credit ratings; the ability
any applicable law or regulation, the forward looking statements contained
to derive cost savings and other benefits including, but without limitation
in this Annual Report are made as of the date hereof, and Lloyds Banking
as a result of any acquisitions, disposals and other strategic transactions;
Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly
the ability to achieve strategic objectives; changing customer behaviour
any updates or revisions to any forward looking statements contained
including consumer spending, saving and borrowing habits; changes
in this Annual Report to reflect any change in Lloyds Banking Group’s
to borrower or counterparty credit quality; concentration of financial
expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or
exposure; management and monitoring of conduct risk; instability in the
circumstances on which any such statement is based.
global financial markets, including Eurozone instability, instability as a result
of uncertainty surrounding the exit by the UK from the European Union The information, statements and opinions contained in this Annual Report
(EU) and as a result of such exit and the potential for other countries to do not constitute a public offer under any applicable law or an offer to sell
exit the EU or the Eurozone and the impact of any sovereign credit rating any securities or financial instruments or any advice or recommendation
downgrade or other sovereign financial issues; technological changes with respect to such securities or financial instruments.
and risks to the security of IT and operational infrastructure, systems,