Succeeding
with customers
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 1
Inside this report
Evolution of our 2024 reporting suite
The 2024 Sustainability Report forms part of our annual reporting suite. The report seeks to effectively
communicate our climate and sustainability-related performance and strategic objectives to a range
1 Introduction 51 Our evolving approach to
of stakeholders.
4 Group Chief Executive’s review climate and nature risk
management Having previously published a separate Climate-related Disclosures Report and an Environmental,
5 Our strategic framework
61 Our evolving approach to nature Social and Governance (ESG) Disclosures Report, our 2024 reporting suite takes an increasingly integrated
6 Refreshing our climate
ambitions and targets approach to the communication of sustainability-related information.
7 Our sustainability-related 64 Responsible investing
The disclosure of sustainability-related information across the reporting suite continues to be driven
ambitions and targets and AUM climate
by mandatory reporting requirements, progress with reference to industry-wide sustainability standards,
8 2024 progress
transition plan
in addition to the assessment of key sustainability topics for our stakeholders and our business, as outlined
10 Key sustainability topics for our
stakeholders and our business 65 Asset Management and our on page 10 and 11 of this report.
approach to responsible
11 Our approach to identifying
investing
key sustainability topics for our
66 Our investment approach
stakeholders and our business
to net zero
12 Sustainability-related
67 Portfolio alignment and
opportunities: products Our 2024 reporting suite
progress towards net zero
and propositions
13 Collaboration and thought 68 Climate transition plan
leadership in action approach and progress
15 Climate-related Financial 72 Processes for identifying and 2024 Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Sustainability Report
Disclosures assessing climate-related risks
73 Managing climate-related
16 Supporting the investment risks
74 AUM governance
climate transition
and oversight
17 Implementing our climate
75 Methodologies and limitations
transition plan supports
of climate-related metrics
progress against our
bank-wide strategic priorities
76 Supporting social and
19 Considerations informing our
approach to climate transition community outcomes
23 NatWest Group total emissions 77 Accessible and inclusive
and emissions estimates banking
24 Climate transition plan: 81 Choice of channel
progress update Disclosures related to our strategic Progress on sustainability-related matters,
83 Safe, secure and reliable
27 Products, services and for our customers performance, governance and remuneration, including our Climate transition plan. Supported
business model changes
85 Supporting communities risk and capital management, along with by our Sustainability Datasheet, which outlines
35 Climate and ESG products
through our business activities our financial statements and related notes, our key metrics and progress against selected
and advisory services
86 Supporting our communities including the independent auditor’s report. industry-wide standards and our Sustainability
37 Integration of our climate
transition plan into financial through giving and volunteering Basis of Reporting.
88 Accelerating success for small
planning and decision-making
businesses
39 Sensitivity analysis including
89 Supporting future generations
dependency on government
policies 90 Respecting human rights
41 Estimates of financed emissions Read more and download our reports at natwestgroup.com
45 Estimates of facilitated 92 Cautionary Name and address
emissions from bond
statements ‘NatWest Group’ means the company and its subsidiary and associated undertakings.
underwriting and syndicated
lending 93 Caution about climate metrics Principal office: NatWest Group plc, PO Box 1000, Gogarburn, Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ
47 Own operational footprint: and data required for climate NatWest Group glossary and abbreviations.
progress update reporting
96 Climate-related and other
forward-looking statements
and metrics
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 2
Important information
Note on materiality a greater number and level of assumptions
For the purposes of our sustainability and estimates than many of our LSE Assurance approach
disclosure, we have adapted our approach and SEC filings. NatWest Group plc appointed Ernst &
to materiality based on both the subject These assumptions and estimates are Young LLP (EY) to provide external
matter and purpose of the disclosures. subject to change over time, and, when independent assurance over certain
In particular, when we believe that doing coupled with the longer time frames used sustainability metrics, indicated
so may allow us to better address in these disclosures, make any assessment with RA (Reasonable Assurance) or
sustainability-related matters of interest of materiality inherently uncertain. LA (Limited Assurance) in this report.
to our key stakeholders, our approach In addition, our climate and sustainability- The assurance engagement was
to these disclosures may sometimes related risk and impact assessment planned and performed in accordance
with the International Standard on
have regard to broader understandings capabilities and net-zero transition strategy
Assurance Engagements (UK) 3000
of materiality. These will be based on and plan remain under development,
(July 2020), Assurance Engagements
certain external frameworks and reporting and the data underlying these and market
Other than Audits or Reviews of
guidelines that take into consideration practice in relation to these disclosures also Historical Financial Information (“ISAE
a wider range of factors relevant remain subject to evolution and change (UK) 3000 July 2020”). An assurance
to sustainability-related disclosures. over time. The information in this report report was issued and is available at
To accommodate this approach to includes non-financial metrics, estimates natwestgroup.com. This report includes
materiality, we may also occasionally or other information that are subject to further details of the scope, respective
have regard to new or proposed significant uncertainties, which may include responsibilities, work performed,
frameworks and standards (or parts the methodology, collection and verification limitations and conclusion.
of them) when we believe that doing of data, various estimates and EY Independent
so may allow for a better understanding assumptions, and/or underlying data that Assurance Report
of our sustainability-related disclosures. is obtained from third parties, some of
which cannot be independently verified.
This report uses longer time frames to As a result, we expect that certain
assess potential impacts than those time disclosures made in this report may
frames customarily used in certain of our be amended, updated, recalculated RA Metric subject to independent
other disclosures, including our annual, and restated in the future as the quality Reasonable Assurance by EY(1)
periodic and interim financial reports filed and completeness of our data and LA Metric subject to independent
with the London Stock Exchange (‘LSE’) in methodologies continue to improve. Limited Assurance by EY(1)
the United Kingdom and the Securities and
(1) This indicates that the metric was subject
Exchange Commission (‘SEC’) in the United Our approach to materiality may continue to external independent limited/reasonable
States. This approach to materiality means to evolve as subsequent materiality assurance by EY. Refer to natwestgroup.com
that this report, and many of our climate assessments are completed and as our, for the Independent Assurance Report and
2024 Sustainability Basis of Reporting.
and sustainability-related disclosures, and the industry’s, understanding of
including climate and sustainability-related the sustainability impacts, risks and
risks and opportunities, include certain opportunities continues to develop.
information that we have not included Therefore, NatWest Group’s future
in our LSE and SEC filings for which we sustainability disclosures may be different
use a different approach to materiality. to those presented in this report.
Our approach to materiality in this report When relying on the content of this report,
and in other sustainability-related all readers should take into consideration
disclosures also means that statements this ‘Note on materiality’ and the
made in this report and in our other ‘Cautionary Statements’ on
sustainability-related disclosures use page 93 to 96 of this report.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 3
Succeeding
with customers
Our purpose is to be the bank that turns possibilities into progress.
By being a vital and trusted partner to our customers and
understanding their hopes and needs, we want to help them
make progress to reach their goals. By succeeding with our
19 million customers, we can also help to deliver growth across
the local communities we serve and the wider UK economy.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 4
Group Chief Executive’s review
Crucial to the fulfilment of our strategy net zero by 2050 is far from clear at this We’re also dedicated to improving our
and our purpose is the imperative to think stage but we continue to focus on supporting customers’ financial confidence with the
and act in a long-term, sustainable way, our customers’ transition and our own aim of helping them become more resilient
enhancing NatWest Group’s resilience and ambitions to be net zero. to financial shocks. In 2024, 7.8 million
helping create value for our stakeholders. people accessed our financial wellbeing
Collaboration remains essential in reaching
Embedded within our three clear strategic services and digital tools. We also
a more sustainable global economy,
priorities of disciplined growth, bank-wide continued to support young people through
requiring public and private sectors to work
simplification, and active balance sheet and our long-standing community programmes
together. In April 2024, working with the
risk management, our focus on sustainability like MoneySense, Dream Bigger and
Green Finance Institute, we were invited
helps us to deliver positive outcomes for CareerSense, which will be brought
to join the National Wealth Fund Taskforce,
our customers, shareholders, communities together under a single youth proposition
advising on how private finance can be
and colleagues. in 2025, NatWest Thrive.
mobilised to accelerate investment into
Supporting our customers’ clean energy industries. The Fund has the We recognise the importance of business
climate transitions potential to become a significant driver for growth in supporting a strong economy
public and private investment to help shape and the commercial ambitions of the bank.
Financial institutions continue to play a critical
a more sustainable UK industrial strategy. Through our Accelerator Programme in
role in supporting the transition to a net-zero
2024, we provided free-to-access wrap-
economy. Our climate-related and ESG Social and community
around support to a record number of
products and advisory services, are designed outcomes businesses. Elsewhere, across our small
to help that transition – while supporting
As the UK’s biggest business bank and a business support programmes, we
active balance sheet and risk management,
market leader in retail and private banking, delivered over 400,000 interventions
and contributing towards our commercial
with over 19 million customers across all to help start, run or grow a business.
objectives and shareholder returns. For
nations and regions of the UK, we are
example, up to the end of 2024, we had Succeeding with customers
in an important and privileged position.
provided a cumulative total of £93.4 billion in
A vital and trusted partner Our strategy aims to meet our customers’ Against a backdrop of new and rapidly
climate and sustainable funding and financing
needs at a time when many are facing changing social, commercial and economic
Being a vital and trusted partner to our against our target to provide £100 billion
complex technological and social change. trends, we will continue to evolve the
customers is at the heart of the strategy between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025.
Importantly, understanding their aspirations relevance and value of our bank.
we have developed as a leadership team
We are pleased to have achieved our and the challenges they face enables us The integration of sustainability into how
and agreed as a Board. From making
ambition to reduce our direct own to deliver the right services and expertise, we operate is a key part of this and aligns
everyday banking easier to helping
operations by delivering a 51% reduction at the right time, in the right way. with our ambition to succeed with
UK businesses grow, we’ll succeed
in Scope 1, location-based Scope 2, and customers. As one of the largest banks
with customers by understanding their For instance, we provided £4.1 billion
certain Scope 3 categories(1) between 2019 in the UK, we have the scale, reach,
hopes and aspirations and providing in lending to the UK social housing sector
and 2024. As we move forwards we will deep-rooted regional focus and expertise
the services and expertise they need during 2024. As a result, we have
now aim for a 70% reduction in our Scope to assist our customers on their
now and in the future. increased our existing ambition and now
1 and location-based Scope 2 emissions sustainability journeys and benefit
aim to provide £7.5 billion in lending to the
We have evolved our purpose to reflect by 2030, against a 2019 baseline. mutually from the opportunity this presents.
sector between 1 January 2024 and the
the role we play for our customers: the By turning possibilities into progress,
Achieving our 2030 ambition for Scope 3 end of 2026 to support the delivery and
bank that turns possibilities into progress. we aim to deliver positive financial,
financed emissions is increasingly challenging maintenance of social housing in the UK.
By connecting our purpose more closely customer and societal outcomes.
due to our acknowledged dependence on By providing this lending we are building
to the job our colleagues do each day
timely and appropriate government policy, value for the bank and its shareholders,
we aim to have a positive impact on our Paul Thwaite
technology developments and the supplier, while addressing social issues through
communities, the environment and our Group Chief Executive Officer
customer and societal response required to our core business activities.
own sustainability over the longer term.
support the transition. The path to achieving
(1) Includes Scope 3 (paper, water, waste, business travel,
commuting and work from home) emissions.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 5
Our strategic framework
Becoming a vital and trusted partner to our
customers is at the heart of our strategy.
It unites our ambition and purpose and is
delivered by three clear strategic priorities.
These enable us to succeed with customers
Ambition
and deliver sustainable shareholder value.
Succeeding
Whether it’s buying a home, investing for
with customers
tomorrow, growing a business, or helping
Disciplined Bank-wide
our customers to build a more sustainable
growth simplification
future, we can succeed with customers by
understanding their world and what matters
to them: their priorities, aspirations, and the
challenges they face. We want to help them to
navigate change and make progress towards
their goals with the right services and expertise.
Purpose
At the same time, we are becoming a simpler, The bank that
more integrated and technology-driven turns possibilities
NatWest Group: able to anticipate, understand
into progress
and respond to customers’ changing needs
and expectations faster and more effectively,
and with greater impact.
Active balance
By turning our customers’ possibilities sheet and risk
into progress we can succeed together. management
Careful consideration by the Board of the
alignment of our refocused purpose with our
strategy, and the role that culture will play in
its implementation, is explained in more detail
in our Section 172(1) statement on page 32
of the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual
Report and Accounts.
Read more about how we are succeeding with customers and turning
their possibilities into progress at natwestgroup.com
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 6
Refreshing our climate ambitions and targets
We have an ambition to be net zero across our financed While the new government has announced various initiatives since the UK general election
emissions, assets under management and our operational in July 2024, including the creation of the National Wealth Fund and the decarbonisation
of the energy sector, these are yet to be embedded within the policy framework
value chain by 2050, aligned with the UK’s legal commitment
and the UK CCC’s credibility assessment. We will continue to engage on and monitor
to be net zero by 2050. Government policy developments.
In February 2024, we disclosed that we considered the achievement of our ambition
While we continue to support our customers’ transition to a net-zero economy, and monitor
to at least halve the climate impact of our financing activity by 2030, against a 2019
progress on supplier and fund decarbonisation, our climate ambitions are unlikely to be
baseline, to be increasingly challenging. We continue to view this ambition as increasingly
achieved without timely and appropriate government policy and technology developments,
challenging, particularly in light of policy uncertainties.
as well as the supplier, customer and societal response required to support the transition.
In light of this, we plan to review our climate ambitions and targets during 2025 in the
With regards to our 2030 Scope 3 financed emissions ambitions, while UK Government
context of the UK CCC’s Seventh Carbon Budget which is expected to be published
policies are expected to continue to provide incentives for customer transition and
on 26 February 2025. We expect the latest proposed UK policy initiatives, will be reflected
technology development, delays to a range of net-zero related UK Government policies
in this publication.
indicate the pace of implementation is slower than required for the net-zero transition as
initially outlined in the UK Climate Change Committee’s (UK CCC) Sixth Carbon Budget, Refer to pages 39 and 40 for further details on our external dependencies and our approach to policy
issued in 2020. engagement and advocacy.
Reflecting our progress and our ambition to be net zero by 2050, We are now providing additional detail on the definition and scope
we will now aim for a 70% reduction in our Scope 1 and location- of the following ambitions
based Scope 2 emissions by 2030, against a 2019 baseline We have clarified the scope of our ambition for a global phase-out of coal by
Having successfully met our ambition to reduce our direct own operations 1 January 2030 to reflect the embedded nature of coal within activities such
emissions (Scope 1, location-based Scope 2 and certain Scope 3 categories)(1) as transportation, storage, supply chain and value add services, and to ensure
by 50% by 2025, against a 2019 baseline, this ambition has now been retired. due consideration is given to external factors such as energy security. We aim to
support our customers to reduce the use of coal, where alternatives are available.
We have also achieved our energy productivity (EP100), electric vehicles (EV100)
and renewable energy (RE100) commitments, and have retired our EP100 and Refer to page 33 and our Environmental, Social and Ethical (ESE) Risk Acceptance
EV100 commitments. Criteria for further details.
To reflect this progress we have refreshed our ambition to reduce Scope 1 and We have clarified our ambition for 50% of our UK mortgage portfolio to have an
location-based Scope 2 emissions and will now aim for a 70% reduction by 2030, Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating of C or better by 2030, to specify
against a 2019 baseline, while continuing to consume 100% renewable electricity the scope of the ambition relates to those properties where EPC data is available.
in our direct own global operations in line with our RE100 commitment.
Refer to page 60 for further details.
Refer to pages 47 to 50 for further detail.
The following ambitions are now sufficiently embedded within
NatWest Group processes and will no longer be separately
tracked.
– Our ambition to include targets, each year, for executive remuneration
(1) NatWest Group defines direct own operations as our Scope 1, location-based Scope 2 and Scope 3 (paper, water, waste, that reflect our latest climate ambitions.(2)
business travel, commuting and work from home) emissions.
– Our ambition to continue to integrate the financial and non-financial
(2) The proposed 2025 NatWest Group performance share plan includes an expected 15% weighting for sustainability metrics
(including climate targets), subject to approval by shareholders as part of the new directors’ remuneration policy, which is risks arising from climate change into our EWRMF in accordance with
being positioned at the NatWest Group plc AGM. Refer to page 133 in the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual Report and our multi-year climate risk maturity approach.
Accounts for further details.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 7
Our sustainability-related ambitions and targets
Our sustainability-related ambitions and
targets enable us to focus on actions we
Supporting the climate transition(1) Broader sustainability-related ambitions
can take to succeed with our customers
and deliver sustainable shareholder value. and targets
We have an ambition to be net zero by 2050 across
Our Climate transition plan lays out our
plans to help our customers on their journey our financed emissions, assets under management Diversity, equity and inclusion
(AUM) and our operational value chain.(2)
toward net zero. To reflect the achievement Our 2030 diversity targets(5) are to have:
of our direct own operational emissions We have an ambition to at least halve the climate impact – 50% female representation globally in our senior leadership
ambition and progress against our Climate of our financing activity by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, population and 45% globally in our management
transition plan we refreshed a number of supported by sector targets. population by the end of 2030.
our climate-related ambitions during 2024, We have a target to provide £100 billion climate and – 19% of UK colleagues from ethnic minority groups and 5%
as outlined on page 6. sustainable funding and financing between 1 July 2021 and of UK Black colleagues in our senior leadership population
the end of 2025. As part of this we aim to provide at least and our management population by the end of 2030.
During 2025 we plan to review our ambition £10 billion in lending for EPC A and B rated residential
For 2025, our aggregated diversity target is 17.9%. We will
to help 10 million people, per year, manage properties between 1 January 2023 and the end of 2025.
assess each of the three measures (Female, Ethnicity and
their financial wellbeing by 2027 in the
We have an ambition to reduce the carbon intensity of our Black(6)) across two populations, the senior leadership
context of our strategy. Underlying banking
Managed Assets by 50% by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, population and the management population.
products and features disclosed as part
and to move 70% of Managed Assets to a net-zero pathway.(3)
of this ambition will continue to be offered Social and community outcomes
unless otherwise specified. We have an ambition for 50% of our UK residential
mortgages to have an Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) We have an ambition to help 10 million people, per year,
To ensure that our diversity targets evolve rating of C or better by 2030, where EPCs are available. manage their financial wellbeing by 2027.
appropriately and are in line with the We have an ambition to phase-out coal for customers who Our ambition to provide £5 billion in lending to the UK social
proposed regulatory requirements and have coal production, coal fired generation and coal-related housing sector from 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2026 was
census data, we are introducing new infrastructure globally by 1 January 2030.(4) updated to £7.5 billion over the same period in February 2025.
diversity targets from the beginning of 2025
We have an ambition to reduce emissions for our operational Simplification to build a future-fit platform bank
to be achieved by the end of 2030. They
value chain, against a 2019 baseline by: reducing Scope 1
remain focused on female representation, We have a target for 80% of Retail customers to bank
and location-based Scope 2 emissions by 70% and Scope 3
ethnic minority groups and Black colleagues. entirely digitally in 2025.(7)
emissions by 50% by 2030, while continuing to consume 100%
renewable electricity in our direct own global operations. We have a target for 85% of C&I customers to bank digitally
We continue to drive simplification and
first in 2025.(8)
create a future-fit platform bank. Building
on the progress already made, we have We have a target for a seven-day average deployment
announced three new 2025 targets focused frequency for features and digital services in 2025.
Refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report in the NatWest Group plc
on customer engagement and digital 2024 Annual Report and Accounts for details of sustainability
simplification. considerations included in executive remuneration.
(1) NatWest Group’s ability to achieve its strategy, including its climate ambitions and targets, entails significant risks and will significantly depend on many factors and uncertainties beyond NatWest Group’s control. The most important of these uncertainties and factors,
which could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements, are summarised in the Risk factors included on pages 408 to 426 of the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual Report and Accounts (with special
regard to the risk factors in relation to climate and sustainability-related risks that describe several particular uncertainties, climate and sustainability-related risks to which NatWest Group is exposed and which may be amended from time to time). For more information,
refer to pages 92 to 97 of this report (Cautionary Statements).
(2) Our operational value chain captures greenhouse gas emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 (Categories 1-14, excluding Categories 8, 10, 14).
(3) Our net zero by 2050 AUM ambition encompasses total AUM, including Managed Assets, Bespoke and Advisory – refer to page 65 for details. We consider Managed Assets (those assets we invest on our customers’ behalf, which represented 83% of AUM as at
31 December 2024) to be in-scope for our interim 2030 portfolio alignment target and weighted average carbon intensity (WACI) ambition. For details, refer to pages 38 to 39 of the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative’s Initial Target Disclosure Report (May 2022).
(4) Relates to thermal and lignite coal (coal that is typically used as a fuel for steam-electric power) coal production, coal-related infrastructure or transport. Data challenges, particularly the lack of granular customer information, create challenges in identifying
customers with ‘coal related infrastructure’ and other customers with coal-related operations within NatWest Group’s large and diversified customer portfolios As such, the scope excludes companies who generate less than 5% of their revenues via coal activity
(in line with Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) guidelines for climate target setting for banks), companies with a turnover of <£50 million and commodity traders. Metallurgical coal Is excluded from scope as it is currently essential to the steel industry.
We will continue to review our policies in line with our EWRMF which considers a range of factors in the external economic, political, and regulatory environment.
(5) Our 2030 diversity targets are subject to local laws and regulations.
(6) The senior leadership population is CEO-2+ and our management population is grades C11+. From 2025, we will also include Black mixed ethnicity categories into our Black diversity target calculations.
(7) Retail Banking customers with active current accounts that have accessed a digital platform (online or mobile) and not used the branch or telephony for 90 days in the reporting period. Inactive customers and customers with no channel use excluded.
(8) Commercial & Institutional franchise customers with active non-personal account(s) that access their account 95% or more through digital channels (online, mobile, Bankline), for three rolling months in the reporting period.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 8
2024 progress
We have an ambition to be net zero
across our financed emissions, assets Progress against our climate-related ambitions and targets
under management and our operational
value chain by 2050. This aligns with the
Reducing our own operational % of Managed Assets
UK’s legal commitment to be net zero
emissions considered portfolio aligned
by 2050.
to a net-zero pathway
The scale of our current emissions
varies across different activities with
2024 122,619 -51% 2024 58%
approximately 90% related to Scope 3 Four out of
category 15 financed emissions (customer 2023 131,558 -47% 2023 49%
Scope 1 and 2 from our lending and nine
investments). A further 7% relates to our 2019 baseline 247,718
sectors are aligned
assets under management (AUM) and 3%
to our operational value chain. 51% to decarbonisation 58%
convergence
For further details of our emissions footprint reduction achieved since 2019 pathways(2) as at 31 December 2024
and progress refer to pages 23 to 26.
We have achieved our ambition to reduce We have an ambition to align 70%
We aim to help our customers on their our direct own operational emissions(1) by of Managed Assets to a net-zero
journey toward a net-zero economy, 50% between 2019 and 2025 for Scope 1, pathway by 2030.(3)
location-based Scope 2, and certain Scope 3
including engaging on how NatWest Group
categories.
could support their transition ambitions.
We continue to monitor progress
on supplier and fund decarbonisation
and support institutional investors as Climate and sustainable % of homes in our UK mortgage Exposure to coal
they seek to decarbonise their portfolios. funding and financing portfolio rated at EPC C or customers globally
better, where EPCs are available
During 2024 we continued to integrate
climate considerations into our decision- £0.6bn
2024 £31.5bn 2024 46.3% LA
making processes, including starting to
roll-out our Climate Decisioning Framework 2023 £29.3bn as at 31 December 2024
2023 44.1%
(CDF) tools on a test-and-learn basis. 2022 £24.5bn
For further details on our Climate 2021 £8.1bn 2022 41.6% We have an ambition to complete a global
transition plan refer to pages 27 to 34 phase-out of coal by 1 January 2030.(5)
and pages 64 to 75. £93.4bn LA 46.3% RA
For further details on our external provided between 1 July 2021 and the as at 31 December 2024
dependencies refer to pages 39 and 40. end of 2024
We have a target to provide £100 billion We have an ambition for 50% of our UK
in climate and sustainable funding and residential mortgage portfolio to have
financing between 1 July 2021 and the an EPC rating of C or better by 2030,
end of 2025.(4) where EPCs are available.
(1) NatWest Group defines direct own operational emissions as Scope 1, our interim 2030 portfolio alignment target and our weighted average carbon challenges in identifying customers with ‘coal related infrastructure’ and other
location-based Scope 2 and Scope 3 (paper, water, waste, business travel, intensity (WACI) ambition. Refer to page 75 for details of WACI. customers with coal-related operations within NatWest Group’s large and
commuting and work from home) emissions. (4) Climate and sustainable funding and financing, as defined in our diversified customer portfolios As such, the scope excludes companies who
(2) Based on 2023 emissions, reflecting sectors for which convergence climate and sustainable funding and financing inclusion (CSFFI) criteria, generate less than 5% of their revenues via coal activity (in line with Net-Zero
pathways have been developed with reference to external scenarios. represents only a relatively small proportion of our overall funding Banking Alliance (NZBA) guidelines for climate target setting for banks),
Refer to pages 23-26 for further details. and financing. Refer to page 20 for further details. companies with a turnover of <£50 million and commodity traders. Metallurgical
(3) We consider Managed Assets (those assets we invest on our customers’ behalf, (5) Relates to thermal and lignite coal (coal that is typically used as a fuel for coal Is excluded from scope as it is currently essential to the steel industry. We
which represented 83% of AUM as at 31 December 2024) to be in-scope for steam-electric power) coal production, coal-related infrastructure or transport. will continue to review our policies in line with our EWRMF which considers a
Data challenges, particularly the lack of granular customer information, create range of factors in the external economic, political, and regulatory environment.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 9
2024 progress continued
As a UK-focused bank, serving over
19 million customers, with business Progress against our broader sustainability-related ambitions and targets
operations reaching across retail,
commercial and private banking markets,
Female and ethnic minority colleagues in senior roles People helped to manage
we continued to support our customers,
their financial wellbeing
colleagues and the communities we serve.
2024 43% 2024 13.2%
In 2024, we worked towards the ambitions
2024 7.8m
and targets we set ourselves to increase 2023 41% 2023 13%
female and ethnic minority colleagues in 2023 6m
senior roles, to help people to manage their 420322%(1) 40% 123022.2%(1) 11%
financial wellbeing, to deliver interventions 7.8m(2)LA
to help start, run or grow a business, women in our CEO-3 and above global colleagues from ethnic minority
and to reach young people through roles as at 31 December 2024. backgrounds in our CEO-4 and above in 2024
UK roles as at 31 December 2024.
our NatWest Thrive programme.
Our 2024 target was to help 7 million
We also announced in March 2024 our Our 2024 target was to reach 43%. Our 2024 target was to reach 13.5%. people manage their financial wellbeing.
ambition to lend £5 billion to the UK social
housing sector between 1 January 2024
and the end of 2026 to support a pipeline Interventions to start, run or Lending to UK social housing Young people reached through
of new homes and improve living grow a business sector our NatWest Thrive programme
conditions. We increased this ambition
in February 2025 to £7.5 billion, over £4.1bn 1.1mLA
2024 401,000
the same period.
in 2024 in 2024
Our progress against these ambitions 2023 301,000
and targets is summarised opposite.
4200221,000269
LA
,000 We have an ambition to provide Our 2024 target was to reach 1 million
We also continue to digitalise our services, £7.5 billion in lending to the UK social young people, to improve their financial
housing sector between 1 January 2024 wellbeing and help them feel more
becoming a simpler, better integrated and in 2024
and the end of 2026. confident about their future.
more technology-enabled bank. We have
set 2025 targets as we work to create Our 2024 target was to deliver 350,000
interventions.
a future-fit platform bank.
Read more in the 2024 Sustainability Basis
of Reporting and Sustainability Datasheet.
Digitalisation and simplification for our customers
Retail Banking customers Commercial & Institutional Retail banking Cora interactions
banking entirely digitally(3) customers banking digitally first(4) in 2024
79% 83% 11.2mLA
(2023: 77%) (2023: 81%) (2023: 10.8m)
(1) The outcomes noted above are based on the management structures in place at the start of 2024 (start of the year for (3) Retail Banking franchise customers with active current accounts that have accessed a digital platform (online or mobile)
comparative periods), with performance assessed at the end of the year. Based on the performance assessed in line with the and not used the branch or telephony for 90 days in the reporting period. Inactive customers and customers with
management structure in place at the end of the year, we had 41%RA (2023: 41%) women in our top three layers globally and no channel use excluded.
12.9%RA (2023: 13.0%) colleagues from ethnic minority backgrounds in the top four layers in the UK as at 31 December 2024. (4) Commercial & Institutional franchise customers with active non-personal account(s) that access their account 95%
(2) Includes additional initiatives in 2024 including digital regular saver and Insights. We have an ambition to help 10 million or more through digital channels (online, mobile, Bankline), for three rolling months in the reporting period.
people, per year, manage their financial wellbeing by 2027. We plan to review our financial wellbeing ambition during 2025
in the context of our strategy. Underlying banking products and features in our financial wellbeing ambition will continue
to be offered unless otherwise specified.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 10
Key sustainability topics for our stakeholders
and our business
Enhancing the resilience of NatWest Group and helping create sustainable long-term value for our stakeholders is of vital importance for the fulfilment of our strategy and purpose.
We engage with our stakeholders to understand their needs and help us identify the most important topics from a sustainability perspective. This engagement guides our approach
to addressing key sustainability topics for our stakeholders and our business.
The table below shows our key sustainability topics which are underpinned by risk management, business ethics, and corporate governance. Our approach to, and limitations associated
with our materiality assessment is outlined on the following page. Our reporting suite endeavours to disclose progress against each of the key sustainability topics identified.
Topic Topic description Relevance for key In this report Reference in NatWest Group plc
stakeholders 2024 Annual Report and Accounts
Supporting the We have an ambition to be net zero across our financed emissions, AUM Supporting the climate transition Climate-related disclosures (pages 44
climate transition and our operational value chain by 2050, aligned with the UK’s legal Responsible investing and AUM climate to 55)
commitment to be net zero by 2050. We aim to help our customers transition plan Climate governance (page 90)
on their journey towards a net-zero economy, while continuing to embed
Our evolving approach to nature Risk and capital management
climate considerations into decision-making and risk management processes.
(pages 172 to 180, 269 to 271)
Supporting We are deepening our customer relationships by building products and Accessible and inclusive banking Business performance
customers and services that aim to support customers of all ages and circumstances, Supporting communities through our (pages 20 to 25)
communities regardless of their choice of channel for banking. From helping small business activities
through our businesses with our financial products and expertise, to helping customers Supporting our communities through giving
and communities manage their financial wellbeing through digital tools
banking products and volunteering
and education, we aim to help create positive societal outcomes.
Accelerating success for small businesses
Supporting future generations
Innovation in our Driving innovation and supporting digital transformation to enhance Choice of channel Adapting to evolving market trends
products and customer experience and operational efficiency, and create inclusive Ethical use of data and AI (pages 26 and 27)
services customer journeys. Embracing innovation through various technologies, Business performance (pagse 20 to 25)
including deployment of artificial intelligence.
Risk overview (pages 56 to 61)
Safeguarding Keeping our customers’ and colleagues’ data safe and protecting Safe, secure and reliable for our customers Responsible business – how we operate
information and their privacy. Playing our role to prevent and detect financial crime, (pages 38 and 39)
tackling financial by implementing robust controls and compliance processes. Risk overview (pages 56 to 61)
crime Financial crime risk (page 268)
Diverse and skilled Building towards a diverse, equitable, inclusive and highly skilled workforce, Not applicable Our colleagues (pages 35 and 36)
workforce which is empowered by learning and opportunities. Supporting colleague wellbeing (page
37)
Responsible business – diversity, equity
and inclusion (pages 41 and 42)
Diversity in the boardroom (page 87)
Driving a culture of A culture of integrity and ethics, respecting human rights and preventing Respecting human rights Governance and remuneration (pages
integrity and ethics corruption and bribery, all of which, is underpinned by corporate 80 to 170)
governance processes. Responsible business – how we operate
(pages 38 and 39)
Board oversight of strategy and culture
(page 98)
Investors Customers Colleagues Communities Regulators Suppliers
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 11
Our approach to identifying key sustainability topics
for our stakeholders and our business
Our approach to materiality Scope, challenges
assessments and limitations
Preparing for incoming sustainability
We perform a full materiality assessment The topics included in the table on the reporting standards
every three years for NatWest Group that previous page represent key sustainability
NatWest Group continues to monitor sustainability-related disclosure obligations
is reviewed every year. This year we topics for NatWest Group plc and may
and set up activities to perform materiality assessments. This includes exploration
completed a full assessment to identify differ across our legal entities and
of enhancements required to our existing processes to address future applicable
important sustainability topics for our geographical footprint. Progress against
materiality assessment expectations.
key stakeholders and our business. individual topics can be varied. The topics
are not necessarily indicative of, and may During 2024, we conducted a pilot, with support from an external service
Our approach considers a broad range
be different to, the topics we may disclose provider, which sought to develop our thinking on sustainability topics and inform
of sustainability topics that aims to build
in future. Our list of topics and stakeholders future potential approaches to conducting materiality assessments under incoming
long-term value in our stakeholders and
engaged may continue to evolve as reporting regulations. This will inform the evolution of our existing approach
for our business. This guides our thinking
subsequent materiality assessments are outlined on the left hand side of this page. As part of the pilot, we performed
and ensures we are focused on the right
completed and as our, and the industry’s, the following initial activities:
issues through the assessment process.
understanding of the sustainability impacts,
To identify our initial list of topics, we used – We mapped our stakeholders across our current view of the value chain
risks and opportunities continues to
peer reviews, megatrends, industry and identified relevant parts of the value chain where impacts, risks
develop. Refer to page 2 of this report
analysis, sustainability frameworks and opportunities (IROs) might arise. We developed an initial list of IROs
for further details on the considerations
and ESG developments. using a variety of internal and external sources.
for our materiality assessment.
– We then developed an analysis framework and implemented it through internal
Stakeholder engagement
Like many companies we continue stakeholder engagement to analyse IROs. We then validated our thinking
and topics identified to face challenges on data availability, through further engagement with stakeholders to determine a more
comparability, and uncertainty on the focused list.
We collected and analysed views of key
extent of sustainability-related impacts,
stakeholder groups through internal Whilst this exercise helped us in identifying an initial view of sustainability impacts,
as well as associated financial risks and
and external interviews, and consultation risks and opportunities, the outcomes did not aid our conclusions in determining
opportunities. We also continue to actively
workshops were held to understand their our list of material topics. Our assessment this year and our 2024 reporting suite
consider new insights and data which may
outcomes of interest. We engaged do not reflect the outcome of the pilot. We will continue to develop our materiality
influence or enhance our view on material
approximately 50 stakeholders assessment approach to meet future reporting standards as they become
sustainability topics. We will continue to
internally in addition to a select group applicable to NatWest Group and therefore the materiality of our sustainability
review industry developments and evolve
of senior leaders to conclude our list topics may change over time and NatWest Group’s future sustainability reporting
our approach to the assessment of
of material topics. and disclosures may be different to those presented in this report and in our 2024
materiality with regard to new insights,
reporting suite.
data and developing regulatory obligations
and frameworks.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 12
Sustainability-related opportunities: products and propositions
Our products and services
support a wide range of Summarised below are our key propositions aimed at supporting customers and communities.
Follow the links for further details.
customers, from individuals,
families and small businesses
Personal Start-ups, SMEs Commercial Corporates, financial
through to mid-sized and large customers and high growth Mid-Market (CMM) institutions and
customers customers funds customers
commercial customers as well
as large institutions.
Carbon footprinting via EV proposition e.g. Lombard Vehicle Solutions, EV Planner,(2)
Our retail, corporate, investment and advisory mobile banking app Salary sacrifice (CMM and large corporates only)
product offer aims to deliver sustainability-related
solutions and tailored expertise to meet our
customers’ varied needs. Green mortgage products Business transition planning (e.g. Carbon Planner) ESG regulatory and
ratings support
74% of responders to our Future Fit(1) research
in 2024 believe sustainability investments
Retrofit and home
have the potential to provide real competitive
energy support Green, social and sustainability linked loan products
advantage by increasing their attractiveness (e.g. Home Energy Hub)
to customers and employees. 68% of businesses
say all their investments in sustainability are tied
to long-term commercial objectives. Responsible investing Financing for climate and sustainable assets(4)
As our customers’ needs evolve over time,
we aim to continually improve and deepen
Propositions supporting
our understanding of how we can enhance accessibility and inclusion Energy solutions (e.g. Sustainability Solutions, Lombard Green Energy offer)
(e.g. Foundation Accounts
our service offer to deliver disciplined growth and Banking my Way)
while embracing new technology to support
bank-wide simplification.
Financial wellbeing digital tools Funding support
Green, social and sustainability linked bonds
We also understand our role in supporting the (e.g. Know Your Credit Score)(3) (e.g. UK Enterprise Fund)
wider communities we serve, across the UK. It’s
why some of our propositions reach beyond our
Financial and fraud education Business growth information and guidance ESG-linked foreign exchange
customer base, from supporting financial resilience (e.g. MoneySense and Financial
Foundations Workshops) (e.g. Business Builder and High Growth Hub) and derivatives
and providing free-to-access sustainability advice,
to empowering entrepreneurship through our
accelerator network. Money management support
(e.g. Benefits Calculator) Climate and ESG-related thought leadership
and partner referrals
(e.g. PayPlan)
(1) Future Fit Survey sampled 1,000 UK businesses operating Digital charitable giving (e.g. Reward Account) Carbon credit services (e.g. Carbonplace)
across 10 sectors. Refer here for details.
(2) EV Planner is also available to non-customers.
(3) While some financial wellbeing digital tools are available to both Youth proposition Business development Workplace pension
customers and non-customers (e.g. Know Your Credit Score), (e.g. Rooster Money and and support programmes (e.g. Cushon’s sustainable ESG short-term products
others are available only to customers in our mobile app.
NatWest Thrive) (e.g. Accelerator) investing strategy
(4) Includes our Device-as-a-Service and Circular Technology
proposition, available to CMM and corporate customers.
Products and propositions available to NatWest Group customers. Products and propositions available to NatWest Group customers and non-customers.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 13
Collaboration and thought leadership in action
In 2024, we continued to engage with customers, investors,
partners, peers and non-governmental organisations (NGOs),
GEFI 2024 summit
taking into consideration relevant anti-trust rules, to help
co-create the solutions needed for a more sustainable future, In September 2024, NatWest Group hosted the
and unlock opportunities connected with the net-zero transition. Global Ethical Finance Initiative (GEFI) summit
at our headquarters in Edinburgh. The international
For example, we sent a delegation to the UN Climate
conference attracted representation from industry,
Conference, COP29, in Baku, Azerbaijan in November
academia, government, UN agencies, media,
2024, and regularly engaged with organisations such
and civil society. The summit explored the theme
as the Sustainable Markets Initiative (SMI), Net Zero
of ‘Progress or Procrastination’. The event
Banking Alliance (NZBA), and Bankers for Net Zero (B4NZ).
programme featured keynote speeches, panel
The following pages provide further examples of our activity discussions, and presentations covering transition
during 2024. to net zero, leadership, climate change, and
mobilising finance for nature-based solutions. contributed to the report as a taskforce member.
The report sets out recommendations on how Scotland
Also announced at the summit, was the publication
can take advantage of opportunities to become a global
of the Scottish Taskforce for Green and Sustainable
centre for green finance, by attracting the right people,
Financial Services Report. NatWest Group
skills and expertise.
Participant in the UK’s
Transition Finance
Market Review
NatWest Group was part of a multi-bank
collaboration, convened by UK Finance, Activity during London Climate Action Week
seeking to support the UK’s Transition Finance In June 2024 NatWest Group supported a 3Ci-led event titled ‘Enabling place-based net-zero investment’.
Market Review. The collaboration was The event saw stakeholders from national and local government, private sector investors, and other bodies,
enabled through roundtables and engagement events discuss practical strategies for investing in net-zero projects at the local level.
and informed the findings captured in the Transition
Through focused discussions, case studies, and panel sessions, participants explored the role of finance
Finance Market Review report, published on
and policy action in accelerating project implementation.
17 October 2024. NatWest Group’s Head of Climate
Change, was a member of the expert group that We also hosted our second annual Women Mobilising Sustainability event during London Climate Action
helped shape the publication. Week, recognising the contribution women-led businesses supported by NatWest Group make towards
a more sustainable economy. The event was complemented by two roundtable events held in Stockholm
The market-led review, part of the UK Government’s
and Singapore, which also recognised the contribution of women mobilising capital to sustainable solutions,
Green Finance Strategy, builds on the work of the
and our Women in Sustainability podcast series celebrating women working in the field of sustainability.
Transition Plan Taskforce to examine how the UK
could play a leading role in funding the global net-zero
transition through the mobilisation of finance. Its report
provides a framework for net-zero transition finance,
providing recommendations for collaboration between
government, investors, business, and civil society.
It sets out policies and pathways to scale the market
for transition finance in the UK and globally, helping
to unlock the estimated £50 to £60 billion needed
annually to support the UK economy in meeting
its net-zero objectives.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 14
Collaboration and thought leadership in action continued
From supporting the affordable
housing sector and our efforts to help
Building capability through
combat homelessness in the UK,
the University of Edinburgh
to contributing to the development
2024 was the final year of our three-
of the UK’s National Wealth Fund,
year collaboration with the University
we continue to engage and work
of Edinburgh Centre for Business,
with industry, government, financial Climate Change and Sustainability. The
institutions, and academia. collaboration developed bespoke climate
training for colleagues across the bank
For details of our external commitments, and was delivered through our digital
memberships and accreditations, learning academy. Its aim was to build
refer to natwestgroup.com
confidence capability, and to provide
support to enable better conversations
on climate change with customers, and
Affordable housing In 2024, we started a UK retrofit each other. Our approach centred
and homelessness pilot on 1,000 homes owned around three key ambitions:
Supporting
by Places for People. The pilot
the UK’s In March 2024, NatWest Group seeks to quantify the potential – Providing easily accessible learning
National announced an ambition to provide environmental, financial and health materials on climate awareness,
£5 billion of lending to the UK enabling ongoing colleague upskilling.
Wealth Fund benefits associated with retrofitting
social housing sector between In 2024, colleagues completed
affordable housing while acting as
NatWest Group was 1 January 2024 and the end almost 30,000 modules from our
a real-world test-bed for reducing
approached in of 2026. This was updated climate and nature education
the cost of net zero for landlords.
April 2024 to join a in February 2025 to £7.5 billion resources developed in partnership
taskforce set-up by over the same period. During 2024, By simplifying the retrofit process with the University of Edinburgh.
the Labour Party(1) to provide we provided £4.1 billion of lending for landlords and exploring project
– Equipping colleagues in priority roles
advice on the establishment of to the sector. financing, the consortium aims to
with the capability to support
a National Wealth Fund to support unlock a scalable solution for social
This funding aims to help the our customers to manage
investments in the UK’s clean housing providers.
housing association sector deliver climate-related risks.
energy and growth industries.
a pipeline of new homes to boost This ongoing support for the sector – Inspire climate action and
Our role was to coordinate the
the availability of social housing aligns with our engagement with innovation through learning
sectors working group as well
in the UK, as well as improving the Homewards, a five-year, locally led and professionalisation.
as inputting into the taskforce’s
quality of existing properties. This programme launched by the Royal
interim and final report, which Following this three-year collaboration,
includes energy efficiency retrofits. Foundation of The Prince and
was published in July 2024. we continue to engage with the
Princess of Wales aimed at
The National Wealth Fund aims Since 2021, NatWest Group has University of Edinburgh, as well as with
preventing and combating
to mobilise billions of pounds been part of a consortium led by organisations such as the Chartered
homelessness.
of investment in the UK’s world- Pineapple Sustainable Partnerships Banker Institute to continue to enhance
leading clean energy and growth and including Places for People, Since June 2023, we have been our colleagues’ learning on climate-
industries and support the delivery British Gas, Sero and Tallarna. a Homewards activator, working related matters.
of the government’s new The consortium aims to help tackle alongside organisations from
Refer to page 34 of the 2023 NatWest
Industrial Strategy. the UK’s home retrofitting challenge a range of sectors and industries
Group Climate-related Disclosures Report
at scale through several housing to contribute outreach, skills and page 48 of the 2022 NatWest Group
association delivery partners. and resources to help develop Climate-related Disclosures Report for
and deliver solutions to prevent further details of our collaboration with
homelessness in six areas University of Edinburgh.
(1) In 2024, NatWest Group made no political donations,
nor incurred any political expenditure in the UK or EU. of the UK.
Refer to page 169 of the NatWest Group plc
2024 Annual Report and Accounts for details.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 15
Climate-related Financial Disclosures
In 2017, NatWest Group committed to Group 2024 Sustainability Datasheet (all Consistency with the Financial 2024) do not form part of this report.
support the Financial Stability Board’s Task published on 14 February 2025 and Conduct Authority’s ESG In addition, the assets of the pension
Force on Climate-related Financial available at natwestgroup. com) to ensure provider, held in the Cushon Master
sourcebook requirements for
Disclosures (‘TCFD’) recommendations and that the disclosures are included in the Trust and regulated by The Pensions
asset managers and certain
has published climate-related disclosures most relevant sections in each report, as Regulator, do not form part of this
FCA-regulated asset owners
consistent with the TCFD recommendations appropriate. report. The Trustees of the Cushon
since February 2022. In 2024, climate- The Responsible Investing chapter of the Master Trust publish separate
We have adopted this approach to seek to
related disclosures have been made within 2024 NatWest Group Sustainability Report climate-related disclosures.
ensure that we have presented the
the 2024 NatWest Group plc Annual Report is intended to align with the Financial
detailed and technical content in the We believe that the disclosures related
and Accounts, the 2024 NatWest Group Conduct Authority’s ESG sourcebook
clearest position for users of these reports. to assets under management, set out
Sustainability Report, the 2024 NatWest requirements for asset managers and
in section ‘Responsible investing and
Group Sustainability Basis of Reporting and The climate-related disclosures in the 2024 certain FCA-regulated asset owners
AUM climate transition plan’ of this report,
the 2024 NatWest Group Sustainability Climate-related Disclosures Reporting Suite to make disclosures consistent with
including any cross-referenced disclosures
Datasheet (‘2024 Climate-related do not cover NatWest Group’s Pension the recommendations of the TCFD.
in the remainder of this report, are
Disclosures Reporting Suite’). Fund (including both Defined Benefit
The legal entities whose assets under consistent with the requirements set
Scheme and Retirement Savings Plan),
NatWest Group confirms that it has: management are within the scope of this out in Chapter 2 of the Financial Conduct
which are reported on in separate
report are Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Authority’s Environmental Social
– made climate-related financial disclosures climate-related disclosures published by the
Coutts & Co (Coutts), RBS Collective and Governance Sourcebook.
for the year ended December 31, 2024 trustee of that Fund and regulated by The
Investment Funds Limited (CIFL), Royal
that it believes are consistent with the Pensions Regulator.
Bank of Scotland International Limited, Emma Crystal
TCFD Recommendations and
National Westminster Bank plc. In June
Chief Executive Officer, Coutts & Co
Recommended Disclosures (as defined in
2023, NatWest Group acquired workplace
the FCA’s Listing Rules, as amended by the Refer to the NatWest Group 2024
savings and pension provider Cushon
Disclosure of Climate-Related Financial Sustainability Datasheet for progress
Group. Assets under management
Information (No 2) Instrument 2021) which against select industry-wide
standards, including TCFD. associated with Cushon Group
include (i) Final Report – Recommendations
(£2,974 million in assets as at December
of TCFD (June 2017) (focusing in particular
on the four recommendations and the
eleven recommended disclosures set out in
Figure 4 of Section C of the TCFD Final Future developments
Report); (ii) Implementing the NatWest Group, as a primarily UK- Sustainability Standard 3. Other developing regulations
Recommendations of TCFD (October 2021 focused bank, continues to monitor Board’s (ISSB) IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, with unspecified or uncertain
version); (iii) Technical Supplement – The and prepare for upcoming and and transition plan disclosures with implementation dates are:
Use of Scenario Analysis in Disclosure of developing corporate disclosure reference to the Transition Plan
– The ISSB’s ongoing work plan of
Climate-related Risks and Opportunities regulations and frameworks that Taskforce (TPT) Disclosure
developments to SASB standards
(June 2017); (iv) Guidance on Risk may impact our reporting on Framework. We currently expect these
and research on additional
Management Integration and Disclosure sustainability matters over time. to apply from 2026 or 2027 reporting.
sustainability topical standards.
(October 2020); and (v) TCFD Guidance on In particular, we are monitoring: 2. The EU’s Corporate Sustainability
– The US Securities and Exchange
Metrics, Targets and Transition Plans Reporting Directive (CSRD)
1. The UK Government’s Commission (SEC) Climate-
(October 2021 version) and summarised in and associated legislation, anticipated
development of UK Sustainability Related Disclosures, which are
the tables in the 2024 NatWest Group to affect certain subsidiaries for 2025
Disclosure Standards, including subject to ongoing legal challenge
Sustainability Datasheet; and reporting and create additional
the anticipated adoption of IFRS and political uncertainty.
– set out its climate-related financial reporting requirements for
Sustainability Disclosure Standards
disclosures in part in this report, in part in NatWest Group from 2028.
issued by the International
the 2024 NatWest Group plc Annual
Report and Accounts, in part in the
For further details of our approach to managing regulatory compliance risk refer to page 267 and the Risk factors included on pages 408 to 426
NatWest Group 2024 Sustainability Basis of the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual Report and Accounts.
of Reporting and in part in the NatWest
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 16
Supporting the
climate transition
In this section
Implementing our Climate transition plan supports
17
progress against our bank-wide strategic priorities
Considerations informing our approach to climate
19
transition
NatWest Group total emissions and emissions
23
estimates
24 Climate transition plan: progress update
27 Products, services and business model changes
35 Climate and ESG products and advisory services
Integration of our Climate transition plan into
37
financial planning and decision-making
Sensitivity analysis including dependence
39
on government policies
41 Estimates of financed emissions
Estimates of facilitated emissions from bond
45
underwriting and syndicated lending
47 Own operational footprint: progress update
Our evolving approach to climate and nature
51
risk management
61 Our evolving approach to nature
Implementing our Climate transition plan supports progress
against our bank-wide strategic priorities
As a primarily UK-focused bank, NatWest Group’s Climate transition plan is Climate-related opportunities are assessed We understand that significant investment
we developed our Climate transition developed and executed within the broader and prioritised at NatWest Group level in climate change mitigation and adaptation
plan through a UK lens. Exceptions context of the UK’s decarbonisation and and across our business segments via our will be necessary for the global economy
the UK Climate Change Act, under which integrated governance model. Climate- to transition to net zero. This represents
include our asset management
the UK committed to achieve net zero by related opportunities and their potential an opportunity for capital providers
business, where investments are
2050. The UK’s net-zero target sets the financial impacts are assessed annually and for the public and private sectors to
held at a global level. We have pace of the transition including technology as part of the continued integration of our work together to support the technological
identified key climate-related developments to support net zero and Climate transition plan with the financial advances necessary to meet societal need.
opportunities that have the potential customer demand for sustainable finance plan and related processes. Climate-related
The table below and examples highlighted
to enable NatWest Group to align products and services, which are key risks and opportunities deemed material
on the following page indicate how actions
its balance sheet, assets under enablers of NatWest Group’s Climate to our five-year financial planning cycle taken as part of our Climate transition plan
transition plan. Read more about our are viewed as short-term. Medium-term
management and operational and broader engagement with industry
dependence on government policy is defined as within the next five to 15
value chain with its 2030 and 2050 participants have the potential to
on pages 39 and 40 of this report. years. Long-term has been defined
climate ambitions. as beyond 15 years. contribute towards our bank-wide
strategic goals.
Key climate-related opportunities Potential financial impacts Relevance to Climate transition plan
Disciplined Supporting and attracting – Additional fee income through advisory – Considerations informing our approach climate transition.
growth customers aiming to and underwriting activities. – Climate and sustainable funding and financing.
invest in the transition – Increased balance sheet volumes through demand – Products, services and business model changes.
to net zero while for new products and services that support transition. – Climate and ESG advisory products and services.
deepening engagement. – Increased volume of climate and sustainable funding – Responsible investing and AUM Climate transition plan.
and financing, on- and off-balance sheet.
– Additional expenditure to develop new products
and services to support the transition.
Bank-wide Continued integration of – Increased expenditure to support reduction – Integration of our Climate transition plan into financial planning
climate and, over time, in carbon footprint and nature-related impacts and decision-making.
simplification
nature into decision- in our own operations. – Own operational footprint.
making, customer – Reduced expenditure on energy and travel.
journeys, financial plans – Simplification is expected to drive cost savings once initial
and our systems and investment in systems and processes has been made.
processes, as well as
supplier engagements.
Active balance Improve and execute – Reduced exposure and geographical footprint related to – Considerations informing our approach climate transition.
sheet and risk policies and procedures activities identified as harmful within our Environmental, – Understanding the drivers of heightened climate-related risk.
management to identify, assess and Social and Ethical (ESE) risk acceptance criteria. – Products, services and business model changes.
manage climate and – Changes in expected credit losses (ECL). – Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management.
nature-related risks.
– Our evolving approach to nature.
– Responsible investing and AUM Climate transition plan.
rallip
cigetarts
puorG
tseWtaN
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 17
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 18
Implementing our Climate transition plan supports progress against our bank-wide strategic priorities continued
The table below outlines progress we have made during 2024 as we continued to implement our Climate transition plan.
Disciplined Bank-wide Active balance sheet
growth simplification and risk management
To attract new customers and deepen To build a future-fit platform, culture To leverage our balance sheet and deliver
relationships and operating systems to enable even within our existing risk profile
– We provided £31.5 billion in climate and sustainable greater impact – We have now analysed 88% of our loans and
funding and financing during 2024, including – We continued to focus on enhancing customer investment exposure, including sovereign debt,
£3.5 billion in lending for EPC A and B residential journeys via improvements to our Climate for financed emissions estimation as at
properties. Decisioning Framework (CDF), with 573 large 31 December 2023 and our Climate transition
– We continued to provide educational, support customers undertaking a Customer Transition plan covers 83%.
and engagement tools. More than 6,500 businesses Plan Assessment (CTPA) during 2024. – We continued to enhance in-house climate
registered with Carbon Planner in 2024 and our – Colleague training and upskilling continued risk modelling capabilities, supporting the
Home Energy Hub had 120,000 visits in 2024, with throughout 2024. Colleagues completed almost integration of climate-related risks within our capital
more than 30,000 Home Energy Plans completed. 30,000 climate education modules through adequacy and impairment processes, and maturing
– Our suite of lending products continued to provide resources prepared in partnership with the physical risk scenario analysis.
financing to our customers aligned to their University of Edinburgh. – We continued to refine our Environmental, Social
transition goals, ranging from green mortgage – We also provided bespoke training for our and Ethical (ESE) Risk Acceptance Criteria
products to sustainable transport lending, customer-facing relationship managers to ensure to further improve management of climate and
supported by the issuance of green bonds, they are equipped with the right skills to help nature risk and reputational risk with reference
including our innovative Clean Transportation our customers navigate the climate transition, to our EWRMF.
(Electric Vehicles) Bond. with approximately 2,500 colleagues receiving – We also started to roll-out CDF tools
– We listened to feedback to enhance the level of training in 2024. on a test-and-learn basis, comprising Climate
insight and thought leadership available through – By providing our suppliers, who account for 70% Risk Scorecards and customer-level CTPAs.
our customer-facing tools, including our EV Planner of our supply chain emissions, with free access – During 2024 we issued two bonds under our Green,
which enabled 966 users to obtain an EV readiness to the CDP supply chain module we were able Social and Sustainable (GSS) Financing Framework,
report in 2024, an increase of 185% on 2023. to increase the proportion of supplier-specific including a €750 million Clean Transportation
– We launched our new Device-as-a-Service and data used in the calculation of supplier emissions (Electric Vehicles) Bond, making NatWest Group the
Circular Technology propositions in collaboration to 39%, compared with 18% in 2023. first UK bank to issue a green bond where the use
with Rigby Capital, offering full lifecycle support of proceeds are intended to exclusively finance or
for customers, from initial funding and installation re-finance electric vehicles.
of technology through to end of life re-use or – Recognising the inextricable link between climate
recycling. £14.7 million in funding was provided risk and nature degradation, NatWest Group added
during proof of concept in 2024. nature risk to its climate risk considerations within
the risk directory and policy, for consideration
from 2024.
Read more about how we are succeeding with customers and turning their possibilities into progress
on our website at natwestgroup.com
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 19
Considerations informing our
Our Climate transition plan
approach to climate transition
Our Climate transition plan is developed consumption of fossil fuels and expand
and implemented in the context of the generation capacity to meet the
We continue to develop our understanding of systems thinking decarbonisation of the UK economy, and energy needs of other sectors that
– how emissions flow through the economy to meet societal is therefore dependent on government are also decarbonising. The UK Clean
policy and technological advancement Power Action Plan focuses on
needs for energy, mobility, property and food. This has helped
to stimulate customer demand to invest increasing the capacity of renewable
us to identify and prioritise our Climate transition plan in the in the transition. We estimate the energy and battery storage to provide
areas that are most likely to support our customers’ net-zero expected absolute emissions and clean electricity across the economy.
emissions intensity reductions of our own
transition and their day-day-lives. Refer to pages 27 to 34 for further
and our customers’ actions by measuring
detail of our actions supporting the
the impact of these dependencies as part decarbonisation of the property,
A UK context of our Climate transition plan. To do this, food, mobility and energy systems.
The UK halved its GHG emissions between updated ambition on the Zero Emissions we used the UK CCC’s Sixth Carbon As customers transition, the reduction
1990 to 2022, while growing its economy Vehicle (ZEV) Mandate and Warm Homes budget, published in 2020, to set initial in emissions intensities is expected to
by 79%. According to the Department for Plan. estimates of the contribution of these accelerate as the roll-off of high carbon
Energy Security and Net Zero during that external dependencies. The actions intensity business balances out new
time, the power sector decarbonised The importance of manufacturing included in our Climate transition plan lower-carbon intensive lending,
by 73%, mostly due to the replacement and construction for net zero reflect the progress being made by gradually resulting in the decarbonisation
of coal with low-carbon electricity. The manufacturing processes of certain NatWest Group and its customers. of the balance sheet. This may result
However, in 2022 three-quarters of the foundational materials, in particular iron, Refer to pages 39 and 40 for further detail in non-linear emissions reductions,
UK’s emissions still arose from production steel, cement, concrete and petrochemicals on our external dependencies, including both within and across sectors.
and consumption of oil and gas. are considered relatively hard to abate, given government policies and our 2024
the technological immaturity of available advocacy campaigns. Refer to pages 25 and 26 for further detail
on our sector-level targets. For details of
Accelerating the energy transition decarbonisation options. Our systems approach has helped our estimated financed emissions refer to
A cleaner electricity supply and investment us to identify areas with the potential pages 25 and 26. Refer to pages 45 and 46
The National Wealth Fund focuses
in grid infrastructure has the potential to enable systemic change across the for detail on our estimated facilitated
on funding new enabling infrastructure
to enable the reduction of Scope 2 economy to meet societal needs for emissions.
and technological breakthroughs required
emissions for all electricity consumers property, food, mobility and energy. The agriculture sector plays a pivotal
between now and 2030 to support industrial
across the economy. The systems covered in this report are role in managing land in a way that
decarbonisation, including carbon capture
Given the relative commercial and and storage (CCS) and green hydrogen those with the most material emissions sequesters emissions and restores
technological maturity of available solutions, technology. for NatWest Group, offering commercial ecosystems.
opportunities as well as the potential
increasing the proportion of power As at 31 December 2023, 21% of
generated via renewable sources Removing emissions and building for system-wide decarbonisation. NatWest Group’s Scope 3 category 15
remains a UK focus in the near term, resilience to climate impacts The two largest sources of emissions financed emissions (customer Scope 1
as demonstrated by the UK Clean Restoring natural ecosystems has in the UK in 2022 were domestic and 2) were from the agriculture sector,
Power Action Plan. This aims to double the the potential to mitigate biodiversity loss, transport and buildings, primarily due including Land-Use, Land-Use Change
current installed capacity, with about 90% soil degradation, and water pollution. It has to the current reliance on fossil fuels. and Forestry (LULUCF).
of additional sources coming from the potential to sequester carbon emissions The electrification of vehicles and the
renewables and battery storage by 2030. and build resilience to climate impacts. heating of buildings could enable these Refer to pages 29 and 30 for further
detail on our support to the food system,
Refer to page 39 for further detail. The UK sectors to decarbonise if the energy
As 70% of UK land was farmed in 2023, including partnering with food
Clean Power Action Plan also focuses sector is also able to reduce companies.
the agriculture sector plays a critical role
investment into grids, storage, and flexible
in implementing nature-based solutions,
services to balance supply and demand.
which can be supported by payments from
Our Climate transition plan is unlikely to be to support the transition. Read more
The electrification of surface transport agricultural subsidy reforms in England,
achieved without timely and appropriate about how our external dependencies
and heat within buildings and industry Scotland and Wales; and Biodiversity government policy and technology are factored into our Climate transition
is supported by the UK Government’s Net Gain (in England). developments, as well as the supplier, plan on pages 39 and 40.
customer and societal response required
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 20
Considerations informing our approach to climate transition continued
Climate and sustainable funding and financing
Wholesale lending by CSFFI criteria category
As part of supporting our customers’ transition to net zero, Since 1 July 2021 NatWest Group had provided £93.4 billion in 2024(1)
we have a target to provide £100 billion climate and of climate and sustainable funding and financing
sustainable financing and funding between 1 July 2021 by 31 December 2024 (£31.5 billion in 2024).(2)
Renewable energy
and the end of 2025. This consisted of £80.5 billion (£27.8 billion in 2024) contributed
As part of this target, we aim to provide at least £10 billion by Commercial & Institutional (including NatWest Markets £0.3bn £0.7bn £0.8bn £0.2bn £ (2 2 0 .0 2 b 3: n £2.6bn)
of lending for EPC A and B residential properties between £48.1 billion (£17.7 billion in 2024), and RBS International
1 January 2023 and the end of 2025. £6.1 billion (£1.6 billion in 2024)), as well as £12.0 billion Sustainable transport
NatWest Group uses its climate and sustainable financing from Retail Banking (£3.3 billion in 2024) and £0.9 billion £ (2 2 0 .8 2 b 3: n
and funding inclusion (CSFFI) criteria(1) to determine the assets, from Private Banking (£0.4 billion in 2024). £2.4bn)
activities and companies that are eligible to be included within Built environment
its climate and sustainable funding and financing target.
£1.5bn
(2023: £0.5bn)
Cumulative progress
Full year ended Full year ended towards the £100bn target Water and waste management
31 December 2024 31 December 2023 (since 1 July 2021)
£0.5bn
(£bn) (£bn) (£bn) (2023: £0.6bn)
Lending commitment
Other(2)
Specific purpose wholesale lending(2) 7.1 5.1 16.4
£1.1bn
Residential mortgages with EPC A or B(3) 3.5 3.9 12.8 (2023: £0.5bn)
Sustainability linked loans(2,5) 4.3 5.4 17.1
Offshore wind Onshore wind
Other general purpose wholesale lending within CSFFI criteria(2) 0.8 1.5 4.1
15.7 15.9 50.4 Solar Renewable other(3)
Underwriting activity
Green and sustainability public bond issuances and private
Geographical split of climate and sustainable
placements(4) 14.4 12.4 39.5
funding and financing in 2024(4)
Sustainability linked bonds and private placements(5) 0.1 0.1 1.2
Other general purpose wholesale underwriting within
CSFFI criteria(6) 1.3 0.9 2.3 £2.9bn
15.8 13.4 43.0
Total 31.5LA 29.3 93.4LA
Total
(1) For the year ended 31 December 2024, the NatWest Group CSFFI criteria published in March 2024 were used to determine eligible assets, activities £14.6bn
£31.5bn
and companies for inclusion. For the year ended 31 December 2023, our CSFFI criteria published in December 2022 were applied. For the year ended £14.0bn
31 December 2022, our CSFFI criteria published in October 2021 were applied. For the period ended 31 December 2021, the CSFFI criteria published
United Kingdom (2023: £15.6bn)
in February 2021 were applied. Lending to personal customers for properties with EPC A and B ratings was included within climate and sustainable funding
and financing reporting from 1 July 2021. NatWest Group’s own Green, Social and Sustainability (GSS) bond issuances are not included in the table above. Western Europe (2023: £10.9bn)
Climate and sustainable funding and financing represents only a relatively small portion of our overall funding and financing. Full details of the latest
CSFFI criteria can be found at natwestgroup.com Other (2023: £2.8bn)
(2) Lending amounts represent total commitment and include any undrawn portion of committed credit limits.
(3) Refer to page 60 for data availability and limitations related to EPC data.
(4) Underwriting of specific use of proceeds debt capital market issuance for project expenditures, sovereign and EU green bond auctions, as well as green loan (1) Sustainability linked loans are excluded from this chart.
commitments when customers meet the CSFFI criteria. Amounts represent the NatWest Group share (total underwriting amount lead managed or placed (2) Other consists mainly of power and utilities (£513 million) and energy efficiency
by NatWest Group) of the notional deal amount and the allocated auction bond volumes. During the year ended 31 December 2024, NatWest Group lead (£166 million).
managed or placed 103 green bonds (including auctions), and private placements totalling a notional amount of £11.6 billion (78 deals, £10.2 billion during (3) Renewable other – primarily relates to lending to funds that invest in multiple
full year 2023). The CSFFI criteria allow for the inclusion of eligible sustainability bonds, which contributed 18 deals and £2.8 billion of climate and sustainable types of renewable energy.
funding and financing in the year ended 31 December 2024. (4) Since 1 July 2021, UK £48.0 billion, Western Europe £37.8 billion and Other
(5) Sustainability linked loans, bonds and private placements aligned with Loan Market Association (LMA) Sustainability Linked Loan principles and International £7.6 billion. Geography for band issuance is linked to the region of the issuer;
Capital Market Association (ICMA) Sustainability Linked Bond principles where deal targets include green performance indicators, aligned to CSFFI criteria. for loans it is linked to the region of operation of the borrowing customer.
(6) In addition to transactions that directly meet CSFFI criteria based on use of proceeds for green purposes, the CSFFI criteria also include certain general
purpose loans and wider financing (including bonds and private placements) to customers who can evidence (to NatWest Group’s satisfaction through review
of the customers’ profit and loss statement or balance sheet): 90% or more of revenues are in the categories or sectors outlined in the CSFFI criteria, or for
real estate and utilities companies 90% of their assets are in categories or sectors outlined by the CSFFI criteria, or for fund clients 90% of assets under
management are invested in activities that meet the CSFFI criteria.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 21
Considerations informing our approach to climate transition continued
Understanding the drivers of heightened climate-related risk
Active balance sheet and risk management is a fundamental part of NatWest Group’s strategy, and, from a sustainability perspective,
identifying and addressing the risks arising from the physical effects of climate change and from the transition to a net-zero economy
supports the safety and soundness of the bank.
The physical and transition risks(1)
associated with climate change are As a UK-focused bank, we have considered the majority of climate-related risks and opportunities influencing our strategy through
transmitted through the economy a UK lens. The below table shows all sectors with exposure classified as heightened climate-related risk. Exposure is based on loans,
to NatWest Group. This transmission, loan commitments and contingent obligations, which are in scope for IFRS9. The amounts reported in the table include all lending
which also includes liability risks, to customers including climate and sustainable lending.
happens in a number of ways,
including but not limited to, impacts As at 31 December 2024 As at 31 December 2023
on NatWest Group’s key risks. Off-balance Heightened Off-balance Heightened
Main sheet Total sector Of which as a % of sheet Total sector Of which as a % of
Heightened climate-related risk driver for Loans exposure(2) exposure heightened NatWest Loans exposure(2) exposure heightened NatWest
inclusion(1) £m £m £m £m Group total £m £m £m £m Group total
sectors are likely to see increased
Wholesale heightened
credit risks as a result of climate-
climate-related risk sectors 96,480 61,502 157,982 109,302 19.9 89,787 57,835 147,622 100,743 19.2
related factors, over a 10-to-15-year Commercial real estate(3) 18,141 6,804 24,945 24,945 4.5 17,412 7,261 24,673 24,673 4.7
horizon. Our assessment applies Housing associations 10,801 6,011 16,812 16,812 3.1 9,474 5,496 14,970 14,970 2.9
three lenses which consider transition, Power utilities 7,175 8,910 16,085 16,085 2.9 6,062 8,811 14,873 14,873 2.8
physical and liability risk. Construction 4,218 1,407 5,625 5,625 1.0 4,320 1,448 5,768 5,768 1.1
Water and waste 4,008 1,926 5,934 5,934 1.1 3,722 1,988 5,710 5,710 1.1
Total wholesale heightened climate-
Agriculture 4,822 1,019 5,841 5,582 1.0 4,952 971 5,923 5,681 1.1
related risk exposure increased by Leisure 6,633 2,317 8,950 5,039 0.9 6,927 2,032 8,959 4,950 0.9
£14.1 billion since 2023, driven by Land transport and logistics 5,020 3,462 8,482 7,184 1.3 4,870 3,209 8,079 4,152 0.8
increased lending in the residential Oil and gas 756 1,846 2,602 2,602 0.5 1,067 2,196 3,263 3,263 0.6
mortgage portfolio and the housing Building materials 1,665 1,521 3,186 3,186 0.6 1,558 1,547 3,105 3,105 0.6
associations sector. Textiles and Food and consumer 2,197 3,848 6,045 4,560 0.8 1,924 3,464 5,388 2,861 0.5
telecommunications were identified Automotive 7,891 4,188 12,079 2,563 0.5 8,307 3,947 12,254 2,504 0.5
as heightened for the first time in 2024 Industrials 2,637 2,915 5,552 3,768 0.7 2,882 3,044 5,926 2,344 0.4
Airlines and aerospace 2,720 2,202 4,922 2,299 0.4 1,982 1,966 3,948 2,161 0.4
due to an updated methodology,
Chemicals 478 698 1,176 1,176 0.2 420 798 1,218 1,218 0.2
refer to the next page for details.
Mining and metals 222 405 627 627 0.1 277 552 829 829 0.2
In some sectors, only certain subsectors Business services(5) 4,019 2,850 6,869 - 0.0 4,246 2,770 7,016 685 0.1
are identified as facing heightened Finance companies 1,909 851 2,760 321 0.1 1,752 1,087 2,839 391 0.1
Shipping 264 111 375 296 0.1 245 102 347 347 0.1
climate-related risks. These subsectors
Retail 7,510 4,965 12,475 316 0.1 7,388 5,146 12,534 259 0.0
are comparatively more exposed
Textiles(6) 112 83 195 195 0.0
to extreme weather events, shifts in
Telecommunications(6) 3,282 3,163 6,445 187 0.0
technology, evolving policies, changes
Residential mortgage portfolio 209,846 13,806 223,652 223,652 40.6 208,275 9,843 218,119 218,119 41.6
in consumer demand patterns, and
Total NatWest Group 410,225 140,016 550,241 332,954LA 60.5(7) LA 392,040 131,958 523,998 318,862 60.9
potential liability risks associated with
higher emissions.(4) In particular: Physical Risks Transition Risks Liability Risks Footnotes for this page can be found on the following page.
– Property-related sectors:
Commercial real estate subsectors,
Commercial real estate is subject to – The power utilities sector is dependent – In construction, project outcomes are
housing associations and residential
a range of transition risks due to the on infrastructure which is at risk from affected by location and face challenges
mortgage portfolio are considered
evolving policy landscape, such changing climate factors, facing that impact structural integrity and
heightened climate-related risk due
as regulation, planning reforms, challenges from shifting market timely completion due to weather
to exposure to physical risk.
and wider market shifts. dynamics and price volatility. changes and supply chain risks.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 22
Considerations informing our approach to climate transition continued
Methodology enhancements Loans by geography(1) Loans by Asset Quality(2) Loans by residual maturity
We assess climate risk at a subsector level, Sector/Portfolio UK Europe RoW AQ1-4 AQ5-9 AQ10 <1yr 1-5yr >5yr
allowing for targeted action, and our Wholesale heightened
methodology continues to evolve. climate-related risk sectors 87,572 13,257 8,473 60,953 46,877 1,472 26,527 58,001 24,774
Commercial real estate 24,430 388 127 10,151 14,356 438 5,806 18,081 1,058
NatWest Group uses climate scenario
Housing associations 16,812 0 0 16,252 546 14 508 6,783 9,521
analysis to assess the ongoing resilience
of our strategy. The quantitative subsector Power utilities 7,738 6,190 2,157 10,703 5,301 81 2,629 8,738 4,718
level outputs from our climate scenario Construction 5,487 101 37 841 4,463 321 2,676 2,441 508
analysis form the foundation of our Water and waste 5,831 103 0 4,381 1,435 118 1,600 2,477 1,857
assessment methodology. Agriculture 5,493 15 74 637 4,846 99 1,984 1,684 1,914
Leisure 4,354 256 429 579 4,345 115 1,045 2,702 1,292
Key 2024 enhancements include:
Land transport and logistics 5,046 1,339 799 4,840 2,285 59 2,077 3,703 1,404
– Integration of internally developed
Oil and gas 1,201 657 744 1,819 719 64 859 1,515 228
Orderly Policy and Disruptive Policy
Building materials 2,585 597 4 1,201 1,965 20 1,193 1,754 239
transition risk scenarios to ensure our
Food and consumer 2,152 837 1,571 3,054 1,497 9 2,657 1,770 133
assessment considers a diverse range
of climate transition pathways. Automotive 876 1,309 378 2,005 555 3 820 1,725 18
– Inclusion of the Physical Risk Gross Industrials 2,694 517 557 1,689 1,993 86 1,251 2,172 345
Value Added model to capture UK and Airlines and aerospace 889 307 1,103 1,621 676 2 146 1,111 1,042
international physical risks affecting UK Chemicals 588 537 51 482 692 2 271 696 209
businesses and supply chains. Mining and metals 384 0 243 269 355 3 488 109 30
Business services 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 -1
For further details of our assessment
methodology and data limitations, Finance companies 321 0 0 75 246 0 39 282 0
refer to page 8 of NatWest Group’s 2024 Shipping 177 75 44 151 113 32 89 82 125
Sustainability Basis of Reporting.
Retail 312 4 0 13 300 3 110 100 106
Textiles 193 0 2 10 183 2 98 69 28
Managing climate-related
Telecommunications 9 25 153 180 6 1 181 6 0
risks
Residential mortgage portfolio 223,647 0 5 126,160 94,943 2,549 15,384 12,491 195,777
Heightened climate-related risk sector Total NatWest Group 469,450 43,030 37,761 312,660 230,832 6,749 170,893 140,081 239,267
methodology is used to identify segments
of the portfolio with inherent heightened
credit risk, which is then used to support
Footnotes for page 21:
portfolio management, including risk
(1) Refer to the Risk and Capital Management section of the NatWest Group’s plc 2024 Annual Report and Accounts for the sources of physical, transition and liability risks.
appetite setting, to effectively manage
(2) Off-balance sheet includes loan commitments and contingent liabilities.
the inherent risk, refer to page 52 (3) Updates made to 2023 figures are aligned to the commercial real estate numbers reported in the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual Report and Accounts.
for further details. (4) The heightened climate-related risk sector assessment within this disclosure provides an aggregate view at industry level; within each sector there will be a diverse mix
of counterparties, and as such climate-related risk will vary from customer to customer.
The residential mortgage portfolio has (5) This sector was not identified as a heightened climate-related risk sector under the updated methodology in 2024.
been identified as exposed to heightened (6) These sectors were identified as heightened climate-related risk sectors under the updated methodology in 2024 for the first time.
climate-related risk, and exposure is (7) Of the total NatWest Group exposure of £550.2 billion as at 31 December 2024, £486.3 billion was subject to the heightened climate-related risk assessment. This includes amounts
not considered to be at heightened climate-related risk, on a physical, transition and liability risk basis and is therefore not disclosed within the table on page 21. Sectors and
consolidated in the tables for completeness.
subsectors totalling £64.0 billion were not subject to the heightened climate-related risk assessment.
For details of how we are managing risks
to the residential mortgage portfolio,
Footnotes for page 22:
refer to page 60.
(1) Geography is based on the country of operation of the customer, where cashflows are primarily derived from.
(2) Asset quality is based on Basel probability of default estimates where customers categorised as AQ1 have a very low probability of default in the next 12 months while AQ10 represents
Associated risk impacts, such as flood risk customers that are already in default. Refer to the credit risk section of the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual Report and Accounts for a mapping between asset quality band and indicative
and energy efficiency, are disclosed on pages S&P Ratings.
212 to 213 of the NatWest Group plc 2024
Annual Report and Accounts.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 23
NatWest Group total emissions and emissions estimates
During 2024, we continued to focus on activities with the potential to contribute towards our ambition to reduce emissions from our own operations as well as the estimated emissions
associated with our funding and financing activities. For our own operational emissions we achieved a 60% reduction against a 2019 baseline in our Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2
emissions and a 44% reduction in Scope 3 operational emissions categories relevant to NatWest Group. The decrease in Scope 3 category 15 estimated financed emissions between 2022
and 2023 reflects efforts to drive customer transition, complemented with better availability of customer data. Operational emissions and estimated absolute financed emissions included in
the table have been estimated based on the methodologies outlined in the 2024 NatWest Group Sustainability Basis of Reporting. Data availability and emissions estimate methodologies
continue to evolve. As a result, variations in estimated emissions may not always reflect changes in customer activity. Our work has been guided by the availability of methodologies for
estimating financed emissions, most notably from the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF).
We have an ambition to reduce our Scope 1 and location-based 2024 2023 2022 2019 Primary source of
Scope 2 emissions by 70% by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, while Scope 1 and Scope 2 operational emissionsRA MtCO2e MtCO2e MtCO2e MtCO2e NatWest Group emissions
continuing to consume 100% renewable electricity in our direct Scope 1 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.02 Natural gas and fuel
own global operations in line with our RE100 commitment.
Scope 2 (location-based) 0.05 0.05 0.07 0.12 Purchased electricity
Refer to pages 47 to 50.
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based) 0.06 0.06 0.09 0.14
Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from sources owned Scope 3 operational emissions categories relevant to NatWest Group(1)LA
and controlled by NatWest Group, for example natural gas
and fuel consumption. 1. Purchased goods and services 0.32 0.32 NF(2) 0.45
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from energy which 2. Capital goods 0.03 0.05 NF(2) 0.11
NatWest Group purchases, for example, electricity used for lighting, 3. Fuel and energy-related activities 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.04 Supply chain
heating and cooling.
4. Upstream transportation and distribution 0.01 0.01 NF(2) 0.02
5. Waste(3) – – – –
We have a target to reduce our Scope 3 operational emissions by 50%, 6. Business travel(4) 0.03 0.03 0.01 0.05 Employee
against a 2019 baseline, by 2030. 7. Commuting and working from home 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.06 activities
Refer to pages 47 to 50. 9. Downstream transportation and distribution 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.11
Customer
Scope 3 category 1-14 emissions include both upstream and 11. Use of sold products 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 activities
downstream emissions. Only the categories relevant to NatWest 12. End-of-life treatment for sold products(3) – – – –
Group are disclosed.
13. Leased assets 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Tenant activities
Total applicable Scope 3 operational emissions categories 0.48 0.51 0.13 0.86
Scope 3 category 15: Estimated financed emissions
We have an ambition to at least halve the climate impact of our
financing activity by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, supported 15. Estimated financed emissions: Lending and investing NF(5) 15.1 17.5 NF(5)
by sector-based targets. Financing activities
15. Estimated financed emissions: AUM NF(5) 1.1 1.2 NF(5)
Refer to pages 24 to 26 and 41 to 44.
Total Scope 3 category 15: Estimated financed emissions NF(5) 16.2 18.7 NF(5)
Scope 3 category 15 emissions are associated with NatWest Group’s
Estimated facilitated emissions from bond underwriting and syndicated lending(6)
lending and investment activities. Our estimation work is guided
by the PCAF standard, refer to page 42 for details. Estimated facilitated emissions 1.28 1.5 NF(6) NF(6) Facilitation activities
Easier to influence Partially influenceable Harder to influence NF (no figures): denotes where no
data is calculated, refer to footnotes.
(1) Categories not relevant to NatWest Group own operational emissions: Category 8: upstream leased assets, Category 10: processing of sold goods, Category 14: franchises.
(2) Data for Scope 3, Categories 1, 2 and 4 marked NF as data is not estimated for year end 2022 to reflect methodology enhancements, the 2022 total of 0.13 is therefore artificially lower. We have revised our 2019 and 2023 emissions using more accurate data
and methodology improvements applied for 2024 estimation. Refer to page 49 and page 4 to 5 of the 2024 NatWest Group Sustainability Basis of Reporting. Own operations reporting period is 1 October to 30 September annually.
(3) A dash (–) indicates where data is calculated but rounds to 0.00 MtCO2e.
(4) This includes the well-to-tank and transmission and distribution emissions associated with business travel, which sit outside of the scope of our direct own operations.
(5) Scope 3 category 15: Total estimates of financed emissions are calculated as at 31 December 2023. 2024 is therefore marked NF and this reflects the time it takes to prepare and review estimated emissions, resulting in a 12-month arrears in reporting. For December 2019,
financed emissions were estimated for specific sectors as this was the first year of emissions estimation and capabilities were under development. We have continued to develop capabilities for estimating total customer Scope 1 and Scope 2 financed emissions, and these
were published from December 2022 onwards, hence 2019 is marked as NF.
(6) Estimated facilitated emissions from bond underwriting and syndicated lending relate to emissions from off balance sheet activities such as underwriting, securitisation and advisory services. In 2024, we applied a 33% weighting factor to emissions estimations in line with
the December 2023 PCAF Standard. In 2023, we applied a 100% weighting factor. Estimated facilitated emissions were calculated for the first time in 2023, therefore 2022 and 2019 are marked NF. Refer to pages 45 to 46 for details of methodologies and limitations.
– Totals may not cast due to rounding.
LA and RA assurance markers in this table relate to 2024 values only.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 24
Climate transition plan: progress update
We have continued to progress our Climate transition plan to support our 2050 net-zero ambition across our financed emissions,
assets under management and operational value chain. Due to the relative materiality of the emissions associated with our financing
activity the following pages focus on our financed emissions, which comprise 90% of our total emissions, including actions taken
to achieve our 2030 ambition to at least halve the climate impact of our financing activity, against a 2019 baseline.
Approach to developing our Breakdown of NatWest Group’s emissions(1,2,3,4)(MtCO 2 e)
Climate transition plan The scale of our current emissions varies across different activities
Products, services and business model
Supporting our customers’ transition to a net-zero
economy remains a key driver in the ongoing development
and delivery of our Climate transition plan. Business teams 21% 19% 6%
3%
within each sector have worked to identify products,
services and business model changes to support 7%
2%
customer transition. Where possible, this analysis has been 2%
Lending and investments 3%
performed at a subsector level to ensure actions most
16.7 MtCO2e Assets under management 15.1 MtCO2e 5%
relevant to customers within these segments are identified
5%
within the Climate transition plan. Refer to pages 27 to 34. Own operational emissions
4%
90%
8%
Financial planning: 5%
During 2024, we continued to integrate our Climate 2% 1%
2%
transition plan within our financial plan to ensure that
21%
climate-related opportunities and associated risks
are actively considered. Refer to page 37.
Residential mortgages Aviation Manufacturing
Commercial real estate Power utilities – electricity generation Retail
Sensitivity analysis:
Construction Oil and gas Leisure
Based on the policy credibility assessments the UK CCC
Automotive retail Waste Other sectors
provided in its 2024 Progress Report, NatWest Group
Land transport Agriculture – primary farming and
developed a ‘downside’ Balanced Net Zero (BNZ) adjusted
LULUCF
scenario that reflects the impacts of time delays to
realising the BNZ pathways into our sector-based Climate
transition plan. While the Government has announced (1) As methodologies and data used to estimate customer Scope 3 emissions at 31 December 2023. Refer to pages 41 to 42 for further details of
various initiatives since the UK general election in July within financed emissions continue to develop, the percentages included in emissions from lending and investments and to page 43 for data limitations
2024, these are yet to be embedded within the policy the chart above and the financed emissions estimates included in the table associated with customer Scope 3 data. Figures presented are reflective
on pages 23 are based on customer Scope 1 and Scope 2 absolute of emissions from lending and investment as at 31 December 2023.
framework and the UK CCC’s credibility assessment
emissions. Other sectors represents estimated financed emissions on 27% (2) Refer to page 45 for our details of estimates of facilitated emissions from
and as a result, not included in the BNZ downside of our in-scope loans and investments (23% estimated financed emissions) bond underwriting and syndicated lending, not included in the chart above.
scenario. We will consider the upcoming Seventh Carbon as at 31 December 2023, primarily relating to collective estimation (3) Refer to page 75 for further details of emissions from assets under
Budget as part of the annual refresh of our Climate approach where a common methodology has been applied to sectors and management (financed emissions and other metrics) and related Climate
subsectors not individually analysed in the chart. 3.1 MtCO2e collective transition plan. Figures presented reflect estimated emissions from equity,
transition plan. Refer to pages 39-40. estimates includes: 0.7 MtCO2e for utilities and natural resources-related corporate fixed income and government bond values as at 31 July 2024.
activities, 0.6 MtCO2e for mobility and logistics related-activities, Carbon emissions have been taken from 31 December 2023.
0.4 MtCO2e for other consumer related-activities. In addition, other (4) Refer to pages 47 to 50 for further details of our own operational
includes emissions for: cement (0.03 MtCO2e), shipping (0.05 MtCO2e), emissions and related Climate transition plan. Figures presented reflect
water (0.08 MtCO2e), housing associations (0.05 MtCO2e), and iron the reporting year of 1 October 2023 to 30 September 2024 and are
and steel (0.1 MtCO2e). Estimates of sovereign financed emissions shown gross of purchased renewable electricity.
excluded from this chart and the table on page 23, are 4.0 MtCO2e
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 25
Climate transition plan: progress update continued
We continue to support our 2023 2022 2019 baseline
customers’ transition to a Customer Reduction required
net-zero economy by offering Scope 1 Customer vs. 2019 baseline to
and 2 Scope 3 Physical emissions Estimated convergence Convergence Convergence Physical emissions achieve 2030
products and services, Sector (MtCO2e) (MtCO2e) intensity(3) point status status intensity ambitions
including specialist advisory Residential mortgages 2.8 38.4 kgCOe/m2 31.5 kgCOe/m2 38.7 kgCOe/m2 49%(4)
2 2 2
and engagement services Commercial real estate 0.2 47.1 kgCOe/m2 50.7 kgCOe/m2 56.0 kgCOe/m2 60%(4)
2 2 2
and education tools. Automotive manufacturing(2) – 0.7 230.5 gCOe/v-km 230.3 gCOe/v-km 260 gCOe/v-km 24%(4)
2 2 2
Progress across sectors varies based Land transport
on actions taken by NatWest Group, Of which freight road 0.3 0.3 45.6 gCOe/t-km 34.2 gCOe/t-km 36.7 gCOe/t-km 19%(4)
2 2 2
as well as government policies, which Of which passenger rail(4) – – 16.2 gCOe/p-km 43.1 gCOe/p-km 50.6 gCOe/p-km 42%(4)
2 2 2
help advance technologies and drive
Of which passenger road 0.3 0.3 67.3 gCOe/p-km 57.6 gCOe/p-km 64.9 gCOe/p-km 31%(4)
customer demand to reduce emissions. 2 2 2
Electricity generation 0.3 42.6 kgCOe/MWh 197.3 kgCOe/MWh 223 kgCOe/MWh 76%(4)
2 2 2
Our latest financed emissions estimates Oil and gas(5) 0.1 0.2 3.7 tCOe/TJ 3.5 tCOe/TJ 4.1 tCOe/TJ 38%(5)
2 2 2
are based on 31 December 2023 data.
Agriculture – Primary farming 3.3 1,751.0 tCOe/£m 1,953.6 tCOe/£m 2,075 tCOe/£m 26%(5)
2 2 2
For each sector for which a convergence
Under or equal to 2023 convergence point Above 2023 convergence point by up to 5% Above 2023 convergence point by over 5%
pathway has been developed, the table
includes:
– estimated absolute emissions. Four sectors are aligned to decarbonisation convergence pathways as at 31 December 2023. These sectors comprise 25% of total
– estimated physical emissions intensity Scope 3 financed emissions (customer Scope 1 and 2 emissions) of 15.1 MtCO 2 e.
based on convergence points aligned
– Residential mortgages continues to track above its convergence pathway by more than 5%, reflecting the current energy efficiency
to external scenarios.
mix of UK properties and the acknowledged dependency on UK Government policies to provide a supportive long term framework
– convergence status based on
in this space.
comparison of 2023 and 2022
– For mobility-related sectors, the automotive manufacturing sector indicates an improved position, compared with 2022, primarily
convergence point and 2023 and 2022
driven by improvements in customer data availability. While physical emissions intensities for freight road and passenger rail have
estimated physical emissions intensities.
reduced compared with 2022 by 3% and 40% respectively these sectors continue to track above their respective convergence
The convergence pathways, shown in the pathways by more than 5%. This reflects the need for further action by NatWest Group and its customers. The UK Government’s
graphs on page 26 represent the forecast commitment to phase-out of internal combustion engine cars by 2030 and investment in EV charging infrastructure is expected
trajectory of a given sector’s physical to support transition in these sectors.
emissions intensity against the external – Physical emissions intensity for the oil and gas sector has marginally increased during 2023, resulting in the sector tracking above
scenario trajectory for each year. The its convergence pathway by more than 5%. This is due to a change in customer mix within the sector, with some lower emissions
trajectory is aligned with the 2015 Paris customers reducing their drawn balances during the year.
Agreement’s overarching goal to hold the
In general, year-on-year fluctuations in convergence status are expected as the availability of customer emissions data improves and
increase in the global average temperature
methodologies are refined. Refer to pages 27 to 36 for actions being taken to support the transition to net zero across these sectors.
to well below 2°C above pre-industrial
levels and pursue efforts to limit the Refer to page 41 for further details of our estimated financed emissions.
temperature increase to 1.5°C above
pre-industrial levels.
(1) To estimate emissions intensity reduction required by 2030 (convergence year), we used externally published independent scenarios to develop convergence pathways and estimate
Refer to pages 47 to 50 for updates against
convergence points for 2023, 2030 and 2050 by sector based on a 2019 baseline. The convergence points are determined based on the rate of change required by the external scenario each
our operational value chain Climate
year from 2019. The graphs included on page 26 include convergence points for 2030 and 2050, being the expected trajectory (convergence pathway) for alignment with the 2015 Paris
transition plan, and pages 64 to 75 for Agreement. In general, we used the UK CCC’s BNZ scenario or the International Energy Agency Beyond 2 Degree Scenario (IEA B2DS) scenario for various sectors aligned with the Sectoral
updates on our assets under management Decarbonisation Approach (SDA) approach prescribed by the SBTi guidance. Aligned with the SBTi guidance, we used those scenarios which require greatest percentage reduction in intensity
(AUM) Climate transition plan. For estimates for each sector, refer to page 16 of the 2024 NatWest Group Sustainability Basis of Reporting for scenarios used for each sector.
of facilitated emissions, refer to page 45. (2) A dash (–) indicates where data is calculated but rounds to 0.00MtCO2e.
(3) Physical emissions intensity reduction targets validated by SBTi as science-based. We also have validated science-based targets for the cement, aluminium and iron and steel sectors using
the sectoral decarbonisation approach (SDA). Emissions for cement (0.03 MtCO2e), aluminium (0.002 MtCO2e) and iron and steel (0.1 MtCO2e).
(4) Sectors within the scope of temperature rating targets validated by the SBTi as science-based. For oil and gas and agriculture, SBTi SDA methodologies were under development at the time
of target setting.
(5) Oil and gas physical emissions intensity is based on extraction borrowers only, while the oil and gas Scope 3 value is based solely on upstream borrowers (principally extraction customer
and refinery operations) which make up approximately 37% of oil and gas sector lending exposure.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 26
Climate transition plan: progress update continued
Our ambition to be net zero by 2050 is aligned with the 2015 Paris Agreement’s overarching goal to hold the increase in the global
average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C
above pre-industrial levels.
The charts below present the pathways aligned to externally recognised scenarios, developed by independent and respected organisations, that form the basis of our validated
science-based sector targets, including the progress made against these convergence pathways between 2019 and 2023. Refer to pages 43 and 44 of this report and pages 10 to 16
of the NatWest Group 2024 Sustainability Basis of Reporting for details of scenarios used, methodologies and limitations.
Property-related sectors Mobility-related sectors
Residential mortgages Automotive manufacturing Land transport – passenger rail
Key
Estimated emissions intensity (kgCOe/m2) Estimated emissions intensity (gCOe/vkm) Estimated emissions intensity (gCOe/p-km)
2 2 2
40 38.7 38.4 300 260 80 2019-2022 NatWest
Group estimates
30 230.5
200 2030 SBTi validated
20 40 50.6 physical emissions
intensity target
100
10 16.2
2030 physical
0 0 0 emissions intensity
2019 2023 2030 2040 2050 2019 2023 2030 2040 2050 2019 2023 2030 2040 2050 ambition
IEA ETP B2DS (World) Pathway IEA ETP B2DS (World) IEA ETP B2DS World Passenger Rail
2050 convergence
point
Commercial real estate Land transport – freight road Land transport – passenger road
Estimated
Estimated physical emissions intensity (kgCOe/m2) Estimated emissions intensity (gCOe/t-km) Estimated emissions intensity (gCOe/p-km)
2 2 2 convergence pathway
60 56.0 100 140
50
47.1 2023 NatWest Group
100
40
estimate –
30 50 45.6 60 67.3 convergence status
20 64.9
36.7
10 20 Under or equal
0 0 0 to the estimated
2019 2023 2030 2040 2050 2019 2023 2030 2040 2050 2019 2023 2030 2040 2050 convergence pathway
UK CCC BNZ Pathway IEA ETP B2DS World Freight Road IEA ETP B2DS World Passenger Road
Above estimated
convergence pathway
Food-related sectors Energy-related sectors
by up to 5%
Above estimated
Agriculture – primary farming Electricity generation Oil and gas
convergence pathway
Estimated revenue intensity (tCOe/£million) Estimated emissions intensity (kgCOe/MWH) Estimated production intensity (tCOe/TJ)
2 2 2 by over 5%
2,4002,075 250 223 5
1,800 200 4
1,751 150 3 4.1 3.7
1,200
100 2
600 50 42.6 1 Refer to our 2024
0 0 0 Sustainability Basis
2019 2023 2030 2040 2050 2019 2023 2030 2040 2050 2019 2023 2030 2040 2050 of Reporting.
UK CCC BNZ Pathway UK CCC BNZ Pathway UK CCC BNZ Pathway
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 27
Products, services and business model changes
Property-related sectors
We have an important NatWest Group has now provided assessment supplied in collaboration Housing associations
role to play in supporting £7.4 billion in lending for EPC A and B UK with Vibrant Energy. The tool also provides In 2024 we announced an ambition to
residential mortgages against our aim grant information and connects customers provide £5 billion in funding to the UK social
consumers and businesses
to provide £10 billion between 1 January with trusted tradespeople through our housing sector between 1 January 2024
in transitioning to more energy 2023 and the end of 2025. This comprised partners British Gas, Hive and Trustmark. and the end of 2026. This was updated
efficient homes and buildings, £7.0 billion in Retail Banking and Commercial real estate in February 2025 to £7.5 billion over the
£0.4 billion from Private Banking. same period. Alongside the construction
with the aim of making them In 2024, we developed our data-led
Our Home Energy Hub continues to offer of new properties, the support aims to help
more comfortable and UK homeowners a free Home Energy Plan, Buildings Efficiency Assessment Tool housing associations seeking to invest in
(BEAT). This aims to help our commercial
cheaper to heat and cool. which includes high level retrofit the energy efficiency of property portfolios
real estate (CRE) customers understand
recommendations, advice on practical through retrofits. As at 31 December 2024,
how they could make buildings more
Residential mortgages next steps and financial support as well we had provided £4.1 billion to the sector.
energy efficient. BEAT provides details
Our Retail Banking business segment as access to a discounted in-home energy of the associated costs of retrofitting, Construction
continues to offer a suite of incentivised advice on improving EPC ratings The construction sector is important
green mortgage products including purchase, and potential energy cost savings. for driving sector decarbonisation
re-mortgage and Buy-to-Let products.
In 2024: We continue to implement climate throughout the built environment,
In 2024, Retail Banking provided
transaction acceptance standards (TAS), as well as supporting retrofit progress
£1.6 billionLA in Green Mortgages 120,200
which require an EPC transition plan across property-related sectors.
(£1.5 billion in 2023), £6.0 billionLA since
launch in Q4 2020. Coutts also offers Home Energy Hub visits covering assets with an EPC rating of D-G, Since its launch in November 2023
discounted mortgage arrangement fees for or require the calculation of an ‘EPC and up to 31 December 2024, over 1,500
purchasing a more energy efficient home 30,908 adjusted’ interest cover ratio, subject to a companies have been supported through
with an EPC rating of A or B, or for making limited number of exceptions, for example, our partnership of the Supply Chain
home improvements resulting in an EPC Home Energy Plans completed legally exempt from Minimum Energy Sustainability School’s retrofit programme,
rating of A to C. Efficiency Standard (MEES) regulations. which provides freely accessible resources
to professionals in the built environment.
54% of NatWest Group financing activities at 31 December 2023 23% of NatWest Group Scope 3 category 15 financed emissions
is aligned to property-related sectors(1) (customer Scope 1 and 2) as at 31 December 2023 are aligned
to property-related sectors
19%
Residential mortgages Residential mortgages
2%
Commercial real estate Construction 2% 19%
Housing associations 46% £442.4bn 47% Residential mortgages Commercial real estate 15.1 MtCO 2 e 0% Residential mortgages 2%
Construction Commercial real estate Housing associations Construction 2%
Other financing activity Housing associations 46% O£4th4e2r. 4fibnnancing act 4 iv 7 it % y 77% Commercial real estate 15.1 MtCO 2 e 0%
Construction Housing associations
4%
1% Other financing activity Other financing activity
2% 77%
(1) Comprises loans and advances and debt securities accounted at amortised cost and Fair Value through Oth4e%r Comprehensive Income (FVOCI), including disposal group, gross of Expected Credit Loss. Refer to page 41 for further detail of amounts analysed for
financed emissions. 1%
2%
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 28
PPrroodduuccttss,, sseerrvviicceess aanndd bbuussiinneessss mmooddeell cchhaannggeess ccoonnttiinnuueedd
Succeeding with
customers through
CASE
innovation
STUDY
Supporting an energy efficient
affordable housing sector
In 2024, Together Housing Group (THG) announced a significant
investment in sustainable upgrades to its portfolio of more
than 38,000 properties across Yorkshire, Lancashire
and the North Midlands thanks to a £50 million funding
boost from NatWest Group.
THG is the first affordable housing Mark Dunford, Executive Director of
association to secure funding Finance and Commercial at Together
through our new Green Housing Housing Group, added: ’We’re proud
Retrofit Loan pilot scheme. of the progressive steps we’ve taken
The pioneering deal marked the so far towards achieving our
first successful completion of a use ambitious net-zero priorities and
of proceeds loan in the UK affordable we are thrilled to be the first social
housing sector by any UK bank. housing association to receive
this valuable funding.’
The loan, which aligns with LMA
Green Loan Principles, enables THG
‘Our carbon reduction
to support the installation of ground
and air source heat pumps, as well strategy puts residents at
as to deliver both deep and light
the forefront as we strive
retrofit improvements such as the
to make essential retrofit
replacement of cladding, roofs and
windows to improve thermal and adaptations to properties,
energy efficiency across its network
ensuring they remain
of socially rented properties
energy efficient for the
spanning 30 local authorities.
benefit of current and
Working in partnership with
NatWest Group’s ESG Advisory future residents.’
team to confirm the efficiency
ratings of the planned upgrades,
Mark Dunford, Executive Director
the investment will allow customers
of Finance and Commercial,
to benefit from a significant
Together Housing Group
reduction in energy bills while
lowering THG’s emissions across
their property portfolio.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 29
Products, services and business model changes continued
Food-related sectors
1% of NatWest Group financing
activity as at 31 December
The agriculture sector plays – We continued to develop a pilot The collaboration seeks to alleviate the
2023 is aligned to food-related
approach to supporting farming financial burdens associated with acquiring
a pivotal role in managing sectors(2)
customers in the southwest of England new equipment and implementing
land in a way that sequesters
and Wales in integrating climate-related advanced sustainability practices.
1%
emissions and restores considerations into farm-level asset and
liability assessments. The learnings from WWF-UK
ecosystems.(1) In doing so,
this analysis have the potential to help NatWest Group and WWF-UK continued
the agricultural sector can
improve how farms measure emissions. to collaborate in 2024 with the publication
be more resilient to physical of ‘A Roadmap for a RegeneraAtigvreic ulture – primary farming
Partnerships £442.4bn
impacts of climate and Agricultural Transition in EnglanOdth’e rw fihnaenrcein g activity
McCain Foods (GB) we brought together experts from the UK
ecological change, thereby 1%
food value chain, including peer banks,
NatWest Group continued to work with
helping to ensure a more retailers, processors, manufacturers,
McCain in 2024, offering potato growers
resilient and secure food additional funding and incentivised farmers, insurers, asset managers, farm 99%
representatives, food services, NGOs,
terms for growers seeking to invest
supply chain.
and policymakers. Agriculture – primary farming
regenerative farming practices.
£442.4bn
In 2024, NatWest Group was recognised Refer to our case study on the The report aims to support farmers Other financing activity
by Scottish Financial Enterprise as a following page for further details. at each stage of their journey to produce
market leader for our support towards the healthy and nutritious food, tackle climate
Tesco
agriculture sector seeking to adopt climate change, and restore nature. This included 21% of NatWest Group Scope 3 99%
and nature friendly practices. During 2024, Tesco and NatWest Group exploring alternative approaches to category 15 financed emissions
worked together to offer financial support dairy farmers as they go through
(customer Scope 1 and 2) as at
Our collaboration with food companies assistance to the retailer’s farmers the ‘fallow years’ period, when transitioning
such as Tesco and McCain Foods (GB), who wanted to invest into low-carbon to regenerative farming practices. 31 December 2023 are aligned
along with organisations such as WWF-UK, energy solutions but needed help accessing to food-related sectors
could help farmers, processors, food finance. Incentivised rates are available While actions and policy recommendations
manufacturers and supply chains to reduce to help farmers install renewable energy in the report relate to England, many
emissions, while supporting sustainable solutions and fossil-fuel free heating and themes will be common to Wales, Scotland 21%
approaches to farming. To help with this, cooling systems. Launched in 2024, we and Northern Ireland, including the UK
we continue to develop a range of anticipate take up of this support to grow supply chain.
Agriculture – primary farming
products and services to support the as farming businesses that are part of and LULUCF(3) 15.1 MtCO 2 e
decarbonisation of the UK’s food system Tesco’s supply chain continue their
while promoting sustainable agriculture. sustainability journey. Other financing activity
Key examples in 2024 included:
Cefetra 79%
– Our financial support for sustainable 21%
In January 2024, NatWest Group, through
agriculture continues to be integrated
its asset finance arm, Lombard, launched
within our CSFFI criteria, contributing
a new partnership with agricultural market Agriculture – primary farming
towards our £100 billion climate and leader Cefetra, with an aim to reduce the and LULUCF(3) 15.1 MtCO 2 e
sustainable funding and financing target
financial barriers for farmers transitioning
between 1 July 2021 and the end Other financing activity
to more sustainable agricultural practices.
of 2025.
79%
(1) According to UK Government statistics up to 70% of UK land was used for agricultural purposes in 2023.
(2) Comprises loans and advances and debt securities accounted at amortised cost and Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVOCI), including disposal group,
gross of Expected Credit Loss. Refer to page 41 for further detail of amounts analysed for financed emissions.
(3) Land-Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 30
PPrroodduuccttss,, sseerrvviicceess aanndd bbuussiinneessss mmooddeell cchhaannggeess ccoonnttiinnuueedd
Succeeding with
customers through
CASE
collaboration
STUDY
Backing regenerative farming
with McCain Foods
As a third-generation farmer, whose family has been growing
potatoes since the 1970s, Mark Alton of EC and MT Alton, like
many UK potato growers, faces many challenges.
In addition to the effects of climate incentivisation for innovation and
change, the business must manage contract indexation has reinforced
fluctuating production costs, gross Mark’s decision to continue growing
margin pressures, and shifting potatoes and contributed towards
consumer preferences. maintaining a viable profit margin.
Extreme weather in recent years In addition to financial support,
had led to challenging growing McCain supported and advised
seasons, reduced yields and declining on the adoption of regenerative
profits, pushing the 300-acre farm agriculture practices through
towards no longer growing potatoes. an ecosystem-based approach.
But, thanks to support from McCain This included the provision of
Foods (McCain), and its collaboration seed for winter cover crops to help
with NatWest Group’s asset finance reduce nitrogen leeching and reduce
arm Lombard, Mark has been soil compaction from heavy winter
able to invest in the business, rainfall. In addition to sharing
boost profitability and embrace research on planting techniques to
regenerative farming practices. boost yields, McCain also supported
worm count studies and advised on
With rising interest rates and cash
minimal tillage to help increase levels
flow concerns, McCain supports
of organic matter in the soil.
growers in a number of ways.
This involves improving prices Through the adoption of
on early season varieties, improving regenerative farming practices,
flexibility in the farm-to-production bolstered by the investment
system, taking the whole crop facilitated by the McCain and
to reduce farm waste and Lombard partnership, EC & MT
restructuring contracts. Alton have made progress towards
enhanced soil quality, water
The partnership with McCain
infiltration and reducing farm
meant that we were able to
emissions. With an eye towards the
offer preferential finance terms
unpredictable influence of weather
towards Alton’s investment in new
patterns, they are optimistic about
equipment, which included a new
production increases in 2025.
potato harvester and destoner.
This, along with additional
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 31
Products, services and business model changes continued
Mobility-related sectors
3% of NatWest Group financing
activity as at 31 December
Mobility-related sectors were to offer a powerful employee benefit, which efficiencies, and technological
2023 is aligned to mobility-
uses tax incentives to make EV and plug-in advancements, along with the
responsible for approximately related sectors(3)
hybrid adoption more accessible. decarbonisation of the energy sector.
35% of UK emissions in 2023, 2%
1%
Our EV Planner tool aims to help Rail 0.4%
largely due to tailpipe
businesses understand their EV readiness,
There is a significant opportunity to
emissions.(1) providing guidance on fleet conversion
accelerate the decarbonisation of the UK’s
and infrastructure needs. In 2024, 51 railway network across the paAsusteomngoteivre
Eliminating the consumption of fossil businesses signed up to the tool, with 966
and freight segments. NatWesLt aGndr otraunps port and logistics
fuels is key to making progress towards users obtaining an EV readiness report.
seeks to support customers who can
the decarbonisation of transport. Airlines and aerospace £442.4bn
Through our collaboration with the leverage private sector investment
T in h d e e e m le a c n tr d if i f c o a r t t io ra n v o e f l v a e s h w ic e le ll s a , s r e a d u m c o ti d o a n l Warwick Manufacturing Group, we were to encourage passengers and Ofrteheigr hfinta ncing activity 97% 2%
delighted to support the UK Micro-mobility operators onto the rail network, while 1%
shift towards public transport and micro- 0.4%
event at the University of Warwick in investing in asset renewal and new
mobility will all be required, as will
September 2024. Through this joint zero-carbon traction technologies.
continued investment in infrastructure,
for example, electric vehicle charge points. venture, the Clean Transport Accelerator Aviation Automotive
continues to attract innovative early-stage
It is important we continue to support Land transport and logistics
Automotive businesses that require technical and
the aviation sector’s transition, financing
According to the UK CCC’s July 2024 business support. Airlines and aerospace £442.4bn
fuel-efficient aircraft, and reducing CO
Progress Report, electric car sales are 2 Other financing activity
Land transport and logistics emissions per seat mile. NatWest Group’s 97%
beginning to have a measurable impact on
Through the movement of goods and exposure to the aviation sector typically
emissions, with over one million electric
people the land transport and logistics relates to secured asset financing against
vehicles (EVs) on the road, equating to 14% of NatWest Group Scope 3
sector is a key enabler of the UK economy. new generation aircraft.
2.8% of the overall UK car fleet. category 15 financed emissions
We aim to support the adoption of mass
Sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) is one (customer Scope 1 and 2) as at
In July 2024, NatWest Group issued transit by providing climate and sustainable
enabler for decarbonising the sector.
31 December 2023 are aligned
a €750 million Clean Transportation funding and financing to corporate
The UK’s Sustainable Aviation Fuel
(Electric Vehicles) Bond,(2) to institutional customers in an effort to accelerate growth to mobility-related sectors
Mandate, which came into force on
investors becoming the first UK bank to across a range of low emission, electrified
1 January 2025 should help support how
issue a green bond where the use of and alternative fuel assets. SAF requirements develop. The Mandate 5% 4%
proceeds are intended to exclusively 5%
As with automotive, decarbonisation sets annual targets for SAF usAeu, tosmtaortitvien rget ail
finance or re-finance electric vehicles.
will occur through a reduction in demand at 2% of UK jet fuel supply in 2025,
The related funding will be provided Land transport
for travel, and a shift in transport modes, increasing annually to 10% of total jet
by our asset finance provider, Lombard. working in tandem with regional place- fuel demand by 2030, and 22%A viinat io2n040. 15.1 MtCO 2 e
Announced in July 2024, Lombard’s based solutions and national infrastructure Other financing activity
salary sacrifice scheme, developed in projects. This needs to be supported by
partnership with Leaseplan UK Limited appropriate government policy, improved
86%
(trading as Ayvens), enables businesses 5%
4%
5%
Automotive retail
(1) UK Climate Change Committee (2024), Progress Report to Parliament. Table 1.1: combined total for surface transport, aviation and shipping. Land transport
(2) The EV Green Bond is intended to finance or refinance Eligible Assets in the form of leases (financial and operating), hire purchase agreements, loans and other arrangements to finance the use
and purchase of electric vehicles (cars and light commercial vehicles). The green label of this bond derives from the inclusion of electric vehicles as Eligible Green Assets under the ‘Clean Aviation 15.1 MtCO 2 e
Transportation’ category defined in NatWest’s Green, Social and Sustainability Financing Framework and the ICMA Green Bond Principles ‘Clean Transportation’ category. NatWest Group is not
Other financing activity
claiming that this ‘green’ or ‘clean transportation’ categorisation necessarily meets others’ expectations or requirements for describing or classifying activities, products or assets as ‘green’ or
transportation as ‘clean’.
(3) Comprises loans and advances and debt securities accounted at amortised cost and Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVOCI), including disposal group, gross of Expected 86%
Credit Loss. Refer to page 41 for further detail of amounts analysed for financed emissions.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 32
Products, services and business model changes continued
Succeeding with
customers through
CASE
flexible funding
STUDY
Financing electrification
for UK public transport
As part of FirstGroup’s ambition to become net zero
by 2050, the company is working towards having
a zero-emission bus fleet by 2035.
They partnered with Hitachi operating entities.
Europe in 2021,(1) to help First We also acted as sole hedge
Bus (part of FirstGroup) deliver coordinator for the associated
a decarbonisation project at interest rate swaps.
its flagship Glasgow Caledonia
Additionally, FirstGroup invited
depot. The successful outcome
NatWest Group to participate
of that project led to a joint
in a separate three-bank
venture between FirstGroup
syndicate Hire Purchase (HP)
and Hitachi to support wider
facility to finance the purchase
fleet transition.
of electric bus husks (effectively
In 2024, NatWest Group the vehicle chassis and
participated in a standalone drivetrain, excluding the
syndicated debt facility battery). This HP facility
to fund 1,000 batteries. totalled £150 million, with
The transaction provided NatWest Group providing a
FirstGroup and Hitachi with £50 million commitment to the
the flexibility to manage the business. The facility, together
battery delivery, their ongoing with the help of government
operation, and eventual grant funding through the
replacement. ScotZeb scheme (Scottish Zero
Emission Bus Challenge Fund)
NatWest Group supported
and the equivalent Zebra (Zero
FirstGroup with a 12-year
Emission Bus Regional Areas)
syndicated loan facility of
scheme in England, supported
£91 million to fund up to 1,000
FirstGroup in expanding their
bus batteries on a standalone
EV fleet in a managed way.
basis. The batteries were then
leased back to First Bus
(1) NextGen AssetCo is a 50:50 joint venture between FirstGroup plc and Hitachi Ltd
(including wholly owned subsidiaries Hitachi Europe Limited and Hitachi Rail Limited).
NextGen AssetCo will purchase the batteries, which will then be leased to FirstGroup
Energy Limited.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 33
Products, services and business model changes continued
Energy supply-related sectors
2% of NatWest Group financing
activity as at 31 December
The UK aims to have clean delivering plans for supply chains and skills. Oil and gas
2023 is aligned to energy-
power by 2030 by doubling The Government has also set up initiatives As a UK-focused bank it is important that related sectors(4)
such as Mission Control for Clean Power, we seek to support the current and future
its installed power capacity,
state-owned Great British (GB) Energy, energy system. Our aim is to help our 1%
with 90% of additional and the National Energy System Operator, customers leading the transition, in line 0.2%
capacity coming from wind, to enable necessary electricity market with our risk appetite, and Environmental,
pricing and operational protocols to Social and Ethical (ESE) Risk Acceptance
solar and battery. It aims to
maximise reliance on renewable energy Criteria.
mobilise £40 billion per year generation, and consumer flexibility and
battery storage to support balancing While it is important that transiEtlieocntr icisity generation
in investments, including for
supply with demand. accelerated where commercia O lly il a v n i d a g b a l s e £442.4bn
expanding and upgrading alternatives exist, there will be an ongoing
grid infrastructure. NatWest Group has been a leading loan reliance on fossil fuels to manu O fa th c e t r u fi r n e an cing activity 98% 0 1 . % 2%
arranger to the UK energy infrastructure(1) key materials such as steel, cement
and renewables sector over the last and plastics. The National Wealth
Power utilities
10 years.(2) Fund’s support for decarbonising these
To meet the UK’s 2030 target, the Clean
In 2024, we provided £1.8 billion of climate hard-to-abate industries will be important
Power Action Plan has set out policies to and sustainable funding and financing to reduce fossil fuel consumption, and use Electricity generation
support renewable roll-out, upgrading
to solar and wind projects. carbon capture and storage (CCS) for Oil and gas £442.4bn
energy networks and storage, and
residual emissions.
Other financing activity
98%
We have been members of the Powering Past Coal Alliance since 2021 and following the achievement of our ambition Exposure to coal(3) 3% of NatWest Group Scope 3
to phase-out of coal(3) for UK and non-UK customers who have UK coal production and UK coal-related infrastructure
customers category 15 financed emissions
by 1 October 2024, we aim to phase-out of coal(3) for customers who have coal production or coal-related
infrastructure globally by 1 January 2030. As a result, we have stopped the renewal, extension or refinancing of any (customer Scope 1 and 2) as at
£0.6bn
existing lending or loan underwriting commitments to these customers where it exceeds the phase out date above. 31 December 2023 are aligned
During 2024 we established a working group within the C&I business segment to support the development of guiding as at 31 December 2024LA to energy-related sectors
principles for the assessment of thermal and lignite coal embedded within activities like transportation, storage, supply
chain and value add services, while ensuring due consideration is given to external factors such as energy security. Reserve based 1 2 % %
These considerations have now been reflected in our ESE Risk Acceptance Criteria and represent an evolution of our
lending exposure
point-in-time credible transition plan (CTP) assessment completed in 2021.
Our point-in time CTP assessment also included oil and gas major customers and supported our stated ambition £0.2bn
to stop lending and underwriting to major oil and gas producers unless they had a CTP aligned with the 2015 Paris
A du g r r i e n e g m 2 e 0 n 2 t 5 i n in p t l h a e c e c o b n y t t e h x e t o en f d th o e f U 2 K 0 2 C 1 C . A C s ’s s S ta e t v e e d n o th n C p a a r g b e o 6 n , B w u e d g p e la t n . A to lo n re g v s i i e d w e t o h u a r t c r l e im vi a e t w e , a w m e b w iti i o ll n a s ls a o n b d e t a re rg v e ie t w s ing as at 31 Decembe P - r o e w le 2 e c 0 r t r 2 u ic t 4 i i t li y t L i e Ag s eneration
o a u ss r e E s S sm E e R n is t k f o A r c o c i e l p a t n a d n c g e a s C m rit a e jo ri r a s f a o n r d m i a n j - o s r c o o p il e a n c d o a g l a c s u s c t u o s m to e m rs e r r s e . f e F r o r to f u p r a th g e e r 3 d 1 e t t a o i l 3 o 2 n o o f u t r h e p o N in a t t - W in e -t s i t m G e r C ou T p P plc 2021 Oil and gas 15.1 MtCO 2 e
Climate-related Disclosures Report. Other financing activity
2%
Since February 2023, we have not provided reserve-based lending specifically for the purpose of financing oil and gas 1%
exploration, extraction and production for new customers and, after 31 December 2025, we will not renew, refinance
or extend existing reserve based lending specifically for the purpose of financing oil and gas exploration, extraction and 97%
production.
Power utilities
(1) Energy infrastructure comprises battery storage, electricity distribution, electricity smart meter and electricity transmission. - electricity generation
(2) NatWest Group ranked first among loan arrangers by deal value for the period 2015-2024. Source: Inframation for Renewables (UK) 31 December 2024.
(3) Relates to thermal and lignite coal (coal that is typically used as a fuel for steam-electric power) coal production, coal-related infrastructure or transport. Data challenges, particularly the lack of Oil and gas 15.1 MtCO 2 e
granular customer information, create challenges in identifying customers with ‘coal-related infrastructure’ and other customers with coal-related operations within NatWest Group’s large and
diversified customer portfolios As such, the scope excludes companies who generate less than 5% of their revenues via coal activity (in line with Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) guidelines for Other financing activity
climate target setting for banks), companies with a turnover of <£50 million and commodity traders. Metallurgical coal is excluded from scope as it is currently essential to the steel industry. We
will continue to review our policies in line with our EWRMF, which considers a range of factors in the external economic, political, and regulatory environment.
(4) Comprises loans and advances and debt securities accounted at amortised cost and Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVOCI), including disposal group, gross of Expected
Credit Loss. Refer to page 41 for further detail of amounts analysed for financed emissions. 97%
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 34
PPrroodduuccttss,, sseerrvviicceess aanndd bbuussiinneessss mmooddeell cchhaannggeess ccoonnttiinnuueedd
Succeeding with
customers through
CASE
investment
STUDY
Expanding offshore
infrastructure support
Founded in 1886, North Star provides commissioning and
operational support for the European offshore wind sector.
With its offshore wind fleet and Our deal team agreed to provide
a workforce of more than 1,000, a £20 million capex revolving credit
North Star aims to provide facility (RCF) and a £10 million
continuous offshore infrastructure working capital RCF as part of
support, 365 days per year, in one a £225 million syndicated package
of the world’s busiest and most from a lender consortium.
hostile marine environments.
This overall funding package
To support this and service the UK’s gave North Star the flexibility
service operation vessel (SOV) they required. Financing was
market, North Star has invested sustainability-linked, and integrated
in diesel-electric hybrid propulsion various ESG key performance
offshore wind vessels. indicators, including growth in
offshore wind sector revenue,
Out of four new build SOV’s, three
the number of hybrid vessels,
are in operation at the Dogger Bank
and their health and safety record.
Wind Farm with the final vessel
scheduled for delivery early in 2025.
Additionally, the business has
a further four vessels under ‘This investment highlights
construction, including two larger the attraction of our
commissioning SOVs to further
business model and ESG
support its offshore wind customers.
transition journey, as we
In 2024, North Star looked to
the Royal Bank of Scotland to help push to become a leading
secure investment in support of player in Europe’s SOV
its ambition to become a leading
(service operation
player in Europe’s offshore wind
sector and add 40 hybrid SOVs vessel) sector’.
to its fleet by 2040.
Fraser Dobbie, North Star CFO
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 35
Climate and ESG products and advisory services
NatWest Group helps to both finance and facilitate the banks and agencies, on evolving products and services, as well as providing guidance
on the regulatory and policy landscape to assist delivery of their sustainability strategies.
sustainability journeys and activities of many of our UK
and global customers. While we deploy our balance sheet Understanding the financial ecosystem and underlying drivers is key to fulfilling this role.
Whether we finance a corporate or financial institution with a green, social or sustainability
to provide financing, facilitation can take several forms.
(GSS) bond, the impact has potential to be felt in the UK economy or beyond. Similarly,
by leading on a GSS bond or securitisation, we facilitate our customers’ access to capital
Alongside facilitating bonds and loan underwriting, we facilitate by convening industry
through funding sources in the public or private capital markets.
groups to support the necessary industry infrastructure and standard setting. We advise
our customers, from corporates and financial institutions to sovereigns, multi-development
Our sustainability
In 2024, we supported a number of our customers at various stages of the lifecycle of their Evolution of activity in 2024
sustainable finance journeys, as outlined below. private finance We continued to innovate, structure
We continued to support and originate climate and ESG
alternative credit funds in the product solutions to support various
1 4 decarbonisation and transition customer lifecycle stages:
of the real economy. In 2024,
1 2 3
we structured an inaugural
Establish sustainable financing frameworks, We worked with customers to amplify
for example: their sustainability strategies through €240 million green net asset – Participated in 103 green, 18
value line(1) facility for Clarion sustainability and 17 social bonds,
We worked with Great Portland Estates (GPE), investor engagement and ensure the Partners Europe. We totalling a notional amount of
as sole sustainability structuring coordinator. external delivery is accurate and continued to build our £117.7 billion of which £17 billion
We supported the customer to develop their first transparent. commercial real estate (CRE) was attributable to NatWest Group
sustainable finance framework. This allowed GPE We facilitated meetings between loan-on-loan capabilities, (2023: combined notional
to issue its inaugural sustainable bond and marked customers and investors during the closing green subscription £56 billion, £13 billion attributable).
its first senior issuance in the capital markets execution of transactions (where issuers line facilities for several – Extended £11.4 billion of specific
since 1999. provide information on a specific GSS infrastructure funds such purpose wholesale lending and
labelled issuance), as well as non-deal as NextEnergy Capital’s sustainability linked lending
2 roadshows (showcasing issuers’ broader NPV ESG fund. (2023: £10.5 billion).
sustainability credentials). Examples
We also engaged with – Supported 10 inaugural mandates,
included supporting the German
Access new liquidity through inaugural Government’s first in-person green non-bank lenders to support 33 repeat mandates and acted as
transactions, for example: bond roadshow, where we arranged sustainable activities, including dealer on 14 commercial paper
a £65 million circular economy programmes.
Supported Dalata Hotel Group plc, where through over 20 meetings on behalf of green loan for Raylo Group.
our role as lead agent, we facilitated its inaugural Germany’s Finanzagentur with leading
green private placement of €125 million, providing ESG investors in the UK, France While decarbonisation and 4
a platform for growth. In addition, Dalata also and Netherlands. transition remain focus areas, – Held 117 investor meetings and
we are also developing
secured €475 million of new lending facilities, delivered 165 ESG rating advisory
solutions to drive positive
including a €100 million green term loan. 5 social outcomes, such as engagements.
our first securitised social We maintained our position as a
3 warehouse financing for leading GSS bookrunner(2) in our
As regulations evolve and market
Evolution Money, a specialist chosen markets and geographies.
standards improve, we have worked
lender supporting underserved We were ranked #1 lead manager
Given the demand to support the transition, some with customers to update their
borrowers. for Global GBP issuance, #1 for UK
of our customers need to access the market multiple frameworks, for example:
Financial Institutions and #7 among
times a year. We acted as structuring coordinator for
European SSA issuers.
We worked with issuers, such as the German the Norwegian national system operator
(2) Ranked by deal value among
state-owned promotional and development bank KfW, Statnett’s 2024 green bond framework
(1) A credit facility where availability is based bookrunners for supporting issuers for
to access the market multiple times in 2024 in different update, helping to align their framework
on the net asset value of the investments green, social and sustainability (GSS) debt
currencies and maturities to diversify their investor to the EU Taxonomy. of the borrower. issuance. Source: Dealogic, 31 December
community and pools of capital. 2024. Excludes money market and
short-term debt.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 36
Climate and ESG products and advisory services continued
Shaping the future of sustainable finance
Championing thought customer event on the Shaping policy, regulation
leadership ‘Decarbonisation of the UK Real and market standards
Economy’. The day was opened
NatWest Group, through our Climate NatWest Group has consistently approached
by Chris Stark, who now leads the
and ESG Capital Markets and ESG sustainable finance through collaboration, with
UK Government’s Mission Control
Advisory business, aims to advance participation in key industry initiatives to drive
for Clean Power 2030 initiative, and
and simplify the sustainability journey product innovation, disclosure, governance Finally, through our
Lord Stern, Chair of the Grantham
of our customers and stakeholders and reporting. involvement with The
Research Institute on Climate Change
through timely, relevant insights Association for Financial
and the Environment at the London 2024 was dominated by debate around
and a variety of tools. This content Markets in Europe’s (AFME)
School of Economics and independent transition finance and its application both from
is delivered through diverse channels Sustainable Finance Steering
climate advisor to NatWest Group a financing and a facilitation perspective, where
and formats, with more than 150 Committee, we took a leading
Board. We held two workshops it is anticipated that sustainability-linked products
publications, webinars and podcasts role in designing and steering a
focused on transition plans and will have a role to play. Accordingly, NatWest
produced and 44 events held or research project by AFME and
sustainability disclosure requirements. Group chaired the Financial Markets Standard
supported in 2024. Oliver Wyman – ‘A Review of
Board’s (FMSB) ESG Committee and its
Frequent investor surveys also allow us the Do No Significant Harm
Our expertise in ESG macro trends dedicated sustainability-linked working group,
to integrate market sentiment into our (DNSH)] Assessment in the EU
informs the delivery of regular market which published a paper in December 2024
content, ensuring our guidance aligns Taxonomy: Progress, Gaps and
updates to our customers, investors focused on the governance of these products
with real-time investor requirements. Pathways Forward’. The report
and colleagues. For example, our ESG by users and service providers, such as lenders
We further help bridge the gap between provides recommendations for
Evolution Series delivered analysis of and underwriters.
the ‘buy and sell side’ through our policymakers to help ease the
key themes for environmental and
issuer and investor focused events. In addition, we partnered with Strathclyde implementation of the DNSH
social transition, while also looking
Our second annual Sovereigns, University and Copenhagen Business School on component, as well as
at specific sustainability trends within
Supranationals and Agencies (SSA) ESG analysis of the pricing dynamics of sustainability- aggregates industry best
industries such as agriculture.
networking day in London facilitated linked bonds (SLBs). Published in the Journal practices to help assist users
Through events, we bring together 51 meetings and included a keynote of Financial Economics, this work sheds light on to cope with implementation.
industry leaders, colleagues and speech on physical climate risk and the the key factors that influence the pricing of SLBs,
external stakeholders to share under-investment in adaptation. offering both theoretical and practical insights
insights, provide fresh perspectives Elsewhere, our ‘What ESG investors that can be applied by issuers and investors ‘Simplifying and
and help to unlock collaboration. want’ webinar series gives direct insight in the market.
clarifying the DNSH
In March 2024, we hosted our inaugural into the priorities and considerations of
Our work with the International Capital Markets
corporate and financial institution the ESG-focused buy side. approach will help…
Association (ICMA) in 2024 saw us act as joint
coordinator of its sustainable commercial paper (stimulate) the flow
(CP) taskforce, contributing to its paper The role of capital towards
of commercial paper in the sustainable finance
activities which are
market. This is the first ever market guidance for
embedding sustainable finance in CP. We were fully EU Taxonomy
also part of ICMA’s Taskforce on Enabling aligned.’
Activities, supporting the June 2024 publication
of guidance to companies that want to access A Review of the Do No
green finance but may not directly participate in Significant Harm (DNSH)
existing green activities. Assessment in the EU Taxonomy
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 37
Integration of our Climate transition plan into financial
planning and decision-making
Financial planning Embedding climate within
We have continued to integrate our customer journeys
Climate transition plan within our financial In 2024, we started rolling out our
plan to ensure that climate-related Climate Decisioning Framework (CDF)
opportunities and associated risks are on a phased, test-and-learn basis. These
actively considered. This approach is are utilised within relationship manager
intended to enable colleagues in our conversations with customers and are
franchises and sector teams to make intended to embed climate within existing
decisions which support our climate processes. The CDF tools complement
ambitions. During 2024 we made engagement with our customers through
enhancements to our financial planning our Climate and ESG Capital Markets
tools, to further automate and simplify and Advisory teams, outlined on page 35.
our forecasting of climate-related initiatives
The CDF tools consist of:
across all our customer franchises and
sectors. This continued to enable the – Customer Transition Plan Assessment
review and challenge of our forecast (CTPA)
financial plan and associated emissions – Climate Risk Scorecard (CRS)
profile by senior stakeholder groups on business areas covering large often subject to specific triggers, such as
in business areas, Finance and other These tools aim to provide a more corporates, mid-corporates, commercial when a refinance or renewal of a facility
functions. structured way for colleagues to engage real estate, housing associations and some results in a material change to climate risk.
with customers on climate-related matters. Financial Institutions customer segments.
Through our integrated financial planning CTPA helps us understand our customers’ Initial focus was aimed at where Evolving our decision-making, and
work and our Climate transition plan, transition journeys and CRS aids our we expect customer maturity with implementation
we can identify some of the financial understanding of how our customers are regards to climate-related matters During 2025, we aim to continue to roll-out
opportunities and actions required to assist managing climate-related risks. Both tools to be more progressed. CDF tools to other customer areas on
with our climate ambitions. Climate-related provide a score between 1 and 5, with 1
a test-and-learn basis. We plan to continue
opportunities have been identified on being the best and 5 being the worst. CDF tools follow a similar structure for all
to gather information and insights to
a sector-by-sector basis across our Further details of the CTPA assessment customer segments but reflect availability
further develop and enhance the tools.
core customer franchises through structure and example questions are of data and sector-specific nuances.
This will help us to identify areas where
the Climate transition plan. disclosed on the following page. For example, the tools include questions
we can enhance granularity of questions
on fleet electrification, drivers of energy
To support embedding of climate in We initially launched the tools on a phased, consumption and EPC ratings if applicable or conversely where data availability
decision-making across NatWest Group, test-and-learn basis, focused on building to that type of customer. By including is inconsistent, as well as identify
we are working to develop processes colleague capability, evolving our customer these we can identify more targeted further controls and training required
to incorporate climate as a consideration engagement and collecting granular customer support, aligned to our climate to continuously improve the tools. As we
as part of our financial planning process, climate data. To drive continuous propositions, such as Carbon Planner. evolve CDF, we are planning to introduce
similar to other financial and non-financial improvement in engagement we continued processes for front-line teams where
considerations, such as costs. This is to develop and deliver bespoke training, In 2024, 74% of our wholesale exposure(1) additional analysis or oversight is needed
intended to be a mechanism to monitor which was delivered to approximately became in-scope for CDF, with completed subject to specific triggers, for example
progress against our decarbonisation 2,500 colleagues in 2024. assessments undertaken for 38% on the basis of CDF scores of 4 or higher.
ambitions and alignment with overall of in-scope wholesale exposure. We also aim to incorporate CTPA within
strategic ambitions and financial plan. Progress on roll-out of CDF For customers in-scope of the phased wider frameworks, such as for the
Assessing climate alongside other financial During 2024, we launched the CDF tools roll-out of CDF the tools are mandatory identification of opportunities to finance our
and non-financial considerations will also on a phased basis within Commercial & and undertaken as part of existing customers’ transition, and to better track
help us to consider trade-offs as part Institutional, as well as commercial clients credit processes. Completion of tools our progress against our climate ambitions.
of the strategic decision-making process. is undertaken at least annually or more
within Coutts & Co, principally focused
(1) For consistency with credit risk reporting in the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual Report and Accounts, these figures are based on gross loans only.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 38
Integration of our climate transition plan into financial planning and decision making continued
Assessment structure
Our Climate Transition Plan Assessment CTPA structure and example questions
Deep dive analysis of NatWest
(CTPA) tool is used to assess customers’
Markets N.V.(1) customers
climate transition plans and includes key
In 2024, NatWest Markets N.V. used the
data points aligned to prevailing external Module 1: In this module, we ask about current
CDF tools to engage with its customers to
transition plan guidance, with questions Current and and historic Scope 1, 2 and 3
understand the climate-related risks of their
tailored to different customer segments. historic emissions, as well as whether
business and conduct climate transition plan
These tools have been developed in our emissions customers emissions have been
assessments. Feedback from clients focused
credit systems, with the CTPA assessment independently verified.
on the robustness of data inputs from their
designed to be scalable across customers
disclosures, as well as mutual understanding
in Commercial & Institutional, as well as
of where the data gaps exist. Through this
commercial clients within Coutts & Co,
process, NatWest Markets N.V. continues
where we have rolled out CDF on a
to build capability to use CDF tools among
phased, test-and-learn basis. The tools Module 2: For this module, we ask about
first and second line colleagues, and develop
are designed to be used by frontline Emission medium- and long-term emissions
a culture where climate risk considerations
colleagues in existing business processes, reduction reduction targets, as well as any
are embedded within existing processes.
such as annual reviews. targets external target validation.
To complement the outreach on climate,
CTPA will continue to evolve as
NatWest Markets N.V. continued to develop
new transition plan frameworks and
its approach to nature, informed by
standardisation of customers’ climate
European environmental regulation.
disclosures emerge. In 2024, we launched
This activity focused on the identification
a mix of sector-specific and sector agnostic
and assessment of environmental factors,
CTPA models, with our initial focus Module 3: This module includes questions
including physical and transition risks within
on creating strong foundations from Transition about transition plan actions and
our corporate portfolio. An Environmental
which we can continue to evolve. plan actions governance including whether
Decisioning Framework (EDF) was trialled
The CTPA tool has three modules and climate is incorporated within in 2024, which considered 61 factors to
with questions related to various topics. governance executive remuneration, value produce a customer environmental
chain engagement and capital
Each question and module is scored scorecard. Our first-generation assessment
expenditure allocation for climate.
between 1 to 5, summing up to a final focused on a limited number of customers,
CTPA score also ranging between 1 and 5, using internal and external data. Developed
where 1 is the best and 5 is the worst. on a test-and-learn basis, insight gained from
This scale is also used for the CRS tool. EDF will be used to inform future activity.
Spread of CRS and CTPA scores for approved
The CTPA score is used as an input into assessments carried out on the large corporate CDF (1) NatWest Markets N.V. (NWM N.V.) is an EU subsidiary
the CRS tool which considers transition model. of NatWest Group.
risk, physical risk and the customer’s ability
to mitigate these through effective plans.
CRS 31% 48% 12% 9%
We recognise that customers are at
various stages in their target setting and
transition planning journey. As a result,
where information is not available,
the tools identify data gaps which can CPTA 16.5% 53% 25% 5.5%
help us to focus conversations on areas
where customers may benefit from
assistance on their transition journey. 1<2 2<3 3<4 4<5
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 39
Sensitivity analysis including dependence on
government policies
Through our ongoing work to enhance Electrification of transport
Relevant sector and UK CCC July 2024 Progress Report: Headline Overall UK CCC – July 2024
our Climate transition plan, we continue – Commitment to phase-out internal BNZ pathway policy developments that are included in our credibility assessment
to assess key policies on a sector-by- combustion engine cars by 2030 latest Climate transition plan change vs. June 2023
sector basis. As outlined on page 24 we supported by vehicle excise duties assessment
used the policy credibility assessments(1) favouring EVs. £200 million for 2023 2024(1)
provided by the UK CCC in its July 2024 charging infrastructure and £2 billion Electricity supply Failure of UK Government’s Contract for
Progress Report,(1) to update our for auto manufacturing research Difference Allocation Round Five to secure
assessment of the ‘downside’ Balanced and development. additional wind capacity
Net Zero (BNZ) adjusted scenario that
reflects the impacts of time delays to Electrification of buildings Surface transport: Introduced the zero-emission vehicle (ZEV)
zero-emission vehicle mandate which means 80% of new cars
realising the BNZ pathways included and heat
uptake and charging sold must be EVs by 2030
in the UK CCC Sixth Carbon budget. – Heat decarbonisation and household
infrastructure
energy efficiency to receive £3.4 billion
The table on the right summarises notable
through the Warm Homes Plan over the Surface transport: Delay to end-of-sales date for new petrol/
policy developments included within the
next three years, including expansion of Conventional vehicle diesel cars to 2035 will affect EV uptake
NatWest Group’s Climate transition plan.
the Boiler Upgrade Scheme to support efficiency
The credibility assessment for individual
heat pump adoption.
policies was provided by the UK CCC July Aviation: Sustainable Confirmation of the Sustainable Aviation
2024 Progress Report. Our Climate – An additional £1.8 billion is earmarked aviation fuels Fuel Mandate
transition plan does not yet reflect recent for fuel-poverty mitigation programmes
UK Government announcements made in to aid low-income households. Buildings: Scaling Increased funding for Boiler Upgrade
the second half of 2024, including: low-carbon heat for Scheme. But exemption of 20% of
Agriculture and land-use
residential properties households from the phase-out of
Renewable energy generation – £5 billion allocated over two years fossil-fuel boilers by 2035, and delaying
– The set up of institutions under Mission for a more productive and sustainable oil boiler ban to 2035
Control for Clean Power and GB Energy agricultural sector in England.
Buildings: Residential Scrapped 2028 EPC target for properties
to coordinate planning to achieve – £400 million earmarked for tree planting
energy efficiency in the private rented sector
net-zero emissions by 2030, five years and peatland restoration in England.
earlier than original target. The UK Industry: support for Deal for Tata Steel to use electric arc
We expect the latest proposed UK policy
Government anticipates that GB Energy electrification, furnaces, British Steel to use electric arc
initiatives, some of which are outlined on
will receive £8.3 billion of public finance hydrogen, BECCS, furnaces, roll-out of British Industry
this page, to be reflected in the UK CCC’s
with the potential to leverage up to biofuels Supercharger scheme
Seventh Carbon budget, which is expected
£60 billion of private investment into
to be published on 26 February 2025. Industry: engineered Publication of business plan for BECCS
clean power.
removals and greenhouse gas removals
We intend to make use of the Seventh
Carbon budget alongside the anticipated
Agriculture and land Mandate for methane suppressing
UK CCC 2025 progress report due in the
use: low carbon feed products
summer of 2025 to update our downside
farming and
BNZ scenario as we continue to iterate our
agricultural machinery
Climate transition plan.
Land use: Agro- Agroforestry covered under Sustainable
(1) The UK CCC July 2024 Progress report amended the format of their credibility assessment of BNZ pathways to credibility
forestry and hedges Farming Incentive
assessments of individual policies. As the BNZ pathways represent the mix of policies that support decarbonisation of
specific emission-reduction drivers related to a sector (as quantified under the Sixth Carbon Budget Report), we developed
a weighted methodology to reconcile the credibility of individual policy impacts to the total emission reductions associated UK CCC (July 2024) credibility Some risk: Significant risk: Insufficient plans:
with the relevant BNZ pathway. This was created using the 2023 Carbon Budget Delivery Plan that estimated emission assessment
reductions of individual policies in a given time period with the UK CCC July 2024 Progress report on credibility rating of
individual policies, divided by the total emissions of the BNZ pathway with its credibility rating in 2023. The methodological Policy delay estimated Estimated 3-year delay Estimated 5-year delay Estimated 10-year delay
weighting therefore helped to determine whether the 2024 credibility assessments were significant enough to update the by NatWest Group
credibility assessment of the entire BNZ pathway from 2023.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 40
Sensitivity analysis including dependence on government policies continued
Engagement with the policy environment and advocacy activity
On behalf of our customers, we continue to advocate on specific policy progress areas, with the aim of removing both financial and non-financial barriers that can help unlock private
finance to support their transition. Along with peers, we also continue to work with the UK and EU governments, contributing to pan-industry consultations on frameworks and
regulation that will govern how large corporate and financial institutions report their material impacts on the real economy, and the mechanisms they use to address these impacts.
These frameworks are important to enable greater transparency and accountability of material impacts through standardised reporting.
Industry participation
Energy efficient buildings and retrofitting homes to support transparency
– Through our ongoing involvement with the Sustainable Homes and Buildings and accountability
Coalition, alongside British Gas, Worcester Bosch and Citizens Advice we
continued to engage with the UK Government, advocating energy stamp duty
rebates for energy efficient properties, ever closer public-private collaboration,
and incentives for supporting skills development. In 2024, NatWest Group
– We collaborated with The Green Finance Institute and Lloyds Banking Group chaired or acted as joint
to explore how Property Linked Finance could help unlock £52-£72 billion of coordinator on:
private investment into decarbonisation of the residential market across England, – UK Finance Sustainability
Scotland and Wales. Committee
– Bank of England Finance Risk
Forum and the Strategic
2024 Embedding Working Group
advocacy Support for regenerative agricultural practices – Transition Plan Taskforce
campaigns to bank guidance
– Through our ongoing collaboration with WWF UK, we co-published ‘Roadmap
support real for financing regenerative agriculture in England’. The report shows how the – Financial Market Standards
ESG Committee: sustainability-
economy private sector can share the cost and risk of transition with farmers, with key
linked working group
decarbonisation(1) recommendations on how government can improve data access, and support
– Association for Financial
farmers to be paid for achieving positive climate and nature outcomes.
Markets in Europe Sustainable
Finance steering group
– ICMA Sustainable Commercial
Paper working group
Public and private sector engagement to drive real economy
decarbonisation We also participated in
expert groups:
– We made submissions to Government consultations on the creation of a National
Wealth Fund to catalyse investment in industrial decarbonisation through green – Transition Finance
steel, green hydrogen, gigafactories, ports and associated infrastructure. Market Review
– We also supported UK Government consultations on the ‘Industrial Strategy –
net zero priorities’, HM Treasury on the topic of sustainable finance, and engaged
with Government on the UK Emissions Trading Scheme: Inclusion of removals.
(1) During 2024, NatWest Group made no political
donations, nor incurred any political expenditure in the
UK or EU. Refer to page 169 of the NatWest Group plc
2024 Annual Report and Accounts for further detail.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 41
Estimates of financed emissions
During 2024, we focused
2023 2022
on consolidating, simplifying Economic Economic
and improving our existing Customer Customer emissions Customer Customer emissions
Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3 Physical intensity(2) Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3 Physical intensity
measurement capabilities.
Sector (MtCO2e) (MtCO2e) emissions intensity (tCO2e/£m) (MtCO2e) (MtCO2e) emissions intensity (tCO2e/£m)
Our work is guided by the availability Residential mortgagesLA 2.8 38.4 kgCO
2
e/m2 14 2.8 38.4 kgCO
2
e/m2 14
of methodologies for estimating financed Commercial real estateLA 0.2 47.1 kgCO
2
e/m2 17 0.3 51.5 kgCO
2
e/m2 18
emissions and emissions intensities, most
Automotive manufacturing(3) – 0.7 230.5 gCOe/v-km 917 - 0.5 258.6 gCOe/v-km 703
notably from PCAF(1), refer to the NatWest 2 2
Automotive retail(3) 0.7 204 1.0 304
Group 2024 Sustainability Basis
Land transport and logistics 0.6 0.6 232 0.7 0.6 263
of Reporting for methodologies used.
of which freight road(3) 0.3 0.3 45.6 gCOe/t-km 380 0.3 0.3 47.1 gCOe/t-km 356
2 2
In addition to sector-level lending models,
of which passenger rail(3) (7) – – 16.2 gCOe/p-km 45 0.1 0.1 74.3 gCOe/p-km 251
2 2
where measurement standards are more
of which passenger road(3) 0.3 0.3 67.3 gCOe/p-km 202 0.3 0.2 111.8 gCOe/p-km 202
developed, we estimate emissions for some 2 2
Aviation(3)LA 0.8 682 0.7 569
lending and investment exposures on a
collective basis. As a result, we have
Electricity generationLA 0.3 42.6 kgCO
2
e/MWh 63 0.7 103.7 kgCO
2
e/MWh 188
analysed 88%(1) of our loans and investment Oil and gas(4)LA 0.1 0.2 3.7 tCO 2 e/TJ 238 0.2 0.1 3.6 tCO 2 e/TJ 204
exposure as at 31 December 2023 (90% at Waste 0.3 308.8 tCO 2 e/£m 293 0.2 284.2 tCO 2 e/£m 230
31 December 2022). Coverage variations are Agriculture – primary farmingLA 3.3 1751 tCO
2
e/£m 906 3.4 1,860 tCO
2
e/£m 886
expected given changes in bank exposure. ManufacturingLA 1.2 95 tCO
2
e/£m 160 1.5 105.5 tCO
2
e/£m 180
Absolute emissions and emissions intensities Construction 0.3 29.7 tCOe/£m 95 0.5 41.5 tCOe/£m 139
2 2
are published one year in arrears of our
RetailLA 0.7 38.3 tCO
2
e/£m 106 1.0 48.3 tCO
2
e/£m 156
financial reporting date to allow time for
appropriate data sourcing, measurement
LeisureLA 0.4 69.7 tCO
2
e/£m 60 0.4 53 tCO
2
e/£m 54
Other(5) 3.4 34 4.1 47
and review.
Total NatWest Group)(6)(8)
The table shows NatWest Group’s (excluding AUM and facilitated emissions) 15.1 1.5 45 17.5 1.2 54
estimated absolute emissions and economic
LA assurance marker in this table relates to 2023 values only.
and physical emissions intensities by sector Footnotes for this page can be found on the following page.
as at 31 December 2023 and 31 December
2022. The table should be read in
primarily relating to the oil and gas and reduced funding to emissions intensive being more closely aligned
conjunction with the cautionary statements
automotive manufacturing sectors. PCAF customers. to customer activities.
on pages 92 to 97 of this report and Risk
scores in most sectors improved due to – Oil and gas: The 0.1 MtCOe decrease – Passenger rail: Physical emissions
factors included on pages 408 to 426 of 2
better availability of customer data with in Scope 1 and Scope 2 absolute intensity experienced a spike in 2022
the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual Report
total NatWest Group PCAF data quality emissions as at 31 December 2023 driven by the introduction of vendor
and Accounts. We continue to refine our
score improving from 4.0 to 3.9. Refer reflects a decrease in on-balance sheet emissions estimates. In 2023, we have
estimates as measurement methodologies
to the following page for details. lending to more emissions intensive sourced published emissions numbers for
develop and we enhance our measurement
customers. Scope 3 estimated a large number of our rail customers with
capabilities and data availability. Key movements since
emissions(4) have increased by the resulting emissions intensity being
As at 31 December 2023, absolute 31 December 2022 include: 0.1MtCOe because of improved data lower than the vendor estimated data.
2
estimated Scope 1 and Scope 2 financed – Electricity generation: Absolute coverage for our upstream extraction – Aviation: The increase in economic
emissions reduced by 2.4 MtCO 2 e. estimate Scope 1 and Scope 2 and refinery customers. emissions intensity in the aviation sector
This is primarily driven by the electricity emissions decreased by 0.4 MtCO 2 e – Retail, automotive retail, reflects the increase in airline travel as
and physical emissions intensity also manufacturing and construction: the industry returns to pre-Covid 19
generation, automotive retail,
manufacturing, construction and retail reduced by 59% to 42.6 tCO 2 e/MWh. The decrease in absolute emissions pandemic levels.
sectors. Absolute estimated Scope 3 These decreases largely reflect and emissions intensities is largely due – Automotive manufacturing:
emissions increased by 0.3 MtCOe increased funding of renewable to improved customer data availability The increase in economic emissions
2 electricity generation projects and which has resulted in estimates now intensity is due to better availability
of customer emissions data.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 42
Estimates of financed emissions continued
Estimates of financed emissions data quality
The PCAF Financed Emissions standard
2023 2022
(Part A) (PCAF standard) published in PCAF 1 and 2: PCAF 4:(2) Revenue PCAF 5: Sector
December 2022 recommends applying published emissions PCAF 3: Production estimated emissions estimated emissions Overall data quality Overall data quality
a data quality scoring methodology to help Sector(1) (%) data (%) (%) (%) score score
assess data quality challenges and Residential Mortgages – 66 – 34 3.7LA 3.7
recognise areas for improvement. PCAF’s Commercial real estate(3) – 17 – 83 4.7LA 4.6
ratings assign directly collected customer Automotive manufacturing – 98 1 1 3.0 4.1
emissions data a better score while Automotive retail 41 – 55 4 3.2 3.5
estimated or extrapolated data achieves Transport 18 – 60 22 3.9 4.3
lower scoring.
Aviation 56 – 26 18 3.1LA 3.5
PCAF scores of 1 or 2 are typically Electricity generation 5 79 9 7 3.2LA 4.4
considered to have a very low margin Oil and gas Scope 1 and 2 49 – 38 13 3.2LA 3.3
of error for estimation of financed emissions, Oil and gas Scope 3 26 – 57 17 3.7LA 3.6
as these are directly sourced from reports Waste 22 14 48 16 3.6 3.7
published by the customer, while a PCAF
Agriculture – primary farming – – 59 41 4.4LA 4.4
score of 5 is typically considered to have
Manufacturing 32 – 51 17 3.5LA 4.2
a much larger margin of error as these
Construction 17 – 44 39 4.1 4.5
are estimated by the reporting entity.
Data limitations mean that financed
Retail 33 – 37 30 3.6LA 4.1
emissions are estimated using a mixture of Leisure 9 – 58 33 4.2LA 4.5
customer-specific emissions and estimated Other financed emissions models 18 – 31 51 4.2 4.5
data. Refer to the 2024 NatWest Group Total NatWest Group
Sustainability Basis of Reporting for details (excluding AUM and facilitated emissions) 8 39 14 39 3.9 4.0
of estimation methodologies applied.
Refer to our 2024 Sustainability Basis of Reporting for details of methodology used for estimation.
We continue to engage with customers,
stakeholders and data vendors, and
participate in wider initiatives to help Footnotes for this page (4) Oil and gas physical emissions intensity is based on extraction borrowers only, while the
enhance the availability of robust climate- (1) The PCAF data quality score is based on the PCAF approach taken to estimate Scope 1 oil and gas Scope 3 estimate value is based solely on upstream borrowers (principally
and Scope 2 emissions within a given sector. Where estimation methodologies differ extraction customer and refinery operations) which make up c.37% of oil and gas sector
related data, and over time we have between Scope 1 and Scope 2, we use the least favourable of a customers’ PCAF scores lending exposure.
observed gradual improvement in our in the weighted average calculation. In practice this only impacts a small number of (5) Other represents estimated financed emissions on 27% of our in-scope loans and
borrowers primarily within our electricity generation sector. In addition: investments (23% estimated financed emissions) as at 31 December 2023, primarily
customers’ PCAF scores. During 2024, (i) For the oil and gas and automotive manufacturing sectors the Scope 3 PCAF relating to collective estimation approach where a common methodology has been applied
we have used financial and emissions data weighted average data quality score has been calculated separately in line with to sectors and subsectors not individually analysed in the table. 3.1 MtCO2e collective
from additional sources and continue to (ii) P So C v A e F r e m ig e n t h m o o d d o e lo l g P y C . AF scores are excluded from this table a em ct i i s v s it i i o e n s s , 0 e . s 6 t M im t a C t O es 2e i n f c o l r u d m e o s b : i 0 lit . y 7 M an tC d O lo 2 g e i s fo ti r c s u - t r i e lit la ie t s e d a n a d c t n iv a it t i u e r s a , l 0 r . e 4 s o M u t r C c O es 2 - e r e fo la r t e o d th er
supplement our own estimates of financed (2) PCAF 4 is a combination of internal revenue based models and external vendor estimates. consumer-related activities. In addition, other includes emissions for: cement (0.03 MtCO2e),
emissions with emission estimates provided (3) T du h e e t w o e i i s g s h u t e e s d m av a e tc r h a i g n e g P E C P A C F c s e c r o ti r fi e c a r t e e m s a w in it s h lo in w d iv in id o u u a r l s c e o c m u m re e d r c p i r a o l p re e a rt l i e e s s . tate portfolio a sh n i d p p s i t n e g e l ( 0 (0 .0 .1 5 M M t t C C O O 2 2 e e ) ) , . water (0.08MtCO2e), housing associations (0.05 MtCO2e), and iron
by a data vendor. Use of vendor estimates (6) NatWest Group principally holds debt securities issued by sovereign counterparties for
liquidity management and to meet regulatory requirements in different jurisdictions in which
is limited to situations where we do not have
the bank operates. These balances can vary significantly over time and NatWest Group
company published emissions data (PCAF 1 Footnotes for page 41 has limited ability to influence the climate outcomes of these nations. Because of this, we
have not included estimated financed emissions relating to our sovereign debt modelling
or 2) or do not estimate emissions using (1) The PCAF standard does not currently outline an estimation approach for short-term
within total NatWest Group estimation. Estimates of sovereign financed emissions are
assets (such as nostro and repurchase agreements), quasi sovereign assets (for example,
production or activity data (PCAF 3).During
local authorities) and consumer lending other than mortgages and motor vehicle loans.
4.0 MtCO2e at 31 December 2023 (4.0 MtCO2e at 31 December 2022) and primarily relate
to UK and US sovereign debt.
2024, in line with PCAF guidance, we have As such these products are currently excluded from our financed emissions estimation.
Loans and investments relate to on-balance sheet gross exposure, accounted at amortised (7) Emissions as at 31 December 2023 to the passenger rail and auto manufacturing sectors
also begun using Enterprise Value Including cost (including finance leases) and FVOCI. are now less than 50kt. A dash (–) indicates where data is calculated but rounds to 0.0Mt.
Cash (EVIC) for listed companies in our (2) The weighted average economic emissions intensity based on Scope 1, 2 and 3 estimated (8) NatWest Group Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions of 15.1 MtCO2e comprises 11.4 MtCO2e
attribution factor estimation. The table (3) e F m or i s t s h io e n a s u i t n o m th o is t i t v a e b m le. anufacturing sector, only Scope 3 emissions are considered in the 1 S 3 co .1 p e M 1 tC a O n 2 d e 3 S . c 7 o M pe tC 1 O a 2 n e d S 4 co .4 p e M 2 tC ( O 31 2e D S e c c o e p m e b 2 e ) r . 2022 17.5 MtCO2e comprised
shows the breakdown of available customer estimation of physical emissions intensity. For the transport sector, all scopes are included
data between PCAF scores and related in the estimation of physical emissions intensity. Physical emissions intensity is not shown
for automotive retail and aviation sectors as methodologies are in the process of being
percentage of exposures for each sector. developed.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 43
Estimates of financed emissions continued
Financed emissions data limitations
A common theme across all emissions, but could result from changes in correspond to Scope 3 for another customer
sectors relates to data limitations, other factors, such as new data sources within the same or different sector.
including lack of published used to estimate emissions in the absence Our customers do not disclose who their
emissions data and granularity of externally published customer emissions. suppliers or customers are, thus making
of customer information. Fluctuations in customer on-balance sheet the identification of potential double
lending, such as uncommitted credit limits, counting of our Scope 3 emissions very
As a result, the estimates included
can cause variance in year on year difficult and the possibility of double
in this report are premised on use of the
estimated emissions comparisons. counting likely at a NatWest Group
assumptions, extrapolations or aggregation
and economy-wide level.
at subsector levels. Based on these Lack of industry comparability: Emissions
limitations, we expect our estimates intensity estimates are not necessarily Scope 3 definition differences: Definition of
of emissions and emissions intensities comparable across different financial Scope 3 applied by customers within a sector
to change as we improve the granularity institutions as they are based on data may include different activities, both in
and coverage of customer climate data related to NatWest Group customers, terms of Scope 3 coverage (not all Scope 3
and develop our methodologies further. our methodology and data sources. categories are mandatory for disclosure)
Refer to the previous page for a summary and generally differences in interpretation
Inconsistent characteristics for
of our PCAF data quality scores by sector. of the GHG protocol. This could result
extrapolated portfolios: Where we have
Specific limitations include: in variation in Scope 3 emissions reported
only been able to source data for a subset
by customers within the same sector.
Availability, accuracy and comparability of our portfolio, we may use averages from
Limitations regarding Scope 3 emission
of customer data and other public data this subset to calculate emission metrics
estimates are noted in the PCAF Standard:
sources: While we have estimated for the remainder of our portfolio. The
‘PCAF acknowledges that, to date, the
emissions for on-balance sheet lending and characteristics of each part of the portfolio
comparability, coverage, transparency, and
investment as at 31 December 2022 and may be sufficiently different resulting
reliability of Scope 3 data still varies greatly
2023, published customer data and other in extrapolation that may not always
per sector and data source’. NatWest
public data sources used in modelling may align with actual customer data
Group has not expanded its sectoral Scope
not always correlate to these dates. as it becomes available.
3 financed emissions disclosures while we
This may result in a lag in reflecting any
Complex corporate structures: In some assess the quality and consistency of
changes in customer circumstances within
circumstances we may lend to a legal entity available Scope 3 customer data.
NatWest Group’s financed emissions.
within a corporate group whose financial
Where customer emissions data is available, Reliance on third‑party data and
metrics and emissions are either unavailable
we are unable to test alignment with estimates of emissions: Where we have
or not representative of the nature of
the GHG emissions protocol. Customers’ chosen to use third-party data or estimates
a Trading entity within that sector, for
operational structures may result in different of emissions, we gain comfort by reviewing
example, intermediary holding companies
categorisation of activities and emissions. available data or estimation documentation
or entities performing a treasury function for
and performing relevant data checks.
NatWest Group. This can lead to emission
Susceptibility to variation year on year: However, by nature we do not have full
metrics being inconsistent with their peers.
We use customer emissions, production knowledge of the methodology, matching
To limit the potential impact of this issue,
and revenue data to estimate financed processes, data quality or operation
where appropriate NatWest Group may use
emissions. Customer revenue and of this externally provided information,
the financial metrics and emissions profiles
production are susceptible to change for and cannot therefore exert direct control.
of a customer parent or group in estimating
various reasons such as global events. Examples of this include the provision
financed emissions and emissions intensities.
As customers’ disclosures develop to include or application of EPC certificates, and
their emissions, the reliance on other Double counting of Scope 3: A limitation the provision of revenue-based estimates
estimation processes will reduce. In the of the PCAF standard is that of ‘double of financed emissions.
meantime, variation in emission metrics may counting’, whereby the Scope 1 or 2
For further details of methodologies and data
not always reflect changes in customers’ emissions for a given customer may
limitations, refer to our 2024 Sustainability
Basis of Reporting.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 44
Estimates of financed emissions continued
Methodologies, standard setters and scenario selection
Scenario selection assumptions of the scenarios used for each (NGFS) produced scenarios which satisfy
In addition to the estimation of baseline sector and their potential impacts on the `well below 2°c’ requirement of the
and current financed emissions, we emissions are noted in the NatWest Group 2015 Paris Agreement. The results from
estimate emissions reductions required in 2024 Sustainability Basis of Reporting and our internal scenario analysis have
future years. In 2022 we also set sectoral were discussed in more detail in our 2021 informed our assessment of financed
targets validated by the SBTi as science- Climate-related Disclosures Report. emissions and developing the initial
based. This underpinned development of Updates on policy assumptions were iteration of our Climate transition plan.
our initial Climate transition plan and assessed as part of our work on our The insights have also been integrated into
ongoing identification of opportunities to Climate transition plan. The UK CCC and the assessment of sectors with exposure
help our customers’ transition to a net-zero IEA scenarios when selected had similar classified as heightened to climate-related
economy. Scenarios are used in a number assumptions on technology deployment risk. We have continued to build our
of key ways and we have outlined which and policy support, so this approach measurement capabilities to enable the
are used where and the importance of enabled NatWest Group to consider the assessment of climate-related risks and
them. All scenarios used are recognised in impact of its financing and further support opportunities within NatWest Group’s loans
the industry and developed by independent we can provide to customers to support and investments using external scenarios
and respected organisations to assess their transition to net zero. In 2022, we set aligned with the 2015 Paris Agreement.
forward-looking pathways for sectors. sector targets validated by the SBTi as There is increasing concern acknowledged
science-based for 79% of our lending book by the NGFS consisting of 114 central
SBTi target setting (2021‑2022)
as at 31 December 2019 and 57% of debt banks, that model scenarios, including
We followed the SBTi requirement of securities and equity shares, excluding those provided by central banks and
selecting scenarios that are at least as sovereign debt securities. As noted within supervisory bodies and, therefore used
ambitious as those in the SBTi Sectoral the 2024 NatWest Group Sustainability by NatWest Group, are too benign
Decarbonisation Approach (SDA) tool. Basis of Reporting, the 2030 targets, and may not adequately capture:
We also tried to use as few scenarios validated by the SBTi, are based on
– the financial implications of increasing
as possible to keep the overall picture external scenarios including the UK
frequency and severity of acute physical
consistent. For each sector, we compared CCC BNZ scenario as well as the
risks as global temperatures increase;
the IEA’s B2DS World scenario against the IEA B2DS scenario.
UK CCC’s BNZ scenarios and selected the – second and third order impacts such as
most ambitious pathway to 2030 at the Climate risk scenario analysis disruptions to supply chains and
point of assessment. IEA NZE was selected Our internal climate scenario analysis, increased geo-political risks; nor
for oil and gas (Scope 3 emissions) as at including that carried out to support the – possible ‘tipping points’ that could lead
the time of target setting, it was the only annual internal scenario exercise, allowed to large, irreversible changes in the
scenario to contain this pathway. We will us to assess our exposure to climate- climate system, for example, a material
continue to assess updates in scenarios related risks across our lending and debt slow down in the Atlantic Meridional
as they are published and incorporated securities book, including using the Overturning Circulation (AMOC).
in methodologies, including SBTi. The main Network for Greening the Financial System Refer to pages 53 to 58 for details of our
scenario analysis exercises.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 45
Estimates of facilitated emissions from bond underwriting
and syndicated lending
Banks play a key role as facilitators between issuers and investors, and borrowers and lenders, by offering and conducting financial
intermediation activities critical to the functioning of capital markets.
Following issuance of the PCAF Part B Global Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting – Capital markets syndicated lending activities,(5,6) of £6.9 billion including the syndication
Standard for Facilitated Emissions in December 2023, and further guidance received of green loans as defined by the Loan Markets Association.
in September 2024, NatWest Group updated the estimation of absolute Scope 1 and 2
In 2024, total estimated Scope 1 and 2 facilitated emissions, weighted at 33%,
facilitated emissions for capital markets to include:
were 1.28 MtCOe. Refer to page 46 for Methodology.
2
– Capital markets bond underwriting activities, including green bonds as defined by
It is important to note that reported emissions shown in the table below(3,9) are estimates
the International Capital Market Association’s Green Bond Principles(1,3) and the role of
and may be subject to change given shifting baselines year-on-year and evolving PCAF
co-manager.(4) This constituted 60% of our capital markets bond underwriting including
guidance.(7) Estimated facilitated emissions will vary subject to NatWest Group’s attributable
financial institutions, with the balance being sovereigns, supranationals and agencies as
bond underwriting and syndicated lending mandates year-on-year.
well as securitised products, which are out of scope for PCAF.
2024 2023
Attributable bond underwriting and Facilitated emissions from
syndicated lending Facilitated emissions from bond underwriting and syndicated lending corporate bond underwriting
% of total underwriting % of total emissions Green % of total PCAF data % of total emissions
Sector £m and syndicated lending MtCO2e (33% weighting) sector emissions quality score (33% weighting)(8)
Power utilities 4,329 5% 0.58 45% 82% 2.7 36%
Airlines and aerospace 1,624 2% 0.20 15% 0% 2.9 0%
Chemicals 1,065 1% 0.19 15% 0% 3.6 18%
Leisure 2,007 2% 0.04 3% 0% 3.4 0%
Oil and gas 812 1% 0.04 3% 0% 3.3 2%
Land transport and logistics 716 1% 0.04 3% 0% 3.4 10%
Retail 3,103 3% 0.03 2% 0% 2.5 1%
Water and waste 1,103 1% 0.02 2% 11% 2.0 5%
Manufacturing 3,031 3% 0.02 1% 0% 2.9 5%
Financial institutions 63,777 67% 0.02 1% 1% 2.9 0%
Automotive 2,679 3% 0.02 1% 0% 3.0 1%
Commercial real estate 1,406 1% 0.01 1% 90% 3.0 0%
Other 9,247 9% 0.10 8% 35% 3.3 22%
– Of which business and professional services 2,123 2% 0.07 6% 43% 3.0 1%
– Of which technology, media, and telecommunications 5,317 6% 0.01 1% 7% 3.1 1%
Total(8) 94,901 100% 1.28 100% 3.0 100%
Analysis
The inclusion of syndicated lending in 2024 contributed to an increase in facilitated For power utilities, attributable bond underwriting and syndicated lending increased by 34%
emissions for airlines and aerospace and chemicals, where total facilitated emissions between 2023 and 2024 resulting in an increase of facilitated emissions to 0.58 MtCOe.
2
were 0.20 MtCOe and 0.19 MtCOe respectively, each representing 15% of total However, 82% of the attributable bond underwriting and syndicated lending was green(1,3)
2 2
estimated emissions. relative to 60% of green corporate bonds in 2023.
Oil and gas represented 1% of total attributable bond underwriting and syndicated lending, For footnotes on this page, refer to page 46.
and constituted 3% of estimated facilitated emissions in 2024.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 46
Estimates of facilitated emissions from bond underwriting and syndicated lending (continued)
Methodology In 2024, we applied a 33% weighting Limitations
The 2023 PCAF standard allows splitting factor for emissions estimations in line Scope 3 emissions have not yet been
responsibility among the transaction with the PCAF standard. In 2023, estimated for facilitated emissions.
facilitators (passive and active) using either we applied a 100% weighting factor.(8) The PCAF standard recommends that
league tables based on fees or the value of In line with the PCAF standard, to estimate Scope 3 emissions for all sectors are
the volume. For bond underwriting, greenhouse gas emissions, we sourced disclosed from the beginning of 2025.
NatWest Group used league tables based customer-level emissions data, where We continue to review Scope 3 estimation
on volumes for active and passive roles possible. If customer-level data is methodologies and the availability of
and actual allocation for co-manager roles. unavailable, emission sector averages appropriate data for inclusion in future
For loan syndication, we used both league (PCAF data quality score of 5) are used for reporting.
tables based on volumes and deal emission intensities from 2023 and applied For further details of methodologies and data
information. against 2024 volumes.(7) limitations, refer to page 43 and our 2024
We followed the PCAF standard to define Currently, there is no commonly agreed Sustainability Basis of Reporting.
an issuer as an organisation that issues methodology for measuring the carbon
debt or equity capital markets instruments. footprint of green bonds and loans.(1)
Sovereigns, supranationals and agency We show conventional versus green
issuers, as well as securitised products, bonds and syndicated loans to highlight
are out of scope for the PCAF standard. the expected difference of facilitated
For syndicated lending, we included the emissions associated with each activity.(1,3)
roles of active and passive underwriting Sustainability-linked and sustainable bond
and best efforts. Coordination is not in and loan activities are treated as
scope of the PCAF standard.(5,6) conventional for the purpose
of estimating facilitated emissions.
Footnotes from pages 45 and 46:
(1) Green bonds and loans have been excluded by PCAF from facilitated emissions calculations for 2024. It is expected that green bonds and loans have a reduced emissions intensity, but no
calculation or methodology has been developed to quantify the emissions associated with green bonds, loans and other known use of proceeds bonds. Green bond underwriting is included in our
2024 facilitated emissions calculation for consistency with prior year disclosures, and syndicated lending for 2024 reporting, but no differentiation is made between conventional and green bond
underwriting and syndicated lending emissions to account for this and we have not attributed a lower emission intensity to green bond underwriting emissions and syndicated lending emissions.
(2) The PCAF standard does not currently outline an estimation approach for short-term assets (such as commercial papers). Therefore, these products are currently excluded from our facilitated
emissions estimation.
(3) With regard to the green bonds and syndicated lending, NatWest Group 2024 climate and sustainable funding and financing inclusion criteria were used to determine the assets, activities and
companies eligible for inclusion.
(4) Co-managers are not captured by the PCAF standard. We include transactions where we acts as a co-manager in alignment with the GHG accounting ‘follow the money approach’ and with
NatWest Group’s climate and sustainable funding and financing inclusion criteria.
(5) A syndicated loan transaction is defined by the PCAF standard as a loan made available by two or more providers under a common loan agreement and ranking credit is assigned upon
signature of the loan documentation. Where a financial institution provides an underwriting facility that puts the institution’s capital at risk, this should be treated separately from the role they
provide in arranging and facilitating an issuance.
(6) The syndicated loan market is a private market with no requirement for banks to report collectively into third-party league tables. Based upon its own market knowledge, NatWest Group
identified relevant loan markets volumes based upon an internal scope and methodology with an aim to align to guidance from PCAF issued in December 2024. Numbers reported are therefore
presented on a best-endeavours basis and are subject to change as guidance develops.
(7) NatWest Group aims to estimate facilitated emissions using the latest data available, recognising there may be a lag between the availability of emissions data and the date of record for
reporting. As a result of this lag, recent changes in a counterparty’s activities may not be reflected in the estimate of facilitated emissions. We continue to refine our estimates as we enhance
our understanding, calculation methodologies and data. Also, methodologies to calculate emissions for certain sectors are still under development. Based on these limitations, we expect our
estimates to change as we improve the granularity and coverage of customer climate data and develop methodologies further.
(8) In 2024, scope for the estimation of facilitated emissions was expanded to include syndicated lending, financial institutions and co-managers. Reporting of facilitated emissions in 2024 uses a 33%
weighting factor. In 2023, the estimation of facilitated emissions included corporate bond underwriting only. Estimated facilitated emissions, reported at 100% weighting, were 1.5 MtCO2e
(equating to 0.5 MtCO2e if a 33% weighting factor had been used).
(9) The table on page 45 should be read in conjunction with the cautionary statements on pages 92 to 96 and Risk factors included on pages 408 to 426 of the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual
Report and Accounts.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 47
Own operational footprint: progress update
In 2024, NatWest Group achieved all ambitions set to upstream and downstream Scope 3 Supply chain emissions
be delivered by 2025, reducing direct own operations(1) emissions. This includes emissions from our Our supply chain emissions formed 65%
direct own operations as well as the wider of our 2024 operational emissions, offering
emissions 51% against a 2019 baseline.(2)
operational value chain, in line with our a key opportunity for decarbonisation.
2030 and 2050 ambitions.
– Total supply chain emissions have
NatWest Group is retiring the direct own travel, property portfolio right-sizing,
– Our own operational emissions(4) reduced by 40% between 2019
operations ambition and aims to reduce and our resource use. In 2024, we have
emissions for its own operational footprint achieved all of these and met our 2025 have reduced by 46%, 455,748 tCO 2 e, and 2024.
between our 2019 baseline and 2024
– As we predominately use spend-based
by reducing Scope 1 and location-based(3) ambition, reducing direct own operations
reporting year.
methods, changes in influenced spend(5)
Scope 2 emissions by 70% and Scope 3 emissions by 51% against a 2019 baseline.
– The most material reduction in will directly impact emissions.
emissions by 50% by 2030. Refer to page
All activity is supported by a focus emissions occurred within upstream
49 for further details. – An update to the industry-average
on continuous data improvement Scope 3 categories 1, 2, and 9 as well
emission factor database has been the
NatWest Group’s operational emissions and methodology enhancements. as location-based Scope 2 emissions.
main contributor to the reduction in
represent 3% of the bank total emissions, These improvements have been Scope 3 emissions reductions result
purchased goods and services emissions
based on latest available data. Refer to incorporated into 2024 estimations. mainly from our supply chain
in 2024. Therefore, we continue to work
page 23 for a breakdown of emissions. For consistency, where possible, 2019 to decarbonising, with location-based
with suppliers to obtain supplier-specific
2023 estimates have also been reassessed Scope 2 emissions reductions from grid
On our path to achieve our 2030 science- data to reduce our reliance on industry
as a result of exceeding our 5% rebaseline greening as more renewable electricity
based targets, in 2020 we set interim averages emission factors and to
threshold. Refer to page 49 for details. is added to national electricity grids,
ambitions for our direct own operations measure supplier emissions trajectory
energy efficiency work undertaken
to reduce emissions by 50% by 2025 to help inform choices across our
2019 to 2024 emissions progress across our portfolio and portfolio
from a 2019 baseline, for emissions where supply chain.
The waterfall chart included below right-sizing.
we consider we have the greatest ability
discloses our own operational emissions Refer to the NatWest Group 2024
to influence reductions, for example For further details of drivers for Scope 1 and Sustainability Basis of Reporting for further
between 2019 and 2024, including our
through energy efficiencies, reducing Scope 2 reduction activities in 2024, refer to details of our updated methodology.
page 49 to 50 of the NatWest Group plc 2024
Annual Report and Accounts.
Own Operational Emissions tCOe(4)
2
(1) NatWest Group defines direct own operations as our Reporting (SECR) disclosure, included on page
Scope 1 Scope 1, location-based Scope 2 and Scope 3 (paper, 50 of the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual Report
Location-based Scope 2(3) water, waste, business travel, commuting and work from and Accounts, for further details of the basis of GHG
Upstream Scope 3 home) emissions. It therefore excludes upstream and emissions reporting.
995,502 Downstream Scope 3 downstream emissions from our value chain. The term (4) Our own operational emissions reporting year runs from
118,967 (10,681) ‘ o d n ir w e a ct r d o s w f n o ll o o p w e in ra g t i a o c n h s i ’ e w ve ill m b e e n r t e o ti f r e o d u r f r 2 o 0 m 2 5 2 0 a 2 m 5 b itions. 1 in c O lu c d to e b s e g r r e to e n 3 h 0 o S u e se p t g e a m s b e e m r. is O s u io r n o s p S e c r o a p ti e o s n a 1 l , f 2 o o a t n p d ri n 3 t
(72,083)
(2) Our 2019 baseline runs from 1 October 2018 to (Categories 1-14, excluding Categories 8, 10, 14).
30 September 2019. For details of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol including
(3) Our ambition is location-based to drive absolute upstream and downstream refer to diagram of scopes
20,083 reductions in consumption. Location-based GHG and emissions across the value chain.
(293,100) 539,754
emissions method reflects the average emissions (5) Influenced spend is spend associated with the
726,768 (79,884) 46,884 intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs procurement of purchased goods and services in which
9,402 (using grid-average emission factors). Market-based NatWest Group directly controls. It does not include
emissions reflect emissions from electricity procured from spend categories such as regulatory fees, commission
433,668 sources NatWest Group has selected, including and general fees, international taxes, customer
renewable electricity. As renewable sources have nearly passthrough costs, and spend attributed to emissions
zero emissions associated with energy generation, in other categories/scopes of our carbon footprint.
129,684 market-based emissions are lower than location-based
49,800
emissions. Refer to Streamlined Energy and Carbon
2019 2024
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 48
Own operational footprint: progress update continued
Own operational footprint: direct own operations progress update
In 2024, NatWest Group achieved all the ambitions set to Renewable energy RE100: Following the approach in reducing energy consumption
achievement of our RE100 commitment in across our portfolio, as well as global
be delivered by 2025. The charts below provide an overview
2023, we have maintained 100% renewable property right-sizing and FTE reductions.
of our progress in achieving these ambitions.
electricity across our global operations.(3)
Waste: We have experimented with and
This was achieved through green tariffs,
continued to implement measures which
on-site solar and purchasing Renewable
strive to enhance our approach towards
Electricity Certificates for our landlord
2024 122,619 -51% 2024 100% the principles of circular economy, which
supplied properties, where we are unable
has resulted in a 60% reduction in waste(4)
2023 131,558 -47% 2023 100% to specify a requirement for renewable since 2019. We have also optimised our
electricity due to the existing structures of
waste services across our buildings in the
2019 baseline 247,718 2022 97% energy supply and billing systems. The solar
UK mainland, resulting in a reduction in
panels installed at 440 Strand generate
waste of 16.8 tonnes compared with 2023.
100% enough electricity at peak performance to
Ambition achieved New waste streams were introduced
-51% Ambition achieved in 2024 On-going ambition power all desktop computers in the building. at our data centres during 2024 which
and retired In 2024, this level of output was achieved improved their waste recycling rate by
since 2019 We continue to aim to use only renewable electricity for four months of the year. Looking
in our direct own global operations, using green 30%. During 2024 we diverted 99.9%
We aimed to reduce our direct own operations(1) forward, in 2025 we expect 39% of our UK
tariffs and purchased renewable electricity of waste from landfill, to either energy
by 50% between 2019 and 2025 for Scope 1, certificates.(RE100)(3) (% global electricity) electricity to come from corporate power
location-based Scope 2, and certain Scope 3 recovery, recycling or reuse.
purchase agreements.
categories.
Paper: We achieved our ambition to
Electric vehicles EV100: In 2024 we
reduce paper consumption by 70%
installed a further 55 electric vehicle (EV)
by 2025, against a 2015 baseline.
2024 100% 2024 15% chargers and now have EV chargers in 15%
Consumption has consistently reduced
of our large office spaces across the UK.
since 2015, with a reduction of 73%
2023 33% 2023 13% We have also transitioned our owned and
achieved between 2015 and 2024.
operated fleet to fully electric, fulfilling both
2022 3% 2022 13% of our EV100 commitments. It is worth This was due to the continued
implementation of digitisation programmes
noting that the life cycle of electric vehicles
100% 15% as well as our paperless programme,
Ambition achieved Ambition achieved is not fully sustainable yet, and it is
which has resulted in a reduction
and retired and retired challenging to obtain data to draw
in 2024 in 2024 in 16 million envelopes during 2024.
meaningful comparisons of emission
We aimed for 100% of our fleet vehicles to be We aimed to install EV chargers in 15% of our large reductions. Looking ahead, we plan to (1) Scope 1, location-based Scope 2 and Scope 3
electric by 2025 (EV100). (% of fleet converted office spaces across our portfolio (EV100) (% of large (paper, water, waste, business travel, commuting
to electric) office spaces with charging infrastructure) continue encouraging colleague uptake of and work from home) emissions.
electric vehicles through the availability of
(2) GWh is Gigawatt hours of energy. FTE is a full-time
EV chargers across our property portfolio. employee equivalent.
(3) Using green tariffs and purchased renewable electricity
Ambition: 40% 2024 4,955 Outside our EV100 commitment, certificates. Tariffs are labelled as green if some or all of
2024 249 +114% we have demonstrated innovation and the units of electricity are ‘matched’ by units generated
2023 7,230 commitment to sustainable transport with from a verified renewable energy source.
2023 214 +84% two electric mobile banks, currently used (4) Routine operational waste includes waste from our UK
and Republic of Ireland offices, branches and data
2019 12,386 to serve customers in remote areas. The centres, and excludes construction waste. Waste
2 ba 0 s 1 e 5 l ine 116 Metric tonnes of waste generated (t) second phase of this project is underway generated comprises: Recycled (2024 3,960t, 2023
5,993t, 2022 6,956t, 2021 8,472t, 2020 7,217t, 2019
FTE per GWh(2) with plans for an additional three electric 9,238t), Incineration with energy recovery (2024 738t,
100% mobile banks to be rolled out in 2025. 2023 967t, 2022 1,133t, 2021 1,170t, 2020 2,012t, 2019
+114% Ambition achieved Ambition 2,757t), Reused (2024 252t, 2023 263, 2022 235t, 2021
and retired recycled, recovered or achieved and Energy productivity EP100: We met our 241t, 2020 461t, 2019 349t), Landfilled (2024 5t, 2023
since 2015 reused in 2024 retired EP100 commitment during 2024, improving 7t,2022 10t, 2021 9t, 2020 7t, 2019 42t).
We aimed to improve energy productivity by 40% We aimed to maintain zero waste to landfill in UK and energy productivity by 114% from a
compared to 2015 baseline (EP100) (% total energy). Republic of Ireland (% waste diverted from landfill) 2015 baseline. This was due to a consistent
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 49
Own operational footprint: progress update continued
Our 2030 ambitions Our Scope 3 emissions have reduced factors which are outside our direct
44% in 2024 from our 2019 baseline. influence. We review our ambitions against
We are working to improve
NatWest Group’s supply chain emissions peers, updates to SBTi and other
supplier data as well as refining
NatWest Group aims to reduce make up 65% of Scope 1, location-based voluntary commitments, as well methodologies to support
its Scope 1 and location‑based Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions and are as against projections. any actions we take to reduce
Scope 2 emissions by 70% by therefore key drivers of reductions. emissions.
2030, against a 2019 baseline. Our supply chain emissions have Risks and dependencies
reduced by 40% between 2019 and 2024. The delivery of our own operations climate The 2024 emissions estimates
2024: We have achieved a 60% ambitions and associated climate transition presented in this section take into
reduction against our existing Mitigate emissions beyond the plan is dependent upon a range of factors account improved data and
target to reduce Scope 1 and value chain including: methodology enhancements where
location-based Scope 2 emissions In support of our commitment to contribute available. We have also reassessed
by 50% by 2030, against a 2019 to projects that aim to remove carbon – Voluntary decarbonisation of direct 2019 to 2023 emissions presented
baseline. beyond our operational value chain, and indirect suppliers. to align the basis of preparation so
we are aiming to continue to invest – The increase in energy consumption a like for like comparison can be
in nature-based solutions. required to fuel Artificial Intelligence (AI) made. This impacts Scope 1, 2 and
which is anticipated to occur for both 3 estimates. Scope 1 emissions for
Due to progress made in energy 2024 is the last year of retiring 120,000 our own operations as well as our 2019 have decreased by 3%, while
reduction, energy efficiency and portfolio carbon credits purchased from a supply chain. total Scope 3 emissions (categories
right-sizing, we have achieved a 60% sustainable grazing project. For details of – Availability and cost of renewable 1 to 14) have risen by 5%.
reduction in Scope 1 and location-based how NatWest Group used carbon credits(1) electricity certificates and carbon
Scope 2 emissions against a 2019 baseline. to neutralise emissions in the past, refer credits. We have defined an internal
To reflect this progress we have refreshed to pages 41 and 43 of the 2023 NatWest materiality threshold to assess
– Availability and cost of technology such
our ambition to reduce Scope 1 and 2 Group Climate-related Disclosures Report. when a reassessment is triggered,
as electrified heating and the supply
location-based emissions and will now set at 5% of operational emissions.
aim for a 70% reduction by 2030, At the same time, we have also started to chains required to support delivery. When emissions have been
against a 2019 baseline. explore technology-based solutions which – Policies to decarbonise public travel reassessed, NatWest Group
are gaining prominence on global carbon and domestic heating. operates internal controls to ensure
removal markets due to their permanence there are no significant changes
Looking ahead: supplier emissions
and reliability. As an experiment, we that could compromise the
NatWest Group has a target purchased 500 CO 2 Removal Certificates As our supply chain emissions account for relevance and consistency of the
to reduce absolute Scope 3 (CORCs),(2) the equivalent of 500 tonnes of the majority of our operational carbon existing operational ambitions and
emissions from applicable carbon dioxide captured and sequestered. footprint, we aim to use supplier climate targets, including those validated
categories 1‑14 by 50% by 2030 The process captures carbon from biogenic data with ESG risk combined weightings to by the SBTi.
from a 2019 baseline. sources and sequesters it in manufactured measure supplier climate maturity and help
limestone for 1,000 years, the estimated inform choices across our supply chain.
2024: We have achieved a 44% geological life. Supported by:
reduction.
– Engagement: Expand our supplier and
Ambition setting
business area engagement during 2025
Our 2030 ambitions have been set using
to further develop cross-departmental
the SBTi pathways to include all relevant
During 2024, we focused on setting strong Scope 3 categories. Utilising data from support as well as supplier and (1) The SBTi recommends that companies invest to mitigate
foundations for Scope 3 decarbonisation service-specific data provision. emissions beyond their value chain while they transition
the UK CCC’s Sixth Carbon Budget we
by improving data accuracy across most – Data: Continue to improve the towards a state of net-zero emissions. In accordance
forecast our operational footprint to 2030 with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, our absolute emission
Scope 3 categories, upskilling supply chain to understand actions needed accuracy of our emissions reporting reductions of 70% for Scope 1 and Scope 2, 50% for
managers and augmenting sustainability through experimentation. Scope 3 and 90% for all operational emissions by 2050
to decarbonise, as well as identifying those
through procurement processes. – Insights: Utilise further third-party are not achieved through the use of carbon credits.
(2) CORCs purchased from the Carbon Removers, which
data to gain additional insights
are verified by the puro.earth methodology for
on our supplier base. carbonated materials.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 50
Own operational footprint: progress update continued
Own operational footprint: supply chain sustainability
Decarbonising our
Supplier data collection applications. A new approach has been
property portfolio
This is the second year of our supplier data applied to our most material supplier spend
Supply chain emissions
improvement journey, focusing on the data to refine inclusions or exclusions in our Sustainable buildings in India
methodology breakdown (tCOe)
2 suppliers with the highest contribution supply chain emissions reporting boundary, We have continued to broaden
to our emissions. refer to the 2024 Sustainability Basis of our focus to include our overseas
583,361 373,392 350,236 Reporting for further details. Where offices, collaborating with our
2% 2% 2% In 2024 we continued supporting our supplier, service or product-specific data is landlords to promote the adoption
5% 2% 1% suppliers to measure, report and reduce unavailable, we apply industry averages(3) of sustainable practices in our
17% their emissions. We provided suppliers to estimate emissions by spend category. India offices.
39% 39% who accounted for 70% of our reported
2023 supply chain emissions with free Supply chain manager training Our Chennai and Gurugram
access to respond to the CDP supply chain During 2024, 97% of supply chain offices are now Leadership
module. This enabled further transparency managers completed our climate training, in Energy and Environmental
76% 57% 58% within our climate reporting by improving aiming to empower colleagues who work Design (LEED) operation and
our supplier-specific data from 18% of with suppliers with the skills to lead maintenance platinum rated,
suppliers by emissions reported in 2023 effective climate conversations. representing the highest level of
to 39% in 2024 as part of our hybrid The training consisted of four modules, achievement. Buildings that earn
2019 2023 2024 methodology.(1) Switching from industry each designed to build knowledge this certification demonstrate
Industry average (spend based) average to supplier-specific emission on key climate topics. exceptional energy efficiency,
Supplier specific (spend based) factors reduced supplier carbon intensities resource conservation and
Service specific (FTE)
by 62% in 2019 and 56% in 2024. Measuring the sustainability of our sustainable design practices.
Product specific (paper, water and mail)
supply chain These buildings are also LEED
We communicated our decarbonisation
Gold Certified in interior design
ambitions and the role of both CDP To improve and maintain our sustainability
and construction, as well
and EcoVadis in our decarbonisation performance across key areas including
as Design and Build LEED
journey to the suppliers who account for environment, labour and human rights,
Supplier data quality certified.
the highest emissions. This communication ethics, and sustainable procurement we
We require our suppliers to meet
a set of minimum requirements when aimed to help them understand the continue to encourage our suppliers to Designing a more sustainable
disclosing their emissions to CDP. This requirements to effectively respond to both complete an EcoVadis assessment. 74%(4) work environment
includes requirements on emissions questionnaires. Insights were also provided of NatWest Group’s contracted supplier(5)
We have continued to retrofit
data, verification, revision of prior to our suppliers on the benefits to their spend either possess an active EcoVadis
our buildings in line with the
years and science-aligned emission decarbonisation journey. scorecard or have submitted a new
reduction ambitions. Out of those assessment and are in the process of environmental assessment
requested and submitted to CDP in Methodology improvements receiving a new scorecard.(6) Collectively methodology and benchmarking
2024, 96 suppliers met these tool SKA and furthered our
requirements, of which 35 suppliers As well as including more supplier-specific suppliers have improved their EcoVadis progress in 2024 by
needed one or more Scope 3 proxy data(2) in our supplier emissions estimations, scores year on year, averaging 13% higher
achieving four gold accreditations
figures to create a complete we have also applied a service-specific than the EcoVadis Global Average.
in office and branch fit outs. In our
industry-relevant Scope 3 inventory. tCOe/FTE average emission factor to the NatWest Group scored 68% overall in 2024
58 suppliers were not included in our num 2 ber of workers provided by our core (67% in 2023), ranking in the 89th branch design, back of house
figures because they did not meet our upgrades(7) are now included
service providers. Additionally, we have percentile.
minimum data requirements. as standard while banking halls
refined underlying spend data and
are being refreshed, resulting
reviewed industry-average emission factor
in further reductions in carbon
emissions and energy
(1) Hybrid methodology combines supplier-specific emissions supplier, rather than using an industry average emission (5) Contracted suppliers are vendors matched to a contract consumption as more efficient
data (tCO2e/£) with industry averages (tCO2e/£) factor which is applied per spend category. and managed by an SCS Manager.
initiatives are put in place.
service-specific (tCO2e/FTE) and product-specific (3) Using the CEDA (Comprehensive Environmental (6) EcoVadis valid scorecard data is from 1 January 2024
(paper, water and mail). Data Archive) database. to 31 December 2024.
(2) Supplier-specific data for our supply chain means (4) Reporting spend period is 1 November 2023 (7) The scope of our refresh programme was extended to
utilising the verified Scope 1, location-based Scope 2 and to 31 October 2024. include back of house spaces – kitchen, staff room and
upstream Scope 3 emissions as reported by that specific toilets, to improve conditions.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 51
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management
Climate and nature risk is defined
as the threat of financial loss
Over the following pages,
or adverse non-financial impacts we explore some of the key
associated with climate change advances we made in 2024 to
embed the identification,
and nature loss respectively
assessment and integration of
and the political, economic climate risk into existing risk
and environmental responses to it. management processes.
Key developments
Climate risk has been included in the NatWest Group
in 2024 include:
risk directory since 2021, alongside a multi-year
progressive pathway which supports maturing our – Continued to enhance
capability to manage a relatively new prudential risk. in-house climate risk modelling
In 2024, we broadened the definition to climate and capabilities, supporting the
nature risk and have updated our policy to reflect this. integration of climate risk
We are in the early stages of embedding nature into within our capital adequacy
our risk management processes. Activity undertaken and impairment processes,
to enhance our understanding of NatWest Group’s and maturing physical risk
nature-related dependencies and impacts is detailed scenario analysis, refer to
on pages 61 to 63. pages 53 to 58.
– Begun to roll-out Climate
Our approach to integrating climate risk continues to
Decisioning Framework (CDF)
focus on embedding climate-related risk management
tools, comprised of Customer
practices throughout NatWest Group, advancing our
Transition Plan Assessments
capability to identify and assess, manage and mitigate,
(CTPA) to help us understand
monitor and report on these risks. We have made
our customers’ transition
iterative progress, continuing to update our approach
journeys, and Climate Risk
as our capabilities mature.
Scorecards (CRS) to support
Climate and nature risk is a principal risk in the our understanding of how they
NatWest Group enterprise wide risk management are managing climate-related
framework (EWRMF). Climate risk is also considered risk, refer to page 59.
to have relatively significant cross-cutting impacts – Ensured NatWest Group’s
on the following principal risks: credit risk, operational climate ambitions remain
risk, reputational risk, conduct risk and regulatory reflective of risk
compliance risk. As our capabilities mature, we plan considerations, refer
for the effective management of climate and nature to page 6.
risk through existing policies captured within the
NatWest Group EWRMF.
Further details can be found in the Risk and Capital
Management section of the NatWest Group plc 2024
Annual Report and Accounts, including the latest
assessment of the relative impact of climate-related risk
factors to other principal risks and how climate risk
is managed through existing policies.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 52
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management continued
Our processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
NatWest Group continues to enhance its processes
to effectively identify and assess the potential size
1. Heightened climate-related risk sector assessment
and scope of climate-related risks, through three
Our initial methodology, introduced in 2021, has continued to mature and now applies
key approaches:
three lenses considering transition, physical and liability risk. The foundation of the
methodology is the quantitative subsector level outputs from climate scenario analysis,
1. Strategic analysis as well as other climate data, financed emissions rates and a qualitative expert overlay
To assess the ongoing resilience of our strategy, an evolving programme to reflect climate related risks not captured within the modelling process. Refer to page
of climate scenario analysis has been in place since 2021. 21 to 22 for details of our 2024 assessment and methodology enhancements.
Refer to pages 53 to 58 for details of our scenario analysis exercises, As our maturity has evolved, the use cases for our assessment now include:
covering our entire credit book. Pricing and risk appetite – influencing our participation choices and pricing frameworks
at a subsector level.
2. Portfolio level assessment
Risk appetite measures – monitored on a regular basis since 2023, alongside the
Assessments seek to identify customers, assets, sectors and subsectors
Commercial & Institutional operational limits.
that are likely to see increased risks for NatWest Group as a result of
climate-related factors. Various tools are used across the credit risk Climate Risk Scorecards – subsector level insights are used with customer-specific
portfolios and our market risk portfolio. inputs to produce a final climate-related risk score at a customer level. The scores are
intended to inform strategic decision-making and assist with credit decisioning in the
future, refer to pages 37 to 38.
3. Transaction level assessments
From a conduct risk perspective, controls have been introduced within
our product design governance processes to support our teams in
avoiding greenwashing and ensure that appropriate, transparent labels 2. Operational limits and key risk indicators
are adopted. Marketing and communications processes consider an
Operational limits and key risk indicators are used across the franchises to monitor
anti-greenwashing checklist and content can be escalated to climate
exposure to portfolio level metrics. As an example, within our Retail business we monitor
teams for further scrutiny as required.
exposure to portfolio level flood and energy efficiency concentration risks. These
Our suppliers are encouraged to complete an EcoVadis(1) assessment measures support us to identify a growing concentration of those properties at higher
to drive an improvement in the sustainability performance of our supply risk of flooding or with poorer energy efficiency ratings within our mortgage portfolio,
chain with a view to reducing our operational risk. Refer to page 50 refer to page 60.
for further details.
Within wholesale credit risk, we use our initial suite of Climate Risk
Scorecards to provide a consistent and structured approach to customer
3. Market risk
engagement regarding the potential climate-related risk and opportunities
Analysis of issuer and counterparty credit stress by sector in a climate transition scenario
they may face. In parallel, we have begun to roll-out the CDF tools
is undertaken on a monthly basis. The stressed credit spread adjustments capture both
on a test-and-learn basis, refer to pages 37 to 38 for further details.
the costs and opportunities associated with the climate transition. The output of the
analysis allows for risk concentrations and exposure trends to be identified, supporting
the management of market risk.
Pages 59 to 60 provide further details of how NatWest Group manages climate-related risks
to the wholesale and residential mortgage portfolio respectively.
(1) EcoVadis is the leading sustainability intelligence platform for global supply chains.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 53
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management continued
The resilience of our strategy:
While we recognise climate-related risks could potentially amplify other risk
scenario analysis
drivers, for example resulting in effects such as the erosion of competitiveness,
profitability, or reputational damage, overall NatWest Group continues to be
To assess the ongoing resilience of NatWest Group’s strategy to resilient to these risks, within the context of the scenarios tested.
the impacts of climate change and help inform decision-making
Since the Bank of England’s Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario (CBES) exercise
processes, an evolving programme of climate scenario analysis in 2021, we have continued to develop internal scenario analysis capabilities and use
has been in place since 2021. the insights from these exercises to support strategic decision-making in our planning
processes.(2) The table below provides an overview of our 2024 scenario analysis
During 2024, we conducted a range transition risk to our UK residential programme, detailed in the following pages. A holistic overview of scenario analysis
of climate scenario analysis exercises mortgage portfolio. The model assesses carried out for non-credit risks is disclosed on page 58.
covering our full credit book, including the impact of hypothetical scenarios on
Exercise
risk management and capital adequacy property values and borrower income,
ICAAP ECL Annual scenario analysis exercise
use-cases(1). Our 2024 climate scenario translating this into an assumed change
analysis programme assessed climate- to the borrower probability of default Use cases Test balance sheet Assess potential Quantitative input to the
related risks and opportunities across (PD) and loss given default (LGD). resilience to ECL impact from heightened-climate risk
climate driven transition policy sector assessment and
short (<5 years) and medium-term – Enhancement of our Corporate
stress in IFRS9 exercises associated downstream
(5 to 10 years) horizons. The outputs Transition Model through the
use cases
of our analysis inform processes such introduction of two additional subsector
as NatWest Group’s heightened climate- modules giving deeper insights into the Key outcomes Capital resilience Provisions Climate transition risk
related risk sector assessment, which automotive and airlines and aerospace to transition and incorporate identification at subsector
helps to support strategic decision-making. sectors, refer to pages 56 to 57. physical risk stress expected view and counterparty level
of transition risk
– Development and testing of our
2024 enhancements included: first-generation corporate physical Portfolios Full credit book Full credit book Wholesale only
– Continued integration of climate into risk model to enhance our
Scenarios Internally Internally developed Disruptive Policy: Internally
our capital adequacy (ICAAP) and understanding of the physical risk
developed based on policy developed based on
Expected Credit Loss (ECL) impact on our corporate customers. calibrated using analysis NGFS(3,4) Delayed transition
measurement frameworks to ensure We are primarily using our counterparty UNEP-FI/NIESR Orderly Transition:
we are adequately capitalised by
level climate scenario analysis modelling Internally developed based
measuring potential losses and testing
on a test and learn basis as our capabilities on NGFS Net Zero 2050
our resilience against expected and
continue to mature, and to date the models
unexpected losses, refer to page 55. Climate risk Transition risk Transition risk Transition risk
– Partnering with climate experts from are not embedded within provisioning, modelled Physical risk
pricing and capital management processes.
the University of Exeter’s Global Time horizon Short term Short term Medium term
Systems Institute to create bespoke (<5 years) (<5 years) (<10 years)
climate risk scenario narratives,
Granularity Macro level Macro level Macro level
refer to page 54.
Sector level Sector level Sector level
– Developed a climate-related risk model Counterparty level
to analyse property level physical and
(1) Full credit book includes NatWest Group’s wholesale and residential mortgage portfolios.
(2) Details of NatWest Group’s previous scenario analysis exercises can be found on page 50 of our 2023 Climate Related Disclosures Report.
(3) The Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS).
(4) There is increasing concern acknowledged by the NGFS consisting of 114 central banks, that model scenarios, including those provided by central banks and supervisory bodies and, therefore, used by NatWest Group are too benign and may not adequately
capture: (i) the financial implications of increasing frequency and severity of acute physical risks as global temperatures increase; (ii) second and third order impacts such as disruptions to supply chains and increased geo-political risks; nor (iii) possible ‘tipping
points’ that could lead to large, irreversible changes in the climate system, for example, a material slow down in the Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation (AMOC).
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management continued
Developing and embedding climate scenarios
A recognised limitation with the existing suite of
climate risk scenarios used by the financial sector is
How our 2024 scenario analysis activity aligns with the transition risk archetypes
whether they fully capture the volatility, uncertainty,
framework(1)
complexity, and ambiguity of how physical and
transition risk could manifest over the next 5-10 years.
To begin to address this, we partnered with climate scientists from
the University of Exeter’s Global Systems Institute to help us better
understand these risks and develop a suite of climate scenario
narratives that cover a range of plausible transition and physical
Disruptive ICAAP2 risk pathways over the next 10 years. This recognises the
importance of the next decade to capture the opportunities
Orderly
and manage the risks of climate change.
An outcome of this work is a framework describing four ‘transition
archetypes’ that underpin our transition risk scenario analysis.
Each archetype included details in respect of the following climate
risk and opportunity drivers: climate policy, economic and market
trends, households’ attitude to the transition, technological
ICAAP1
developments, sectoral trends, and overarching geopolitical
conditions. These climate risk and opportunity drivers are
considered along with the irreversible warming that is already
impacting the climate over the next 10 years, regardless
of the rate of decarbonisation.
In partnership with the University of Exeter we also developed
physical risk narratives to describe plausible extreme weather
events over the next 10 years at three levels of severity, for both
a UK and global perspective. Backed by the most up-to-date climate
models, these bring to life the potential implications from the global The four transition risk archetypes
warming already observed as a result of historic emissions, and
1. Green growth. Strong government action and international cooperation are driving climate policy and economic
what that could mean in terms of, for example, flooding, drought, growth, supported by stable interest rates and technological advancement. Public and private investment, combined
hurricane and heatwaves. We intend to use these scenarios with carbon pricing, is accelerating green infrastructure development while phasing-out fossil fuels.
to inform our short-term ‘event driven’ physical risk modelling. 2. Market-led transition. Economic volatility and nationalism weaken government climate action, leaving businesses
to lead through market-driven solutions. Falling renewable prices and consumer pressure accelerate private sector
Our partnership with the University of Exeter enhanced
green initiatives, while activist investors drive further shifts away from stranded assets.
our suite of physical and transition risk scenarios and provided
3. Disjointed transition. Economic volatility and weak public finances act to restrict the effectiveness of ambitious policy
an opportunity to engage NatWest Group employees on the
action. For example, the limited fiscal resource means that policy is weighted towards tax based disincentives rather
climate-related risks and opportunities we face and how these than supply side subsidies. Mediocre, and volatile, economic growth hampers green investment and this is compounded
could potentially be addressed. We will aim to use the transition by a sharp slowdown in the reduction of green premiums across all areas of the transition. A boom-bust cycle in fossil
risk archetypes framework and the physical risk narratives to fuels leads to fossil fuel asset stranding.
inform NatWest Group’s climate scenarios from 2025 onward. 4. Transition reversal and fragmented politics. Rising nationalism; increasing impacts of extreme weather events; and
geopolitical conflicts; create a weak growth and high inflationary environment characterised by energy and technology
A key limitation is that the approach is qualitative only. trade wars. Transition momentum is weak as green technological progress stalls and governments prioritise domestic
We aim to develop appropriate methodologies to translate energy security via fossil fuels. The renewed enthusiasm for fossil fuels, and removal of government support, leads to
the insights from the qualitative narratives into quantitative green assets stranding, increasing financial market volatility and further reducing green investment appetite.
metrics to be used in our climate scenario modelling.
)scitilopoeg/ycilop(
troppus
cilbuP
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 54
High 3. Disjointed transition 1. Green growth
4. Fragmented decline 2. Market-led transition(2)
Low
Low Private support (households, firms, technology) High
(1) For further details of the ICAAP1 and ICAAP2 scenarios, refer to page 55. The Disruptive Policy and Orderly Transition scenarios are shown here to illustrate how they might fit into our scenario framework. Note that the scenarios were internally developed
based on the NGFS scenarios, prior to the development of our scenario framework. For further details refer to pages 56 to 57.
(2) NatWest Group may explore the market-led transition risk archetype in future scenario analysis exercises, if deemed appropriate for the specific use cases.
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management continued
2024 scenario insights: Short-term scenario analysis insights – ICAAP and ECL
In 2024, leveraging insights scenario headline UK GDP impact
from our Climate Risk Macro to understand the impact by sector,
The chart below shows that climate physical and transition shocks accounted
model(1), we incorporated the as shown in the second chart.
for two-thirds of the overall macroeconomic shock within the UK GDP in the 2024
potential impacts from climate ICAAP1 ICAAP2 scenario.
change within our ICAAP
ICAAP1 is NatWest Group’s scenario to UK GDP impact, ICAAP2 scenario:
scenarios to test our resilience test the resilience of our balance sheet to % difference from counterfactual(4)
to a climate driven stress. macroeconomic stress under the low rate
environment. In 2024 for the first time
2024 key enhancements included:
NatWest Group’s ICAAP1 scenario also
– Leveraging the physical and transition
included climate considerations. Physical
scenario narratives developed
climate change and some form of transition
in partnership with the University
are inevitable in all forward-looking views
of Exeter as described on page 54;
of the economy. This scenario aligns to our
– A wider set of transition and qualitative ‘Fragmented decline’ archetype,
physical risks considered; as described on page 54, where the
– Climate considerations incorporated climate transition is secondary to more
into both ICAAP scenarios. urgent macroeconomic shocks.
Simultaneously, chronic physical risks
ICAAP2
act as a drag on growth and slows
ICAAP2 is NatWest Group’s primary down the economic recovery.
scenario to test the resilience of our
balance sheet to climate driven Expected Credit Loss (ECL)
macroeconomic stress. This scenario falls We have continued to assess the potential
into the ‘disjointed transition’ archetype ECL impact from transition policy in our
with ‘severe’ physical risk, described in our IFRS9 exercises, leveraging insights from The chart below shows the sector level climate impacts from the Climate Risk
scenario classification on page 54. To our Climate Risk Macro Model(3), which has Macro model in NatWest Group’s 2024 ICAAP2 scenario. The results are at a UK
calibrate and quantify the size of the been embedded in our risk management economy level and do not reflect NatWest Group’s portfolio. Sector mapping
climate shocks implied by our qualitative processes since 2023. to NatWest Group sectors is approximate.
narratives, we used scenarios developed
by United Nations Environment In 2024 we refined our approach. Illustrative climate sectoral impacts, ICAAP2 scenario (%):
Programme Finance Initiative and National Instead of the economy-wide carbon price 2024 – 2029
from an external scenario used in 2023,
Institute of Economic and Social 0
NatWest Group calculated the expected
Research(2).Transition risks (driven by
carbon prices associated with specific -5
carbon prices and greenflation(3)) and
climate transition policies.
chronic and acute physical risks were -10
incorporated, as shown in the top chart. The current climate transition policy -15
contributes £8 million to the total ECL
We used our inhouse Climate Risk Macro -20
of £3.4 billion at the end of 2024.
Model to disaggregate the ICAAP2
-25
-30 Power Water Retail Land Auto- Construc- Agri- Industrials Oil Airlines Mining
(1) Transition Risk Macro model, formerly Transition Risk Calculator. Refer to our 2022 Climate-related Disclosures Report utilities and transport motive tion culture and and and metals
waste and gas aero-
for further details, including limitations and dependencies. logistics space
(2) UNEP-FI and NIESR2 scenarios.
(3) Inflationary pressure from transitioning from fossil fuels to renewable energy and higher demand for transition minerals.
(4) The counterfactual is a hypothetical reference scenario without climate risk against which we assess the increase in
climate-related risk over the scenario.
(5) Scenario graphs and charts in this section should be interpreted as a possible economic pathway used for modelling
and not an economic prediction.
lautcafretnuoc
ot evitaler
egnahc
%
Year
Base ICAAP2 Physical Transition
)nb£(
PDG
KU
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 55
2500
2450
2400
2350
2300
2250
2200
2150
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
Refer to page 190 of the Risk and Capital Management section of the 2024 NatWest Group Report
and Accounts for details of the approach, limitations and dependencies used to assess the potential
ECL impact from transition policy in our IFRS9 exercises.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 56
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management continued
2024 scenario insights: Annual credit risk focused internal climate exercise
In 2024 we ran our internal climate scenario
exercise for the second time. This allowed us
Our analysis showed that counterparties with high emissions intensity and lower transition maturity
to enhance our understanding of the climate-
are likely to suffer financial stress due to their inability to compete with more emissions efficient peers
related transition risks facing the sectors and that are further developed in the transition of their business. For example, the power utilities sector,
counterparties in our wholesale portfolio. as illustrated in the graph on page 57. This emphasises the importance of actively engaging with
our customers to develop climate transition plans, and the subsequent assessment through NatWest
The exercise involved running two transition
Group’s Climate Decisioning Framework (CDF), refer to pages 37 to 38.
risk scenarios:
1. The Disruptive Policy scenario, where the onset of climate
policy from the NGFS Delayed Transition scenario is accelerated
Approximate split of credit risk impact in terms of PD change under the
from 2031 to 2025, which could result in an accompanying
scenarios considered (large corporate customer exposure within our
macro-economic shock.
heightened climate risk sectors)
2. The Orderly Transition scenario, which explores a rapid
increase in carbon prices, based on the NGFS Net Zero 2050
scenario, but no accompanying macro-economic shock.
In addition to informing NatWest Group’s approach to climate risk Disruptive
policy
management, the exercise continued to support the development scenario
of our internal modelling capability. This included implementing
improvements to our emissions data sources and developing
an enhanced methodology for sectors classified as heightened
climate-related risk, for example, the automotive and airlines and
aerospace sectors. This enables richer insights at a company level,
refer to the following page.
Our internal climate scenarios exercise combines a systematic Net zero
2050
macro-economic impact and a company level micro-economic scenario
impact. At a company level we calculated the earnings impacts
across a range of channels including demand, carbon costs
(the estimated cost incurred by the company based on the cost
0 50 100
of emissions from the scenario and the estimated emissions
of the company), abatement potential and cost pass through. Percentage of exposure at default (EAD)
These channels can have either a negative or a positive effect
No negative impact Up to 2 times PD increase Greater than 2 times PD increase
on a company’s financials and profitability. For most counterparties
climate-related risk is driven by the rising carbon costs observed
Under the specific scenarios considered, NatWest Group assessed the potential credit loss from company-
in the scenario, which have a negative impact on earnings.
level climate-related impacts using PD and LGD credit risk metrics. As illustrated in the chart above,
These are partially offset through emissions abatement and
while the majority of the counterparties assessed in the scenarios do not see a material deterioration
passing the cost through to customers. For the most climate
in their credit quality, a proportion could see more significant changes. The chart aggregates the company
sensitive companies, carbon costs and demand changes could
level climate-related impacts on the assessed PD for our large corporate customer exposure within our
result in a more than 50% decline in earnings in the final year
heightened climate-related risk sectors, as defined in the heightened climate-related risk framework.
of the Disruptive Policy scenario (2033).
These are hypothetical ‘what-if’ scenarios and are not a prediction of expected outcomes.
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management continued
2024 scenario insights: Annual credit risk focused internal climate exercise
Company level climate risk
modelling supports NatWest The two graphs below are examples of insights from the Disruptive Policy scenario, using a sample of sectors classified
as heightened climate-related risk.
Group to identify where
companies are positioned The first graph below demonstrates the potential variability of the climate impacts on the asset value of individual companies
within a sector. We do this by estimating the impact of the climate scenario on the company’s revenues and costs, taking
relative to their peers,
into account factors such as the company’s emissions intensity and ability to abate those emissions. The analysis showed
indicating which companies that companies can have different estimated impact on their financials compared to their peers, due to higher or lower
will benefit from the transition emissions intensity, and therefore higher or lower exposure to the risk of an increasing cost of carbon. This contributes
to various ranges of asset value change between sectors, for example power utilities and oil and gas, compared to land
and which are more at risk.
transport. This demonstrates the importance of understanding climate financial risk drivers at an individual company level.
This could be driven by a range of factors
such as their emissions intensity relative Credit risk impact: Example of how companies’ assets change under Disruptive Policy scenario (2033)
to competitors, and the markets in which
they operate, or the type of goods they
manufacture.
The analysis also supports NatWest Group
to identify counterparties where rising
climate risk could amplify existing drivers
of credit risk, such as in the retail sector
where customers with thin margins today
could face further margin compression
from rising carbon costs.
Scenario analysis outputs
The outputs from our 2024 internal climate
scenario analysis informed our heightened
climate-related risk sector assessment, and Credit risk impact: Example of the aggregate change in sector impairment rate over the Disruptive Policy
the several downstream use cases within scenario (2033) stress horizon
our credit and balance sheet management
processes, refer to pages 21 to 22.
The above graph illustrates how the Disruptive Policy scenario impacts overall sector level impairments. Similar analysis was
produced for the Orderly Transition scenario where, for example, the power utilities sector sees less negative impacts because
the electrification of heat and transport follows a smoother pathway, resulting in a steadier increase in electricity demand.
egnahc
tessA
100%
50%
0%
-50%
-100%
Airlines and aerospace Automotive Construction Industrials Land transport and Oil and gas Power utilities Retail Water and waste
logistics Sector median value
)reilpitlum(
elacS
tnemriapmI
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 57
4
Power utilities
3
Airlines and aerospace Land transport Industrials and logistics Water and waste
2 Oil and gas
Automotive Construction Retail
1
Sector (size is the relative size of the portfolio)
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 58
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management continued
Other scenario analysis, progress mitigating limitations and future developments
Holistic assessment of climate risks
Alongside credit risk, we also use climate scenario analysis to test our resilience of other principal risks to climate-related risk drivers. The exercises completed during 2024 are outlined
in the table below. For an overview of previous exercises, specifically testing operational and pension risk resilience, refer to page 54 of our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.
The scenarios were selected as the most appropriate based on the profile of the principal risk.
Principal risk Metrics Use cases Key outcomes Scenarios
Market risk Trading book positions in NatWest Market Risk analysis and risk Resilient to climate driven market moves. Disorderly transition (<1 year).
Markets. appetite evolution.
Liquidity risk Impact on outflows during a period Testing resilience of NatWest Resilient to outflows over a 3-month period, Acute physical event on NatWest Group
of idiosyncratic, market wide or Group’s liquidity to physical driven by risks that could arise from physical liquidity (position <1 year).
combined stress. risk triggered crisis. climate event.
Conduct risk Conduct losses. Testing resilience of NatWest A forward-looking assessment of potential Greenwashing scenario, a stylised example
Group’s control environment extreme but plausible events on our customers of conduct failures in the green and sustainable
to potential greenwashing risks. and the bank. Impacts improved against 2023 finance market.
assessment.
Progress mitigating Details of our ongoing work to address – Several important data limitations remain, as banking and insurance counterparties.
limitations these limitations are as follows. including persistent data challenges for We are working with industry bodies and
small and medium enterprises, which limits data providers to scope new or developing
Our scenario analysis work during 2024 – We worked with The University of Exeter
granularity of analysis possible for sectors data sources while working with our
continued to build our internal modelling to improve our understanding of both
such as agriculture and commercial real customers to enhance direct data
capability and mitigate limitations identified physical and transition risks across the
estate (CRE), and data on underlying collection where possible.
in previous scenario exercises. In line with climate landscape over the next 10 years.
exposures for financial sectors such
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) – We have continued to develop event-
expectations and ensuring increased based climate scenarios that test the
transparency and control over climate risk impact of extreme weather on residential Future developments
assessments, we have continued to bring properties in the UK. This allows us to
identify and estimate credit impairment Looking ahead, we intend to focus on embedding our developed climate risk
modelling capability in-house, allowing
from risks which may be obscured when modelling into business decision-making and determine how the insights best
us to increase the relevance of scenarios
physical impacts are assessed using support managing climate-related financial risks. However, it is important to
to NatWest Group’s business.
average impacts across time and space. acknowledge that climate risk modelling remains an emerging specialism,
Across the industry two key limitation – We have developed and tested our limiting the pace and scale of uptake within the business.
themes are: (i) the quality and first-generation corporate physical risk
Key priorities include continuing to:
completeness of key data items, such model to enhance our understanding of
as emissions data and (ii) the ability of physical risk impacts on our customers, – Develop and improve our climate scenarios to enable better understanding
climate scenarios to fully capture the range building on the transition work. of how climate risk could affect NatWest Group.
of climate risks, such as the cascading risks – We have enhanced our climate data – Enhance our newly-developed property level climate-related risk mortgage
from extreme weather events arising from library to increase granularity, and model and corporate physical risk model, and we plan to explore how this can
improved our monitoring of external
climate change or the impact of possible provide a deeper understanding of the future physical risks our customers face.
data sets to ensure we are confident
‘tipping points’ that could lead to large, – Respond to regulatory expectations, for example, through any refreshed
we continue to use high quality and
irreversible changes in the climate system. supervisory statement issued by the PRA and preparing for future regulatory
granular data in our modelling.
For example, a material slow down in climate scenario analysis exercises.
the AMOC.
Managing climate-related risks to the wholesale portfolio
Enhancing our
employees’ climate
and nature risk
management
capabilities
To effectively identify and
manage climate and nature risk,
it is essential we provide our
employees with the resources
to build the appropriate skills
and capabilities. 2024 was the
final year of our three-year
collaboration with University
of Edinburgh to develop
and deliver bespoke climate
training, refer to page 14.
Our initial suite of climate risk
scorecards provided a useful
anchor to enhance colleague
capability and help build
confidence in having
conversations with customers
to seek to understand potential
climate-related risks and
opportunities.
Enhanced oversight Pricing The CDF tools enable our
Climate impact is considered at several stages of the Integrating climate-related risk factors into our target employees to further understand
approval process for our largest lending transactions. return requirements is part of how we are reshaping customers’ climate-related risk
These stages include the required capital and pricing our Commercial & Institutional business segment exposure, opportunities and
process and Enhanced Oversight Forums where with more sustainable and transition aligned financing, transition journey. To further
transactions are subjected to senior review. while also allowing us to support customers helping equip and engage our colleagues,
address the climate challenge. we have delivered a bespoke
training to approximately 2500
employees, refer to page 37.
As we continue to better
Climate Decisioning Framework understand our material impacts
During 2024, we began to roll-out our CDF tools and dependencies on nature
on a test-and-learn basis. CDF comprises of our across our lending activities,
Climate Transition Plan Assessment and second it is important we enhance our
generation Climate Risk Scorecard. Refer employees’ knowledge. During
to pages 37 to 38 for further details. 2024, we launched our Nature
Bites training materials, aimed
at supporting our colleagues in
understanding more about the
connections between nature
and banking.
stnemssessa
larotceS
stnemssessa
noitcasnarT
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 59
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management continued
The effective management of climate risk requires the integration of climate-related risk factors into strategic planning, sector and
transaction level frameworks. This page details the enhancements to our processes for managing climate-related risks, and those which
will continue to evolve and improve as the organisation matures its climate risk management capabilities and reliable climate-related data
becomes more widely available.
Sector strategy
Underpins our approach to shaping the balance sheet in line with bank-wide objectives and, since 2022, includes our climate
considerations. Sector strategy considers multiple factors including a range of climate inputs, such as the estimates of financed
emissions, transition planning and climate risk assessments. Focus areas within each sector will depend on our understanding
of the key decarbonisation challenges, as well as the pan-sector impact of any activities or interventions.
ESE framework and reviews Transaction Acceptance Standards (TAS)
We continue to monitor our ESE Risk Acceptance Criteria We continue to apply climate-enhanced TAS.
in response to potential climate-related risks. The criteria New, renewed and additional borrowing is reviewed
are applicable to corporate customer on-boarding, lending against our TAS, which are set at a sector and
and underwriting. It requires enhanced due diligence subsector level and amendments have been made
to be performed for certain customer relationships, within sectors that have heightened exposure
transactions, activities, and projects. Refer to the to climate-related risk.
NatWest Group website for further details.
Our initial suite of qualitative climate
risk scorecards
Launched in 2021, the scorecards are a valuable
customer engagement tool, supporting a more structured
approach to gathering and understanding customer-level
climate information and risk exposures. The lessons
learned helped inform the development of CDF tools.
These scorecards will continue to support climate
conversations until full roll-out of CDF is achieved.
For information on how we are progressing our Climate transition For details on managing asset management climate-related risks,
plan, refer to page 17. refer to page 73.
Our evolving approach to climate and nature risk management continued
Managing climate-related risks to the residential mortgages portfolio
Supporting our UK mortgage customers to increase their properties’ residential energy efficiency is a key part of our climate ambition
and energy efficiency is identified as a potential climate-related risk factor within the mortgage portfolio.
Our criteria for decision- included in the NatWest Group plc 2024 information on the energy efficiency ratings
making and reducing Annual Report and Accounts. of domestic and non-domestic buildings 46.3%(1)RA
during the energy assessment process.
concentration risk Refer to the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual
During 2024 we applied lending limits Report and Accounts and the NatWest Group The registers do not hold data for every of our UK residential mortgages
plc 2024 Sustainability Datasheet for details domestic and non-domestic building, portfolio was rated as EPC A to C,
based on climate characteristics,
of NatWest Groups proportion of residential or every building occupied by public where EPCs are available.
with timely remedial action required
properties at high and very high risk of flood. authorities in England and Wales. Against our ambition for 50% of our
for limit breaches, as follows:
For mortgages on properties in Scotland, mortgages to have an EPC rating of C or
– buy-to-let properties with potential Refer to page 53 of the NatWest Group 2022 we source EPC data from the Public better by 2030, where EPCs are available.
Climate-related Disclosures Report for more
EPC rating between D and G. Available Data Extracts site of the Energy
information on our criteria for decision-
– flats, new builds, and buy-to-let making and reducing concentration risk. Saving Trust, published by the Scottish
properties at high or very high risk Government. This data is updated
of flood. Data source and limitations quarterly and contains energy certificates
from the start of 2013. EPC data for
Additionally, our credit policies do not allow EPC data is sourced from the Energy our Northern Ireland mortgage portfolio
buy-to-let mortgages to properties with Performance of Buildings for England and is sourced from the Northern Ireland
an EPC rating of F and G. Wales published by the Ministry of Housing, Department of Finance. An EPC is required
Communities and Local Government’s
Limits are continually reviewed to reflect open data source. The data is drawn when a building is constructed, sold or let,
new flood risk data and Flood Re, from EPCs issued for domestic and and is valid for 10 years. As a result, the
risk profile and market conditions, including non-domestic buildings constructed, EPC analysis is based on EPC data at the
regulation. Detailed disclosure on NatWest sold or let since 2008. It provides time it was last available. New certificates
Group’s flood risk profile by region is typically take three to six months to be
included in the data source.
Total UK residential mortgages Total owner occupied mortgages Total buy-to-let mortgages
£139.1bn(1, 2) £123.6bn(2) £15.5bn(2)
(1) As at 31 December 2024 £139.1 billion, 66.3%, of the total UK residential mortgages portfolio had EPC data available (31 December 2023 – £140.8 billion, 67.6%), of which 46.3%RA were rated as EPC A to C (31 December 2023 – 44.1%).
(2) With EPC data available for December 2024.
2024
2023
2022
0.6% 2.4% 0.6%
17.7% 28.0% 38.5% 12.2% 18.5% 26.5% 38.5% 12.6%
0.4% 2.7% 0.6% 2.9% 0.6%
17.2% 26.5% 39.3% 13.4% 18.0% 25.0% 39.2% 13.7%
0.3% 3.0% 0.6% 3.2% 0.7%
16.1% 25.1% 40.3% 14.5% 16.8% 23.8% 40.2% 14.9%
A B C D E F G
2024
2023
2022
0.7% 2.7% 0.6%
11.1% 39.8% 38.9% 9.5%
0.5%
10.6% 38.0% 40.1% 10.6%
0.4% 0.6% 0.1%
10.0% 36.0% 41.3% 11.9%
A B C D E F G
2024
2023
2022
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 60
£3.5 billion
in lending for UK residential
properties with EPC ratings A and B
provided during 2024.
As part of our climate and sustainable
funding and financing target, we aim to provide at least £10 billion in lending for
residential properties with EPC ratings A
and B between 1 January 2023 and the
end of 2025.
0.1% 0.4% 0.1%
0.1% 0.4% 0.1%
0.1%
A B C D E F G
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 61
Our evolving approach to nature
We view climate change, the continued significant global decline in nature and biodiversity
and resource scarcity as likely to impact our customers and society at large, both today
and in the years to come.
Working to embed nature into An initial Environmental Decisioning to producers of deforestation risk-related
Innovative ways
our existing approach Framework (EDF) has been developed. commodities where they lack sustainable
to support growth
Refer to page 38 for further details. certification of their activities and supply
Climate change and nature loss are
chain by 31 December 2024. Direct In 2024, Leicester-based
inextricably linked, and each requires NatWest Markets N.V also conducted
engagement was undertaken throughout air quality monitoring firm
immediate and significant action to exploratory stress testing against market
the year with some customers where the EarthSense was seeking to
avert potentially irreversible impacts.(1) sensitivity to copper market price shocks,
required certification status was unclear. scale up and expand overseas.
In December 2022, the UK Government over a 12-month period, on large
As a result, we can confirm all customers
committed to take action to halt and corporates within the power utilities sector. The business uses specialist air
deemed in-scope for assessment met our
reverse nature loss by adopting the The analysis, which revealed immaterial monitoring technology, developed
certification requirements, or suitable
Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity impacts on credit quality, was driven in-house, to enable customers to
equivalents, by 31 December 2024.
Framework (GBF), which sets out global by business exposure and the sector’s visualise and manage air quality
goals for 2030 and 2050. acknowledged reliance on raw Read more on our approach to issues through its award-winning
material supply. deforestation risk-related commodities at analytics software and advanced
Our approach at NatWest Group is to
natwestgroup.com. pollution modelling tools.
integrate nature into our existing climate Customer engagement
approach over a number of years. We Ahead of COP16,(3) NatWest Group Collaborating for nature NatWest Group was able to
remain in the early stages of understanding support EarthSense through our
hosted a customer event in London entitled In 2024, we contributed to the Cambridge
our nature-related risks and opportunities, high growth lending proposition
‘The path to COP16: Mobilising private Institute for Sustainability Leadership’s
based on first generation portfolio, and innovative intellectual
finance for nature’. Aligned with the UK (CISL) report on ‘Scaling Finance for
counterparty and own operations analysis. property-backed (IP) funding.
Government’s COP16 priorities the event Nature’. As a member of the Market
IP loans start from £250,000,
Enhancing our understanding heard from experts from private finance, Advisory Group we engaged on the
up to 50% of the value of the
NGOs and academia who shared their development of the Biodiversity Net Gain
In 2024, we undertook an initial firm’s intellectual property.
perspectives on how private finance mechanism, providing feedback to the
assessment of our nature-related impacts
can support protection, restoration, Department for Environment, Food and EarthSense was able to secure
and dependencies at a NatWest Group
and regeneration of nature. Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and Natural England a £264,000 loan using its
level using the Exploring Natural Capital
as they establish UK nature markets. intellectual property as collateral,
Opportunities, Risks and Exposure Nature-related considerations, such
We also collaborated with the University funding which has allowed the
(ENCORE)(2) tool to explore our wholesale as regenerative agriculture, are already
of Exeter in a pilot study to assess business to expand and further
portfolio. This top-down analysis aided us integrated into our climate and sustainable
the nature footprint of our direct enhance its IP asset base.
to prioritise sectors for a bottom-up funding and financing inclusion (CSFFI)
own operations and supply chain.
Locate, Evaluate, Assess and Prepare criteria. Our innovative IP offering creates
Refer to page 63 for further details.
(LEAP) pilot assessment. Refer to page 62 a model with the potential to help
Introduced in 2011, our ESE Risk
for further details. Internal engagement other companies like EarthSense
Acceptance Criteria require due diligence
develop solutions to drive their
In addition to work at the NatWest Group for certain lending and underwriting We continue to support colleagues with
growth, and boost the UK
level, our Netherlands-headquartered customer relationships, transactions, enhancing their knowledge of nature.
economy.
European subsidiary, NatWest Markets activities and projects. Our Forestry, In partnership with the University of
N.V., continued to develop its response Fisheries, and Agribusiness Risk Edinburgh, we co-developed bite size
to European environmental regulation. Acceptance Criteria prohibit funding nature-based training modules available to
all colleagues.
(1) IBES-IPCC co-sponsored workshop on biodiversity and climate change – workshop report.
(2) ENCORE, developed by UN Environment Programme (UNEP)-World Conservation Monitoring Centre, UNEP Finance Initiative and Global Canopy, provides an illustration of how different sectors impact and depend on nature.
(3) The 2024 United Nations Biodiversity Conference of the Parties (COP16) to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD).
Our evolving approach to nature continued
Understanding nature-related impacts
Aggregated ENCORE impacts and dependencies as at 31 December 2023(2,3)
and dependencies
Exploratory nature materiality ENCORE outcomes
assessment We performed a basic output aggregation
to give a sector view of potential nature-
In 2024, we used the Exploring Natural
related dependencies and impacts across
Capital Opportunities, Risks and Exposure H
our wholesale portfolio. The heatmap (ENCORE) tool to perform an initial Total sector
assessment of our nature-related impacts opposite shows the seven most material exposure
and dependencies across NatWest Group’s sectors. Findings indicated a high level of <£8bn
wholesale portfolio. Results of initial analysis consistency between sectors with £8bn-£20bn
potentially material nature-related
indicated that approximately 16% of £20bn-£24bn
dependencies and impacts and sectors NatWest Group’s 2023 balance sheet
had exposure to sectors with potential identified through our heightened climate M
risk assessment process. Refer to page 21.
heightened dependence or impact on
Findings also aligned closely with the
nature. This top-down analysis, assessed
TNFD’s high priority sector list.
on a test-and-learn basis, was used to ENCORE summary showing sector-specific nature-related impacts and dependencies
select three sectors for a deeper dive, The assessment helped us to select three
bottom-up analysis using a LEAP sectors, representing a cross section of our Dependencies Impacts
assessment, as recommended by portfolio, for a bottom-up LEAP pilot D ph ir y e s c ic t al E pr n o a d b u le c s ti on M dir it e ig c a t tes P fr r o o m te ction Climate Invasives L se a a n d u / s w e a ter/ Resource
the TNFD. assessment in 2024. These sectors – Sector input process impacts disruption change and other change Pollution exploitation
agriculture, commercial real estate (CRE) Agriculture
ENCORE methodology
and power utilities – were selected by CRE
– Following initial analysis, we re-modelled
considering ENCORE results, balance sheet
ENCORE data against our wholesale Power utilities
exposure and asset quality credit factors.
lending balance sheet exposure as at
In light of European environmental
31 December 2023. We used the regulation, we also considered specific Key: Very low Low Medium High Very high
ENCORE tool to assess the nature-
sector exposures within our NatWest
related dependencies and impacts Markets N.V. subsidiary. Analysis sought to identify areas of high risk in each sector within our sample selection.
of different types of economic activity Findings revealed variations in nature-related dependency and potential impact across
on a scale of ‘very low’ to ‘very high’. The table opposite shows a more detailed different subsector activities. Results varied by asset type with, for example, a solar farm
view of sector-level nature-related impacts
differing from a combustion plant for power utilities, and arable farming producing differing
ENCORE limitations and dependencies for agriculture, CRE
results to livestock farming within agriculture.
– ENCORE is a global dataset that does and power utilities. We grouped the 21
not consider national or regional dependencies and 12 impacts defined For CRE, analysis revealed that nature-related impacts were driven more by development
variations in impact drivers and within the ENCORE tool in accordance activity (for example, construction), than investment activity (for example, leasing an
dependencies. Materiality ratings with industry best practice.(1) existing office building), yet development activity represents less than a fifth of our
represent only the potential, not actual, overall CRE exposure. While analysis did not focus on customers’ supply chain resilience,
Bottom-up LEAP analysis of
dependence or impact a counterparty our in-house sensitivity tool suggested that supply chains may be a large driver of risk
may have on nature. three sectors in relation to CRE development and construction-related activity.
– This analysis was performed using Our LEAP pilot combined outputs from The results of this early ENCORE work and LEAP analysis may be used to inform
ENCORE 2018-2023. In July 2024, the WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter, in-house further assessment as we continue to evolve our approach to nature.
updated ENCORE data was published. expertise and, in the case of power utilities
We aim to incorporate this in future and CRE, a proprietary sensitivity analysis
exercises. tool, to evaluate nature-related
(1) Dependency mapping is based on the ENCORE tool. Impact mapping is based on Science Based Targets Network (SBTN)
dependencies and impacts of a small,
Materiality Screening Tool.
representative sample of counterparties (2) Food and consumer includes food and drink manufacturing and processing activities as well as other consumer
in each sector. products such as soaps, perfumes and tobacco products.
(3) The aggregation is based on the use of a simple arithmetic mean of all available impacts and dependencies.
tcapmI
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 62
VH
Land
transport
and Power utilities
logistics
CRE
Agriculture
Housing associations
Construction
H
Food and consumer
M
L M H
Dependency
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 63
Our evolving approach to nature continued
Own operational footprint: our impact on nature and biodiversity
In 2024, we collaborated with the category with the highest PDF value. improving our understanding of material The assessment also revealed that <1%
University of Exeter’s RENEW programme, This was driven by increases in employee value chain drivers of biodiversity impacts. of our global sites were deemed high
participating in an experimental pilot study commuting as working habits continue or very high for overall water risk.
Location-specific analysis
to measure the UK biodiversity footprint of to adjust after COVID-19 and electricity The analysis showed that operational sites
our direct own operations and supply consumption using the UK average grid Using location-specific data and risk in India, United Arab Emirates and Greece,
chain. RENEW is a five-year collaboration mix. This impact is decreased in the UK overlays, we deemed that <1% of our dependent on water extraction, were
aimed at developing solutions for the when consumption of 100% renewable global sites were assessed as high deemed high for physical basin risk, water
renewal of biodiversity. The aim of the pilot electricity is included in the estimates. for overall physical biodiversity risk,(6) scarcity risk and overall physical water risk.
was to evaluate the impact of our direct ‘Land use’(3) was the impact category specifically sites located in India, Hong
own operations and supply chain on UK with the next highest PDF value, driven Kong and the United States of America.
biodiversity, based on 2019, 2022 and by waste associated with dry mixed
2023 consumption data used for our recycling and paper consumption.
emissions reporting.
Overall, biodiversity impact reduced by
The measures presented are estimates more than 50%(4) between 2019 and 2023,
based on NatWest Group’s operations driven by efforts to decarbonise our direct
and cannot be easily interpreted in terms own operations. Electricity, paper
of ecosystem damage for comparison consumption, business travel, employee
between organisations, as each commuting and waste contributed more
organisation will interpret results in terms than 90% of the overall impact. Further
of their own portfolio and sector. This is to work to reduce waste,(5) we focused on
therefore an initial estimated output specific plastic waste associated with our UK direct
to NatWest Group’s UK own operations. own operations. Analysis revealed that
an estimated 63% of plastic waste was
Methodology
associated with employees commuting
A lifecycle assessment, using NatWest by car, with waste generated through
Group’s own operational emissions data, car production, servicing and road
was used to understand the biodiversity maintenance identified as material
impacts of products, processes and contributors. For our UK supply chain, the
services along the supply chain, from the most material impact categories mirrored
extraction of raw materials to end-of-life. those of our direct own operations.
Biodiversity impacts are calculated based
Due to the limitations of the study, findings
on Potentially Disappeared Fraction (PDF)
have not been used for target or ambition
of species (species/year).(1)
setting. However, we aim to use the values
RENEW key findings to help gauge progress in our efforts to
In 2023, ‘Global warming potential (GWP) in operate more sustainably, including
terrestrial ecosystems’(2) was the impact
(1) Analysis performed using Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) method ReCiPe 2016, which uses 12 endpoint indicators for ecological damage to characterise biodiversity impacts. Further, Impact World Plus LCIA method was also used to enable comparison
and test of results. Figures subject to change as data evolves. The categories identified are material to our UK own operations PDF impact only and should not be used to compare to other organisations, sectors or countries.
(2) GWP terrestrial ecosystems: For this impact indicator, we have used IPCC data to estimate the likelihood of species extinction as global temperatures increase.
(3) Land use: This impact indicator estimates the potential disappearance of species where land use changes.
(4) 50% reduction in direct own operations PDF arises from our estimated outputs, which due to the limitations outlined above should not be compared with outputs from alternative models.
(5) Waste included in the heatmap refers to physical waste recorded across our UK locations and forms our Scope 3 category 5 emissions. Waste within our plastic assessment includes car production impact associated with employee commuting.
(6) Estimated using WWF Biodiversity Risk Filter. Biodiversity risk includes both physical and reputational risks. Physical risks: provisional services, regulating and supporting services (enabling and mitigating), cultural services and pressures on biodiversity.
Reputational risks: environmental factors, socioeconomic factors and additional reputational factors.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 64
In this section
Asset management and our approach to responsible
65
investing
66 Our investment approach to net zero
67 Portfolio alignment and progress towards net zero
68 Climate transition plan approach and progress
70 Voting and engagement overview
Processes for identifying and assessing
72
climate-related risks
73 Managing climate-related investment risks
74 AUM governance and oversight
75 Methodologies and limitations of climate-related metrics
Responsible investing and
AUM climate
transition plan
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 65
Asset Management and our approach to responsible investing
We are responsible for the allocation, management and oversight of capital to create long-term value for our customers.
The structure and content of this section – We take advantage of changes in the
have been designed to meet FCA market, seeking opportunities to invest
Progress in 2024 Consideration of human rights issues
Sourcebook requirements and align in underpriced assets that can deliver
with our financial reporting approach. long-term value to our customers. Portfolio alignment, as a proportion of is integrated through our responsible
Refer to our glossary for details Managed Assets, increased from 49% investing approach. As part of
of terminology. Responsible investing as at 31 December 2023 to 58% as at investment selection, we review fund
In addition to traditional risk measures, 31 December 2024 (refer to page 68 managers’ human rights policies.
NatWest Group’s Investment Centre we consider environmental, social and for details). The driver of portfolio For our custom-built funds, EOS at
of Expertise (Investment CoE) sits within governance (ESG) issues, and specifically alignment change was fund allocation Federated Hermes (EOS)(2) considers
Coutts & Co (Coutts) and was established climate change factors, that could impact towards our custom-built funds. human rights in their social voting and
to provide investment products and the investments we manage on our engagement activities and implement
services to NatWest Group customers. customers’ behalf. We call this approach Our weighted average carbon human rights-related exclusions.
References to ‘Investment CoE’, ‘we’, intensity (WACI) decreased by 34%,
‘responsible investing’.
‘our’ or ‘us’ in this chapter of our 2024 from 166 tCO 2 e/US$m as of 2019 to UK Stewardship Code
Sustainability Report are made in the We implement our responsible investing 110 tCO 2 e/US$m as of 31 July 2024. Coutts is a signatory to the 2020 UK
context of assets under management approach, including relevant steps and WACI did however increase by Stewardship Code and, following
(AUM) for the legal entities set out on action in our Climate transition plan, 18 tCO 2 e/$m revenue compared to approval by the Financial Reporting
page 15, unless stated otherwise. through three key activities: 2023. The key drivers of this change Council in early 2024, we published
are disclosed on page 67 and 75.
Total AUM was £37.0 billion as at 1. Investment selection our 2023 Stewardship Policy. Coutts
31 December 2024. 2. Voting and engagement Our latest Climate transition plan remained a signatory to the
3. Exclusions assessment shows positive indicators UK Stewardship Code in 2024.
Our investment philosophy towards meeting our 2030 portfolio
We apply our responsible investing Regulations
We are guided in our decision-making alignment ambitions, recognising we
by our investment philosophy, which is approach to those Funds and Discretionary remain dependent on the global pace In 2024, we continued to focus on
centred around the following three pillars: Portfolios that we have discretion to of transition. During 2024, some large regulatory compliance with the FCA
manage on our customers’ behalf, asset managers have revised their ESG Sourcebook rules and guidance.
– Diversification across asset classes, which we refer to as Managed Assets. climate-related commitments and so We delivered our first entity and
sectors and countries to support This includes our Coutts Managed Funds meeting our climate ambitions may product-level climate reports alongside
our ability to manage risks and (CMaF), Personal Portfolio Funds (PPF) and become increasingly challenging over meeting the FCA Sustainable
opportunities. Discretionary Portfolio Services (DPS).(1) time. For more details, refer to pages Disclosures Requirements, which in
– Taking risk where it’s best rewarded, To understand more about our responsible 68 to 69. part came into force on 2 December
we have a framework to help take risks 2024. As part of the regulations, we
investing approach and how it is applied to
that we consider are the most likely Human rights issues published Responsible Investing
our Funds and Discretionary Portfolios,
to be successful. refer to our policies. NatWest Group published its Human Information Documents for CMaF and
Rights Salient Issues in 2024. The PPF to summarise our approach for
purpose is to assess the most material customers.
human rights issues for different parts
We also published Climate Value
of the business. As the Investment
at Risk (Climate VaR) and implied
(1) We adopt a different approach for the UK Equity Fund and Global Bond Fund. Refer to page 42 of our product-level CoE for NatWest Group, this was
temperature rise metrics in our
climate-related report for details.
completed from an investor
(2) EOS at Federated Hermes is a global engagement and stewardship service that focuses on promoting responsible investment product-level climate-related reports.
practices. It is a part of Federated Hermes, an investment management firm, and its primary aim is to influence companies to perspective.
adopt sustainable business practices by engaging with them on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 66
Our investment approach to net zero
We consider climate-related risks and opportunities to be
NatWest Group plc
material to the investments we manage on our customers’
behalf, and we expect the fund managers we work with Coutts & Co
to do the same.
Investment Centre of Expertise
We continue to integrate climate This means we do not have discretion over
considerations into our business the net-zero pathway of these investments.
Services provided to
strategy and investment process,
Our Climate transition plan
guided by our investment philosophy,
while seeking to align to our customer’s Managed Assets are invested in custom-
investment objectives. built and third-party funds, with limited
direct exposure to equities and bonds.
Our net-zero strategy
The implementation of our Climate RBS Collective
Our investment offering comprises Investment Funds
transition plan is dependent on the type Limited (CIFL)
Managed Assets, Bespoke and Advisory.
of funds invested in and whether we have
Managed Assets are those we invest on
control of the investment parameters and
our customers’ behalf and are included
within our ambition to be net zero by 2050. ESG policies of the underlying funds. Managed Assets Bespoke and Advisory
It includes our Coutts Managed Funds, The custom-built funds are managed considered out of scope
considered in-scope of our net-zero strategy
Personal Portfolio Funds and Discretionary through our strategic relationships where of our net-zero strategy
Portfolios. Our Bespoke portfolios provide our Investment CoE defines the investment
strategic asset allocation and investment parameters and ESG policies. We do not
parameters specific to individual customer define the investment parameters or ESG
requirements. Advisory services support policies of third-party funds.
customers in their investment decisions Custom-built funds Third-party funds
For details of our AUM Climate transition
by providing specialist investment advice
plan refer to page 68.
and in-house research.
2024 progress
Managed Assets, representing 83% of AUM
as at 31 December 2024, fall within scope We have broadly seen an increase in our
of our climate ambitions and Climate portfolio alignment metric relative to 2023, Net zero by 2050
transition plan. We aim to reach net zero driven by continued allocation to our
by 2050 and have two interim ambitions: custom-built funds. For details, refer Interim 2030 ambitions
to page 67.
– To align 70% of Managed Assets
to a net-zero pathway by 2030. As an investor in third-party funds,
we are dependent on international
– To reduce the Weighted Average
cooperation and industry action to Carbon intensity
Carbon Intensity (WACI) of equity and
meet customer investment needs and Portfolio alignment We aim to reduce the Weighted Average
corporate fixed income holdings by 50%
our climate ambitions (refer to page 68). We aim to align 70% of Managed Assets Carbon Intensity (WACI) of
by 2030 against a 2019 baseline. to a net-zero pathway by 2030 equity and fixed income holdings
In light of these dependencies and
by 50% by 2030 against a 2019 baseline
Bespoke and Advisory portfolios are challenges, as set out on pages 67 and 69,
currently excluded from our ambitions the inclusion of our carbon intensity
and Climate transition plan as these assets ambition in our net-zero strategy
are subject to customer-specific conditions. is under review.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 67
Portfolio alignment and progress towards net zero
Portfolio alignment allocation towards our custom-built funds. there is currently no defined net-zero WACI challenges
Portfolio alignment measures the We continue to hold investments that are methodology. Therefore, progress against Achieving our ambition is reliant on
percentage of Managed Assets invested in not aligned to a net-zero pathway as this our 2030 portfolio alignment ambition may investee companies taking action to reduce
direct government bonds and funds(1) that supports the overall investment objectives not always be linear. their carbon emissions in alignment with
are on a net-zero pathway. To contribute of our Funds and Discretionary Portfolios. their climate strategies and commitments.
Weighted Average
to our portfolio alignment ambition, the Emission reduction plans take time to set
Portfolio alignment Carbon Intensity (WACI)
direct government bond or fund must out, implement and report against.
challenges We use WACI to estimate the greenhouse
score 3, 4, or 5. The assessment criteria There is therefore an inherent time lag in
To maintain progress, we are dependent gas emissions and long-term
are based on the Paris Aligned Investment the WACI metric. It captures the underlying
on the industry to provide a broad selection decarbonisation trends of Managed Assets.
Initiative (PAII) net-zero investment companies’ emissions at an historical point
of net-zero aligned investment options that For details of how we calculate WACI and
framework and is integrated into in time and is not always a fair reflection
meet the investment objectives and changes to methodology, refer to page 75.
the investment decision-making process of government or business activities
guidelines of our Funds and Discretionary
as disclosed on page 69. For details 2024 progress underway or in plan.
Portfolios, and are expected to deliver
of how we calculate portfolio alignment,
see page 75. strong financial returns. WACI decreased from 166 tCO 2 e/US$m as For this reason, WACI is used to assess
at 31 December 2019 to 110 tCOe/US$m decarbonisation over an extended time
2
This could present a challenge over time as
2024 progress as at 31 July 2024. This change has been horizon, rather than an input into our
during 2024 we have seen some large asset
influenced by decarbonisation activities of investment decision-making process. Due
58% of our Managed Assets were
managers revise their climate-related
investments alongside changes to to these dependencies and challenges, its
considered portfolio aligned as at
commitments. Additionally, there are still
coverage and data sourcing over time, as inclusion as part of our strategic ambitions,
31 December 2024, compared with 49%
many asset classes, such as cash, for which
detailed on page 75. set out on page 67, is under review.
in 2023. This increase was driven by fund
Net-zero assessment criteria used to determine the portfolio alignment score of the fund or direct government bond or fund
A Ambition: A long-term 2050 goal Score – 1 Score – 2 Score – 3 Score – 4 Score – 5
consistent with achieving global net zero
Targets: Short- and medium-term
T
emissions reduction targets Aligned Achieving
Disclosure of emissions: Company Aligning to a net-zero net zero
De discloses its emissions Committed towards a pathway
net-zero pathway A T
Not to aligning
D D ou e t c h a o r w bo e n m is i a ss ti io o n n s : S re tr d a u te ct g io ic n p s la w n il l s b e e tt ing aligned A A T A T De D P
achieved
De D
De D
Progress: Reported against
P S
decarbonisation targets P
Success: Achieving the emissions intensity
S
required by the sector and regional
pathway for 2050 and whose ongoing Considered on a net-zero pathway and contributing to portfolio alignment
investment plan or business model will
maintain the performance
(1) The net-zero assessment is carried out on direct government bonds and funds with more than 70% invested in equity,
corporate fixed income or government bond asset classes.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 68
Climate transition plan approach and progress
In 2024, we continued to use three high level qualitative scenarios to support assumptions about industry adoption of net-zero
strategies. This helps us assess progress towards our 2030 ambitions.
Climate transition plan 2024 insights
To enable progress against our 2030 ambitions, we undertake three key activities: Based on scenarios developed in 2023, we continue to see positive indicators across all
three scenarios in respect to meeting our 2030 portfolio alignment ambition. However, we
Investment decision-making
remain dependent on the global pace of transition and do not expect progress to be linear.
We believe that funds acting on climate change could generate long-term For carbon intensity, we take a more conservative approach when forecasting the
sustainable returns provided they are actively managing climate-related risks expected potential impact on our ambition given the challenges set out on page 67 and
and acting on climate-related opportunities. Refer to page 69 for details. information availability for funds. This means there is greater uncertainty across the three
scenarios when assessing the likelihood of achieving our 2030 ambition.
In addition, a highly optimistic scenario is increasingly less likely given the transition
Voting and engagement to net zero is not materialising at the pace required to limit global warming to 1.5°C.
As highlighted in the 2024 United Nations Environment Programme Emissions Gap Report,
We see voting and engagement as a tool to help drive progress on a range unless global policy support is extended to further reduce global emissions by 2030 and
of sustainability-related issues. Refer to pages 70 to 71 for details. current nationally determined contributions (NDCs) are fully implemented, it will become
impossible to reach a 1.5°C pathway with no, or limited, overshoot.
External dependencies
Exclusions
The implementation of our AUM Climate transition plan is dependent a number of external
factors, most notably:
There are certain investments where we consider engagement unlikely to be effective.
As a result, these are excluded from our custom-built funds subject to revenue or criteria – International co-operation: we have a reliance on supranational commitment,
thresholds. Further information can be found here. collaboration and coordinated national policies to help align underlying investments
with the goals set out by the 2015 Paris Agreement.
– Industry action: as an investor in third-party funds, we have a reliance on the asset
Purpose of our Climate transition plan assessment: To assess progress towards our
management industry to create net-zero-aligned products capable of meeting our
2030 climate ambitions across three scenarios. Further details of our scenarios can be
allocation needs.
found on page 78 of NatWest Group’s 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.
– Investment objectives: diversification across asset classes, sectors and countries play
Climate transition plan assessment scope: Each year, we update fund allocation and the an important role in our ability to provide suitable products for a broad range of
associated net-zero scores alongside forecasted AUM growth figures from the financial investors, helping us manage risks such as liquidity and volatility. Therefore, we need
plan. We focus on assessing the impact of investment selection. Voting and engagement, a broad selection of net-zero aligned products to meet both customer investment
and exclusions are important levers but do not form part of this assessment as not all funds needs and our climate ambitions.
implement our policies. As a result, we do not have the data to make reasonable
assumptions on their potential impact on our ambitions.
Scenarios and assumptions: In 2024, we made no changes to our 2023 scenarios
or underlying assumptions. Critically, the assessment assumes we continue to allocate
to funds that are considered to be on a net-zero pathway, increasing portfolio alignment
and leading to assumed fund decarbonisation. Across the scenarios, moderately optimistic
and highly optimistic scenarios assume higher net zero adoption by funds than our baseline.
Realisation of the scenarios is dependent on funds setting net-zero strategies and taking
action to achieve these goals.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 69
Climate transition plan approach and progress continued
Integrating responsible investing into investment decision-making
Investment Investment Investment
identification selection monitoring
and assessment and reporting
Assessment categories(1)
Responsible investing and net-zero Scores and commentary included in Investments are monitored for
– 2050 net-zero and short-term assessment completed recommendation for investment material changes
goals
– Transition plan and progress
– Integration into investment
decision-making
– Voting and engagement Implementation analysis against Reporting to management,
Responsible investing and net-zero
– Exclusions policies minimum portfolio alignment executive, board committees and
score generated
– Disclosures and reporting thresholds completed customers
Investment identification and commitment. This caused us to downgrade Investment monitoring Key challenges
assessment the portfolio alignment score of the fund. and reporting When completing our assessments,
The responsible investing assessment(2) Investment selection Once we have invested, we monitor we note that a greater proportion of
purpose is to gain an understanding of fund investments for material changes to portfolio aligned investments are passive
The responsible investing assessment
managers’ consideration of ESG factors, sustainability approaches and engage funds, as opposed to active funds.
outcomes, net-zero scores and supporting
including climate change, in their continuously on important topics. This is due to passive funds’ rules-based
commentary are included as one of several
investment process and ownership investment methodology. This can drive
factors in the recommendation for In 2024, we engaged with a number of
practices. The purpose of our net-zero higher scores in our net-zero assessment.
investment. Investment decisions look asset managers, most commonly on the
assessment(3) is to generate the portfolio
to balance holistic investment objectives, topic of climate-related commitments. In contrast, active fund managers often
alignment score. Refer to page 67 for
considering the overarching strategy In one example an asset manager notified take a more qualitative approach such
detailed assessment criteria.
and goals of our Funds and Discretionary us that a fund we were invested in had as using engagement-led strategies, which
Once a potential investment is identified, Portfolios. been removed from the asset manager’s it can be more difficult to assess progress.
our responsible investing and net-zero assets committed to net zero. In response,
Pre-investment, we complete We have not seen many existing funds add
assessments are completed. These are we engaged with the asset manager to
implementation analysis. This is to ensure net-zero targets to their investment
integrated into our investment selection discuss our climate commitments, the
the investment decision will not breach policies. If we do not see progress in this
process and align to our EWRMF pillars rationale for the change to the manager’s
minimum portfolio alignment thresholds, area, the delivery of our portfolio alignment
as shown above. committed assets, the impact on the fund,
refer to page 73 for details. In the event ambition may require significant changes to
and our expectations of the asset manager
Assessments are updated if a material a proposed investment does not meet investments, specifically fund allocation,
going forwards.
change in sustainability approach is these requirements, we aim to seek with implications for our ability to meet
identified or, in the absence of such alternative proposals. Management, executive, and board broader investment objectives.
a material change, every 24 months. committees receive reports on portfolio
Investment proposals and final decisions
For example, in 2024 an asset manager alignment and WACI, as detailed on
are reviewed and approved through our
removed a fund we invested in from their page 74.
Fund Selection Forum. Refer to page 74.
Net Zero Asset Manager (NZAM)
(1) Summary of the assessment categories covered by the responsible investing assessment and net-zero assessment.
(2) The responsible investing assessment is carried out on all funds at onboarding.
(3) The net-zero assessment is carried out on direct government bonds and funds with more than 70% invested in equity, corporate fixed income or government bond asset classes.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 70
Climate transition plan approach and progress continued
Voting and engagement overview
Voting and engagement pollution, and natural resource stewardship.
are two methods investors Environmental issues made up 39% of total Engagements with companies held by custom-built funds:
engagements in 2024. Environmental 2024 themes(2)
can use to influence and
engagement continued to grow in response
communicate with investee to shifting policies and increasing investor
demands for stronger biodiversity
companies and industries
7%
conservation efforts, clearer corporate
more broadly.
disclosures, and more ambitious
target-setting.
We have three ways of voting
and engaging: Voting activity 28% enga T g o e ta m l ents 39% Environmental
2,495
With companies: EOS by Federated In 2024, our voting and engagement policy Social
Hermes (EOS)(1) provide voting aligned with EOS voting recommendations. Governance
recommendations and engage directly with EOS voted on 12,813 resolutions at
Strategy, Risk and Communications
companies held by our custom-built funds. 884 meetings: 11,106 votes were in favour 26%
Refer to pages 70 to 71 for details. of the proposal while 1,633 of votes were
against. 57 votes were either abstained or
With funds: On important topics, for withheld.(3) We are committed to providing
example, if their sustainability approach
transparency on voting activity and publish
materially changes. Refer to page 69
annual and quarterly updates on this Main theme Theme Sub theme
for further detail.
activity. Refer here for further detail.
Environmental Environmental Climate change
Through collective initiatives: We are
Key challenges 39% of total Climate change Climate opportunities
signatories to investor-led initiatives that
engagement Circular economy GHG emissions reduction
support the transition to a net-zero When a company’s climate strategy lacks and zero pollution Governance and
economy. These include Climate Action transparency or fails to provide sufficient Natural resource transparency
100+ and NZAM. As a signatory we detail, it becomes difficult to assess its stewardship Physical risk
engage by aligning with the goals and effectiveness and long-term viability.
commitments set by these collective Another significant challenge results from
initiatives. Refer here for further detail. the wide variety of national standards for
emissions targets. As EOS engages with
Engagement with companies holdings across diverse markets worldwide,
held by custom-built funds navigating complex and differing regulatory
in 2024 landscapes, each with its own approach
EOS has more than $1.8 trillion in assets to emission targets, this complicates
under advice and carries out active efforts to standardise expectations and
engagement efforts with numerous benchmarks. We anticipate that global
companies.(2) These engagements focus on frameworks, such as the International
four key themes, as shown in the adjacent Sustainability Standards Board, will help
diagram, each of which has several priority drive greater consistency in reporting.
themes and sub-themes, as described in the
‘Environmental’ example. For 2024, the (1) EOS conducts all voting and engagement activities for our custom-built funds and have autonomy on engagement decisions
primary environmental priorities were including the authority to continue or discontinue any engagement.
(2) All information regarding EOS activities has been obtained directly from official EOS sources.
climate change, circular economy and zero
(3) Due to data limitations, the breakdown of votes cast in 2024 does not include voting on senior management remuneration.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 71
Climate transition plan approach and progress continued
Engagement in practice EOS engagement stages and examples of engagement activities with companies in custom-built funds
To identify material issues EOS(1) conducts
desktop research, sector and geographical
context analysis and benchmarking
companies within the same industry. EOS 1. 2. 3. 4.
typically conducts engagement over four
stages. The engagement process begins Concern raised with Concern Company asked to Company asked to
by raising the initial concern, which must be
the company acknowledged by develop strategy to show material
acknowledged by the company.
the company achieve objective progress to
The company is then asked to develop
achieving strategy
a credible strategy to achieve the objective of
the engagement. Finally, EOS seeks evidence
Successful example – Engagement journey with US utilities company
that the actions are being implemented, and
material progress has been made against its
engagement objective. November 2019 November 2019 February 2020 May 2023
EOS raised concerns regarding the The company acknowledged that it EOS reiterated the importance of The company demonstrated
If engagements are unsuccessful, EOS company’s lack of TCFD aligned was yet to publish a scenario- TCFD reporting and highlighted the material progress by publishing
may take further action. This can include reporting compared to industry based climate report. need for more ambitious climate its first TCFD aligned report in
recommending votes against management, peers. strategy targets. 2021 as well as setting a more
tabling resolutions, collaborating with ambitious climate strategy
including an accelerated
other shareholders on proposals or finally,
net-zero goal.
choosing to disengage on that specific
engagement activity. EOS may disengage
from an objective if it becomes immaterial
or unlikely to deliver beneficial outcomes,(1) Partially successful example – Engagement journey with US real estate company
for example, when no material progress is
made over several years. This allows focus
November 2020 March 2021 May 2023 September 2023
and resources to shift to other issues.(2)
EOS raised concerns regarding the The company acknowledged the EOS reiterated their request for a Despite not publishing a standalone
company’s climate risk concern over climate risk standalone TCFD-aligned report TCFD-aligned report, EOS believed
Engagement examples
management system and the value management and produced a and asked company to set out that the company had made
Each engagement is unique and the time of TCFD-aligned reporting to TCFD summary. strategy to achieve this. adequate progress and therefore
between milestones is not an indication address these concerns. discontinued engagement.
of engagement effectiveness. This is due
to varying levels of complexity underlying
each engagement and the requirements
to set out and demonstrate progress.
Unsuccessful example – Engagement journey with UK consumer company
The first two examples in the image
on the right focus on encouraging
companies to adopt TCFD-aligned December 2018 October 2019 September 2022 November 2023
reporting, highlighting varying degrees EOS raised concern regarding the The company acknowledged the EOS reiterated their request for EOS discontinued their
of success. The final example describes lack of time-bound targets for a absence of long-term targets on the company to set a time-bound engagement on this issue and
an unsuccessful engagement, where reduction in the use of plastic reducing plastic waste. plastic reduction target. opened new engagements with the
packaging. company where they believe they
the lack of progress caused EOS to change
could achieve greater impact.(1,2)
focus to other areas of engagement
with the company.
(1) EOS conducts all voting and engagement activities for our custom-built funds and has autonomy on engagement decisions including the authority to continue, change or discontinue any engagement. If an engagement issue is discontinued, EOS may engage
the company on other relevant issues, maintaining ongoing dialogue where appropriate.
(2) If EOS chooses to discontinue an engagement, this does not mean we are divested from the company. Underlying investment holdings are at the discretion of the custom-built fund managers who align investment decisions with the overall investment objectives
and guidelines of the custom-built funds.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 72
Processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks
Climate-related risks can have a cross-cutting impact on our business and the investments we manage on our customers’ behalf. Climate and nature risk is included as a principal risk
within our EWRMF, refer to NatWest Group’s plc 2024 Annual Report and Accounts, page 269 for details. The Investment CoE aligns with NatWest Group’s iterative, multi-year approach
towards full integration of climate risk management, as detailed on page 51.
Business risks, characterised and assessed by NatWest Group and deemed applicable to our investment business, include conduct risk, reputational risk, operational risk, as well
as regulatory compliance risk. Investment risks, that is those with the potential to impact assets under management, are characterised and assessed by the Investment CoE.
In 2024, we evolved our process for identifying, assessing and determining the relative significance of climate-related risks affecting our business and the investments we manage on our
customers’ behalf. The process used subject matter expertise (SME) to identify an initial shortlist of the most material business and investment risks, before applying a likelihood and impact
score to each risk over the short, medium and long-term. A combination of SME judgement and risk scoring was used to assess the top risks within each time horizon and is set out below.
The assessment shows transition risks as the key driver of climate-related risks in the short to medium term, with physical risk emerging as more material in the long term. However,
climate-related risks are not linear or mutually exclusive. All risks included in the table have the potential to be affected by climate change over short, medium and long-term time horizons.
Time Horizon Short (<5 years) Medium (5-15 years) Long (>15 years)
Climate risk theme
Transition Physical
for Investment CoE
Risk theme Reputational Conduct Volatility
Regulatory Compliance
Most material risk Risk we are accused of greenwashing due Risk that customers believe our approach Risk that our ability to model physical climate
to misleading climate-related communications or to climate change is negatively impacting their impacts to support investment decision-making
not meeting our regulatory disclosure compliance investment returns through either excessive is underdeveloped due to limited data and modelling
activities within expected timelines. or insufficient action. capabilities.
Risk impact This could misrepresent our services to customers We could lose customers and face negative financial We encounter unforeseen market volatility driven
and fail to meet regulatory expectations, resulting and reputational impacts to the business. by physical climate events, leading to shifts in asset
in a negative financial and reputational impact values that affect investment returns.
to the business.
Risk identification The Investment CoE feeds into NatWest Group We use customer feedback on specific activities We review Climate Value at Risk (VaR) metrics
activities greenwashing risk scenarios to assess the impact as well as testing sessions to understand views and methodology to help us understand the potential
and likelihood of possible greenwashing activities. on our responsible investing approach. physical and transition risks affecting investments.
Regulatory compliance risk is monitored through
horizon scanning. Asset management-specific
regulation is identified and addressed by relevant
teams for compliance.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 73
Managing climate-related investment risks
Overview business and initial implementation responded to the developments by Meanwhile, Funds with higher investment
To manage and monitor progress against plans are developed. enhancing the climate risk management risk profiles tend to exhibit higher
our climate ambitions we have set annual We communicate our approach to questions within our responsible investing Climate VaR.
portfolio alignment operational limits since customers via our responsible investing assessment, and will implement these It is important to note we do not anticipate
2023. To assess the likelihood of achieving policies, which can be found here and changes in 2025. If global trends continue, a consistent linear trend in Climate VaR
our 2030 ambitions, we use qualitative through our evolving suite of disclosures. we believe it will become critical to consider metrics over time. This is a result of
scenario analysis to complete our annual adaptation planning strategies of the funds ongoing changes to fund allocations and
Climate transition plan assessment as Progress in 2024 we invest in. updates to methodological inputs, which
disclosed on page 68. Monitoring and For reputational and regulatory Product-level scenario may introduce variability. Additionally,
oversight of business activities feeds into compliance risks, we reviewed existing analysis outputs predicting the potential impact of climate
management and executive risk communications, product-related change over medium to long-term time
In the product-level reports, we published
committees. Refer to page 74. information and enhanced processes for horizons becomes increasingly uncertain.
Climate VaR figures across three scenarios:
external communications to ensure
For investment risks, we use our orderly, disorderly and hot-house world. Overall, based on entity and product-level
consistency with anti-greenwashing
responsible investing and net-zero scenario analysis carried out to date, we
regulation. We also ensured compliance The current summary of product-level
assessments to quantitatively assess funds consider our business and investment
against FCA ESG sourcebook rules and Climate VaR indicates that Funds with
across a variety of climate considerations strategies to be resilient to climate-related
guidance. This included delivery of our lower investment risk profiles generally
and to generate a portfolio alignment risks in the short term.
inaugural entity and product-level climate- demonstrate a lower Climate VaR.
score, as set out on page 69. To integrate
related disclosures.
this into investment decision-making, we
set minimum portfolio alignment thresholds For conduct risk, as part of the FCA ESG
for our Personal Portfolio Funds, Coutts Sourcebook Rules for Sustainable
Managed Fund and Discretionary Portfolio Disclosure Requirements, we included
Service products in 2022. To manage and Responsible Investing Information
monitor these limits we conduct pre- Documents in investment journeys to
investment implementation analysis. If an support customer understanding of our
investment decision would trigger these responsible investing approach and its
limits it is prohibited and alternative application to their investments.
proposals are set out. Additionally, in our product-level climate-
related reports, we set out our internal
The responsibility for climate-related risk
definition of carbon intensive sectors and
management of the underlying holdings sits
published Climate VaR and implied
with the fund managers. If we believe risks
temperature rise metrics. By providing
are not being managed effectively, we may
these metrics we aim to help support
engage with fund managers. If we believe
customer’s understanding of the climate-
engagement will not be effective for
related risks and opportunities that could
companies in our custom-built funds, we
impact their investments
may exclude business activities. Our latest
exclusions policy can be found here. Regarding volatility risks, the 2024
United Nations Environment programme
NatWest Group monitors regulatory
Emissions Gap Report highlighted that the
compliance risk through horizon scanning.
global transition is not materialising at the
Any regulation related to the Investment
pace required to reduce global emissions
CoE is identified. New or emerging
sufficiently to meet the 1.5°C goals set out
regulations are assessed for impact on the
in the 2015 Paris Agreement. We have
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 74
AUM governance and oversight
Board and executive oversight
Climate-related strategic decisions influencing AUM are subject to both Coutts and NatWest Group governance. As the assessment
and management of climate-related risk within investment products is nuanced we have additional governance and oversight
processes tailored to the Investment CoE. The execution of investment strategy falls under individual accountability within the Coutts
legal entity. Refer to page 84 of NatWest Group’s 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report for descriptions of the governing bodies
below. Material 2024 updates are reported below.
Coutts Board oversight: Asset Management Investment
Coutts Board The Coutts Board received two strategic Committee
climate ambition reviews including an The committee received two strategic
update on progress towards achieving climate ambition reviews. The committee
Coutts Coutts Coutts Coutts our climate ambitions. Coutts Risk also received monthly updates
Performance and Risk Audit Nominations Committee received two climate risk on responsible investing activities,
Remuneration Committee Committee Committee management and regulatory compliance including product portfolio alignment
Committee updates as well as ad hoc reporting as part and WACI reporting.
of oversight of Coutts’ overall risk profile.
In addition, the Coutts Audit Committee Asset Management Risk Forum
Chief Executive Officer Coutts reviewed the entity climate report and Received updates on climate risk
completed training on financed emissions management and regulatory compliance
reporting. The Coutts Performance and activities and provided review and
Wealth Business Risk Committee Wealth Business Executive Committee Remuneration Committee oversees challenge of implementation proposals.
the link between climate strategy The forum received monthly updates
and remuneration. on the principal climate and nature
Asset Management Risk Forum Asset Management Investment Committee risk appetite position.
Executive oversight:
The Executive Committee received Fund Selection Forum
Board level Fund Selection Implementation two strategic climate ambition reviews. Responsible for determining the most
Executive level Forum Forum The Wealth Businesses Risk Committee appropriate route to market for
Management level received three updates on climate risk implementing investment decisions.
management and regulatory compliance The responsible investing assessment and
activities and monthly updates on our portfolio alignment score are considered
RBS Collective Investment Funds Limited
principal climate and nature risk appetite as part of this as set out on page 69. For
(CIFL): The company is a subsidiary of
RBS Collective Investment Funds position. Portfolio alignment operational example, in 2024, a European equities fund
Limited (CIFL) Board Coutts and acts as the Authorised Corporate limits were not triggered in 2024; however, was onboarded, which has strong ESG
Director of RBS Investment Funds ICVC.
if limits are breached this would be integration within the fund’s investment
CIFL appointed Coutts as its Investment
reported to the risk committee, which process. The fund received a high score
Manager. Oversight is maintained through
CIFL Board Investment monitors the risk appetite position. for its responsible investing approach.
quarterly responsible investing updates to the
Oversight Committee
CIFL Board Investment Oversight Committee. Implementation Forum
This includes fund WACI and portfolio
Responsible for the implementation of
alignment updates. Specific updates are
RBS CIFL investment decisions into funds and
delivered to CIFL Board as required. In 2024,
discretionary portfolios. As part of the
CIFL Board received three updates with a
implementation discussion, the forum
focus on regulatory compliance activities.
notes the impact on portfolio alignment.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 75
Methodologies and limitations of climate-related metrics
Scope 1 and 2 emissions(1) Weighted average carbon intensity (WACI)(2) Portfolio alignment
Purpose Establishes the total GHG emissions assets of a Measures assets under management exposure to Shows the extent to which funds are assessed as
fund’s investments. carbon intensive companies. being on a net-zero pathway.
How we estimate Current value of investment Current value of investment Issuer’s GHG emissions We sum all the AUM of direct government bonds and
MtCO2e =
Issuer’s EVIC
Issuer’s GHG emissions tC
re
O
ve
2e
n
/
u
$
e
m =
Current portfolio value Issuer’s revenue funds that are considered on a net-zero pathway
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions are allocated based on portfolio weights (score 3, 4 or 5) and divide by the total value of
(the current value of the investment relative to the current portfolio value) Managed Assets. Refer to page 67 for details.
rather than the equity ownership approach.
2023 1.2 MtCOe(3) 92 tCOe/US$m revenue(3) 49%
2 2
2024 1.1 MtCOe(4) 110 tCOe/US$m revenue(4) 58%
2 2
The following description of coverage, data sourcing, methodology and limitations applies to the calculation of estimated Scope 1 and 2 emissions and WACI. The net-zero assessment
criteria used to determine the portfolio alignment score of direct government bonds and funds is disclosed on page 67.
Coverage Data sourcing Methodology Limitations
– Scope 1 and 2 estimated emissions and – For the estimation of Scope 1 and 2 – We followed the PCAF Standard in – Business, data and methodology
WACI covered 55% of Managed Assets emissions and WACI, we rely on estimating Scope 1 and 2 emissions changes should be considered when
and Bespoke AUM as at 31 July 2024. external data providers for the and WACI. comparing historical figures.
This included listed equity, corporate provision of company emissions – The emissions data used in this entity- – Where historical figures have been
fixed income and government bond and financial profiles. level report received a weighted average revised in alignment with changes
asset classes and equated to £17.1bn. – During 2024, we increased the use PCAF data quality score of 3.2 in 2024. described, this will be clearly identified.
Coverage decreased from £19.6bn of financial and emissions data provided – Refer to page 43 for further details on – At times, newly-launched funds in
(72% of Managed and Bespoke AUM) by external vendors. Improved data financed emissions and data limitations, a fund or discretionary portfolio may
in 2023 due to newly launched funds coverage has resulted in estimates with specific AUM considerations reduce coverage if the data providers
not having available data. now being more closely aligned described above. lack sufficient information at the time
– Advisory assets continue to be excluded to investee activities. of reporting. While we collaborate with
as the investment decision-making sits – Published company emissions were Key changes providers and fund managers to obtain
with our customers. Cash remains out available and used for 55% of disclosed – Scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased by the necessary data, it is not always
of scope as there continues to be no 2024 emissions. 0.1 MtCOe due to coverage changes possible to include this in time for the
2
defined methodology for this asset class. – Where published company emissions and the inclusion of government bonds reporting period. As a result, coverage
– Scope 3 managed emissions are were unavailable, we used revenue- in 2024 estimated emissions. may vary.
currently not reported due to limited based estimated emissions from data – WACI increased by 18 tCOe/US$m
2 Refer to page 43 for further details
disclosures from companies invested in. vendors (4%), or estimates derived revenue compared to 2023 due to a of data limitations.
– We continue to review our approach to from industry/portfolio averages (41%). combination of increased investment
disclosure and expect coverage to – Where appropriate, we may use the bias towards the US, which tend to
change with the implementation of emissions or financials profile of an have a higher emissions intensity,
regulatory disclosure requirements in investee’s parent company for the improved data availability through data
the jurisdictions in which we invest. estimation of Scope 1 and 2 emissions sourcing in 2024 and a reduction in
and WACI. coverage.
(1) Scope 1 and 2 estimated emissions are measured in million tonnes of CO2 equivalent (MtCO2e). Issuer refers to companies we invest in. Enterprise Value Including Cash (EVIC) used for listed companies is market capitalisation plus total debt minus cash and cash
equivalents. EVIC used for unlisted companies equals the sum of debt and equity. Current value of investment is investment exposure as a percentage of the market value of the company.
(2) WACI is measured in US dollars to be consistent with industry measures. Current portfolio value is the sum of all the current values of investments. Issuer’s revenue is sourced from external data vendors.
(3) Equity and corporate fixed income values as at 31 July 2023. Carbon emissions have been taken from 31 December 2022.
(4) Equity, corporate fixed income and government bond values as at 31 July 2024. Carbon emissions have been taken from 31 December 2023.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 76
Supporting social In this section
77 Accessible and inclusive banking
81 Choice of channel
Safe, secure and reliable for our
83
and community customers
Supporting communities through
85
our business activities
Supporting our communities
86
through giving and volunteering
outcomes
Accelerating success for small
88
businesses
89 Supporting future generations
90 Respecting human rights
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 77
Accessible and inclusive banking
Succeeding with customers
We’re working to better understand our We offer additional support where it’s needed,
customers so that we can develop products, whether that’s helping customers tell us about
services and tools that cater to their needs, specific accessibility needs they have
from helping them to access a bank account, or supporting those who are struggling
to managing their financial wellbeing or running to manage their finances.
their business.
By focusing on these areas, we aim to create
We interact with our customers in a variety an inclusive and accessible banking environment
of ways. We continue to review our branch that empowers customers to navigate their
network while developing alternative ways financial journeys with confidence.
of banking with us, including by improving our
Refer to pages 20 to 25 of the NatWest Group plc 2024
digital and data capabilities to help us better
Annual Report and Accounts for further details on our
understand and serve our customers. products.
Summarised below are some of our key products, channels and additional support services
that aim to help us be accessible and inclusive for our customers.
Products and Choice of Additional
services channel support
Foundation Account Branch network Banking Facilities For All
Digital Regular Saver Mobile branches Banking My Way
Access to credit Banking hubs and Post Debt management and
Offices support
Financial wellbeing tools
Access to cash Partner referrals
Rooster Money
Mobile App and Cora Safe spaces
Tyl, Mettle, FreeAgent
Bankline
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 78
Accessible and inclusive banking continued
Inclusive design
We aim to take an inclusive before release. Our pricing standards Considerations for customers Spotlight on our
approach to help support aim to make sure customers are paying with additional support needs Inclusive Design Panel
a fair price for the products and services
good outcomes for our Aligned to FCA guidance, we recognise Working with external parties,
they receive.
the four key drivers of vulnerability: health, we use an Inclusive Design Panel
customers.
Our approach to marketing and life events, resilience and capability. to gain input into the design
communications is centred around of our products, services and
Consumer Duty As part of our product governance, we
informing customers about products communications from those
assess how customers with characteristics
The FCA’s Consumer Duty regulation sets in a clear, fair and not misleading way, who have experience of living
of vulnerability may be impacted by a
high standards of consumer protection communicating the risks, costs with a vulnerability.
product through a Customer Vulnerability
across financial services, and requires and conditions. We aim to ensure
Impact Assessment at the design stage. Through receiving feedback from
firms to put their customers’ needs first. communications present information
In response, we consider the potential the panel, product owners are
The Duty came into force in July 2023 in a way that it is easily understood,
mitigants we can put in place. able to better understand the
for new and existing products and services engaging and written in plain language,
needs of customers who often
and in July 2024 it was widened to cover with key information easy to find and not We follow five principles for designing
feel under-served. The panel
products no longer on sale, but still held hidden in lengthy terms and conditions. inclusively: confidence and trust, accessible
meets on a monthly basis, and
by customers. information, clear choices, easy journeys and
We monitor the performance of our has helped us to review around
specialised support. This approach helps us
In 2024, we continued to make products and services, aiming to ensure 75 different products and
to make proportionate choices in design and
improvements to ensure we deliver they remain consistent with the purpose propositions since it was first
how we monitor to detect potential for harm.
good outcomes for customers. We have for which they were introduced, are formed in 2022, including 30
continued to review and rewrite customer distributed in accordance with the needs Our Inclusive Design Panel is also an in 2024.
communications to make them easier to of the target market and are flexible to important part of our design approach
An example of how the panel has
understand, addressed identified areas of cater to the needs of vulnerable customers. (see opposite).
helped us to better understand
improvement and developed interventions
Effectively managing customer complaints Colleague training the preferences of those with
to help ensure customers achieve fair
outcomes. can build customer trust and ensure All colleagues involved in the design, additional support needs is the
compliance with FCA standards. management and distribution of our changes we have made to our
Read more about our response to Consumer Our approach focuses on minimising products and services are required to repeat-use overdraft template
Duty at natwestgroup.com complaints by identifying and addressing undergo training to ensure they are aware letter. Taking on feedback, we
their root causes. In 2024, we received of the applicable standards and policies for improved the letter by developing
Working to deliver good
239,000 reportable complaints, compared their role, and that they understand how a more empathetic tone and we
customer outcomes to 200,000 in 2023.(1) to fulfil their responsibilities. strengthened how we sign-post
We aim to ensure that our products practical options, such as flexibility
are designed to deliver good customer Read more on our complaints data Customer-facing colleagues receive in paying back, instalment plans
at natwestgroup.com
outcomes, and that our methods training, which includes making sure they and support from other
of communication and distribution consider customer needs and do not organisations.
are fair and responsible. engage in high-pressure sales techniques.
Sales incentives for our customer-facing The work of the panel has gained
Products are subject to product design colleagues were removed in 2016. external recognition, winning
principles and executive-level oversight The Collaboration Network’s
In 2024, we provided training to 63,000 Vulnerability Award and the Aura
colleagues to help them recognise and Insight Impact Award in 2024.
respond to customers in vulnerable situations.
A role-specific module titled ‘Designing to
include everyone’ was launched in Q3 2024,
with 6,000 colleagues having completed it as
(1) Data based on volume of reportable complaints received by legal entities reporting to the FCA. at 31 December 2024.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 79
Accessible and inclusive banking continued
Products and services supporting financial wellbeing and inclusion
Supporting our personal Credit Card Instalment Plans give These tools have been at the centre of our
customers customers the option of splitting costs from approach to supporting customer financial
£50 to £3,000 over three to 24 months at wellbeing, and have been fundamental to
Basic current accounts
a lower interest rate. We have set our ambition, set in 2023, to help 10 million
We provide a basic personal current up 372,000 instalment plans in 2024 people, per year, manage their financial
account, known as a Foundation account, (2023: 368,000). wellbeing by 2027.
to support financial inclusion. The account
may be offered to those with poor, little or Savings accounts In 2024, we have helped 7.8 million(2)LA
people to manage their financial wellbeing
no credit history or those going through Digital Regular Saver is our savings product
(2023: 6 million). We plan to review our
bankruptcy. It includes a debit card, access which aims to help customers build a
financial wellbeing ambition during 2025
to digital banking services and everyday savings habit and grow their money.
in the context of our strategy.(3)
support such as text alerts to help Customers can save up to £150 a month
customers manage their money. Holders and there are no penalties for withdrawing Supporting our business
don’t have access to an overdraft or credit or taking a break. There are over customers
card and the account allows customers to 1.6 million customers who have a Digital
bank with no monthly fee or added Regular Saver and have made at least Simple lending solutions
interest. As at 31 December 2024, one payment into their account in 2024. We recognise that a key lever for
883,000(1) personal customers held supporting businesses is access to flexible,
We aim to offer products, a Foundation account (2023: 900,000). Rooster Money simple and quick lending solutions. In 2024,
NatWest Rooster Money is a children’s we increased our digital lending limit for
services and tools that Credit products and access to prepaid debit card and pocket money app small businesses to £100,000.
cater to diverse needs, short-term borrowing designed to help young people up to the
aiming to make it simple We play an important role in giving age of 17 gain confidence with money. As Bespoke small business products
personal customers access to the finance at 31 December 2024, Rooster Money has Tyl is our payments product, offering a
for customers to access
they need. We have a range of products 474,000 Rooster Card subscribers choice of easy-to-use payment solutions
an account, obtain the that aim to enable customers to access (2023: 280,000). Growth has been driven for small businesses, micro-businesses
finance they need, manage affordable credit, of which credit cards by marketing efforts (including our Team and seasonal traders. As at 31 December
and overdrafts are two key propositions. GB partnership) and the addition of Apple 2024, Tyl has 38,000 customers
their financial wellbeing
It’s important that we lend responsibly, Pay and Google Pay. (2023: 30,000).
or run their business. making sure we’re helping people access
FreeAgent is our accounting software
the finance they need today, without Digital tools supporting financial
product. Designed for small businesses and
Key highlights: creating financial stress tomorrow. wellbeing
accountants, it offers a range of features to
We offer a range of digital tools and
883,000 personal customers Before applying, all customers can review simplify financial management, equipping
features that can support customers to
holding a Foundation Account products and eligibility without impacting users to better understand their business
improve their financial wellbeing. We offer
their credit score. Our Borrowing Needs finances and financial needs. As at
(2023: 900,000) customers personalised coaching plans
Tool can help people make informed 31 December 2024, 200,000 customers
474,000 Rooster Card subscribers choices about what product might be right based on their unique financial situation, are using FreeAgent.
and highlight in-app tools such as Savings
(2023: 280,000) for them, with 163,000 people using the
Goals, Round Ups and Know Your Credit Mettle is our digital business bank account
tool in 2024. Our Overdraft Eligibility Tool
7.8 million(2)LA customers helped Score. for small businesses, sole traders and
aims to inform people about whether they
to manage their financial wellbeing limited companies. Using Mettle, customers
would be accepted for an overdraft.
(2023: c.6 million) can easily raise and send invoices, upload
receipts and integrate with FreeAgent. As
at 31 December 2024, Mettle has 130,000
customers (2023: 100,000).
(1) 2% decrease in customers holding a Foundation Account partly driven by closures due to inactivity and fewer openings (partly driven by a reduction in Ukraine refugee account opening.)
(2) Includes additional initiatives in 2024 including digital regular saver and Insights. The 2023 number is an approximate.
(3) Underlying banking products and features in our financial wellbeing ambition will continue to be offered unless otherwise specified.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 80
Accessible and inclusive banking continued
Supporting access and be getting into financial difficulty or using
building confidence our products in a way that could create
Spotlight on FCA Financial the team sought to understand the
longer-term problems, for example
Banking Facilities For All persistent debt, repeat-use, or paying Inclusion TechSprint reasons for customers seeking credit,
to identify the underlying drivers
Through our Banking Facilities For All for gambling. The FCA’s 2022 Financial Lives Survey
of unsuccessful applications and to
(BFFA) initiative, we assist UK residents found that 23% of UK adults
We communicate with customers who identify additional ways we can help
who face difficulties in providing traditional had experienced issues accessing
may be struggling and provide access customers after a decline decision.
identification documents, such as refugees, a financial product or service.
to a dedicated Financial Health and
individuals experiencing homelessness, In March 2024, NatWest Group Following the TechSprint, areas we
Support team, who offer specialist support
those fleeing abuse, and prison leavers. colleagues from various teams came are looking at include more proactively
to customers in financial difficulty. During
Through BFFA, we are working to together to join the FCA’s Financial connecting customers to income
2024, we sent over 4 million targeted SMS,
eliminate barriers to opening an account Inclusion TechSprint. maximisation tools and providing ways
emails and letters to our most financially
by accepting alternative forms of ID. for customers to better understand
stretched customers. We also shared During the 12-week sprint, colleagues
We continue to work with industry and their credit status. We recognise more
targeted digital reminders signposting worked to explore technological
the third sector to understand reasons work is needed to understand drivers
customers to tools, advice and support. solutions that could help deliver
customers may not be able to engage for declines and the demands for
positive outcomes for customers when
with banking services and the steps If customers miss a payment, we have credit and we are working with
we decline their application for credit.
we can take to support access. measures in place to support them. external parties to do so.
Using a data-led approach focusing
For example, we suppress interest on
Financial Health Checks overdrafts at 32 days in excess and, where on customer transactional behaviour,
Our Senior Personal Bankers provide customers miss several payments on
free reviews of finances for personal secured or unsecured debt, we give
and business customers, supporting them customers the flexibility to spread the
to understand which products or services repayment of missed payments over up to
could help them progress towards their two years. We support customers to tailor
financial goals. We provided assisted the solutions that could help to improve
Financial Health Checks to 321,000 Retail their financial situation.
customers in 2024 (2023: 358,000) and
We also actively refer customers for Free
22,000 to business customers.
Independent Money Advice (FIMA) through
Financial confidence workshops our debt advice charity partners PayPlan
for personal customers and Step Change
We aim to help young people and adults
for business customers, with 13,300
improve their money skills and confidence
customers referred in 2024 (2023: 14,000).
through interactive workshops and learning
We also provide information on how to
resources. In 2024, we worked with public
access the Financial Ombudsman Service.
and private sector commercial customers
to deliver Financial Foundations workshops, Unsuccessful applications
with trained bank volunteers delivering We are not able to provide our products
workshops totalling 270 hours of support and services to everyone who applies for
(2023: 250 hours). We also reached over them. We can direct those who are unable
1 million young people in schools through to access credit, or those whose
NatWest Thrive MoneySense. applications are declined, to practical tools.
These tools include our Benefits Calculator,
Debt management support
which aims to help improve their finances
We use a data-led approach to monitor
and increase likelihood of a future
usage closely across our products and
successful application. We also provide
have processes in place to protect
information on how we reach decisions.
customers. These processes help us
to quickly identify anyone who might
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 81
Choice of channel
Banking locally For a large part of society, access to physical
As at 31 December 2024, we had 484 cash continues to be important. We operate 11.5m(1)LA
branches (2023: 580). In 2024, we closed a network of 2,150 ATMs across the UK
over 90 branches and in January 2025 we (2023: 2,400).(2) In 2024, as part of Cash Digitally active retail and business
announced our plan to close 53 branches Access UK we have helped to pilot third-party banking customers
by the end of June 2025. We recognise the Cash Deposit Machines in public locations, 2024 11.5m
way people bank with us has evolved, with which allow customers to deposit cash.
2023 10.9m
an increased demand for digital services. The closure of the last bank in any town
While we respond to that demand, we give triggers a review of access to cash by LINK, 2022 10.1m
careful consideration to the impact that the organisation responsible for the UK’s ATM
closing a branch might have on customers. network. Members of the public, community
11.2mLA
We know it can affect those less confident groups and local elected officials can request Retail banking Cora interactions
with the remote or digital alternatives we a LINK cash access review in their area, if
offer and we recognise our responsibility they think their community could benefit from 2024 11.2m
to provide these customers with support. a banking hub. Read more on local banking 2023 10.8m
We communicate directly with customers services at natwest.com 2022 10.4m
affected by branch closures and we also
proactively contact those in vulnerable Digital channels 49%LA
We understand that our situations to offer additional support to By advancing our digital systems, we can
customers want to be given guide them through the change. We aim to enable customers to more easily access Retail Cora interactions requiring no
provide our customers with 12 weeks’ notice the financial services they need, and to human input
a choice of which channels
of this change through easily accessible bank at a time convenient to them. 2024 49%
they use to bank with us. information via notices, factsheets, in-branch
support and alternative ways to continue Channels for Retail customers 2023 49%
We continue to review our
banking with us. Read more on branch Our mobile app means Retail customers can 2022 48%
physical footprint, while
closures at natwest.com bank whenever and wherever they need to.
developing our digital Improvements in 2024 include simplifications 10.5mLA
We continue to offer mobile branches
services to get to know our serving 600 unique stops (2023: 600), in the way disputes or fraud can be Retail customers using our mobile app
reported using the app. We also introduced
customers better and to allowing customers, including those in our ‘Secure Caller’ feature, which allows 2024 10.5m
remote areas, to carry out their everyday
deliver a better service. us to have conversations with customers 2023 9.8m
banking such as making deposits,
directly through the mobile app. This aims
withdrawing cash and paying bills. 2022 8.9m
Key highlights to give customers, especially fraud victims,
Customers can also access banking services
confidence that they are talking to the bank.
484 branches and banking services at over 10,000 Post Offices across the UK. Retail Banking customers banking
available in over 10,000 post offices. Our virtual digital assistant Cora aims to entirely digitally(3)
Banking hubs and access to cash
support self-service for our customers, 79%
(2023: 580 branches)
Community Banking Hubs are an initiative enabling them to get responses to their
(2023: 77%)
103 Community Banking Hubs by Cash Access UK, managed by a group of queries and perform actions like updating
and 2,150 ATMs nine banks including NatWest Group, aimed their address. In 2024, we expanded Commercial & Institutional customers
(2023: 2,400) at providing banking services to communities Cora’s knowledge and customers can now banking digitally first(4)
without a bank branch. As at 31 December add cardholders or unblock a PIN. We 83%
2024, there are 103 Community Banking were one of the first UK banks to embed
(2023: 81%)
Hubs open across the UK (2023: 31). generative AI into a virtual digital assistant.
(1) A digitally-active customer is someone who has accessed either their online banking platform or mobile banking app.
(2) Reduction in ATM numbers primarily relates to branch closures.
(3) Retail Banking franchise customers with active current accounts that have accessed a digital platform (online or mobile) and not used the branch or telephony for 90 days in the reporting period.
Inactive customers excluded and customers with no channel usage excluded.
(4) CommerciaI & Institutional franchise customers with active non-personal account/s that access their account 95% or higher through digital channels (online, mobile, Bankline), for three rolling
months in the reporting period.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 82
Choice of channel continued
Channels for business While we have made progress, we know
customers there is still more to do to remove barriers
Spotlight on digitalisation colleagues in our contact centres
and we continue to listen to our customers.
and innovation to support by transcribing customer Bankline is our digital channel for mid-
conversations and reducing time market and corporate customers. In 2024, Banking My Way
our customers
spent to search relevant data. we began to implement a £100 million Banking My Way aims to help us better
Technology continues to advance This aims to reduce call hold time transformation programme to improve the support customers by understanding the
and by improving our digital systems, and repeat calls and improve customer experience through modernising challenges they face and what adjustments
we aim to enable customers to more response consistency. the channel, including increasing they need to make banking easier.
easily access financial services at a accessibility, enabling all customers to
– AI, including generative AI,
time convenient to them. Additionally, access through mobile and releasing new Available through the Mobile App and
supporting complaints responses
we aim to enhance their experience features more frequently. As part of this, in Online, in our branches or via telephone
by sourcing and assimilating
by using data and analytics to better 2024 we made over 430 new feature teams, Banking My Way allows customers
relevant data for analysts, saving
understand their situations. This allows releases, a 115% increase compared to to select the support they need from
up to 20 minutes per case.
us to build relationships in a digital 2023. a range of adjustments including a sign
– AI tools capturing customer call
world, supporting our customers more language interpreter, braille statements
effectively and helping them to make details, summarising key facts for Digital accessibility or simply speaking more slowly. This allows
Relationship Managers, allowing
progress towards their financial goals. Our approach is to be an ‘Accessible Bank us to deepen our understanding of our
them to focus on customers during
We continue to invest in technology by Design’ across our digital journeys. customers’ needs and personalise the
the call rather than on note taking.
and data, with £2.9 billion allocated This means including those with disabilities service we give, empowering customers
from 2024 to 2026. In January 2025, we announced our and long-term conditions and recognising to bank with us in a way that suits them.
minority investment in Serene, an that everyone’s needs are different and
Growing use of Artificial early-stage AI platform dedicated to can change over time. As our customers In August 2024, we expanded the Banking
Intelligence tackling financial vulnerability. interact more with us through digital My Way categories to include 13 additional
options that better reflect our customers’
While we have used AI for several Through real-time customer insights channels, we understand the increasing
needs. This included an option for
years, with approximately 19% of the driven by AI and behavioural science, importance of providing a seamless
customers to disclose dyslexia, or to not
bank’s analytical models using AI as the platform aims to detect early signs and inclusive digital experience.
have their gender assumed based on their
at 31 December 2024, the increased of financial distress and predict risks
We aim to conform to the World Wide voice. As at 31 December 2024, 397,000
sophistication of AI and machine to help financial institutions deliver
Web Consortium’s (W3C) Web Content customers had registered for additional
learning can help us to deliver further personalised, timely support at scale.
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) v2.2 at support through Banking My Way
simplification, personalisation and
productivity improvements to better Read more at natwestgroup.com Level AA and this is reflected in our Digital (2023: 244,000). Growth in usage has been
Accessibility Standards. We also provide driven by increased mobile app prompts,
serve our customers. In 2024,
further guidance within our Supplier training for colleagues to proactively
improvements have included: Managing the challenges
Charter and our new online Accessibility sign-post to customers and the new
– Continued enhancement to our Read more on page 83 about how Statement for customers. disclosure categories.
AI-supported virtual digital assistant we are reacting and adapting to the
Cora, supporting digital journeys emerging risks and challenges posed In 2024, we co-signed the Disability Safe Spaces
Finance Code for Entrepreneurs and our
for our customers (refer to page 83 by new technologies, including We support the UK Says No More
Retail Digital Assistant, Cora, achieved
for more details). cybersecurity, the ethical use of AI, campaign by offering Safe Spaces in our
accessibility accreditation from UK charity
– AI-driven Amazon Connect fraud and scams, and our customers’ branches. These locations provide a private
AbilityNet. We expanded our role-based
software supporting 7,000 data privacy. room for individuals experiencing domestic
training and created a Digital Accessibility
abuse to access a phone and contact
learning module, which had been
support discreetly. Our colleagues have
completed by 21,000 colleagues as at
received specialist training on Safe Spaces
31 December 2024. We also continued
and domestic abuse awareness.
to innovate in authentication to deliver
Voice Biometrics within our mobile app.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 83
Safe, secure and reliable for our customers
Digital service stability
For our customers to bank with us
Spotlight on ethical use In October 2024, the Leapfrog
anytime, anywhere, it is important that
of data and AI programme launched the Ethical
our services have a consistently high
Model Process (EMP), comprising:
performance and stability. In 2024, our We aim to deploy AI systems
most critical systems have been available responsibly and ethically by ensuring – An AI and Data Ethics Code of
99.99% of the time (2023: 99.99%).(1) 2024 guardrails are in place. We do this Conduct, which describes key
saw zero Criticality 1 incidents compared through a principles-driven approach principles to support all colleagues
with two during 2023.(2) These numbers which aims to meet the expectations to work responsibly with AI and
include all events which had an impact of our supervisory authorities, ensure data. We aim to publish this
on our operations, not just system issues. our systems are robust, secure externally in 2025.
and properly governed, and drive – An Ethical Model Assessment,
Through control frameworks, we continue outcomes that are fair, contestable which is being rolled out for all new
to maintain focus on our operational and easy to explain. AI models being developed, with
resilience capability, with customer service
the aim of ensuring they adhere
a priority. In support of this, we have In 2024, we have continued to embed
to our AI and Data Ethics code
policies, standards and mature processes AI and data ethics across NatWest
of conduct.
in place to aim to minimise the potential Group policies. We have created
for any technology or IT system an AI and Data Ethics team of 14 In addition to this, we have set up an
disruptions. These include recovery colleagues, led by a new bank-wide AI and Data Ethics panel, comprising
procedures and incident response plans, Head of Responsible AI and AI multi-disciplinary colleagues to assess
all of which we test on a regular basis Strategy, and we plan to make further and oversee the ethical implications of
to reduce risk. investment in ethics controls. AI systems before they are deployed.
Cybersecurity We continue to develop a principles- To upskill our colleagues, we have
As we deliver an driven, bank-wide control framework created learning resources on AI
It’s important we keep information safe
increasingly digitalised and secure from cyberattacks. NatWest for managing AI risks through our and data ethics with 4,500 colleagues
Leapfrog programme, which was completing them in 2024. We have
service, it’s important we Group’s cybersecurity risk management established in 2022. This work draws also developed AI and data ethics
forms an integral part of NatWest Group’s
react and adapt to the expertise from multiple disciplines training, in collaboration with the
EWRMF. We have a comprehensive set
emerging risks and of layered security defences against new across the bank. Through the University of Edinburgh, for our AI and
programme, we have worked Data Ethics team and panel members.
challenges posed by new and emerging threats. These are regularly to embed enhanced data ethics
tested by both our in-house security testing Looking ahead, we aim to work
technologies, including and responsible AI controls into
team and leading experts in the to further strengthen our capability
our existing Model Risk policy
cybersecurity, the ethical cybersecurity industry. to meet supervisory expectations,
and control framework.
use of AI, fraud and scams, manage model risks that could arise
As part of our annual cybersecurity training
from the use of advanced data
and data privacy. for all colleagues, over 60,000 colleagues
analytics and continue to comply with
completed learning in 2024. We have
existing regulations, such as the UK’s
Key highlights: not experienced an information security
data protection and privacy rules,
breach in the last three years as a result
99.99% availability of most of a cybersecurity threat. and forthcoming regulations, such
critical systems as the EU AI Act.
Refer page 273 of the NatWest Group plc
(2023: 99.99%)
2024 Annual Report and Accounts and
natwestgroup.com for further details on our
cybersecurity risk management.
(1) Availability of our key systems is currently calculated against our Important Business Services – those defined as the most critical.
(2) By way of illustration, a Criticality 1 incident could be a loss of key IT systems resulting in an impact to more than 15% of the bank’s customers or an incident that leads to a financial loss of over
£10 million.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 84
Safe, secure and reliable for our customers continued
Data privacy Working to combat fraud NatWest Group: in 2023, £92 was APP fraud;
Privacy is a vital component of serving UK Finance states that the total number – Ranked fourth for reimbursing down from £134 in 2022.
our customers and is therefore embedded of fraud cases rose by 16% in H1 2024, customers who fell victim to APP scams. – Had the second lowest value of APP
across NatWest Group. We have a Privacy compared with the same period in 2023, We fully reimbursed 89% and partially scams received per £ million of
and Client Confidentiality (P&CC) policy with the value of losses across both reimbursed 3% of the APP scam cases transactions. For every £1 million of
which sets out our ethical approach to the authorised and unauthorised fraud reported by customers in 2023. transactions received, £61 was APP
rules respecting the fundamental rights of at an estimated £570 million.(1) fraud; down from £76 in 2022.
– Had the third lowest value of APP
individuals and safeguarding the personal
NatWest Group aims to combat fraudulent scams sent per £ million of transactions. Read more on the PSR website
data of our customers, colleagues and any
activity, and is investing in resources and For every £1 million of transactions sent
third parties we have engagement with
capability to evolve defences. We continue
such as our communities, suppliers and
to develop our capability in using data
investors. Everyone in NatWest Group is
and analytics to proactively detect fraud,
required to follow these rules to ensure
including by alerting customers who may
compliance with relevant legal and
be at risk from purchase scams.
regulatory requirements including the
UK GDPR and Data Protection Act 2018. Fraud and scams awareness
The policy requirements are embedded
It’s important that we help increase our
within our risk processes and are subject to
customers’ awareness of how fraudsters
rigorous controls and assured against the
and scammers operate. We have
P&CC operating model. Our responsible
continued to deliver fraud and scam
practices always look to address privacy
education through our MoneySense
and grow trust and customer advocacy.
and Financial Foundations education
All our colleagues, including contractors, programmes. This included 118 fraud
are required to undertake annual and scam-themed Financial Foundations
mandatory privacy and client confidentiality workshops (refer to page 80 and 89 for
training. The privacy and client more information on our financial education
confidentiality training module is updated programmes). During 2024, we also
annually with new topics and learnings delivered over 100 fraud and scam
from the previous year. Job-specific education webinars to 9,800 Commercial
training is also provided as necessary & Institutional clients, and continued to
for colleagues, for example, training educate customers and non-customers
on Artificial Intelligence for our privacy across our social media channels.
colleagues.
Payment Systems Regulator (PSR)
During 2024, while there have been a small
performance data
number of breaches of GDPR and the duty
In July 2024, the PSR updated its
of confidentiality (impacting a very small
Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud
percentage of customers and employees)
performance data for 23 banks, including
that we have sought to remediate, there
14 major UK banking groups and nine
have been no material reportable
smaller firms. The performance data
‘personal data breaches’ under GDPR
relates to 2023.
and no enforcement action by data
protection authorities.
Read more on our approach to privacy
and customer confidentiality at
natwestgroup.com
(1) UK Finance Half Year Fraud Report
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 85
Supporting communities through our business activities
Our social housing ambition Our Employment Generation social bond, Our first Affordable Housing bond, issued
We recognise the importance of social issued in 2019 (redeemed on 15 November in 2021, was estimated to have supported
housing to society and the role a stable 2024), aimed to support job creation in the acquisition or development of 490
home can play in leading to better the 30% most deprived areas of the UK. new units for the year to 31 March 2023.
socioeconomic outcomes and higher The asset pool for the bond was made Our second Affordable Housing bond,
employment rates. up of loans to small- and medium-sized issued in September 2024, had a nominal
businesses based in these areas. value of €1 billion.
In 2024, we announced a new package Based on the loans in the asset pool
of targeted lending and support for the UK as at 31 December 2023, we estimated In March 2023, NatWest Group became
social housing sector to help local housing that our lending to these small businesses the first bank in Europe to issue a bond
authorities and homeowners deal with had helped to create 9,700 new jobs. with the intention to use the net proceeds
ongoing economic pressures. We set an to lend to businesses identified as women-
ambition to lend £5 billion over three years, We have issued two social bonds with led. From the issuance date of 7 March
from 1 January 2024 to the end of 2026. the aim of supporting the provision of 2023 to 31 December 2023, the proceeds
We increased this ambition by £2.5 billion affordable housing. The asset pools for of the bond supported 14,545 loans to
to £7.5 billion in February 2025 to provide the bonds are made up of loans to housing women-led businesses.
sustained support to the UK social associations providing affordable housing, Read our 2023 Green, Social and
housing sector. including through the provision of social Sustainability Bonds Allocation
rent units. and Impact Report.
Our Green, Social and This funding will support the delivery and
maintenance of social housing, which will
Sustainability Financing,
help families relying on affordable housing
as well as other funding
and the broader economy. It aims to help
and lending activity, is housing associations deliver new homes
and improve living conditions in existing
being developed with the
properties. It will also assist in financing
aim of enabling positive
energy efficiency and environmental
outcomes that will help solutions, such as retrofits.
address societal In 2024, we have completed £4.1 billion
challenges. of lending, which supported around 65
housing associations across the UK.
Key highlights: Read more on our affordable housing
ambition announced in February 2025
£4.1 billion in lending to the UK
at natwestgroup.com
social housing sector in 2024.
Generating impacts
Affordable housing social bond
through the proceeds
issued in 2024 with a nominal value
of €1 billion, meaning we’ve issued of our social bonds
four social bonds with a total As at 31 December 2024, since 2019 we
nominal value of £2.8 billion had issued four social bonds under three
since 2019. asset classes, with a total nominal value at
issuance of £2.8 billion. The proceeds of the
social bonds provide funding for loans
which can help to address social issues.
Read more on asset class definitions in our
Green, Social and Sustainability (GSS)
Financing Framework.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 86
Supporting our communities through giving and volunteering
While we recognise that our core business rowing equipment to virtually travel as Our card payment provider for businesses,
activities are likely to have the biggest many times as possible from London Tyl, allows customers to select charities to
influence on the communities in which we to Paris. These events, along with other benefit from its Giveback Community Fund,
operate, we believe that our community fundraising activity in September, led leading to donations of £118,000 in 2024
investment activities can help address to over £630,000 being raised for (2023: £258,000).
some of the societal challenges our charitable causes.
Giving Tuesday
communities face. Our direct community
Our longstanding partnership with
investment in 2024 amounted to We are a founding partner in the UK of the
The Conservation Volunteers (TCV)
£10.4 millionLA compared with £11.1 million global Giving Tuesday initiative. We work
continued during 2024 with the planting
in 2023, as measured using the Business with our charity partners to share stories
of 40,000 trees and 4,000 colleagues
for Societal Impact benchmarking of how, together, we are supporting our
taking part in environmental volunteering
standard. This includes the funding we communities through our giving. We also
days. An audit of the trees we planted
make available to support colleague giving use this annual day of giving to encourage
at Gogarburn in 2022 suggested a higher
and the direct costs of delivering colleagues to sign up for our payroll giving
than expected attrition rate, so we will
our community programmes. scheme, or to increase their monthly
be addressing this by aiming to plant
donation, by offering an incentive payment
Read more in the 2024 Sustainability Basis of new trees grown at our new tree nursery
for their chosen charities. For customers,
Reporting. at Gogarburn during 2025.
our Giving Tuesday campaign sees us
The breadth of our community investment Customer charitable giving match donations to charity through their
Rewards account. For Giving Tuesday
activity makes it difficult to fully understand We have innovated in recent years to
2024, these two initiatives led to charities
the overall societal impact of our spend, make it easier for customers to give
receiving an extra £300,000
and this, along with the ongoing need to digitally. Through our Rewards account,
(2023: £350,000).
align our giving efforts with our core customers donated £810,000 in 2024. We
business priorities, will be considered added Social Bite, a charity working to end NatWest Group
We’re working to support during 2025. homelessness, as a Rewards charity and independent charities
our colleagues and encouraged customers to donate to their
Colleague charitable giving NatWest Group has two independent
Festival of Kindness campaign. The
customers to give back The Do Good Feel Good campaign unites charities that continue to support specific
£43,000 raised is enough to fund 8,600
to help our communities. our colleagues to support the causes they Christmas dinners and winter meals for activities – the Coutts Foundation and
care about through volunteering and NatWest Social & Community Capital
people who are homeless and vulnerable
Key highlights: fundraising. In 2024, we raised £4.2 million across the UK. (S&CC). The mission of the Coutts
for community causes (2023: £3.8 million) Foundation is to support sustainable
£10.4 millionLA in direct and volunteered 140,000 worktime hours In October 2024, the Disasters Emergency approaches to tackling the causes and
community investment (2023: 125,000) to support our Committee responded to the humanitarian consequences of poverty in the
(2023: £11.1 million) communities (refer to page 87). need in the Middle East by launching an communities where Coutts has a presence.
appeal. Our colleagues and customers S&CC provides financial support to social
£4.2 million raised by colleagues In 2024, we aligned our series of challenge generously responded by donating enterprises and community businesses.
(2023: £3.8 million), events to support the Team GB £1 million to the appeal including £790,000 Since it was founded in 1999, it has
partnership. In June, the Team GB Baton
through the simple giving functionality on provided around £12.5 million in loans to
Over 140,000 worktime Relay saw 220 colleagues participate in a
our mobile app, bringing the total raised more than 91 organisations across the UK.
hours volunteered range of activities and in September over
through this channel to £8.5 million since it
(2023: 125,000) 370 colleagues took part in our Team GB
was launched in 2020.
triathlon, using static cycle, running and
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 87
Supporting our communities through giving and volunteering continued
Spotlight on
colleague
volunteering
At NatWest Group, we support
our colleagues to volunteer in
our communities by providing
them with three days annually
Supporting Supporting National Emergencies
to contribute their time, skills,
small businesses communities in our Trust skilled
and expertise.
Colleagues have given time back non-UK jurisdictions volunteering
Our volunteering leave is flexible, allowing to support small businesses, Outside the UK, our RBS Members of our Marketing team
colleagues to work with the causes they entrepreneurs and community International colleagues have volunteered with The National
choose to support. Additionally, they can groups. Our strategic partner, supported their local communities Emergencies Trust in March
participate in bank programmes aligned to Digital Boost, has enabled our across the six jurisdictions they 2024. The National Emergencies
community focus areas. To support young colleagues to provide free digital operate in. They have volunteered Trust were creating a ‘Survivors’
people, our colleagues volunteer with youth skills and expertise to support their time and skills to support Hub’, a central resource hub
community programmes as part of our small businesses, with the aim of a diverse range of initiatives, where people affected by a UK
NatWest Thrive programme (refer to page helping to close their skills gaps. from skills volunteering by disaster can access useful
89), as well as working with The King’s Businesses were supported by creating data privacy policies information. After a day exploring
Trust to support young people into our colleagues through mentoring for charities, to inspiring 350 the issue, our marketing team put
business, work or further education. in areas including risk, leadership, young girls with a series of together a deck guiding the Trust
Our partnership with TCV allows marketing, business strategy STEMFest events in Isle of Man, on how to market the hub.
colleagues to support green space and growth. Jersey and Guernsey. Mhairi Sharp, CEO of the National
community projects (refer to page 86). Our independent charity, Social In 2024, colleagues in India Emergencies Trust said: ‘Thanks
In 2023, we implemented a new digital and Community Capital, relies on collaborated with schools to to support from the NatWest
volunteering platform to help colleagues volunteers to advance its mission support education for marketing team in shaping our
identify activities based on their to provide financial support to underprivileged children across dedicated Survivor Hub, those
preferences and in 2024, we increased social enterprises and community Bangalore, Gurugram, and affected by disasters will be able
the volume of available activities businesses. Colleagues from Chennai. In addition, colleagues to receive key guidance and
on the platform. NatWest Group have volunteered supported climate projects, signposting information in the
In 2024, our colleagues dedicated 140,000 by being part of the funding panel including efforts to restore and most accessible and inclusive
worktime hours to volunteering. We aim and reviewing loan applications. revive degraded wetlands, way. We know from previous
to deepen colleague engagement in Their contributions have helped grasslands, forests, and research there is a need to
volunteering, recognising that only 21% S&CC to provide financial and agricultural lands in Haryana, ensure that support is readily
of colleagues participated in 2024. During non-financial assistance to Delhi NCR, Karnataka, available, so the onus is not on
the year, we conducted colleague insight organisations. and Tamil Nadu. survivors to find it. The aim is to
sessions to understand the barriers to reduce this burden and ensure
participation. We are also engaging with people can access vital
stakeholders to explore ways to further information quickly’.
embed volunteering into our culture.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 88
Accelerating success for small businesses
Accelerator Women in business Regional support
We aim to promote economic growth We aim to support female entrepreneurs We understand the value of taking a local
As one of the UK’s biggest
and drive an environment where through our ‘women in business’ specialists approach – recognising that different
banks for business, we
businesses can thrive. In 2024, our and strategic collaborations. In 2024, regions and communities require different
know that helping business UK-wide Accelerator supported over 2,000 through our collaborations with Buy Women levels and types of support. We have seven
businesses across our 12 hubs, reflecting Built and Digital Boost we supported around Regional Boards comprising regional
leaders succeed takes both
our responsibility to fostering 7,000 individuals of which 75% were partners that work to deliver the bank’s
traditional banking support
entrepreneurial success. In alignment with women. We also supported ‘Begin’, strategy at a local level. During 2024,
and wraparound business current economic trends, we have made a programme aimed at supporting aspiring we reached nearly 11,000 people through
significant advancements in how we female entrepreneurs in turning their ideas various events and activities. The Boards
support.
support businesses, with our delivery into actionable plans. MP HERoes Autumn use local knowledge to create networks
centred on three outcome pillars for Summit, hosted and sponsored by NatWest and connections that allow us to listen
Key highlights: businesses: funding, selling, and leading. Group, took place in Westminster, to and be led by customers’ needs, helping
401,000(1)LA To further enhance this focused support, celebrating women in business owners to support the diverse businesses across
our established partnerships, both at from across the UK and their positive the UK. This includes overseeing Regional
(Target: 350,000, 2023: 301,000) regional and national level, bring world- impact on society. Board Grants that helped nearly 3,800
Interventions delivered to start, class capabilities to the Accelerator. women and under-represented individuals
run and grow a business through These collaborations leverage specialised Ethnic minority support during 2024. Support offered aims to
enterprise programmes. expertise and resources, to provide tailored We continued to collaborate with harness a new generation of founders that
solutions to the unique challenges faced by organisations that work with typically would not approach a bank by
In-person support (where businesses across the UK. Our extensive underrepresented groups, with 35%LA of providing them with resources, knowledge
measurement is possible; excluding network of partners not only enhances our our interventions directed at these groups. and support, and to educate individuals
digital) was distributed as follows: mentoring and coaching services but also We collaborated with the UK Black on the opportunities founding a business
78%(2)LA opens doors to new market opportunities Business Entrepreneurs Conference and could offer.
and innovation. By integrating these Hatch Enterprise. Our work with Aston
‘The UK is home to a vast number of
To UK regions outside London and partnerships into our programme, University on the ‘Time to Change’ report,
innovative start-ups. At NatWest Group,
South East we are not just guiding businesses towards published in 2022, for advancing the
we want to help ambitious business
(Target: 75%, 2023: 75%); growth; we are equipping them with the growth potential of Ethnic Minority
owners to grow and expand.
tools and insight necessary to excel in Businesses (EMB) in the UK has continued
79%(3)LA
a competitive landscape. Our partners and expanded its reach to include Northern
We have distinctive expertise to make
a difference, not just through traditional
Support provided to women include Enterprise Nation, Federation for Ireland. As part of the ongoing work, West
banking services and lending, but with
Small Businesses, Scottish EDGE, Small Midlands Combined Authority announced
(Target: 50%, 2023: 55%); full wraparound support including
Business Sunday and Digital Boost. an investment of £250,000 into community
35%(3)LA
hubs across the West Midlands to support
our Accelerator’.
Inclusive entrepreneurship
ethnic minority owned businesses. NatWest
Support provided to individuals from
Supporting diverse entrepreneurship, Group were part of the decision-making
ethnic minority backgrounds
particularly for women and ethnic minority panel to choose which hubs would deliver
(Target: 20%, 2023: 34%). individuals, brings a wealth of benefits to increased support to EMBs. The
2,000 businesses supported across both communities and society and drives community hubs initiative was launched in
our 12 Accelerators. innovation in our business. August 2024.
(1) Read more on the interventions delivered through our enterprise programmes in the 2024 Sustainability Basis of Reporting.
(2) Demographic split by regionally supported (outside London and the Southeast England) is a proportion of enterprise
programmes that meet the criteria (Digital Boost, Hatch, Regional Partners, Regional Board, Social and Community Capital,
Supply chain Sustainability, King’s Trust and Accelerator Programme Coaching).
Darren Pirie
(3) Demographic split by women and ethnic minority is a proportion of enterprise programmes that meet the criteria
(Digital Boost, Hatch, Regional Partners, Regional Board, King’s Trust and Accelerator Programme Coaching). Head of Accelerator
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 89
Supporting future generations
Building on the success of our well- We also provided targeted input Youth Clubs
established MoneySense, CareerSense, through the CareerSense Find Your Path We continue to engage with young people
Dream Bigger and NatWest Thrive Youth programme for 16-to-24-year-olds not in in youth clubs through our collaboration
Club programmes, we are in the process education, employment or training (NEET) with the National Youth Agency (NYA).
of transitioning our programmes into one, across the UK. This included workshops,
bringing the best of our existing mentoring from NatWest Group staff, The NYA’s knowledge and experience
programmes under NatWest Thrive in and paid placements. In 2024, 30 young of working with young people has helped
2025. We are aiming to create interactive, people enrolled. us build an understanding of the indicators
relevant content to help inspire and drive of vulnerability.
Focusing on social mobility, NatWest Group
action, as we know that engaging young colleagues mentored 35 young people In 2024, we engaged 5,000 young people
people with financial education can through Career Ready, offering 1:1 across 156 youth clubs in England, helping
be challenging. guidance and a four-week paid placement. them set future goals and learn good
MoneySense Additionally, 69 young people from the money habits, with the aim of making
Social Mobility Foundation and The Sutton them feel more positive about their
NatWest Thrive MoneySense is our free
Trust participated in insight weeks with the financial future. The feedback from
financial education programme that aims
NatWest Group has been bank, exploring industry roles, skills and participants in our youth clubs continues
to help 5-to-18-year-olds learn
helping young people about money and prepare for a better entrepreneurship opportunities. to develop our thinking, and the challenge
will be sustaining this impact over time.
to build their financial financial future. Dream Bigger Almost half of the young people who
confidence for more In 2024, we engaged with teachers and NatWest Thrive Dream Bigger, our have been through the programme
young people through events such as programme for the next generation of felt more confident in creating a plan
than 30 years through
Global Money Week, Mental Health aspiring entrepreneurs, brings transferable to achieve their goals.
community programmes.
Awareness Week and My Money Week. entrepreneurial skills training into the
In 2024, we also developed an employee
NatWest Thrive, our As part of Talk Money Week run by the classroom and our communities.
volunteering programme in partnership
Money & Pensions Service, MoneySense We provide access to inspirational
financial wellbeing and life with the NYA, giving participating youth
helped parents and families explore topics role models and industry leading
readiness programme, clubs access to 32 NatWest Group
including budgeting, credit scores, savings entrepreneurial education to help prepare
colleagues, contributing skills that have
aims to build on that and fraud to support conversations young people for the future world of work.
benefited both young people and the wider
about money.
heritage by helping young During 2024, we reached 76,000 young youth worker network.
people develop the MoneySense reached 1 million young people through in-school challenges and
Strengthening the
people during 2024. In September, colleague supported workshops. Through
mindset, self-belief and Youth Work Sector
we ran a competition for schools to win our partnership with The Inspirational
skills they need to feel a visit from a Team GB athlete, reaching Learning Group, we have supported Our £3 million Levy Fund pledge(2) to the
more confident about 600 new teachers and 155,000 students delivery of The National Careers Challenge, NYA continues to bring more qualified youth
across five weeks. providing students in years 7 to 10 with workers into the sector. Of those beginning
their financial future.
real life businesses challenges to help them a youth work degree apprenticeship
CareerSense
develop the skills they need to make more qualification in the UK in 2024, NatWest
Key highlights: In 2024, NatWest Thrive CareerSense informed decisions about their future. Group supported more than half through
supported 4,600 13-to-24-year-olds across In 2024, we connected with 69,000 our apprenticeship levy funding, bringing
Over 1.1 million(1)LA young people the UK with skills workshops and lessons young people through this partnership. much-needed expertise into the sector and
reached in 2024. We want to help in schools. supporting its ongoing growth.
them improve their financial
wellbeing and feel more confident
about their future through our
NatWest Thrive programme. (1) Our 2024 target was to reach 1 million young people, to improve their financial wellbeing and help them feel more confident about their future. Refer to 2024 Sustainability Basis of Reporting for
further details.
(2) In January 2023, we pledged to transfer £3 million of apprenticeship levy to NYA as part of our collaboration. As of 31 December 2024, we had transferred £1.9 million of pledged ambition.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 90
Respecting human rights
Our approach to human rights is informed Tackling modern slavery and We refreshed our online learning module
and guided by internationally recognised human trafficking for all colleagues on ‘Preventing Modern
standards including the United Nations Slavery and Human Trafficking in the
In June 2024, we published our eighth
Guiding Principles (UNGPs) on Business financial service sector’. We also developed
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking
and Human Rights. In 2024, we continued a mandatory standalone learning module
Statement, which sets out the steps that
to enhance policies and practices covering for colleagues in our Supply Chain Services
we are taking to identify and address
colleagues, customers, investments and and Third Party Risk Management
modern slavery and human trafficking
suppliers. We participated in benchmarks business areas.
within our own operations and our supply
and monitored developments in regulatory
chain. Case studies outlined:
frameworks, such as the EU’s Corporate
Sustainability Due Diligence Directive – how our Sexual Exploitation Dashboard Spotlight on accessing
(CSDDD), which will guide us further. helped to identify a customer who was rights-holders’ voices
potentially being exploited;
Our programme of engagement with We understand the importance of
– a branch colleague who recognised a
various stakeholders including charities, fostering inclusivity and diversity
customer’s vulnerability and red flags,
investors and non-governmental in our operations. As part of this,
leading to a human trafficking network
organisations (NGOs) continues to help we recognise the need to consult
being uncovered;
deepen our knowledge and understanding with communities affected by our
of human rights issues. We remain – a colleague concern, reported to business practices and, where
signatories of the UN Global Compact our whistleblowing service, about possible, to hear their voices
(UNGC) and continue to adhere to an allegation of attempted trafficking and perspectives directly.
of sex workers.
reporting requirements under a range of
In August 2024, we piloted a panel
initiatives, including the Equator Principles. Read our 2023 Statement on Modern Slavery engagement session aimed at
We participated in the UNGC Business & and Human Trafficking.
helping us gain different
Human Rights Accelerator, and the UK
We understand we have an Network’s Climate & Human Rights and To coincide with Anti-Slavery Day, perspectives from people with lived
experience of some of our salient
important role in promoting Modern Slavery working groups. we ran a week-long campaign which
human rights issues. We heard
included a series of events with modern
respect for human rights. Human Rights Action Group slavery charities, law enforcement, and views on the impacts of climate
We retained a Tier 2 The Human Rights Action Group (HRAG) colleagues from Financial Crime teams. change, land rights and labour
conditions across developing
position of evolving good continues to coordinate our activities, and Colleagues were invited to hear from the
countries. Charity experts who
to make recommendations to the NatWest Supply Chain Sustainability School about
practice in the CCLA were also in attendance
Group Executive Committee, Group understanding the risks in supply chains.
Modern Slavery Sustainable Banking Committee and Board We also hosted a webinar which featured welcomed the opportunity
to advocate for rights-holders
benchmark.(1) While there to develop and strengthen our approach. the progress we’re making on managing
and encouraged consideration
HRAG aims to accelerate our work across modern slavery, including a case study
is room for further of the intersectionality of our
human rights and modern slavery. In 2024, which detailed how the work undertaken
improvement, we were activity focused on developing our by our Financial Crime teams helped law salient human rights issues.
recognised for providing processes for managing our six salient enforcement to identify and charge four In 2025, we will continue to
human rights issues. Refer to page 91 people with a range of offences linked to explore ways to engage with
evidence of due diligence
for further details. human trafficking and money laundering. globally impacted communities,
practices on modern
with a particular focus on
We continued to strengthen our internal
slavery informed by indigenous voices in relation to
educational resources with the creation
topics including deforestation and
experts and civil society of a dedicated human rights and modern
nature and how these impacts
partners. slavery intranet hub.
intersect with human rights.
(1) Read more on the CCLA Modern Slavery Benchmark
and its outcomes here.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 91
Respecting human rights continued
2024 progress on our salient human rights issues
We identified six salient human rights issues in 2023 which have the most potential to occur if action is not taken to prevent or address them. Our salient human rights issues are centred
on five roles: Employer, Procurer, Retail Banker, Investor and Commercial Banker. We recognise that issues such as contribution to climate change and conflict and security are continuing
to unfold within the current global political and environmental landscapes. We will continue to review our salient human rights issues as our business, value chain and operating
environment evolve and have provided some illustrative examples of work done in 2024.
Role 2024 Activity
NatWest Group’s
Commercial Banker – Began work to embed our Human Rights Risk Acceptance Criteria which requires enhanced due diligence for sectors with
salient human
human rights risk not already covered by sector-specific ESE Risk Acceptance Criteria. To support implementation, we
rights issues plan to roll out specific training for front-line relationship managers in 2025. We also have more work to do to enhance our
system capabilities to ensure we have efficient processes in place to identify customers in heightened risk sectors and we
Data protection
are developing our internal reporting capabilities to support this.
and privacy
– Formed a working group which focused on internally raising visibility and awareness through case studies pertaining
Labour rights to human rights issues.
issues and unjust
– Reviewed our Defence Risk Acceptance Criteria to ensure that the frequency and level of human rights due diligence
working
was appropriate to times of both peace and conflict.
conditions
Discrimination Retail Banker – Through our Banking Facilities for All (BFFA) initiative, improvements have been made to the account opening process
and lack of for UK residents who face difficulties providing traditional identification documents. This includes simplifying and clarifying
support for the guidance on who can provide a Letter of Introduction, which should reduce account opening times for vulnerable
vulnerable customers.
Contribution to – Expanded categories available through our Banking My Way service to include 13 additional options that better reflect
climate change customer needs, allowing them to make us aware of any vulnerabilities and related support needs.
– Provided 63,000 colleagues with consistent training to recognise and respond to customers in vulnerable situations.
Land rights
Investor – Through our voting and engagement, our salient human rights issues remained an area of focus across our Assets
Under Management (AUM) through EOS at Federated Hermes. Read more on our approach to voting and engagement
Conflict and
on page 70.
security
– Engaged on 298 Human and Labour rights issues and objectives across 176 companies.
– Included a case study in the updated Coutts Stewardship policy, demonstrating how we engage on human rights issues.
Employer – Developed metrics across applicable salient issues and monitored key legislation in this area that could impact future work.
Read more on our salient
– Reviewed several colleague policies from a human rights perspective and no material changes were required.
human rights issues and
methodology. – Began a re-accreditation process to maintain our Regional and Global Living Wage status.
– Introduced a new anti-bullying, harassment and discrimination policy with accompanying support material and training
to support colleagues and comply with new legislation.
Procurer – Documented escalation routes for any human rights concerns identified during the onboarding and in-life monitoring
of suppliers.
– We are likely to fall in scope of the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive in the coming years and have
a planned programme of work to understand and address any new legal obligations this directive creates.
– Created a mandatory stand-alone ‘Preventing Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking in the financial service
sector’ e-learning module for procurement colleagues.
– Worked with anti-slavery charity Unseen to provide bespoke modern slavery training for our SMEs and small suppliers
in UK and India.
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 92
Cautionary
In this section
Caution about climate metrics and data required for
93
climate reporting
Climate-related and other forward-looking statements
statements 96
and metrics
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 93
Caution about climate metrics and data required for
climate reporting
This report includes, among others: and interoperability of these models, – Counterparty data sourced from rating) – depends on a variety of public,
– Climate metrics, such as estimates of technologies, and methodologies are also external third parties who specialise in private and civic sector sources.
historical emissions including, financed at relative early stages. collating data from published reports Historically, climate-related data was
emissions, absolute emissions, and may relate to different dates that do not largely environmental and weather data
The financial sector is grappling with risks
various emissions intensity metrics, correspond to NatWest Group balance produced by government agencies.
related to data availability, quality
managed emissions, facilitated sheet dates for which emissions are However, the challenge is finding the
(accurate, verifiable, reliable, auditable,
emissions, implied temperature rating or being estimated. This may result in a lag relevant sources if they exist, and then
consistent and comparable data
estimates of historical climate change, in reflecting any changes in customer validating, cleaning, and standardising the
(hereinafter referred to as ‘Adequate
temperatures and other information; circumstances within NatWest Group’s data in an accessible form or format.
Data’)) and access to such data on a timely
and financed and managed emission
and verifiable basis. The most important of Significant gaps in sectors, sub-sectors and
estimates.
– Forward-looking climate metrics, such these risks are: across asset classes are impeding not only
as aims, ambitions, estimates, forecasts, – There is no single, global, cross-sector climate risk management, but also the
plans projections, targets, climate – Data and climate-related data may not data provider that adequately and development of mitigation and adaptation
scenarios and emissions intensity be generally available from consistently covers the needed scope strategies, as well as aspects of operations
pathways, and estimated climate counterparties (including suppliers) or for Adequate Data to analyse emissions and credit risk and investment analysis that
projections and forecasts. customers or, if available, is variable in and assess physical and transactional depend on data-informed processes.
terms of quality. risks across operations and portfolios.
Climate metrics, whether historical or – In the absence of Adequate Data Voluntary and mandatory climate- Furthermore, data challenges, particularly
forward-looking, are more inherently publicly available or available directly related frameworks vary in their data the lack of granular customer information,
uncertain and therefore less reliable than from individual counterparty (climate- quality measurement, and the way in create challenges in identifying customers
metrics based on historical financial related) data, financial institutions which customers collect and disclose with ‘coal-related infrastructure’ (for
statements. Further to it, forward-looking necessarily rely on aggregated asset-level data also varies significantly. example, transportation and storage) and
climate metrics are more uncertain and information based on high-level sector – While regulators and standard setters other customers with ‘coal-related
less reliable than historical climate metrics data developed by third parties that begin to mandate additional disclosure operations’ within NatWest Group’s large
due to their forward-looking nature and may be prepared in an inconsistent way of verified climate-related data by and diversified customer portfolios.
assumptions about future matters that are
using different methodologies, companies across sectors, there are For more information on data limitations
not certain.
interpretations, or assumptions and potential gaps between needed and related to financed and managed
There are many significant therefore such data may not be available data. emissions, refer to ‘Financed emissions
accurate.
uncertainties, assumptions and – data limitations’ on page 43 of this
judgements underlying climate – Adequate Data is less readily available 2) Risks of limited availability of report.
for some asset types and there may Adequate Data required for climate
metrics that limit the extent to
also be data gaps, that are filled using reporting, particularly data relating to 3) Risks inherent in the lack of
which climate metrics are reliable.
‘proxy’ or other data, such as sectoral certain industries, industry sub-sectors standardisation, transparency and
The most important of these are:
averages, again developed in different and geographic sectors. comparability.
1) Risks inherent in data required for ways. Where third-party estimates are The absence of widely available Adequate The disclosure frameworks and
climate reporting and climate metrics. used, their sources or methodologies Data, and sub-sector-related information methodologies for calculating climate
Climate metrics and data (including data may not be disclosed to NatWest Group. makes it challenging to accurately disclose metrics are continuing to evolve. Even
required to report climate-related risks and – Particular data challenges for certain or estimate climate metrics used to assess where companies are using the same
opportunities and their potential impacts), customer segment (with a large climate-related risks and opportunities. methodology, there may be differences in
proportion of SMEs) due to lack of
the models, scenarios used to create them The availability of climate, industrial interpretation which limit the comparability
availability of data, which limits the
and the measurement technologies, classification, energy use and efficiency of climate metrics. These differences are
granularity of analysis possible for
analytical methodologies and services that data – including information used as a compounded by a limited international
certain sectors, such as for example for
support them remain in a relatively proxy for that data (for example, EPC coordination on data and methodology
the agriculture sector.
immature stage. Accordingly, the quality standards. Where methodologies are
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 94
Caution about climate metrics and data required for climate reporting continued
publicly described, differences across of one or more external data and 5) Risk inherent in methodologies for opportunities in certain sectors may not
data providers can still make resulting methodology providers. estimating and calculating greenhouse be included. For more information on
disclosures difficult to compare for – In addition, design issues specific to gas (GHG) emissions. limitations and challenges, refer to the
investors and others evaluating climate financed emissions raise challenges, – The methodologies for estimating and section on ‘Supporting our customer’ and
exposure across their holdings. particularly around allocating emissions calculating GHG emissions, financed in particular the section on ‘Financed
to the wide range of financial activities. emissions (whether absolute emissions emissions – data limitations’ on page 43
4) Risks inherent in the reliance on Financed emissions from owning 1% of or emissions intensities), managed of this report.
assumptions, scenarios and future a company might include 1% of that emissions, facilitated emissions and
uncertainty. company’s emissions; a portfolio can other climate-related metrics are, by 6) Limitations of climate scenario
– Climate metrics are complex and rapidly double count if aggregate comparison to financial metrics, in their analysis and the models that analyse
require many methodological choices, financed emissions include each early stage of adoption and application them.
judgements and assumptions. underlying company’s own Scope 3 and may vary widely. – Over-reliance by regulators or financial
– Climate metrics, particularly upstream and downstream emissions. – Some methodologies use company- institutions on a limited number of the
temperature scenarios generally include The calculation becomes significantly specific historical emissions data while same prescribed models or scenarios
a set of assumptions that incorporate more complex with other activities, such others result in estimation of emissions (for example, the scenarios of the
existing or planned global or regional as when a financial institution serves based on sectoral or geographical data Network for Greening the Financial
policies, a business-as-usual socio- as a counterparty or is one of multiple or averages. Of those that incorporate System (‘NGFS’)) may amplify or
demographic projection, and projections underwriters of a financing. emissions targets, there are different downplay systemic climate-related risks.
for technological progress (including – The preparation of this report requires criteria for the types of targets that can There is increasing industry concern
negative emissions and sequestration the application of a number of key and cannot be used. (acknowledged by the NGFS) that
technologies), none of which may judgements and also requires – Methodologies vary in their use of model scenarios, including those
happen as contemplated, and, assumptions and estimates to be made. Scope 1, Scope 2, and/or Scope 3 GHG provided by central banks and
therefore, the scenarios, climate metrics These assumptions, judgements and emissions. Some use only Scope 1 data, supervisory bodies, are too benign and
and data based on those assumptions estimates are highly likely to change while others use Scope 1 and 2, and yet may not adequately capture: (i) the
may be incorrect. materially over time, and, when coupled others take Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG financial implications of increasing
– Some assumptions attempt to with the longer timeframes used in emissions into account. Certain frequency and severity of acute physical
compensate for existing data gaps, such these climate and sustainability-related methodologies take cumulative historical risks as global temperatures increase;
as past emission trends or comparable disclosures, make any assessment of GHG emissions into account while (ii) second- and third-order impacts
and reliable company-specific targets materiality uncertain. others incorporate point-in-time such as disruptions to supply chains and
and, therefore, the scenarios, climate – The key areas involving a higher degree assessments of emissions intensity. increased geo-political risks; nor (iii)
metrics and data based on those of judgement or complexity, or where – Methodologies may incorporate different possible ‘tipping points’ that could lead
assumptions, may be incorrect. assumptions and estimates are climate-related scenarios or emissions to large, irreversible changes in the
– Other assumptions rely on given climate significant to this report, include pathways, or even utilise internal climate system (for example, the melting
scenarios and transition pathway financed emissions, managed emissions, proprietary future emissions pathways. of permafrost or the Greenland and
models, the details of which can vary facilitated emissions and portfolio – Certain methodologies may be better Antarctic ice sheets).
widely despite representing similar alignment and measurement of suited to assessing certain asset classes – The practice of modelling the impact
outcomes. climate-related risk and operational and may vary in whether some asset of climate-related risks on the financial
– Uncertainty around future climate- emissions. There is a high risk that the classes can be assessed at all. sector is improving rapidly but remains
related policy in particular can judgement exercised, or the estimates – Variations in methodologies may also under development. As a result, there
contribute to greater variation in or assumptions used, may subsequently lead to under– or overestimates of are currently a number of limitations
transition pathway models. turn out to be inaccurate. These implied temperature rise, and with respect to data and analysis
judgements and resulting data techniques, which should be considered.
– Until other challenges, including the consequently an exaggerated indication
presented in this report are not a – Scenarios are not forecasts (they do not
ones listed above, are addressed, there of climate-related risk.
substitute for judgements and analysis mean to predict future outcomes);
may be a large resource burden
made independently by the reader. Moreover, some available methodologies rather they are projections of alternative
associated with calculating and
may only include a limited number of plausible futures that are designed to
disclosing forward-looking metrics,
technologies and indicators, while other build an understanding of the nature
which often require the assistance
important levers/indicators that are needed and size of changes that may occur in
to understand transition risks and future. They do not reflect all possible
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 95
Caution about climate metrics and data required for climate reporting continued
future pathways. By using a particular – Scientific understanding of climate assumptions may subsequently prove for ‘green’, ‘social’ and ‘sustainable’ assets
scenario, NatWest Group does not change continues to develop. This may to be incorrect and/or may need and liabilities, and labelling of ‘green’,
intend to imply anything about the enable a more granular and precise to be restated or changed. ‘social’ and ‘sustainable’ financial
probability of that scenario. understanding of some kinds of products and services.
Climate reporting (as well as other
– Predicting climate change and climate-related risks in future.
sustainability-related reporting) in our To date, there is currently no single globally
quantifying its impacts on the economy – Finally, models cannot fully capture the
industry is in its infancy compared to recognised or accepted, consistent and
is inherently complex, including range of societal changes that could
financial reporting. Although internationally comparable set of definitions or standards
predicting as to how the impacts of result from climate change. These could
recognised or accepted climate and (legal, regulatory or otherwise) of, nor
climate change will impact asset values, include changes in dietary preferences,
sustainability reporting principles and widespread cross-market consensus
how companies will react to regulatory migration patterns, and political
standards are emerging, there is a lack (i) as to what constitutes, a ‘green’, or
and market pressures, as well as how preferences. As climate continues to
of commonly accepted climate and ‘sustainable’ or similarly-labelled activity,
NatWest Group’s customers will react change, decision-makers will respond
sustainability reporting practices for product or asset; or (ii) as to what precise
and adapt to these impacts. in ways that can both create and
NatWest Group to follow or align to. attributes are required for a particular
– Like any modelling, the further out the alleviate risks. The models do not fully Accordingly, climate and sustainability- activity, product or asset to be defined
projection, the greater the uncertainties. capture the possibility of low-probability related measures between organisations as ‘green’, or ‘sustainable’ or such other
When interpreting model outputs, it may but high-impact risks and opportunities. in our industry and between reporting equivalent label.
be that the direction of change is more Market actor and policymaker periods within organisations may be
useful for decision-making than point responses are complex and should be non-comparable as reporting principles Users of this report must not assume that
estimates within one scenario’s results. considered qualitatively along with a and standards continue to develop. NatWest Group’s reporting or description
– Climate scenarios and the models that quantitative scenario analysis. Some of of activities, products or assets will meet
analyse them have limitations that are these limitations are inherent to many In addition, the maturity of underlying their present or future expectations or
sensitive to key assumptions and models but are in this case further data, systems and controls that support requirements for describing or classifying
parameters, which are themselves exacerbated by the often-multi-decade non-financial reporting are generally funding and financing activities as ‘green’,
subject to some uncertainty. time horizon and the complexity and considerably less sophisticated than the or ‘sustainable’ or attributing similar labels
inter-dependencies of the effects systems and controls for financial (unless a definition or standard is specified
– Climate scenarios cannot fully capture
modelled, from ice sheets melting reporting, and also include manual in this report).
all the potential effects of climate, policy
to agricultural yields and migration. processes. This may result in non-
and technology-driven outcomes. For
To mitigate the limitations of scenarios comparable information between Caution about case studies.
example, the Intergovernmental Panel
and modelling, practitioners should organisations and between reporting The case studies included in this report
on Climate Change (IPCC) projects that
analyse multiple scenarios with periods within organisations as are intended for illustrative purposes only.
substantial deployment of negative
various underlying assumptions methodologies develop. The further They are provided to demonstrate
emissions technologies, such as biomass
and parameters. development of accounting and/or potential outcomes and should not be
energy with carbon capture and
reporting standards could materially impact construed as definitive evidence. The
storage (CCS), would be required to
Caution about judgements, assumptions the performance metrics, data points and content and reliability of these case studies
achieve a 1.5°C outcome, and many
and estimates, the lack of commonly targets contained in this report and the are not the responsibility of NatWest Group
analysts draw similar conclusions about
accepted reporting practices, the reader may therefore not be able to and we make no representations or
reaching 2°C. The cost and availability
non-comparability of information and compare performance metrics, data points warranties regarding their accuracy.
of such technologies has a significant
the lack of definitions or standards. or targets from one reporting period to The opinions, conclusions and views
effect on the estimated price of carbon
another, on a direct like-for-like basis. expressed in these case studies are solely
that would be required to deploy them. The preparation of certain information in
NatWest Group plans to continue to review those of the individuals or companies who
Other things being equal, models that this report – including the classification of
available data sources and enhance its provided them and do not necessarily
assume the availability of low-cost CCS climate and sustainable funding and
methodology and processes to improve reflect the views or policies of NatWest
or other as-yet-nascent technology will financing activities – requires the
the robustness of its climate-related Group. Readers are advised to exercise
project more modest carbon prices to application of a number of key judgements,
reporting over time aligned with caution and to assess the relevance and
achieve stringent climate change assumptions and estimates. The reported
recognised industry developments. applicability of these case studies and seek
mitigation goals. Models that assume measures in this report reflect ‘good faith’
independent verification when relying on
limited availability of these technologies estimates, assumptions and judgements at There are an increasing number
the case studies included in this report.
at low cost will project higher costs to the given point in time. There is a risk that of initiatives focused on developing
achieve the same climate goals. these judgements, estimates or standardised definitions and criteria
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 96
Climate-related and other forward-looking
statements and metrics
Caution about references to websites, – NatWest Group’s ambition to be net – NatWest Group’s intention that after Other uncertainties and factors include,
reports and other materials. zero by 2050 across its financed 31 December 2025 it will not renew, without limitation:
This report may contain references to emissions, assets under management refinance or extend existing reserve- – the extent and pace of climate change,
websites, reports and other materials and operational value chain; based lending specifically for the including the timing and manifestation
prepared by third parties that are not – NatWest Group’s ambition to at least purpose of financing oil and gas of physical and transition risks;
affiliated with NatWest Group. Reference halve the climate impact of its financing exploration, extraction and production;
– the macroeconomic environment;
to such websites, reports and other activity by 2030, against a 2019 – NatWest Group’s aim to continue the
– the effectiveness of actions of
materials is made for information purposes baseline, supported by sector-based process of embedding nature-related
governments, legislators, regulators and
only and information available on such ambitions/targets; risks into risk management process.
businesses, the response of the wider
websites, in such reports and other – NatWest Group’s ambition to reduce
Words or phrases such as ‘ambition’, society, investors, customers, suppliers
materials is not incorporated by reference the carbon intensity of its Managed
‘achieve’, ‘aim’, ‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, and other stakeholders to mitigate the
into this report. Readers are advised to Assets by 50% by 2030, and to move
‘budget’, ’continue’, ‘could’, ‘effort’, impact of climate and sustainability-
exercise caution and conduct their own 70% of Managed Assets to a net-zero
‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘forecast’, ‘goal’, related risks;
due diligence when relying on information trajectory;
‘guidance’, ‘intend’, ‘intention’, ‘may’, – changes in customer behaviour and
from these third-party sources. To the – NatWest Group’s ambition to reduce ‘objective’, ‘plan’, ‘potential’, ‘predict’, demand, appetite for new markets,
extent permitted by law, NatWest Group emissions for its operational value chain, ‘projection’, ‘seek’, ‘should’, ‘target’, ‘will’, credit appetite, concentration risk
makes no representation, warranty or against a 2019 baseline by: reducing ‘would’ or similar expressions that convey appetite, lending and underwriting
assurance of any kind, express or implied, Scope 1 and 2 location-based emissions the prospective nature of events or opportunities;
or takes no responsibility or liability by 70% and Scope 3 emissions by 50% outcomes generally indicate other
as to the fairness, accuracy, reliability, by 2030; forward-looking statements. – developments in the available
reasonableness, correctness or – NatWest Group’s target to provide technology;
completeness with respect to any £100 billion climate and sustainable There are many significant uncertainties, – the roll-out of low carbon infrastructure;
such websites, reports and materials. funding and financing between 1 July assumptions, judgements, opinions, – the timely implementation and
2021 and the end of 2025, including the estimates, forecasts and statements made integration of adequate government
Caution about the use of graphics. ambition to provide £10 billion in lending of future expectations underlying these policies;
This report contains a number of graphics, for EPC A or B rating residential forward-looking statements which could – the availability of accurate, reliable,
infographics and text boxes which aim properties between 1 January 2023 cause actual results, performance, auditable, consistent and comparable
to give a high-level overview of certain and the end of 2025 as a sub-set outcomes or events to differ materially data;
elements of this report and improve of its wider target; from those expressed or implied in these – lack of transparency and comparability
accessibility for readers. These elements – NatWest Group’s ambition that 50% forward-looking such statements. of climate-related forward-looking
are all illustrative and should be read within of its residential mortgage book to have The most important of these uncertainties methodologies;
the context of this report as a whole. an EPC rating of C or above by 2030, and factors that could cause actual results – variation in approaches and outcomes
Climate and sustainability- where EPCs are available; and outcomes to differ materially from – variations in methodologies may lead
– NatWest Group’s sector-level emissions those expressed or implied in forward- to under- or overestimates, and
related forward-looking
reduction targets validated as science looking statements are summarised in consequently present an exaggerated
statements and metrics
based by SBTi, climate scenarios and the ‘Risk Factors’ included on pages 408 to indication of climate-related risk; and
Certain sections in this report contain emissions intensity pathways, estimated 426 of the NatWest Group plc 2024 Annual – reliance on assumptions and future
climate and sustainability-related and other climate projections and forecasts; Report and Accounts (with special regard uncertainty (calculations of forward-
forward-looking statements and metrics, – NatWest Group’s ambition to fully to the risk factors in relation to ‘Climate looking metrics are complex and require
such as aims, ambitions, climate scenarios, phase-out of coal for customers and sustainability-related risks’ that many methodological choices and
estimates, forecasts, emissions intensity who have coal production, describe several particular uncertainties, assumptions).
pathways, plans, projections and targets, coal fired generation and coal climate and sustainability-related risks
including but not limited to, related infrastructure globally to which NatWest Group is exposed and Refer also to pages 93 to 95 of this report
(‘Caution about climate metrics and data
by 1 January 2030; which may be amended from time to time).
required for climate reporting’).
Supporting the Responsible investing and Supporting social and Cautionary
NatWest Group plc 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction climate transition AUM climate transition plan community outcomes statements 97
Climate-related and other forward-looking statements and metrics continued
No duty to update. No offer of securities or investment. intended to be an advertisement for the
The forward-looking statements contained The information, statements and opinions purposes of the UK Prospectus Regulation
in this report only speak as of the date contained in this report do not constitute and investors should not make any
they were published and are subject to a public offer under any applicable investment decisions based on the
the limitations and qualifications as noted legislation, an offer to sell or solicitation information included in this report;
in the ‘Cautionary statements’ section of of any offer to buy any securities or or (ii) to be a communication in relation
this report. Except to the extent legally financial instruments or any advice or to any particular product or service for
required, we expressly disclaim any recommendation with respect to such the purposes of Section ESG 4.3.1 of the
obligation or undertaking to update or securities or other financial instruments. Financial Conduct Authority Environmental,
revise any forward-looking statements Social and Governance sourcebook.
This report, the information, statements
in this report, whether to reflect any
and disclosure included in this report are
change in our expectations regarding
not formally part of any offering documents
those forward-looking statements,
and are not contractually binding.
any change in events, conditions or
This report is not intended (i) to form
circumstances on which any such
part of any communication of any offering
statement is based, or otherwise.
issued under this report and it is not
NatWest Group plc
36 St Andrew Square
Edinburgh, EH 2 2YB
www.natwestgroup.com