Serving our
customers
every day
NatWest Group plc 2023 Environmental, Social and
Governance Disclosures Report
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 1
Inside this report
Our 2023 reporting suite – available at natwestgroup.com
Introduction
3 Our strategic framework
4 Chief Financial Officer’s review
Serving our Serving our Serving our Serving our
Metrics and targets custo e m ve e r r y s day custo e m ve e r r y s day custo e m ve e r r y s day custo e m ve e r r y s day
6 ESG highlights at a glance NatWest Group plc 2023 Annual Report and Accounts NatWest Group plc 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report NatWest Group plc 2023 Pay Gap Report NatWest Group plc 2023 Sustainability Basis of Reporting
Annual Report Climate-related Pay Gap Report Sustainability Basis
Strategy and Accounts Disclosures Report of Reporting
9 Key ESG topics for our stakeholders
10 Collective action
Also included in our reporting suite:
12 Supporting our customers and communities ESG Frameworks Appendix
38 Supporting our colleagues Our progress with reference to industry-wide sustainability standards: United Nations
Principles of Responsible Banking Global Reporting Initiative Standards, World Economic
45 Supporting our suppliers
Forum International Business Council Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability
46 ESG ratings performance
Accounting Standards Board Standards.
Sustainability Basis of Reporting
Governance
Our approach, scope, and controls for certain sustainability metrics included in the 2023
48 Responsible governance reporting suite. The definitions, scope and exclusions, and methods used to prepare these
metrics has been used as the Reporting Criteria against which the measurement and
51 Aligning executive pay with ESG performance and our strategy
presentation of these metrics was evaluated by Ernst & Young LLP (EY) as part of
their assurance.
Risk management
Non-financial information datasheet
53 How we do business
Summarises our selected non-financial information data on our key ESG metrics.
55 Environmental, Social and Ethical (ESE) risk management
57 Human rights ESG Disclosures Report and ESG Frameworks Appendix
58 Tax payments and responsibilities
Cautionary statements
61 Important information
Serving our
63 Other important information, including our assurance approach
customers
every day
NatWest Group plc 2023 Environmental, Social
and Governance Disclosures Report
On the covers: Syed Zaidi (L) and Caroline Edwards (R), volunteering in a school as part of a
MoneySense workshop. MoneySense, launched in 1994, is one of NatWest Group’s financial education
programmes, supporting young people to learn about money. Syed is a lead personal banker for our
Ilford branch. Caroline leads on social programmes and integrating financial wellbeing into our strategy
and operations through her work.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 2
Serving our
customers and
communities
every day
We’re dedicated to serving our customers. By being there throughout their
lives, we can build long-term value, invest for growth, make a positive
contribution to our communities and drive attractive returns for
shareholders. Our focus is to continue building a great bank, powered by
great people and delivering fantastic service to our 19 million customers.
Creating sustainable value
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 3
Our strategic framework
1.1 Serving our customers every day
We champion potential, helping people, families, and businesses to thrive.
Our strategy is to grow our business by anticipating and meeting our customers’ needs, using data and
technology to ensure we are simple to deal with, alongside a disciplined approach to cost, investment and
capital allocation. Together these actions aim to deliver sustainable long-term value for our shareholders.
Supporting customers at every Powered by people, technology,
Simple to deal with Sharpened capital allocation
stage of their lives innovation and partnerships
Read more in the Strategic Report in the NatWest Group plc 2023 Annual Report and Accounts.
We are informed by the Our values are central to how
needs of our stakeholders
C
usto
mers Investo
rs
we work together to deliver our strategy
We aim to balance the different
interests of our stakeholders in
C
all decision-making r s o
pli
e lle
a
p g
u u
S e
s
C
o
m
ors
Read more in the Strategic Report in the
m
unities
Regulat
NatWest Group plc 2023 Annual Report
and Accounts.
Creating a positive impact
From supporting the day-to-day financial needs of 19 million customers to the other positive impacts we can have
Climate Enterprise Learning
We have made addressing the climate challenge Our ambition is to remove barriers to enterprise We are helping people to take control of their
and supporting our customers in their transition and to provide businesses in the UK the support finances, to make the most of their money,
to net zero a key strategic priority. they need to grow. safely and securely – now and in the future.
Read our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report. Read more on pages 18 to 20. Read more on pages 13 to 16.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 4
1.2 Chief Financial Officer’s review
Through our ongoing commitments to financial wellbeing In the summer of 2023, we faced some challenging
and education – with services such as our free Financial circumstances in relation to customer exit decision-making,
Health Checks, tools such as Know Your Credit Score, or which led to our former Group CEO stepping down from
schemes such as MoneySense, NatWest Thrive and our her position. The Board subsequently commissioned an
Financial Foundations workshops – our aim is to play a vital independent review to identify the facts regarding the
role in enabling financial awareness and inclusion. Likewise, events and the handling of our clients’ accounts. We are
our backing of grass-roots enterprise – whether that was currently implementing the recommendations from the
through our mentoring scheme Digital Boost, our review and making the necessary additional changes to
championing of inclusive entrepreneurship, our support for ensure that we deliver better outcomes for all our
social enterprises, or through our Regional SME Taskforce customers in the future.
– is a crucial way for us to contribute socially, knowing that
The evolving regulatory landscape
a thriving UK economy is good for people and ultimately
our business. There is growing demand for non-financial disclosures to
provide greater transparency on a company’s impacts and
Through our 13 Accelerator hubs we supported over 1,300
its dependencies on people and the environment. New and
entrepreneurs during 2023, offering access to business
emerging social, commercial and economic trends are
expertise and a community of like-minded peers. In August
shaping our customers’ financial lives and there are
‘The reciprocal relationship 2023, we also launched the Entrepreneur Hub: a single
important opportunities to transform our relevance and
point of entry to our online enterprise support across our
between our business and the value to customers. We continue to take the evolving
NatWest Group brands.
landscape into consideration, and we are focused on
communities we serve forms the Elsewhere, our ESG ratings advisory service is a key developing our understanding of emerging topics of
element of NatWest Group’s Commercial & Institutional ESG interest to our stakeholders, from the social impacts of
essential social licence under
offering, providing analysis, and insights on the maintenance lending, nature and biodiversity to AI and ethical use of data.
which we operate.’ of ESG ratings to our Financial Institutions; Sovereign,
We continually monitor developments in reporting
Supranational and Agency; and corporate clients. The
standards, including the International Sustainability
engagement with our clients aims to provide useful insights
Standard Board (ISSB) and the Taskforce for Nature-related
on ESG ratings, helping them to improve their ESG
Financial Disclosures (TNFD), that will influence how we
reporting and sustainability performance.
report our approach to materiality assessments, enhance
Governance and risk management our assessments of financially material topics, and
consider the impacts that we have on people and the
In 2023, the Board maintained its close oversight of the
Focusing on our customers business through regular reports from our business segment environment. These developments are welcome, and we
look forward to building enhanced capabilities that will
The financial sustainability of our business is inherently linked CEOs. This included spotlights on topical matters, including
provide improved insight on risks and opportunities to
to our ability to create value for our shareholders and wider cost of living challenges and how the bank has been
support our decision-making.
stakeholders. Throughout 2023, our strong financial supporting colleagues and customers. The Board also
performance and robust balance sheet enabled us to deliver oversaw the preparation for, and implementation of, the
Katie Murray
positive outcomes for our customers, shareholders, Consumer Duty requirements, which came into effect on
Chief Financial Officer
communities, and colleagues. 31 July 2023.
As one of the largest UK banks, and its biggest bank for We developed a new risk acceptance criterion for a range
business, we have a major role to play in the economic and of sectors with heightened risk around human rights and
social prosperity of the country. The reciprocal relationship modern slavery. The Board also approved NatWest Group’s
between our business and the communities we serve forms seventh Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
the essential social licence under which we operate. We and our salient human rights issues. Creating a responsible
therefore maintained our focus in 2023 on a broad range supply chain continues to be an area of Board focus, with
of initiatives that materially benefit people, families, and our refreshed Supplier Charter designed to provide better
businesses across the UK. support on the principles and expectations of our suppliers.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 5
Serving our
customers and
communities
every day
Metrics and targets
The indicators, metrics and targets used to assess, monitor and manage ESG topics.
2.1 ESG highlights at a glance
Caution about the information in this ESG Disclosures Report
Note on materiality
The below should be considered when assessing and referencing materiality in the have regard to new or proposed frameworks and standards (or parts of them) disclosures, make any assessment of materiality inherently uncertain. The information in
context of this report. Our public disclosures, including our voluntary environmental, when we believe that doing so may allow for a better understanding of our this report includes non-financial metrics, estimates or other information that are subject
social and governance (ESG) disclosures in this report, include a range of topics that sustainability disclosures. to significant uncertainties, which may include the methodology, collection and
we believe are relevant to our businesses and that are of interest to investors and Certain parts of this report – such as the climate-related disclosures – may use longer verification of data, various estimates and assumptions, and/or underlying data that is
other stakeholders. For the purposes of complying with our annual, periodic and interim time frames to assess potential impacts than those time frames customarily used in obtained from third parties, some of which cannot be independently verified.
disclosure obligations in the United Kingdom and the United States, we apply a certain of our other disclosures, including our annual, periodic and interim financial As a result, we expect that certain disclosures made in this report may be amended,
materiality standard based on the applicable rules and regulations governing public reports filed with the London Stock Exchange (‘LSE’) in the United Kingdom and the updated, recalculated and restated in the future as the quality and completeness of our
reporting in the United Kingdom and the United States. However, in our voluntary ESG Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’) in the United States. data and methodologies continue to improve.
disclosures, we have adapted our approach to materiality based on both the subject This approach to materiality means that this report, and many of our voluntary ESG Caution about Sustainable Development Goals
matter and purpose of the disclosures. disclosures, including with respect to climate and sustainability-related risks and The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 non-legally binding
In particular, when we believe that doing so may allow us to better address opportunities, include certain information that we have not included in our LSE and SEC interlinked global goals set forth by the UN for countries and governments. These are
sustainability-related matters of interest to our key stakeholders, our approach to these filings for which we use a different approach to materiality. Our approach to materiality included only as indicative guidance for NatWest Group’s ambition to align to its strategy
disclosures may sometimes have regard to broader understandings of materiality based in this report also means that statements made in this report and in our other voluntary to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and NatWest Group makes no representation,
on certain external frameworks and reporting guidelines that take into consideration ESG disclosures use a greater number and level of assumptions and estimates than warranty, or assurance of any kind, express or implied, or takes no responsibility or
a wider range of factors relevant to ESG disclosures, including the views of our key many of our LSE and SEC filings. These assumptions and estimates are subject to liability as to whether NatWest Group’s strategy furthers the objective or achieves the
stakeholders. To accommodate this approach to materiality, we may occasionally change over time, and, when coupled with the longer time frames used in these purpose of the indicated SDG.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 6
2.1 ESG highlights at a glance
Climate, enterprise, learning and diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) 2023 highlights at a glance.
Climate(1) £61.9 billion(*) 90% £0.4 billion(*) 49% 54%
cumulative contribution towards of our loans and investments(3) exposure as at 31 December exposure to oil and gas major of Managed Assets reduction in Scope 1 and
£100 billion climate and sustainable funding 2022 analysed for financed emissions measurement. customers(5) (2022: £0.9bn.) were considered location-based Scope 2
and financing target(2) including £3.9 billion Four out of nine £0.3 billion(*) portfolio aligned to a emissions and 26% reduction in
of lending to A and B EPC- rated net-zero pathway as at Scope 3 operational value
residential properties since January 2023. sectors are aligned to decarbonisation convergence pathway.(4) exposure to in-scope coal 31 December 2023 chain emissions against SBTi
2022: £32.6bn customers(5) (2022: £0.3bn.) against our ambition of validated targets for a 50%
70% by 2030.(6) reduction by 2030.(7)
Enterprise 301,000(*) 57,000(*) 45,000(*) 75%(*) 55%(*) 34%(*)
interventions delivered to start, number of youth interventions individuals and businesses of those supported based in of support provided to of support provided to
run, and grow a business against a target of 50,000 supported by enterprise regions outside London and women against a target people from an ethnic
against a target of 275,000 in 2023. programmes against a South East England, against of 50%.(8) minority background against
in 2023. 2022: 48,000 interventions target of 35,000 in 2023. a target of 75%.(8) 2022: 59% (target: 50%) a target of 20%.(8)
2022: 269,000 interventions (target: 30,000) 2022: 53,000 individuals and 2022: 90% (target: 75%)(1) 2022: 34% (target: 20%)
(target: 250,000) businesses (target: 35,000)
Learning 18.4 million(*) 2.3 million(*) c.6 million(*)
financial capability interactions (including MoneySense, Financial additional customers helped to start saving between 2020 and 2023 customers helped to manage their financial wellbeing (FHC, KYCS,
Health Check (FHC), Know Your Credit Score (KYCS) and Spending against a target of 2 million by 2023.(11, 12) Saving goals, Round Ups and Spending features) against
Features) delivered between 2020 and 2023 against our ambition to help 10 million people, per year, manage their
a target of 15 million by 2023.(9,10) financial wellbeing by 2027.(13)
DE&I 41%(*) 13%(*) 1.9% 40% One
women in our CEO-3 and above global roles colleagues from ethnic minority backgrounds in our of colleagues who identify of NatWest Group Board member of the NatWest Group
(2021: 38%, 2022: 40%).(14) CEO-4 and above UK roles (2021: 11%, 2022: 11%). as Black in the UK in members are women Board is from a minority ethnic
Our target is full gender balance in CEO-3 positions Our target is to have 14% of colleagues from ethnic CEO-5 and above roles. (as at 31 December 2023). background
and above globally by the end of 2030. minority groups in CEO-4 and above positions in the (2021: 1.5%, 2022: 1.5%) (as at 31 December 2023).
UK by the end of 2025. Our target is to reach 3%
by end of 2025.
(1) Our climate ambitions are unlikely to be achieved without timely and appropriate government policy, technology developments, (7) Against a 2019 baseline. Scope 3 emissions relating to our operational value chain only. See sections 2.7 and 5.1 of 2023
as well as supplier, customer and societal response. Climate-related Disclosure Report for further details. Scope 3 Category 15 financed emission is covered in section 5.2 and
(2) Between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025. 5.3 of our 2023 Climate-related Disclosure Report.
(3) Loans and investments relate to on-balance sheet gross lending and investment exposure, accounted at amortised cost (8) Demographics cover uniquely supported individuals and young people supported.
(including finance leases) and FVOCI. (9) Excludes additional initiatives in 2023 included in 2022 and 2021 (including savings goals, direct regular savers &
(4) Based on 2022 emissions, reflecting sectors included in our Climate transition plan. Refer to section 2.3 of our 2023 investing journey).
Climate-related Disclosures Report for details. (10) Spending features has been measured based on customers that have accessed spending at least twice or more in the last
(5) Our Credible Transition Plan (CTP) assessment undertaken in 2021, which is monitored annually, employed a top-down 90 days as at 30 September 2023 following app enhancements which changed the measurement criteria.
approach to identify existing coal-related customers, utilising the expertise of our frontline teams. However, we recognise that (11) Includes instances where customers had existing savings with other banks and transferred them into a NatWest Group account.
this was a point-in-time assessment and ongoing work is required to ensure due consideration to external factors such as (12) Includes an additional 144,000 customers for 2021 and 2020. The customers helped to start to save criteria were revised in
energy security. During 2024, we are working to review our ESE policies and have set up a working group within the April 2022 to reflect products aligned to the ambition.
Commercial & Institutional franchise to develop guiding principles for assessment of thermal and lignite coal embedded within (13) Spending features has been measured based on customers that have accessed spending at least twice or more until
activities like transportation, storage, supply chain and value-add services. 30 September 2023. During Q4 2023 the location of the spending feature within the mobile app changed following app
(6) Our net zero by 2050 AUM ambition encompasses total AUM, including Managed Assets, Bespoke and Advisory (refer to enhancements which lead to us changing the measurement criteria in Q4 to align to the new location.
2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report page 76 for details). We consider Managed Assets (those assets we invest on our (14) To maintain integrity, we remove colleagues from our reporting that sit in CEO-3 and above that do not hold leadership
customers’ behalf, which represented 84% of AUM as at 31 December 2023) to be in scope for our interim 2030 portfolio or influential roles.
alignment target and weighted average carbon intensity (WACI) ambition.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 63.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 7
2.1 ESG highlights at a glance continued
ESG highlights at a glance
A selection of our 2023 ESG highlights seen through the Blueprint for Better Business lens.
Honest and fair with customers and suppliers
NatWest Group won the First bank in Europe to issue a bond with dedicated
67%(*) 0.6 million
Fast Payer Award use of net proceeds to support businesses identified
financial health checks as women-led. The nominal value of the bond was
of customers exclusively
use digital channels. carried out in 2023, for the third year running. €500 million (£446 million).
helping customers to
organise their finances.(1)
A good citizen
Know Your Credit Score, free to Direct community investment in 2023 amounted to Our card payment
125,000 hours
anyone across the UK, has been used £11.1 million(*) provider for businesses,
4.2 million Tyl, donated over were volunteered to local communities by
This includes the funding we make available to £250,000 our colleagues. Good causes received over
times by support colleague giving and the direct costs
to charity. £3.8 million
0.8 million of delivering our community programmes.
(2022: £13.6 million) through their giving and fundraising.
new customers in 2023.
A responsible and responsive employer
Over Our View colleague engagement survey
UK mobility hub Partner leave
1,500 colleagues 93% of colleagues told us that they
supported nearly 2,000 We launched our market-leading
believe NatWest Group promotes an inclusive
have acted as Wellbeing colleagues impacted by Partner Leave polices, with over
culture. We are 10% above the Global Financial
Champions, continuing to be change programmes, helping 1,200 colleagues benefitting
Services Norm (GFSN) and 7% above the Global
upskilled in supporting colleagues.(2) them to upskill, reskill and find in 2023.
High Performance Norm (GHPN).
alternative opportunities.
A guardian for future generations
We have supported We supported We implemented and refined our
1.1 million
15,500 over 2,000 young people, Climate transition plan focused on the
young people reached through delivery of our 2030 decarbonisation
young people in 2023 across 63 youth clubs through NatWest Thrive, our the MoneySense schools ambitions, supporting our journey to net
through our CareerSense financial wellbeing and life readiness programmes, programme during 2023. zero by 2050 across our financed
Programme. helping them consider their future goals and teaching emissions, assets under management
them about good money habits. and our operational value chain.
(1) This reflects the measurement criteria for the financial capability metric which is inclusive of digital Financial Health Checks.
(2) Colleagues means all permanent employees and, in some instances, members of the wider workforce, e.g. temporary employees and agency workers.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 63.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 8
Serving our
customers and
communities
every day
Strategy
Building value through our broad range of activities for customers, businesses,
communities and people.
3.1 Key ESG topics for 3.10 Keeping our customers
our stakeholders and their information safe
3.2 Collective action 3.11 Developing our approach
to nature
Supporting our customers
and communities 3.12 Supporting communities
through giving
3.3 Building financial capability
and wellbeing Supporting our colleagues
3.4 Supporting financial inclusion 3.13 Championing our
colleagues’ potential
3.5 Supporting business
and enterprise 3.14 Performance management,
fair reward and engagement
3.6 ESG support for large corporate
and institutional customers 3.15 Diversity, equity and inclusion
3.7 Private banking and 3.16 Supporting colleague wellbeing
responsible investing
Supporting our suppliers
3.8 Accessibility and good
3.17 Engaging our suppliers
customer outcomes
3.18 ESG ratings performance
3.9 Innovation and digitalisation
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 9
3.1 Key ESG topics for our stakeholders
Our approach to identify key ESG topics for our stakeholders
Our approach to our ESG materiality assessment is to The table below includes our key ESG topics which are Our progress against each of the key ESG topics identified
conduct a ‘full refresh’ of our ESG topics every three years underpinned by robust risk management, business ethics and varies, as reflected in the related disclosures. In addition to the
through engaging with our key stakeholder groups. During corporate governance. Our approach to consider a broad topics listed below, we have identified emerging topics which
2023, following a full refresh in 2021, we reviewed our key range of ESG topics guides our thinking and decision-making, we will continue to work on, and further develop our ability to
topics through consideration of peer reviews, internal ensuring we remain focused on the right issues and build measure and deliver against our stakeholder expectations.
megatrends analysis, sustainability frameworks, industry ESG long-term value in our business. We’ll continue to engage with These include nature and biodiversity, social impacts of
developments, and insight sessions with external experts. our stakeholders to re-evaluate our key ESG topics regularly. lending, and artificial intelligence and ethical use of data.
Our key ESG topics
Dimension/lens Key ESG topics Relevance for Reference to ESG Disclosures Report pages Refer to
material to our stakeholders and other disclosures page(s)
Key ESG stakeholders
Human Capital Diversity, equity and inclusion Diversity, equity and inclusion 42 to 43
topic are identified
by this icon
Colleague learning, wellbeing and fair reward Championing our colleagues’ potential 38 to 40
throughout
this report
Performance management, fair reward 41
and engagement
Supporting colleague wellbeing 44
Social Capital Good customer outcomes Fair products and responsible marketing 25 to 26
Communities
Customers in vulnerable situations 27
Investors
Keeping our customers and their information safe(1) 33 to 34
Customers
Financial crime 54
Suppliers
Financial Inclusion through enterprise Building financial capability and wellbeing 13 to 16
Colleagues and financial capability
Supporting financial inclusion 17
Regulators
Supporting enterprise 18 to 20
Human rights and modern slavery Human rights 57
Business Model Delivering products and services powered by An accessible bank by design 28 to 29
and Innovation innovation, digitalisation and accessibility
Innovation and digitalisation 30 to 32
Creating a responsible supply chain Engaging our suppliers 45
Climate action and resilience Read our Climate-related Disclosures Report Full report
(1) Keeping our customers and their information safe encompasses sub-topics of Data protection; and Safeguarding customer privacy.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 10
3.2 Collective action
We take collective action through our signatory status, memberships and accreditations to move forward as a responsible business.
In collaboration with our partners, we have progressed a number of key initiatives throughout 2023.
Signatories Memberships Accreditations
UN Global Compact (UNGC) Sustainable Homes and Buildings Coalition Global Living Wage
During 2023, we continued our participation in the UN In 2023, we completed our Greener Homes Retrofit Pilot We are proud to be accredited as a Living Wage
Global Compact (UNGC), remaining as members of the with the Sustainable Homes and Buildings Coalition, Employer by the Living Wage Foundation, demonstrating
Making Global Goals Local Working Group and the culminating in the third ‘Home is Where the Heat Is’ our commitment to paying wages that meet the true
Modern Slavery Working Group. We continue to actively report, launched in the Parliament in September 2023. cost of living in the UK, our rates of pay continue to
monitor UNGC’s reporting requirements. As part of this, we took nine NatWest and British Gas exceed the Living Wage Foundation benchmarks. For
customers through a fully funded end-to-end home our hubs outside the UK, we continue to pay above the
UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB)
retrofit journey, which provided valuable insights into minimum and living wage rates. In 2023, we furthered
We were founding signatories of the PRB in 2019 and customer, market, industry, financial and policy barriers our commitment to fair pay by achieving accreditation
our ambition is to align our strategy with the 2015 Paris to retrofitting. as a Regional Living Wage Employer from the Fair Wage
Agreement and UN Sustainable Development Goals Network and are now recognised as a Global Living
(SDGs). In 2023, we continued our support for the Read the ‘Home Is Where the Heat Is’ report. Wage Employer. This demonstrates how we take steps,
Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA) and announced a in every location we operate, to ensure our colleagues
new ambition for financial wellbeing, baselined and International Capital Markets Association are paid enough to have a decent standard of living,
SDG-aligned in line with PRB Target setting guidance. (ICMA) – NatWest Markets including food, water, housing, education, healthcare,
HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter NatWest Markets is a member of ICMA and contribute transport, clothing and other essential needs, such as
to several of their working groups, such as those provision for unexpected events.
Our Executive Sponsor for Gender, David Lindberg
on ESG indices, climate transition finance, and
(CEO, Retail Banking), is part of the ‘Accountable B Corp – Coutts only
sustainability-linked bonds. We helped review and
Executive Taskforce’ for the Charter. We’ve utilised the Coutts was the first UK-headquartered private bank to
update the ICMA’s Climate Transition Finance
Women in Finance Blueprint, alongside other external become B Corp-certified in 2021. A B Corp is a business
Handbook, which provides guidance on how green
benchmarks, to support the delivery of the that works towards meeting standards of verified social
bonds, sustainability bonds or sustainability-linked bonds
improvements and associated behaviour change and environmental performance, public transparency
can contribute towards transition strategy, and
required and remain focused on the interventions that and accountability to balance profit and purpose. In
Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles, both published
will make the most difference. order to become a B Corp, a business receives an
in June 2023.
Net Zero Asset Managers initiative external accreditation by achieving a minimum verified
Sustainable Markets Initiative (SMI) score on the B Impact Assessment – a rigorous
Our net zero by 2050 AUM ambition encompasses total
NatWest Group continued to support the Sustainable assessment of a company’s impact on its governance,
AUM, including Managed Assets, Bespoke and Advisory.
Markets Initiative and at the SMI’s Terra Carta Action workers, customers, community, and environment.
To reach net zero we have two 2030 ambitions: to align
Forum at COP27, we hosted an event in partnership
70% of Managed Assets to a net-zero pathway and to CIPD
with the SMI Agribusiness Task Force WWF-UK and
reduce the weighted average carbon intensity of our We were the first financial services organisation to
Sustainable Food Trust, which was designed to drive
equity and fixed income holdings by 50% against a 2019 become a CIPD People Development Partner (PDP).
powerful collaboration across industries and sectors
baseline. As at 31 December 2023, 49% of Managed NatWest Group is strongly aligned with the CIPD
to find the right solutions for farmers to tackle
Assets were considered to be portfolio aligned. Profession Map, which is principles-led, evidence-based
climate change.
and outcomes-driven. We have delivered sessions to
help colleagues understand the map and where their
roles sit within it, alongside supporting Senior Leaders
gaining their accreditation. We also participated in a
‘data boot camp’ as part of our ambition to develop
future skills.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 11
3.2 Collective action continued
Industry engagement
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) Transition Plan Taskforce (TPT)
The TPT aims to support the standardisation of
As signatories of the UN Principles for Responsible ‘The UNGC Young SDG Innovator Challenge
transition plans, which will support decarbonisation.
Banking (PRB), our ambition is to align our strategy taught me so much about the different SDGs,
Our CFO sits on the steering group, enabling us to
with the 2015 Paris Agreement and the UN
what they mean and how we can apply them support the development and implementation of the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
to our organisations regardless of industry. UK’s Sustainability Disclosure Requirements. Additionally,
In 2023, we met our financial capability and savings Getting to work with numerous different our Head of Climate Change chairs the TPT Banks
ambitions which were measured from 1 January 2020 Working Group.
organisations to innovate and challenge our
to 31 December 2023. In July 2023, we announced
thinking allowed us to come up with a solution Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero
our ambition to help 10 million people, per year,
manage their financial wellbeing by 2027, continuing that benefits NatWest Group. The programme As a founding member of GFANZ we continue to
our longstanding focus on building financial confidence also taught us soft skills, such as creating an collaborate with peers, policymakers and other
and resilience. The new ambition, which encompasses effective pitch and gathering and giving stakeholders. Our CEO is a principal and we co-lead the
interactions such as financial health checks and Energy and Real Economy Transition Plan. We also
practical feedback. Working with three other
customer savings goals, strives to make a positive continued to engage with NZBA, contributing to, and
impact towards SDGs 1.4, 8.10, and 10.2. Find out colleagues from completely different business participating in, quarterly plenary calls on members’
more about our new financial wellbeing ambition areas allowed us to have diversity of thought progress towards NZBA commitments.
on page 13. and different perspectives when creating our Global Sustainability Standards Board
Our Climate, Enterprise and Learning ambitions strive idea. I am very grateful for my time on the (GSSB)
to make a positive impact towards the following SDGs: programme and I feel like it has allowed Through our participation in the GSSB Banking
me to focus more on the SDGs when Sector Standards programme we are working with
completing different projects.’ other international experts to develop sector standards
which will support the GRI Standards for banks’
sustainability disclosures.
Lillie Hudson
UNGC Young SDG Innovator Challenge Participant Financial Markets Standards Board (FMSB)
We chair the FMSB ESG Committee where we have
initiated an industry-wide working group to define
Read more on how we integrate the SDGs at
‘best-in-class’ consistent product governance around
natwestgroup.com
Sustainability Linked Products across the banks and
Read our PRB self-assessment report in our 2023 appropriateness for companies.
ESG Frameworks Appendix.
Supporting developing frameworks
Young SDG Innovator Group Spotlight We continued our active participation in the
development of global and local sustainability good
Four young women from across NatWest Group
practice, guidance frameworks and regulation during
came together to undertake a 10-month Young SDG
2023. Some examples include providing feedback to the
Innovator challenge with the UK’s UN Global Compact
following public consultations:
network. Undertaking training and through in-person
and virtual sessions, the team benefited from working – International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB)
with other young people representing businesses big consultation on its two-year work plan priorities.
and small across the UK. With the primary aim of – Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) consultation on
supporting advancement of the SDGs, the team worked UK Sustainability Disclosure and Green Labelling
with an internal sponsor and mentors to consider how it Requirements.
could improve sustainability, focusing on the addition of
– Department for Energy Security & Net Zero (DESNZ)
an education section to our Supplier Charter.
Call for Evidence on Scope 3 Emissions in the UK
Reporting Landscape.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 12
Supporting our customers and communities
At NatWest Group, we champion potential, helping people,
families, and businesses to thrive. Our strategy is to grow our
business by anticipating and meeting our customers’ needs,
using data and technology to ensure we are simple to deal Green mortgages Accelerator Programme
with, alongside a disciplined approach to cost, investment and enterprise hubs
Carbon footprint tracking
and capital allocation. Together these actions aim to deliver Business Builder and
Retrofitting support
sustainable long-term value for our shareholders. Business Insights
Cost of Living hub
Summarised on this page are some of our key propositions High growth support proposition
Climate change hub
aimed at supporting customers and communities.(1) Carbon Planner
EV solutions
Green and sustainable-linked loans
Home energy hub
Green, social and sustainability bonds
Financial education resources
Supporting our Climate and ESG related thought leadership
Financial wellbeing and resilience support
Green and ESG money markets,
Customers Communities Fraud and scams awareness
C
including deposits
o
R
ap
e
p
w a
ch
rd
a r
A
it
c
y
c
g
o
i
u
v
n
in
t
g
and mobile banking
e t
ail
ki
n
g In s
ti
m
t u
m
e
r c
Gr
fi
e
n
e
a
n
n c
a
e
s
,
s
i
e
n
t
c
a
lu
n
d
d
in
E
g
S
t
G
ra d
su
e
p
f
p
in
ly
a n
c
c
h
e
a i n
R
B
a
n t
io
n
ia
l
a
E
E
S
S
G
G
r
l
e
in
g
k
u
e
la
d
t
f
o
o
r
r
y
e i
a
g
n
n
d
e
r
x
a
c
t
h
in
a
g
n
s
g
s
e
u pport
Creating a positive impact through an
ld and derivatives
ESG-linked fund financing
Climate Enterprise Learning Private Tyl Giveback Community Fund
Banking
Personalised climate change support
Enabled by our strategic priorities
Responsible investing
Supporting customers
at every stage of their lives Green mortgages
Retrofitting support
Simple to deal with
Green loans
Sharpened capital allocation Sustainable business tools, including Carbon Planner
Fraud awareness and financial capability
Powered by people, technology,
innovation and partnerships UK Enterprise Fund
(1) Propositions may be available to multiple key stakeholders.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 13
Supporting our customers and communities
3.3 Building financial capability and wellbeing Key ESG
topic
We achieved our 2020-2023 financial capability ambitions We now have an ambition to help 10 million people,
per year, manage their financial wellbeing by 2027
During 2023, we reached targets set in 2020 to support the financial capability of our customers
and communities.
(SDG 1.4, 8.10, 10.2)
Ambition 1: 15 million financial capability interactions by 2023 During 2023, we set an ambition to help 10 million people, per year, manage their
financial wellbeing by 2027.(2) We aim to help people manage their financial wellbeing
(SDG 4.4, 4.6 and 10.2)
through digital tools and personalised engagement. This ambition is based on helping
We delivered 4.3 million(*) financial capability interactions in 2023, with a cumulative total of
people with our existing financial wellbeing tools and functions, including Financial
18.4 million(*) interactions against the strategic ambition of 15 million between 2020 and 2023. This
Health Checks, Know Your Credit Score tool, Savings Goal tool, Savings Round Ups,
comprised of the following:
Spending Features, as well as providing access to new propositions in the future.
MoneySense 4.9 million
Our new ambition is baselined against c.6m(*) customers we supported to manage
Financial Health Checks 3.3 million their financial wellbeing for the year ended 31 December 2023. In 2024, we will
continue to enhance our proposition and develop our measurement approach to
Financial Capability products and features(1) 9.8 million support our 2027 ambition.(3)
Fraud & Financial education 0.4 million Our financial wellbeing ambition supersedes our financial capability ambitions.
Total(*) 18.4 million
Full details can be found in our 2023 Sustainability Basis of Reporting.
c.6m(*)
Ambition 2: Help two million additional customers start saving by 2023
(SDG 10.2) customers supported to manage
Our success measures are based on the number of customers who saved £100 for the first time in their financial wellbeing in 2023(2)
the reporting period ended 31st December 2023 compared with the January 2020 baseline.
During 2023, we helped an additional 0.6 million(*) customers start to save, with a cumulative total
of 2.3 million(*) customers against the 2020 strategic ambition of 2 million between 2020 and 2023.
‘We want to be the
bank people trust,
and help them
Ambition 1 highlights Ambition 2 highlights improve their
relationship with
4.3m(*) 18.4m(*) 0.6m(*) 2.3m(*) money through
personalised
financial financial capability additional additional
engagement.’
capability interactions customers customers started
interactions delivered between started saving saving between
Tanvi Gokhale,
delivered 2020-2023, against in 2023 2020-2023, against
Head of Strategy,
in 2023 an ambition of an ambition of
Retail Banking
15 million 2 million
(1) Including Spending features and Know Your Credit Score.
(2) There will be some overlap with the financial capability metric in 2023 for Financial Health Checks, Know Your Credit Score and Spending features. The financial capability ambition will be fully replaced by the financial wellbeing ambition in 2024.
(3) Actuals recorded for the year ended 31 December 2023 include customers only. Inclusion criterion and related methodologies may evolve over lifetime of the ambition as products and measurement capabilities are developed.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 63.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 14
Supporting our customers and communities
3.3 Building financial capability and wellbeing continued
Digital financial wellbeing tools(1) Financial education programmes
Know Your Credit Score MoneySense
Understanding a credit score, and how it is calculated and MoneySense is our free financial education programme that
improved, is an important part of developing good money aims to help 5-to 18-year-olds learn about money at home
management skills. We were the first bank in the UK to offer as well as in schools.
a free credit score feature to our customers in 2020 and
In 2023, MoneySense continued to help young people
during 2023, we became the first bank in the UK to offer
prepare for the transition from school to independent living
this free to non-customers also. Everyone across the UK,
and towards a better financial future.
not just our customers, can now access our suite of Credit
Score tools including features like Credit Score Predictor, Time is Money is an immersive escape room activity that
Score History, Next Best Actions and helpful tips to improve transforms classrooms into a digital zone to explore the
their score. 4.2 million customers accessed Know Your social and economic impact of financial decisions and how
Credit Score in 2023. to use those learnings in the future. The Carbon Footprint
Tracker lesson tackles key climate change themes. It helps
Spending features
students to develop their financial capabilities as they
Our free spending tracker feature in the app helps explore the impact of their spending and lifestyle choices on
customers manage their money, by categorising spend and the environment.
surfacing personalised highlights. Customers can also set
The annual Talk Money Week campaign, run by the Money
targets with our budgeting tool. In 2023, 4.2 million
& Pensions Service, encourages the UK to talk about
customers have accessed spending features at least twice
money. In 2023, Talk Money Week focused on the theme
in the mobile app.
‘Do One Thing’ and MoneySense supported parents and
Savings Rounds Ups families to explore topics including budgeting, credit scores,
Round Ups are available in our mobile app and allow savings and fraud – and most importantly – helped people
customers to round up their spending, with the spare to talk about money.
change directed to their savings account. Customers using
Through the MoneySense schools programme we reached
this receive a weekly push notification telling them how
1.1 million young people during 2023.
much they’ve saved using Round Ups in the last week.
During 2023, 395,000 customers have turned on Savings Financial Foundations Workshops
Round Ups. Developing good money practices and financial confidence
has never been more important. From people who worry
Savings Goals
about money every day, to those who struggle to talk about
The Savings Goal Tool helps customers set realistic savings
their finances, our Financial Foundations Workshops are
goals for the short and long term. Customers can set up a
designed to empower participants to take control of their
goal for things such as bills, life moments or building up a
money and futures.
rainy day fund. The Savings Goal feature helps customers
understand how much they need to save each month in In 2023, we added a bespoke session aimed at cost of living
order to reach their goal and could make a difference to to our Financial Foundations Workshop series exploring
how customers think about saving. During 2023, 175,000 budgeting tips, savings strategies and what to do if
customers have set themselves a new savings goal. someone is struggling with debt.
The four free sessions now include follow-up resources to
Financial health checks
help embed the learning and support participants who want
Our trained Senior Personal Bankers provide free reviews to make real life changes after the workshops. In 2023, our
of personal finances for customers, helping them to trained bank volunteers delivered workshops totalling
understand their financial position and focus on their goals. almost 250 hours of support.
We delivered 358,000 Financial Health Checks in 2023.
(1) Refer to our 2023 Sustainability Basis of Reporting for more information on the financial wellbeing metric.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 63.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 15
Supporting our customers and communities
3.3 Building financial capability and wellbeing continued
Helping young people to Thrive
CareerSense
We have supported 15,500 young people in 2023 through Getting children
our CareerSense programme, our youth employability
education programme in the UK for 13- to 24-year-olds. confident with
This included:
money with
– Providing secondary schools with skills and
entrepreneurship focused workshops and lesson plans
NatWest
which have supported 11,800 young people.
– Supporting 16- to 24-year-olds not in education,
Rooster Money
employment or training through CareerSense Find
Your Path (FYP).This programme includes co-created
skills workshops delivered in local communities with
NatWest Rooster Money is a
youth partners, mentoring with a bank colleague, and
children’s prepaid debit card and
a paid placement.
pocket money app designed to
– In 2023, we enrolled 26 young people on our core FYP
give young people a head start
programme and provided FYP funding for another 75
with money.
young people on other partner NEET (Not in Employment,
Education or Training) activity. Rooster app includes a range of
– Sponsoring 16- to 18-year-olds with leadership easy-to-use tools to kick start money
development through the Ivy House Award – we’re management from a young age,
on track to have sponsored 2000 young people by the including a star chart and a virtual
end of 2024. pocket money tracker. The Rooster
card, which comes with a broad set
– Continued social mobility charity partner collaboration,
of parental controls, is available for
supporting 143 16-to 18-year-old students, with 106
children aged six to 17.
supported through insight weeks and 37 completed work
experience and mentored via Career Ready. NatWest, Royal Bank of Scotland,
– We continued to run our Dream Bigger ‘Idea Accelerator’ and Ulster Bank NI customers
events for 16- to 18-year-olds, further developing can get up to three Rooster Card
entrepreneurial skills with 153 young people in Edinburgh, subscriptions for free. In 2023, a
Manchester, Bristol and Birmingham for a full day range of new features have been
immersive experience. introduced including the launch of
14 colourful card designs, Apple Pay
In addition, as headline sponsor of National Careers Week
for card holders aged 13 and above,
(NCW), we helped schools and colleges celebrate careers
and integration into the NatWest
education, with the NCW campaign reaching over 1 million
mobile app to enable direct top
young people.
ups for parents.
Our NatWest Academy is also available to customers and
As at 31 December 2023, Rooster
communities, through Learning with NatWest, and focuses
Money has over 280,000 Rooster
on five key capabilities: climate, employability,
Card subscribers.
entrepreneurship, future skills and financial capability.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 16
Supporting our customers and communities
3.3 Building financial capability and wellbeing continued
NatWest Thrive, our financial wellbeing and life readiness programme, helps young people build the money mindset,
self-belief and skills they need to feel more confident about their financial future. In February 2023, we announced three
commitments to support young people to improve their financial wellbeing and feel more confident about their future.
Commitment 1 Commitment 2
Double the number of NatWest Work with the National Youth Agency (NYA) to develop an employee volunteering programme
Thrive youth clubs from We have developed an employee volunteering programme in partnership with the NYA. This has given youth clubs access to
15 to 30, by the end of 2023 54 NatWest Group employees trained with youth work skills and the ability to deliver NatWest Thrive workshops and careers
support using their volunteering hours. This has provided support and expertise both to young people and the wider youth
We exceeded our aims, supporting 2,082
worker network.
young people across 63 youth clubs against
our ambition of 30 clubs. Through NatWest ‘Young people have directly benefited from people with expertise in financial literacy supporting NatWest Thrive workshop
Thrive we are helping young people delivery. NatWest Group staff bring a variety of personal and professional experiences to these workshops and add richness
consider their future goals and teaching and value to the programme. Bringing the sessions to life through diversity of thought and experience makes it a more inclusive
them about good money habits with the and accessible programme.’
aim of making them feel more optimistic
about their future. Abbee McLatchie
Young people who have participated in Youth Director NYA
our youth club programme are reporting
a positive impact, as noted below:
Commitment 3
Gift £3 million apprentice levy funding to the NYA over 5 years to bring additional youth workers into
73% the industry
Apprentice levy funding given to the NYA by NatWest Group in 2023 has enabled 54 youth workers to gain their youth work
said they had a clearer plan for their future
qualifications, bringing essential expertise into the sector and supporting growth of the profession.
87%
said they had developed new skills to help
them build their future
54%
felt more able to manage their own money
as a result of taking part in NatWest Thrive
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 17
Supporting our customers and communities
3.4 Supporting financial inclusion Key ESG
topic
Financial inclusion We have a range of products that enable customers using our products in a way that could create longer-term
to access affordable credit, of which credit cards and problems, for example persistent debt, repeat use, or
Cost of living overdrafts are two key propositions. All customers can paying for gambling.
In 2023, we provided £5.7 million of funding to charities to review products and eligibility before applying without We provide regular communication to customers who may
help customers and communities with cost of living. This impacting their credit score. be struggling and provide access to a dedicated Financial
included £1 million to the Trussell Trust to further support These are complemented by tools to help customers Health and Support team, who offer specialist support to
the Help through Hardship scheme, over £1.6 million to the understand and access borrowing options. customers who find themselves in financial difficulty.
debt advice sector and £900,000 for Responsible Finance to
support provision of accessible credit. Helping customers with their borrowing needs: To help During 2023, we sent 2.6 million targeted emails and letters
customers access the information they need to make to our most financially stretched customers. We also shared
Branch closures informed choices about what product might be right for targeted digital reminders signposting customers to tools,
We recognise the way people bank with us has evolved, them to meet their borrowing needs, we revamped our advice and support.
with an increased demand for digital services. We give online content and launched a new tool to help them
If customers miss a payment, we have measures in place to
careful consideration to the impact that closing a branch choose. In 2023, 460,000 customers visited the web pages,
support them. For example, we suppress interest on
might have on customers and proactively contact those in and 26,000 used the new tool.
overdrafts at 32 days in excess and, from early February
vulnerable situations to offer additional support to guide
Overdraft eligibility tool: Available on our website, this tool 2023, where customers missed several payments on an
them through the change. We aim to provide our customers
enables customers to understand if they would be accepted unsecured debt such as a loan or overdraft, we extended
with 12 weeks’ notice of this change through easily
for an overdraft. the time they could take to repay their debt from 18 to
accessible information via notices, factsheets, in-branch
24 months, giving them flexibility to repay.
support and alternative ways to continue banking with us. My Overdraft feature: This feature in the mobile app helps
Read more about our branch closures on our website and customers to manage their overdraft by allowing them We work with customers to consider debt management
choice of channel on page 29. to view their monthly interest charges and understanding options that can help to improve their situation. We also
when interest charges will be taken from their account. actively refer customers for Free Independent Money
Basic current accounts Advice (FIMA) through our debt advice charity partners
Credit Card Instalment plans: Instalment Plans give
We provide a basic personal current account, known as a PayPlan (for Retail customers) and Step Change
customers the option of splitting costs from £50 to £3,000
Foundation account, to help people to take the first step to (for Business customers).
over 3 to 24 months at a rate that’s lower than the
financial inclusion. The account may be offered to those
standard interest rate. Customers can choose the plan We have bespoke support in place for customers in
with poor, little or no credit history or those going through
length that suits them best. By late 2023, we had set up vulnerable situations (CiVS). To deliver this, we work with
bankruptcy. It includes a debit card, access to digital
over 1 million instalment plans since launch in June 2019. organisations such as GamCare and Citizens Advice to
banking services and everyday support such as text alerts
improve the support available to CiVS and connect them
to help customers manage their money. The account allows Unsuccessful applications
with expert advice where appropriate. See page 27 for
customers to bank with no monthly fee or added interest,
We can direct customers who are unable to access credit, more information. All customers have access to the
meaning they can use their account without worrying
or whose applications are declined to practical tools. These Financial Services Ombudsman.
about extra charges.
tools include our Benefits Calculator, to help improve their
As at 31 December 2023, we support over 900,000 finances and increase likelihood of a future successful Mortgage Charter
personal customers with a Foundation account. application. We also provide information on how we reach In June 2023, we were one of the first high street banks
our lending decisions. to sign up to the UK Government’s Mortgage Charter,
Access to short-term borrowing formalising the flexibility we already offered to our
Customer support and debt management
As one of the largest UK lenders, we play an important role customers. Customers struggling with mortgage payments
in giving personal customers access to the finance they We use a data-led approach to monitor usage closely can change mortgage payments to interest-only for six
need. It’s important that we lend responsibly, making sure across our lending and have processes in place to protect months. Or they can extend their mortgage term to lower
we’re helping people access the funds they need today, customers. These processes help us to quickly identify monthly repayments, with the option to change their mind
without creating more financial stress tomorrow. anyone who might be getting into financial difficulty or in the first six months.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 18
Supporting our customers and communities
3.5 Supporting business and enterprise Key ESG
topic
Supporting enterprise
Our progress highlights We support enterprise through the non-financial support we provide, available to both
customers and non-customers, covering UK businesses of all sizes and across all brands
within NatWest Group. Our ambition is to help more people start, run and grow their own
Our 2023 ambitions 2023 performance highlights
business than ever before, helping them achieve success, grow and contribute to a strong
national economy.
275,000 300,771(*)
Supporting business growth
interventions delivered to start, interventions delivered to start,
Coutts UK Enterprise Fund
run or grow a business run or grow a business
In collaboration with the BGF Group (BGF), Coutts has continued to support UK SMEs with
SDG 8.3
the UK Enterprise Fund (UKEF), which provides a unique opportunity for eligible clients to
invest in diversified portfolios of UK-based growth stage private companies.
35,000 45,263(*) Three vintages have been launched so far (raising £110 million), looking to address the
funding gap for entrepreneurs across the UK, while offering clients a scalable approach
individuals and businesses supported individuals and businesses supported to investing in commercially established businesses.
through enterprise programmes through enterprise programme
Across UKEF 1 and 2, this initiative has supported 89 businesses, with almost £60m invested
SDG 8.3 so far alongside c.£570 million co-investment from BGF. Further funding from UKEF 1 and 2
is available for follow-on investment as well as the recently closed UKEF 3 which will now
50,000 57,155(*) begin to build another portfolio of private companies.
youth interventions supported through youth interventions supported through Business coaching
enterprise and entrepreneurship activity enterprise and entrepreneurship activity In 2023, through our Local Enterprise Managers, we delivered over 4,400 Enterprise Health
SDG 8.3, 10.2 checks with businesses, reviewing individual business goals and ambitions, to help them plan
the next steps for their businesses. Businesses on our Accelerator Programme benefit from a
75% 75%(*) dedicated acceleration manager, which provides businesses with one-to-one coaching and
accountability through goal setting and tracking progress. Over 6,400 coaching sessions took
of support based in regions outside London of support based in regions outside place in 2023.
and South East England(1) London and South East England(1)
Supporting high-growth business
SDG 8.3, 10.2 We are committed to supporting high-growth businesses(2) and have built a dedicated
proposition to ensure that UK businesses have the support to scale and grow. In 2023, we
50% 55%(*)
partnered with the Scale Up Institute and facilitated events across the UK to bring together
businesses to discuss the challenges they face and how NatWest Group could support them.
of support provided to women(1) of support provided to women(1)
Family Business
SDG 8.3, 5.5
We have a dedicated Family Business proposition and specialist relationship managers who
20% 34%(*) are trained to understand the different dynamics of a family business. We are also proud
sponsors of the annual Family Business Week which celebrates the unique contribution family
of support provided to individuals of support provided to individuals businesses make to the economy and communities in the UK.
from ethnic minority backgrounds(1) from ethnic minority backgrounds(1)
SDG 8.3, 10.2
(1) Demographics cover uniquely supported individuals and young people supported. (2) To be eligible for high-growth support, businesses need to show 20% year-on-year growth in turnover over three consecutive
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 63. years (minimum turnover £250,000) and/or a minimum £50,000 equity/grant investment in the last two years.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 19
Supporting our customers and communities
3.5 Supporting business and enterprise continued
Entrepreneur Hub Our women in entrepreneurship training programme is
In August 2023, we launched Entrepreneur Hub: a single accredited by the Chartered Banker Institute and has
point of entry to our online enterprise support across our been designed to enhance colleagues’ knowledge in
NatWest Group brands. The Entrepreneur Hub helps users order to create awareness of the specific needs of the
to identify relevant education, tools and events as part of female entrepreneurs.
the wide range of non-financial support we offer based on We were proud to work with Savvitas to sponsor the annual
users’ needs, interest or segment. MP HERoes event for the second year running. MP HERoes
Our Business Builder and Business Insight content continues encourages, celebrates, and supports female enterprise by
to provide learning opportunities and thought leadership to showcasing local role models in the form of ‘HERoes’, in
support businesses at every stage. These tools offer a range constituencies across the UK. HERoes are nominated by
of resources in one place and form part of our wider phased their local MP.
journey to personalise and simplify support for businesses. In
Ethnic minority support
2023, we developed new modules aligned to the needs of
We aim to champion ethnic minority-led businesses (EMBs).
businesses, focused on topics including cost of trading,
We used feedback from our entrepreneur forum to inform
financial resilience and marketing. We also integrated an
our enterprise strategy. The forum is made up of EMBs
optional registration process, giving users the option to tailor
from a variety of sectors, regions and backgrounds and was
their learning resources.
launched in February 2023. We have engaged with diverse
Visit our Entrepreneur Hub. communities from a variety of backgrounds through our
range of national and regional ethnicity-focused enterprise
NatWest Group Accelerator Championing inclusive entrepreneurship events. We have a number of regional and national strategic
partners who work with us to foster local networks of
Programme
Support for women in business support.
In 2023, we supported over 1,300 entrepreneurs As longstanding supporters of women in business, we We aim for 20% of spaces on our enterprise and Accelerator
through the NatWest Accelerator Programme understand the challenges women may face when setting Programmes to go to business owners from ethnic minority
across our network of 13 hubs in the UK and or scaling up a business. We have continued to support backgrounds. In 2023, 34% of support through our
online. From the businesses supported, 55% women in business in 2023 and aim to promote economic enterprise programmes was provided to EMBs.(*)
growth by supporting awareness and education around
were female-led and 21% were ethnic
In 2023, we’ve supported the Black British Initiative (BBI)
funding, investment and business growth, as well as
minority-led businesses.
MBA 30, a tailor-made programme addressing challenges
fostering the right conditions and support for women
During 2023, we continued to deliver our starting and scaling up their businesses. faced by aspiring Black entrepreneurs designed by
Accelerator Programme through in-person University of London’s School of Oriental and African Studies.
Our women in business specialists and local enterprise
and virtual coaching sessions, workshops,
managers help us to do this through targeted campaigns
thought leadership and events across the UK to
and collaborations with organisations like Digital Boost,
enhance local and regional business ecosystems
BuyWomenBuilt, everywoman, Asian Women of
and networks. By offering access to expertise
Achievement, Investing in Women Code and Women
and a community of like-minded peers, the
Backing Women.
programme removes barriers to enterprise,
empowering UK entrepreneurs to develop and
grow their businesses.
In addition, we continued our specialist
Accelerators and events to support high-growth
businesses in specific sectors across the UK. This
included working with leading growth sector and
industry partners such as BGF and Beauhurst.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 20
Supporting our customers and communities
3.5 Supporting business and enterprise continued
Supporting access to expertise
Supply Chain Sustainability School
We’ve partnered with the Supply Chain Sustainability School (SCSS) to provide a free retrofit
learning platform for the construction industry, focusing on decarbonising UK properties.
Regional SME Taskforce
During 2023, our Regional Taskforces continued to meet to support local economies and help
to unlock the potential of regional economies across the UK. Each taskforce brings together key
stakeholders to look at how the wider ecosystem can support businesses, examining current
challenges and what can be done to help alleviate them.
Young Enterprise support
The Prince’s Trust
NatWest Group is a corporate supporter of The Prince’s Trust enterprise programme, which
helps young people aged 18 to 30 explore their business ideas. In 2023, we boosted this support
Mentoring with Digital Boost
through our Test Your Business Idea grants, which give young people an opportunity to try their
Mentoring can be a positive source of support for someone running a idea for real.
business. We partnered with online mentoring platform Digital Boost Upskilling
During 2023, in total NatWest Group funded 591 Prince’s Trust grants to young entrepreneurs
to launch a free to use mentor matchmaking service for the next generation
across the UK, totalling £756,180.
of Scottish women in business.
Through the NatWest Enterprise Awards, The Prince’s Trust recognises young people who have
Known as MentorMatch, the service was developed in response to research
overcome barriers and achieved success in creating a sustainable business or social enterprise.
which revealed that more than half (53%) of women business owners in
As a patron of The Prince’s Trust ‘Women Supporting Women’ initiative, we are also working to
Scotland feel that a lack of mentoring opportunities has prevented them
ensure that more young women who face disadvantage and adversity can access the education,
progressing in their career. Almost half (47%) of women business leaders
training and enterprise programmes that could help transform their lives. NatWest Group has
feel that mentoring is too formal a process, while 49% reported that finding
colleagues registered as skills-based volunteers, providing skills and time to assist young people.
the right mentor is too difficult.
MentorMatch aims to break the formality around mentoring and helps make Support for social enterprises
finding and becoming a mentor easier by facilitating instant connections. The
NatWest Social & Community Capital (S&CC) is an independent charity supported by NatWest
platform provides guidance tailored to specific business challenges through its
Group whose mission is to enable social enterprises and trading charities to make a positive impact
online and mobile service.
in UK communities. It does this by providing community businesses with repayable finance, direct
MentorMatch was launched in April 2023 at The Haberdashery, in Glasgow. mentoring, volunteer support and access to webinars and seminars.
Presented by Amy Irons, the exclusive event brought together entrepreneurs
The charity published its impact report for 2022 during 2023. In 2022, S&CC approved more than
from across Scotland to hear all about the new platform via a live panel
£1 million of funding and lending to social enterprises and community businesses, an increase of
featuring some of the country’s most exciting women in business including:
128% on the previous year. This involved nine new loans to seven new enterprises. S&CC was
Jilly Isabella, founder of independent fashion brand, dula; Rachel Wood, owner
awarded Nationwide Social Lender of the Year in the UK Enterprise Awards 2022 and in the
of Rare Birds Books and Aarti Joshi, radio host, life coach and industry leading
LiveWire Global Awards 2022/23.
marketing expert.
Since the launch of MentorMatch, 63 people have signed up to be Mentors, Federation of Small Business cost-of-living support
83 women have signed up to receive mentoring and 90 sessions have
taken place. In January 2023, we announced a £1 million partnership with the Federation of Small Business
(FSB) to provide NatWest Group Business Customers with access to business support and
educational content. Throughout 2023, our business customers were able to access the dedicated
support which included webinars on getting funding ready and managing late payments, a
resource hub with practical and comprehensive information on late payments, debt recovery and
funding readiness and options with downloadable information and a dedicated telephone support
line for one-to-one advice.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 21
Supporting our customers and communities
3.5 Supporting business and enterprise continued
Supporting business
We are one of the largest banks for business in the UK, banking 940,000(1) small businesses and holding a 19% market share of start-ups.(2)
Supporting our business customers Supporting key sectors
We provide a range of products and services that help businesses to thrive. As one of the largest banks for business in the UK, our lending helps to support key sectors.
These include:
Support for manufacturing: In May 2023, we announced our aim to provide an additional
Financial Health Checks: We’re committed to supporting our business customers get £1 billion of lending to the UK manufacturing sector by the end of 2030, aiming to stimulate
a better understanding of their goals through our free business financial health checks. growth and help manufacturers invest in cleaner, more efficient forms of energy generation and
use. Lending will be deployed through loans, asset finance and overdrafts.
Smooth application journeys: For our Small Business Loan product (loans up to £50k)
borrowers can complete an application within 10 minutes and receive funds inside their Support for agriculture: In May 2023, we announced that through a partnership with our
account within 24 hours, providing convenience for small business customers. Asset Finance arm, Lombard, and the UK’s largest manufacturer of frozen potato products,
McCain, we’ll offer McCain’s potato growers increased funding support and preferential terms.
Support for SMEs: In July 2023, we launched our business banking switcher offer for
In January 2024, we announced additional support for agricultural customers impacted by
SMEs providing businesses with turnover of up to £2 million with access to two years of
flooding, including loan repayment holidays, interest rate reduction or temporary emergency
free banking.
loans with no fees.
Support for start-ups: The start-up business account is available for businesses that
Support for social housing: Housing finance completed £0.3 billion in sustainability linked loans
have been trading for less than one year and have a turnover of less than £1 million.
during 2023, which contributed towards our climate and sustainable funding and financing
The account offers free banking on everyday transactions for the first two years, which
target. We continued to support the Social Housing Sustainability Reporting Standard as an
means the charges for the day-to-day running of the account don’t apply during the free
early adopter to enable housing associations to report ESG performance in a transparent,
banking period.
consistent and comparable manner. We also continued working collectively with Pineapple
Supporting micro businesses: Tyl was one of the first to market with Tap to Pay, which Sustainable Partnerships, Places for People, British Gas Centrica to establish a business model
allows micro businesses and seasonal traders to start taking card payments without for large-scale delivery of retrofits. The pilot generated learnings on the retrofit process for
additional hardware or monthly fees, lowering the barrier to entry for micro businesses. NatWest Group and could also act as a catalyst to develop supply chains and technology to
As at 31 December 2023, over 30,000 businesses are using Tyl. boost private sector retrofits.
Supporting sole traders: Mettle is our free mobile-based business bank account for the Generating impacts through the proceeds of our social bonds
self-employed, providing business owners with the resources they need to effectively
manage the financial side of their business on the go. Features in the Mettle app help As at 31 December 2023, we have issued three social bonds, the proceeds of which provide
customers to easily raise and send invoices, categorise business spending, integrate with funding for loans helping generate positive social impacts.
accounting software, like FreeAgent, and get an estimate of how much tax they’re likely
to owe. Our first bond, issued in 2019, aims to support job creation in the 30% most deprived areas of
the UK. The asset pool for the bond is made up of loans to small-and medium-sized enterprises
Mettle is used by more than 100,000 small businesses across the UK and is for sole based in these areas. Up until 31 December 2022, we estimated that our lending to these small
traders and limited companies with an account balance of up to £1 million. businesses had helped to create 11,300 new jobs since the bond’s inception.
Carbon Planner tool: A free-to-use digital platform designed to help UK businesses Our second bond, issued in 2021, aims to support the provision of affordable housing. The asset
manage their future fuel and operational costs and reduce their carbon footprint pool for the bond is made up of loans to housing associations providing affordable housing
Fuel and EV charging cashback: In February 2023, we launched fuel and EV charging including through the provision of social rent units. For year to 31 March 2022, we estimated
cashback on Business Credit Cards to help offset the cost of doing business. This paid that our lending to these housing associations supported the acquisition or development of
between 1% and 3% cashback on credit card spending in these categories every month 568 new units.
to businesses. In March 2023, NatWest Group became the first bank in Europe to issue a bond with the
intention to use the net proceeds to lend to businesses identified as women-led. The nominal
amount of the bond is €500 million (£446 million).
(1) ‘Small businesses’ defined as businesses with a turnover of £0 to £750k.
Read our 2022 Green, Social and Sustainability Bonds Allocation and Impact Report.
(2) Based on the % of 647 businesses, less than 2 years old, that name a NatWest Group brand as their main bank (19%).
Source: MarketVue Business Banking from Savanta, YE Q4 2023. Data weighted by region and turnover to be
representative of businesses in G.B.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 22
Supporting our customers and communities
3.6 ESG support for large corporate and institutional customers
Alongside providing our own green or socially focused 225 asset managers to see where they stand on climate
products to customers, we work with large corporates and transition and physical risk. This engagement with banks
institutional customers to assist them with financing and investor coalitions provides an industry-wide overview
solutions and market intelligence to support them in creating of what action is being undertaken, encourages dialogue
positive environmental and social outcomes. between issuers and investors, and is useful to understand
which ESG standards and data matter to investors.
Supporting customers through thought
leadership and powerful partnerships Supporting our customers in ESG-related
Leveraging our markets expertise and intellectual capital, matters
we continue to build partnerships and collaboration in the We offer customers a broad range of sustainable finance
sustainable finance market. and advisory services and products. Our Climate and ESG
Capital Markets and Advisory services help customers with
The inaugural ‘Women Mobilising Sustainability across the
the design, structuring and execution of sustainability
Financial Ecosystem’ event was jointly hosted by NatWest
labelled debt, including the creation of frameworks and the
Markets, Coutts and RBS International and attended by
selection of appropriate use of proceeds and key
over 150 guests.
performance indicators. Through non-deal roadshow and
We also published the results from NatWest’s ‘Global Fixed investor engagement, we facilitate current and potential
Income Investor Survey: Climate Risks and Opportunities: investors with a specific focus on strategic ESG and
What Debt Investors Expect from Issuers,’ which surveyed sustainable finance topics.
ESG ratings advisory
Our ESG ratings advisory service is a key element of our
Corporates and Institutional ESG offering, providing analysis,
ACCIONA’s new Sustainable Impact and insights on the maintenance of ESG ratings to our
corporate and financial institutional customers, including
Financing Framework
sovereigns, supranationals and agencies (SSA). The
In June 2023, NatWest acted as Sole ESG Structuring
engagement with our clients aims to provide useful insights
Advisor to ACCIONA for the company’s new
on ESG ratings, helping them to improve their ESG
Sustainable Impact Financing Framework.
reporting and sustainability performance.
The new framework combines three previous
In 2023, we delivered management training modules to
iterations published by ACCIONA and ACCIONA
customers as part of our Corporate Sustainable Finance
Energía to create a single ‘family’ framework.
Leadership Toolkit series and hosted a workshop at the
Beside covering Green Use-of-Proceeds and European Covered Bond Conference (ECBC) on
Sustainability-Linked financing structures, the ‘Understanding the implications and challenges of ESG
framework introduces the new Local Impact ratings for issuers’.
component whereby the company can commit to
SSA Scorecards
direct an amount equal to the yield saving from issuing
a bond or loan in ESG-labelled format, or the benefit For the benefit of our treasury customers, we have
of a coupon step-down on a sustainability-linked bond developed a framework to support the assessment of
or loan, to support local initiatives which promote Sovereign ESG profiles of c.60 countries across a number
environmental or social co-benefits. of indicators including climate and natural capital, human
rights and social cohesion, governance effectiveness and
Read more on our collaboration with ACCIONA and other
economic environment. The framework has been expanded
client stories on our website.
to include Multilateral Development Banks and Agencies.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 23
Supporting our customers and communities
3.6 ESG support for large corporate and institutional customers continued
Green, Social and Sustainability (GSS)
Bond Framework
Our Green, Social and Sustainability (GSS) Bond Financing
Framework, under which we issue GSS bonds to
institutional investors, was updated in December 2022.
The expanded framework includes a comprehensive range
of eligible green and social assets that could be used in
conjunction with a GSS bond issuance.
Investing in GSS bonds in our liquidity portfolio
Our Treasury portfolio consists of high-quality liquid
assets which support the bank-wide sustainable banking
ambition by allocating a portion to GSS bonds. As at
31 December 2023, Treasury held c.6%(1) of its disclosed
Liquidity bond portfolio in GSS assets. Based on issuer
reporting, the proceeds of these bonds are allocated to
areas such as renewable energy, energy efficiency and
sustainable development.
(1) Based on third-party classification of issuer documents. Read the Financial
Review section in the NatWest Group plc 2023 Annual Report and Accounts
for more information on our liquidity portfolio.
NatWest Climate and ESG Capital Markets – social bonds support
for our clients
Financial institutions can drive social or sustainability One client was Motability Operations, a commercial
Notable awards outcomes, particularly in supporting a just transition. organisation which delivers the Motability Scheme
Social themes have been high on the agenda for many to over 700,000 customers in the UK, helping them
We won a number of awards from Environmental
of our customers, particularly those in the Financial access independent mobility by allowing them to
Finance – the awards are designed to celebrate
Institutions and SSA sectors. We have supported exchange their higher rate mobility allowance for
leading green, social, sustainability and sustainability-
corporate, financial institutions and SSA clients by a suitable vehicle. The company continues to deliver
linked (GSS/S) bond and loan market participants
analysing the existing landscape of social bond impact a consistent, highly-affordable and competitive
from 2022. The panel awarded the bank:
reporting and advising clients on best-practice eligibility proposition for customers with disabilities, while
– Lead manager of the Year, sustainability bonds criteria for social projects in their green, social and working towards transitioning their fleet to electric
– corporate sustainability financing frameworks. via their ‘Lean into Green’ initiative. NatWest Markets
– Lead manager of the Year, social bonds – financial acted as Joint Bookrunner twice over the course of
We have used our relationships with the fixed income
institution the year, supporting c.£1.4 billion equivalent raised
investor community, particularly ESG analysts and
– Lead manager of the Year, social bonds – in social bonds across four tranches in the sterling
social bond fund managers, to enhance our
supranational, sub-sovereign and agency (SSA). market. The proceeds of the bonds will fund vehicles,
understanding of how issuers can meet investors’
powered wheelchairs, or scooters.
NatWest has also been named as the winner of two expectations on social bonds. In addition, we continued
Global Finance Sustainable Finance 2023 awards: monitoring sectoral developments, for example social For details of our green bond issuances and transaction
Regional winner for Sustainable Infrastructure Finance banking products and services within the Financial support, including our blue bond support for Ørsted, refer
in Western Europe and Best Bank for Sustainable Institutions sector, providing insights and ideas for new to the Stategy and Climate transition plan section in our
Finance in the UK. product development. 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.
RBS International won ESG Lender of the Year for the In 2023, we have supported clients to issue 14 social
second year running at the Real Deals ESG awards. bonds with a combined notional of £10.2 billion with
£2.4 billion equivalent attributable to NatWest.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 24
Supporting our customers and communities
3.7 Private banking and responsible investing
We believe that mapping our engagements to the UN SDGs, Salient human rights issues
Responsible investing enables us to identify key focus areas. This is why we In 2023, we supported our Human Rights Action Group
focus on dialogue to make a positive contribution to to identify salient human rights issues in our role as an
Responsible investment involves considering ESG issues meeting the SDGs. 1,464 out of 2,176 of the issues and investor. The prioritisation of our salient human rights issues
when making investment decisions and engaging with objectives we engaged on in 2023 were aligned to one or will allow us to focus our efforts on carrying out a more
companies and fund managers to drive ESG-based decision more of the SDGs. in-depth assessment, including evaluation of our processes
making. As an asset manager, we believe that embedding Read more on our voting and engagement activity in our annual and policies. Read more on human rights on page 57.
Responsible Investing principles into our investment process statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code.
Principles for Responsible Investing (PRI)(1)
will lead to better informed investment decisions and that
ESG factors, over time, have the potential to have a positive Exclusions results
impact on investment risks and returns. We integrate ESG As a responsible investor, our preferred strategy for our The PRI requires signatories to report on their responsible
considerations into our investment process through our assets under management (AUM) is to engage with those investment activities annually for independent assessment
Responsible Investing Framework. This includes: companies in which we invest to help mitigate material risks by the PRI. Coutts has outperformed the median peer group
associated with ESG issues. However, there are certain score in the 2023 PRI assessment. The assessment
1. selection and monitoring of funds
investments where we believe that engagement will not be reviewed all 3,781 PRI signatories which consist of asset
2. voting and engagement effective or where we decide to take a prudent approach managers, wealth managers and asset owners globally.
3. exclusions until we gain sufficient confidence that the relevant issues Our investment and stewardship policy, which details our
4. working collaboratively with industry. can be addressed. As a result, for our custom-built funds approach to integrating environmental, social and
there are areas we have limited our exposure to: governance (ESG) principles into our investment process,
was given a score of 91% by the PRI.
Selection and monitoring of funds – climate-related activities, such as thermal coal and
For our third-party funds, as part of our initial and ongoing tar sands B Corp
due diligence process, we assess each fund for multiple – norms-based screens, such as human rights or labour
indicators across three levels, looking at ESG integration at standards violations Coutts’ B Corp certification means we consciously work
the asset manager organisational level, the fund level and – business activities, such as gambling, tobacco and towards providing responsible wealth management in line
their stewardship activity. Our managed assets are invested civilian firearms. with exceptional levels of service. Becoming a B Corp helps
in custom-built and third-party funds with limited direct us continue to support our clients’ sustainability plans and
exposure to equities and bonds. For our custom-built funds, We are a participant of the United Nations Global Compact show that financial goals need not come at the expense of
for example our Coutts funds managed by BlackRock, the (UNGC) which sets out universal principles on human rights, the planet. We constantly seek better environmental, social
investment parameters and ESG policies have been set labour rights, environmental responsibility and anti- and governance practice within our own business and those
by Asset Management, and these funds have been corruption. Consequently, we assess companies across a we work with, because we believe doing so is vital to
(re)designed to decarbonise over time and to align to a variety of globally-recognised norms to understand how ensuring sustainable economic prosperity.
they are aligned to fundamental rights.
net-zero pathway.
Read more on our website.
Read more in our ESG-related exclusions policy document or in
Voting and engagement
our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report.
Stewardship is an act of voting, where equity shares are Residential mortgages
held in a company, and engaging, where you enter into Working collaboratively with industry
During 2023, Private Banking completed £0.2 billion in
dialogue with companies or asset managers around It is important for us to collaborate within the industry to
residential mortgages for properties rated EPC A and B.
material risks and opportunities. For our custom-built funds, help raise the visibility of material ESG issues, mitigate risks
Coutts mortgage products offer discounted arrangement
we use our influence as shareholders to encourage the and influence positive policy development. We do this
fees for purchasing a more energy efficient home (EPC
companies in which we invest to improve their transparency through our involvement in initiatives like Climate Action
rating of A or B) or for making improvements resulting in an
and ESG performance. In 2023, supported by our 100+ and the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative (NZAM),
EPC rating of A-C.
stewardship provider, EOS at Federated Hermes, we which we joined in 2021 as part of our ambition to achieve
voted on over 10,000 resolutions and engaged with 423 net zero across our AUM by 2050.
companies to help address ESG-related issues and vote
in-line with our policies.
(1) The United Nations Principles for Responsible Investing is the largest global reporting project on responsible investment. It was developed with investors, for investors and requires signatories to report on their responsible investment activities annually for independent
assessment by the PRI. It does not operate for its own profit and, while it engages with global policymakers, it is not associated with any government. It is supported by, but not part of, the United Nations. PRI assessment score released November 2023. Read more on
our website.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 25
Supporting our customers and communities
3.8 Accessibility and good customer outcomes Key ESG
topic
Regulatory update on Consumer Duty Good customer outcomes supported by Product and service development
our product lifecycle We aim to ensure that products are designed to deliver
The FCA’s Consumer Duty regulation came into force for
good customer outcomes. As part of our product and
existing and new products and services in July 2023.
Our end-to-end product lifecycle process is designed to service development, we make sure that:
We operated a programme that established appropriate keep our customers and NatWest Group safe while
– the target market is identified to a sufficiently granular
standards, tools and frameworks to ensure we deliver good delivering a financial return. We use various tools to guide
level and aligned to a specific product strategy
outcomes to retail customers across NatWest Group. The this, including the YES check, Our Code, Critical People
– the proposal meets the needs and financial objectives
work has built on an existing customer-centred approach Capabilities and our internal policies and risk standards
of customers in the target market while avoiding
established in our strategy and supported by our values and (see page 53).
financial harm
expected behaviours. In line with regulatory expectations,
Our risk standards and policy documents focus on the risks – the distribution strategy works for the identified
we have an appointed Consumer Duty Board Champion,
associated with the design, management and sale of our target market
and the NatWest Group Board and Executive Committee
received regular progress updates and provided challenge products and services, as well as our complaint – the proposal is designed to benefit the customer
and oversight on progress to the July 2023 deadline. management process and how we support customers in and deliver fair value
vulnerable situations. Our product governance risk
– customers in the target market will be able to understand
Product and service owners undertook reviews of the standards and operational policies are applicable to all legal
the product or service and its features and will be
outcomes they provide customers and assessments of the entities, business segments and functions.
appropriately supported throughout its lifecycle
value customers receive. Those insights have translated into
All colleagues involved in the design, management and – consideration is given to the voice of the customer.
actions across NatWest Group to meet both the spirit and
distribution of our products and services are required to
substance of the regulation by the key regulatory milestone Our products are overseen and approved by dedicated
undergo training to ensure they are aware of the relevant
of July 2023. Similar work continues to meet the further executive-level committees before release.
standards and policies and understand their responsibilities.
deadline for products and services no longer available to
Our remuneration arrangements for colleagues aim to In 2023, we worked to further enhance the consistency
new customers by the end of July 2024, with plans put in
promote and encourage good customer outcomes and governance of products and services, and to align
place by our product and service owners.
throughout the product lifecycle. Sales incentives for ourselves to a consistently higher product governance
Our response to the regulation has been wide and our customer-facing colleagues were removed in 2016. framework standard.
outcomes-focused, and has been subject to ongoing
scrutiny at regular meetings with the FCA.
Beyond the review of our products and services, our response to Consumer Duty has included:
– Building an enduring capability for our product owners to use numerous data points to test and manage outcomes
that our customers receive.
– Updated product governance, to ensure all products and services are delivered in line with Consumer
Duty expectations.
– Training over 97% of our colleagues on Consumer Duty and its expectations, with specialist training delivered to
product owners, customer journey teams, marketing and customer-facing colleagues.
– Updates to Our Code, to specify that colleagues ‘must act to deliver good outcomes for retail customers’.
– Training for our Board, supported by external expertise.
– Alignment of Consumer Duty within our Senior Managers and Certification Regime and remuneration frameworks.
– Questions included in our colleague engagement survey, Our View, to assess the ongoing awareness of and
engagement with the delivery of good customer outcomes.
– Establishing a Good Customer Outcomes Centre of Expertise to ensure we continue to learn and grow in our
demonstration of good outcomes beyond July 2024.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 26
Supporting our customers and communities
3.8 Accessibility and good customer outcomes continued
Key ESG
topic
We worked across 330 products to improve the In 2023, we’ve reviewed almost 2,500 communications and Limitations of the product life-cycle process
articulation of our target market and intended use of the made improvements to support good customer outcomes. The risks and limitations associated with product life-cycle
products, including the identification of negative outcomes. We’ve also improved our Overdraft Engagement Hub, governance are such that we operate from one set of
A new learning module was launched for product and helping retail customers to understand the cost of their minimum standards that are then applied across multiple
service colleagues. borrowing or how overdrafts are intended to be used. We business segments within Natwest Group. As such, we may
Following this approach, improvements have been made to are also in the process of helping our Premier and Private see variation in the interpretation and application of our
support good customer outcomes. For example, overdraft Banking customers better understand options available to policies and procedures, which in turn could deliver different
limit reduction measures have been put in place for them, and associated costs and benefits, through a new outcomes for customers depending on the customer type.
1.3 million customers where there is a perceived risk of online short-term borrowing tool to be deployed. In order to help mitigate this risk, we carry out regular
future harm. For Business customers, we developed an assurance and testing against adherence to policy across
overdraft cancellation tool, giving the ability to customers to Ongoing management the group, and seek attestation from each of our business
cancel their overdraft online. We have a multi-channel approach to supporting customers areas to gather evidence around how they comply with our
– digital, telephony, in branch and through our relationship policies on an ongoing basis.
Fair pricing management model. We also have a range of specialist
Our pricing standards and model ensure that customers support options in place. We aim to ensure that customers
are paying a fair price for the products and services continue to be treated fairly after the point of sale and aim
they are receiving. Pricing decisions are overseen by to remove any barrier to switching products and services,
dedicated executive-level committees. In 2023, we where the barrier is not in the best interests of the customer
introduced comprehensive price and value assessments and/or it impacts the delivery of fair customer outcomes.
across all products and services in scope of the Consumer For example, digital closure journeys have been
Duty regulation. implemented for cards, Buy-Now-Pay-Later and Fixed Rate
Savings Products to allow our Retail customers to complete
Product and service distribution and
the request in a channel of their choice.
responsible marketing
We routinely monitor the performance of our products and
Throughout the sales journey we inform and educate our
services. This aims to ensure that the product or service
customers about all aspects of a product in a clear, fair and
remains consistent with the purpose for which it was
not misleading way. This includes being transparent about
introduced, is distributed in accordance with the needs of
the costs, conditions and potential risks of each product. We
the target market and is flexible to cater to the needs of
aim to ensure communications to our customers, including
vulnerable customers.
financial promotions, present information in a way that it is
easily understood, engaging and written in plain language, Addressing complaints
with key information easy to find and not hidden in lengthy
Dealing with customer complaints ensures good customer
terms and conditions.
outcomes and makes sure we meet our regulatory
We aim to make sure that, regardless of the channel used, requirements as set out by the FCA. Complaints can be
the information we provide enables customers to make raised in person, online, by phone or in writing. Where the
effective decisions and offers sufficient opportunity for them issue is more complex, one of our complaint handling experts
to review the information and assess their options. will become involved. Customers can refer to the Financial
Ombudsman Service, an independent review body, if a
We aim to identify all activity that constitutes a financial complaint has not been resolved within certain timescales.
promotion and to ensure that all financial promotions The NatWest Group Board has oversight of complaints.
comply with the relevant regulations set out in our Financial
Promotions Guides. All financial promotions are approved by We endeavour to reduce complaints by addressing the
the Financial Promotions Approval team, with separate underlying causes. In 2023, we received 206,250 reportable
teams providing oversight and assurance as part of our complaints compared to 198,633 in 2022. We run a
three lines of defence model. Financial promotions are centralised training and competence programme regularly for
reviewed at least annually. We also ensure that the sale of customer-facing employees which helps us effectively
products and services and the provision of advice is manage any negative customer experiences.
undertaken appropriately and meets the regulatory
Read more on our complaints data.
standards of suitability and appropriateness.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 27
Supporting our customers and communities
3.8 Accessibility and good customer outcomes continued
Key ESG
topic
Customers in vulnerable situations
At any time, our customers may find Supporting customers with additional needs
themselves in a vulnerable situation In 2023, we continued to work with organisations such as
GamCare and Citizens Advice to improve the support
where they need additional support.
available to customers in vulnerable situations, and where
appropriate, connect them to expert advice outside the
Identifying customers with additional
bank. We have also developed new partnerships, including
support needs with organisations like Plain Numbers, who will help us
Our definition and identification of customers in vulnerable communicate with our customers clearly and in a way that
situations aligns to the FCA definition. We recognise the works for them. We continued to run digital lessons and
four key drivers of vulnerability – health, life events, fraud and scam awareness events remotely online. We
resilience and capability – set out in FCA guidance for firms have dedicated teams available to support customers in
on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers. Customers financial difficulty and dedicated customer protection teams
can disclose information about their situation and their who engage with customers at greatest risk of harm,
support need in all our channels of business, and we can working with external partners where more specialist
also use internal data to identify potential characteristics help is needed.
indicating vulnerability.
Colleague training
Product design considerations In 2023, we provided consistent training to help colleagues
As part of our product governance, we assess how recognise and respond to customers in vulnerable situations
customers with characteristics of vulnerability may be and offer them support when they need it most.
impacted by a product through a particular Customer
Vulnerability Impact Assessment at the design stage. In
response, we consider what mitigants we can put in place. Front line colleagues are also trained to:
We have adopted five key principles for designing inclusively: Recognise: Demonstrate soft-skills to be able
confidence and trust, accessible information, clear choices, to identify impact and needs to recognise
easy journeys and specialised support. This approach vulnerable situations in conversations.
helps us to make proportionate choices in upfront design
Record: Clearly demonstrate how to record
and in the monitoring approach we use to detect potential
needs and relevant information.
for harm.
Respond: Respond with
Working with external parties, we use an Inclusive Design
support (adjust or serve differently), signpost
Panel made up of people who between them have lived
to tools, self-help.
experience across all of the key drivers of vulnerability to
inform and input to our product design. Our Inclusive Design Refer: Connect customers with specialist
Panel has helped us to review more than 45 different support where required.
products and propositions.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 28
Supporting our customers and communities
3.8 Accessibility and good customer outcomes continued
Key ESG
topic
An accessible bank by design
We recognise that everyone’s needs are different, so we We have been listening to our customers with disabilities central accessibility hub on our internal intranet, allowing
aim to make banking as accessible as possible for our and our research teams have been changing the way they colleagues to learn more about accessible design.
customers, including those with disabilities, impairments gain feedback. This complements the Inclusive Design Panel
Inclusive design training is mandatory learning for all
and long-term health conditions. to guide the way our teams create digital experiences.
colleagues involved in journey design. In 2023, we also
Disabilities can be cognitive, developmental, intellectual, Colleague training and support piloted a new tool for our designers to help test journeys
physical, sensory or a combination of factors. They can be against our digital accessibility standards.
We are working to support our colleagues to create a more
present from birth or acquired during a person’s lifetime.
accessible experience for our customers. Working closely with our disability employee-led network,
In June 2023, we hosted the Business Disability Forum’s known as ‘Enable Disability & Neurodiversity Network’,
In October, we piloted new training for colleagues who
Back to the Future conference, where our executive we delivered awareness campaigns to coincide with Global
create digital experiences. The pilot started with our cohort
sponsor for disability, Oliver Holbourn, CEO of RBS Accessibility Awareness Day and the International Day
of software engineering graduates. This training builds on
International, gave a keynote speech and set out NatWest of Persons with Disabilities.
our wider ‘disability smart’ online training which has been
Group’s vision for an accessible bank by design.
completed by over 47,000 colleagues. We also have a
‘By an accessible bank by design,
I mean a bank where everyone thinks
first whether everyone can access a
Implementing improvements
customer or colleague journey in an
for customers
easy, fair and safe way.’
Some examples of how we’ve improved
digital accessibility in 2023 for our
Oliver Holbourn,
customers include:
CEO RBS International and NatWest Group Executive
Sponsor for Disability – Updating biometric security in our Retail
Mobile app, by removing the need to
Digital accessibility blink during Face Biometric approval.
Now customers can complete the
In April 2023, the NatWest Group Executive Committee approval process by holding the device
approved a plan to embed digital accessibility across our still, making it easier for customers with
processes and practices. They support our approach to limited motor skills.
become an accessible bank by design across our customer – Redesigning the branch locator within
digital touchpoints, including our app, online banking and our mobile app and website to better
web pages. support customers with motor control
difficulties, colour deficiency and those
Processes and practices
who use screen readers.
In 2023, we updated our digital accessibility standards to
– Enabling Retail Banking customers to
design and build with reference to the latest Web Content
control elements of their interactions
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.2 AA. We also
with our AI virtual assistant Cora, such
updated our Supplier Charter to include a dedicated section
as changing the speed of responses
on digital accessibility.
as well as the window and text size to
Our refreshed brand guidelines have digital accessibility aid readability.
embedded. We now include considerations such as motor
skills, language, use of colour and assistive technology that
our customers may be using.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 29
Supporting our customers and communities
3.8 Accessibility and good customer outcomes continued
Choice of channel Banking my way
We understand that our customers want to be given a ‘Banking my way’ is a service that allows customers to tell
choice of which channels they use to do their banking. us specific information about their needs and preferences so
that we can better help them in the future. With their
As at 31 December 2023, we have over 580 branches
permission, we record this information so that we can be
and over 2,400 NatWest Group ATMs. Our customers can
aware of it each time a customer contacts the bank.
also access banking services at Post Offices. We continue
to offer mobile branches serving over 600 unique stops, There are a range of adjustments we can make to support
allowing customers, including those in remote areas, our customers, such as a sign language interpreter, braille
to do their everyday banking such as making deposits, documentation or simply speaking more slowly.
withdrawing cash and paying bills.
Customers can alert us to such adjustments on mobile,
We continue to experiment with providing the most online, in our branches or via our telephone teams.
accessible physical space for our customers who visit our
As at 31 December 2023, over 244,000 people have
branches. In our Milton Keynes branch, which forms part
registered for Banking my way.
of our concept branch initiative, we have created a sensory
room – a dynamic environment where the light and scent in
the room can be changed to create different environments,
and this supports neurodiverse customers.
Hearing loops in all our branches provide support for
customers using hearing aids.
Our video banking service supports customers when they
want the reassurance of a face-to-face conversation with
our highly-trained colleagues. Through our partnership with
SignVideo, we offer a service that lets colleagues and
customers communicate easily in-branch or via Zoom
virtually using a sign language interpreter.
We continue to have dedicated teams available on the
phone to support customers with product applications and
we retain our dedicated over 60s customer care line.
Customers who require additional support can access a
range of accessibility services, such as statements in braille,
translation services, large print and audio CD. BT’s Relay
UK service also supports customers with hearing
impairments through a type-to-talk service.
Other key accessibility features include our accessible card
readers, rubber signature stamps, braille card wallets and
talking ATM service.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 30
Supporting our customers and communities
3.9 Innovation and digitalisation Key ESG
topic
Through our planned investment of £3.5 billion from 2023
to 2025, where more than 70% of the spend is targeted at 10.9m(*) 9.8m(*) 67%(*)
data and technology, we’re digitalising our services to make
it easier for our customers to bank at a time and place digitally customers using of
convenient to them. Our mobile app enables our customers active our mobile app customers
to bank whenever, wherever, with 9.8 million(*) of our customers exclusively using
customers mobile users. We have 10.9 million(*)(1) digitally digital channels
active retail and business banking customers and
3.5 million(*) customers using the online banking platform.
10.8m(*) 49%(*) 3.5m(*)
67%(*) of our active current customers exclusively bank with
us using digital channels, through mobile and online. Cora of Cora customers
interactions conversations using our online
Enhancements to our mobile app
requiring no banking platform
Our mobile app means NatWest, RBS and Ulster Bank NI
human input
customers can bank whenever and wherever they need to.
In 2023, we continued to evolve our app to provide even
more ways to make it easier for customers to manage their 5m 2.9m £18.2bn
money. Examples include:
customers have customers in payments
– Universal Search: A search bar on the home screen used our Account have made a using our APIs
making it easier to find functionality in the mobile app. Information API payment using
– High Value Payments: Enabling personal customers to our APIs
make one-off payments of up to £75,000 via Multi-Factor
Authentication (MFA) in the app.
– Inbound payment notifications: BACS and faster
Enhancements to our mortgage journeys Commercial & Institutional customers
payment customers now get a push message to inform
them when funds have been received into their account. We’ve digitalised our mortgage experiences, enabling We have continued to digitalise our services to support
a smoother, more consistent experience across the our Commercial & Institutional customers:
– Improved facial biometrics capture: Improvements
customer’s channel of choice, whether applying for a
have enabled better identification of fraudulent activity, – Relationship managers can now access key
mortgage through a broker, via our branches, online or
including presentation attacks, and removed the need customer information via a tablet while out in the field
through a price comparison website. Digitalisation also
for customers to blink as part of the payment with customers.
means we’re putting more capability in our customers’
authorisation journey. – Mandates are now available via mobile and payment
hands, enabling self-service. Examples include the ability
– Financial Health and Support: We enabled NatWest and queries can be initiated via Bankline.
to generate online digital redemption statements, the ability
Royal Bank of Scotland customers to easily view their to make regular or over-payments online, and generate – Automated signature verification has resulted in an
loan arrears amount in the app. Previously, customers certificates of title. increase in digital service utilisation.
had to look this information up in a statement or contact
– Tyl by NatWest was one of only two launch partners for
a Financial Health and Support agent to confirm their Home Energy Hub Tap to Pay on iPhone in the UK. Alongside Tap to Pay
outstanding balance.
In November 2023, we launched the Home Energy Hub on Android, which was also released in 2023, the new
– Digital Credit Card: From July 2023, credit card to help UK homeowners to identify, access and fund the capability empowers our customers to securely accept
customers can view full credit card details as a digital measures they could take to potentially reduce home payments with only their mobile phone and removes the
card in the mobile app, removing the need to carry the emissions and save money on their bills. Working with need for additional hardware or payment terminals.
physical card with them. British Gas, Snugg, Vibrant, TrustMark and Wickes, the
– Business Account Mandates: NatWest, RBS and Ulster proposition brings together the support homeowners need
Bank NI Business banking customers can add new to improve their energy efficiency into a simple journey,
signatories or third parties through the app, providing combining a digital journey with in-person support. As at
a convenient way to manage account access without 31 December 2023, the hub has had over 29,000 visits. (1) A digitally-active customer is someone who has accessed either their online
banking platform or mobile banking app.
visiting a branch.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 63.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 31
Supporting our customers and communities
3.9 Innovation and digitalisation continued
Helping businesses to reduce their Digital service stability remains high
carbon footprint In 2023, we had consistently high performance and stability
In 2023, Carbon Planner, our tool to help business of our most critical systems, which have been available
customers measure their carbon footprint, released new 99.99% of the time. 2023 saw two Criticality 1 incidents,
features based on customer insights, including automation compared with two for 2022 (1, 2). These numbers include
capability in partnership with Sage Earth. Carbon Planner all events which had an impact on our operations, not just
also connects users to NatWest energy help and support, system issues. Through strong control frameworks, we
aiming to help them save on their energy bills while reducing continue to maintain focus on our operational resilience
their emissions. Carbon Planner was awarded most capability, with customer service a priority. In support of
successful environment programme at the 2023 Digital this, we have policies, standards and mature processes in
Leaders Award. place to minimise the potential for any technology or IT
system disruptions. These include recovery procedures and
Open banking and Application Programming incident response plans, all of which are tested on a regular
Interfaces (APIs) basis to reduce risk.
From January 2019 to 31 December 2023, over 5 million
Our innovation approach
customers have used our APIs to access their account
We continue to take an innovative approach to working
information and 2.9 million customers have used our APIs
with partners to deliver the services that our customers
to make a payment – initiating transactions worth over
need for the future. We aim to identify and interpret
£18.2 billion.
disruptive new technologies and business models and
NatWest Group has gone beyond the regulatory generate clarity through rapid experimentation with the
requirement for banks to provide Variable Recurring aim of driving better customer outcomes.
Payments (VRP) and can now offer this alternative payment
Our scalable framework positions NatWest Group to
method to businesses and consumers.
identify, experiment with and realise benefits from the new
As a result, we have been recognised for this industry-first technologies and business model concepts aligned to our
payment method by winning Best Initiative in Open Banking strategy. It is a data-driven means of obtaining conviction in
at the 2023 Card and Payment Awards and were investment decisions for less-understood or new concepts.
shortlisted for Best Bank & PayTech Partnership at the 2023
PayTech Awards. NatWest Group is the leading UK bank in
the 2023 Open Finance Global Rankings.
We won the Financial Services Innovation award at the
Scottish Fintech Awards, with our Bank of APIs recognised
for supporting the UK’s fintech ecosystem.
(1) By way of illustration, a Criticality 1 incident could be a loss of key IT systems resulting in an impact to more than 15% of the bank’s customers or an incident that leads
to a financial loss of over £10 million.
(2) Availability of our key systems is currently calculated against our Important Business Services – those defined as the most critical.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 32
Supporting our customers and communities
3.9 Innovation and digitalisation continued
Ethical use of AI and data
Putting data at the heart of personalising Ethical use of AI and data
the customer experience We aim to take an ethics-driven approach to data and AI.
We aim to help customers thrive as a data-driven, artificial In the coming years, we intend to scale up our use of AI,
intelligence (AI) powered relationship bank connected with aiming to significantly improve our products and our service
a digital world. We use sophisticated analytics to help offering to customers. Our stakeholders will expect us to
understand our customers’ circumstances, so we can better make sure we do this responsibly and ethically, ensuring the
support them. right safeguards are in place to protect them.
During 2023, through enhanced engineering and advanced Our customers are becoming more aware of the potential
analytics we have: for malicious actors to abuse these tools to facilitate crime,
spread disinformation and develop increasingly sophisticated
– shared over 9.6 million prompts for fee-free options for AI-based fraud and scam techniques. Against this
our NatWest Rooster Money accounts background, we aim to be ready to put enhanced controls
– communicated to 2.4 million customers who may be in in place to identify AI-enabled financial crime and help
financial difficulty, enabling us to signpost support options safeguard our customers.
– sent targeted communications to over 8 million
As part of our approach, we are working to embed data
customers who could benefit from a better interest
ethics and responsible AI principles across the bank and in
rate on their balances, increasing uptake on a range
our employee training programmes We will convene a Data
of our savings products
Ethics and Responsible AI panel to own and oversee
– identified thousands of business customers who could
implementation of the principles. We are also working to
benefit from certain deposit products, allowing us to
enhance our existing risk and control framework to cope
contact them through digital channels.
with generative AI use.
Our virtual assistant Cora continues to learn
Our principles-driven approach reflects and aligns with the
and evolve regulations and expectations of our supervisory authorities,
In November 2023, we announced a collaboration with who look to us to ensure good outcomes for customers.
IBM on a generative AI initiative with enhancements to our When we deploy AI-based systems, our regulators expect
virtual assistant Cora. This will provide our customers us to ensure that our systems are robust, secure and
access to a wider range of information through properly governed, and that their outcomes are easy to
conversational interactions with Cora+. It demonstrates explain, fair and contestable.
how we are working to harness the power of responsible
The Leapfrog programme was launched in 2022 to develop
and ethical AI to form part of our wider strategy,
a principles-driven control framework for data analytics,
collaborating with IBM and other experts to support
including GenAI. In 2023, we worked to embed this
our customers.
framework across NatWest Group policies, our control
Through the continued digitalisation of our customer environment and infrastructure. This will enable us to meet
journeys, Cora is enabling self-service for customers. supervisory expectations, managing the model risks that
During 2023, Cora handled 10.8 million(*) retail banking could arise from the use of advanced data analytics, while
conversations (compared to 10.4 million in 2022) of continuing to comply with existing regulations, such as the
which 49%(*) required no human intervention. UK’s data protection and privacy rules, and forthcoming
regulations, such as the EU AI Act and UK Government
requirements on AI.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 63.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 33
Supporting our customers and communities
3.10 Keeping our customers and their information safe Key ESG
topic
Cyber and information security Information and cybersecurity risks are part of our internal Data transfers and collaboration
learning modules, which every colleague and contractor We continually refine our systems to comply with GDPR,
NatWest Group has a comprehensive set of layered security must complete annually, and are supported by bite-sized the UK Data Protection Act and other local legislation.
defences against new and emerging threats. These are emails and information on our intranet. Colleagues also During 2023, we factored in the impact of UK and European
regularly tested by both our in-house security testing team receive job-specific training, for example, our Security team case law, the progress of the Data Protection and Digital
and leading experts in the cybersecurity industry. Tests also attend courses with the Centre for the Protection of Information Bill and the Indian Digital Personal Data
review the effectiveness of continuity plans in the event National Infrastructure and the NCSC, as well as having Protection Act 2023 on our privacy obligations and
of a cyberattack. opportunities to gain professional qualifications. Alertline is cross-border data flows. Our privacy teams are in regular
NatWest Group’s cybersecurity risk management forms an internal service for colleagues to report security incidents contact with other internal teams to assist with initiatives
an integral part of NatWest Group’s overall enterprise- or personal safety concerns, at and away from work in such as supporting victims of financial crime and meeting
wide risk management framework (EWRMF). Management relation to their employment with NatWest Group. our Consumer Duty obligations.
of cybersecurity is part of Natwest Group’s wider We have an ongoing programme of audits conducted by
Privacy and client confidentiality training
operational risk management. To ensure we continue Internal Audit. NatWest Group has not experienced an
to defend against new and emerging threats, we have information security breach in the last three years. All colleagues and contractors are required to undertake
a series of programmes that develop and improve the annual mandatory privacy and client confidentiality training.
deployed defences. Protecting privacy and customer Each year, we also engage with our suppliers to understand
the privacy governance arrangements they have in place
The Board and executive management are engaged in our confidentiality (including policy, mandatory procedures, training and
security strategy through regular reporting on the Digital X awareness) and review the responses to ensure that
business. The accountable executive for information and We see privacy as a vital component of serving our satisfactory controls exist. Training topics include:
cybersecurity is NatWest Group’s Chief Information Officer customers and it is therefore embedded across all parts
who presents an information and cybersecurity update to of our business. NatWest Group has a Privacy and Client – our privacy and client confidentiality obligations
the Executive Risk Committee and Group Board Risk Confidentiality (P&CC) policy which sets out the rules – privacy considerations for new projects and systems
Committee annually as a minimum. Matters are escalated everyone is expected to follow to ensure compliance with – how colleagues can recognise and respond to requests
to the Board as required. relevant legal and regulatory requirements, and role from individuals to exercise their data rights
responsibilities. The policy requirements are embedded
– what to do in the event of a breach.
To support our cybersecurity risk management, there are within our risk processes and are subject to rigorous
information and cybersecurity policies in place which are controls, embedded and assured against the P&CC The privacy and client confidentiality training module is
reviewed at least annually against industry best practice. operating model. updated annually with new topics and learnings from the
These are internally available to all colleagues. previous year. Job-specific training is also provided as
During 2023, while there have been a small number of
necessary for colleagues, for example training on redactions
Policies are primarily reviewed against the Information breaches of GDPR and the duty of confidentiality (impacting
for the Subject Access Rights Team.
Security Forum: Standard of Good Practice (ISF: SOGP) but a very small percentage of customers/employees) that we
also any relevant publications by competent authorities such have sought to remediate, there have been no material We use internal processes to guide the best decision-making
as the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC). They are reportable ‘personal data breaches’ under GDPR and no and the safe use, storage and sharing of information.
also aligned to a number of other international and industry enforcement action by data protection authorities. We aim to ensure that all uses of AI are underpinned
standards including ISO 27001 and the National Institute of by ethical principles such as accountability, fairness and
Standards and Technology Cyber Security Framework. Transparency transparency, and include appropriate safeguards. We also
Policy benchmarking is completed against the ISF: SOGP NatWest Group has adopted a layered and accessible look to ensure that customer, employee and other data is
to confirm there are no control gaps. In addition, NatWest approach to providing information about how we use our protected and secure.
Group is certified by the IASME Consortium Ltd (IASME) customers’ and colleagues’ data in the privacy notices on
in Cyber Essentials Plus, a recognised Government-owned our websites. This information is subject to regular review to
scheme operated by the NCSC. An external audit is ensure it remains up to date and accessible to users across
completed on an annual basis as part of NatWest Group’s all digital platforms.
wider financial audit requirements.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 34
Supporting our customers and communities
3.10 Keeping our customers and their information safe continued
Privacy by design and default Fraud and scams awareness
We aim to embed privacy by design and default. This requires the integration of data Our seasonal shopping fraud and scams awareness campaign, All Mod Cons, ran in late
protection into processing activities, business practices, products and services from the November and throughout December 2023, with the aim of helping people to avoid fraud
design stage of a product and through its lifecycle. We have set up a privacy by design and scams during the festive period. Content focused on common scams around Christmas
and default project which continues to embed these requirements. and on what people should do if they’ve been scammed. This included a video aimed at
addressing the stigma of being the victim of a scam.
Data Protection Impact Assessments are an integral part of data protection by design
and default. These assessments help us to design more efficient and effective processes The All Mod Cons campaign was covered in both local and national media as well as on
for handling personal data. Instagram and TikTok channels. All Mod Cons is a board game concept which draws on
NatWest Group data and aims to equip players with information on how to detect, avoid
Regulator communications and data subject rights
and report different kinds of scams in real life.
NatWest Group has specialist teams who respond to queries relating to data subject rights.
In addition, we have a close relationship with relevant regulators and industry bodies Coutts client fraud event
as appropriate. During 2023, we ran two all-client fraud webinar events. Our webinar ‘Investment Fraud –
the Long Con’ was joined by 600 Coutts and NatWest premier clients, and ‘It Couldn’t
Happen to Me, Could It?’ was joined by 492 clients.
Payment Systems Regulator (PSR) league tables
Protecting customers from fraud
In October 2023, PSR published Authorised Push Payment (APP) fraud performance data
According to the National Fraud Initiative Report 2022, fraud accounts for 40% of all for 23 banks, including 14 major UK banking groups and nine smaller firms. NatWest Group:
crimes against individuals in the UK, with UK Finance estimating that £580m was stolen
– Ranked sixth for reimbursing customers who fell victim to APP scams, returning 62%
by criminals in H1 2023. NatWest Group aims to combat criminal activity, investing in
of customer loss value.
resources and capability to evolve defences.
– Had the second-lowest value of APP fraud received per £1 million of transactions.
We’re using technology to protect our customers For every £1 million received into accounts, £76 was APP fraud.
We use best-in-class industry standard technology to detect and predict patterns of – Had the fourth-lowest value of APP fraud sent per £1m of transactions amongst the
behaviour and identify financial crime and fraud. Key features to help keep our 14 major UK banking groups. For every £1 million of transactions sent, £134 was lost
customers safe from fraud include: to APP fraud.
My Security Profile: This feature shows customers how to stay safe when using our Read more on the PSR website.
mobile app and shares advice about fraud and scams. During 2023, over 3 million
customers used My Security Profile.
Two-way ‘Fraud Alert’ messaging: From March 2023, the two-way fraud alert
message for Coutts Silk credit card holders allows clients to respond by SMS to confirm
whether a suspected fraudulent transaction is genuine or not.
Remote Access Tools: In 2023, we introduced new capability that allows us to identify
if a customer’s device has been compromised by a criminal using new and
sophisticated Remote Access Tools to search for or steal sensitive data. NatWest Group
are early adopters of this industry leading capability.
Enhanced defences: In 2023, we deployed enhanced algorithmic based fraud and
scam defences preventing more customers from falling victim to fraud and scams.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 35
Supporting our customers and communities
3.11 Developing our approach to nature
We recognise that the systemic risks for – To support future customer engagement on nature, Engaging colleagues on nature
businesses that impact and depend on through our Banking Environment Initiative (BEI) Throughout 2023, colleagues have been invited to consider
membership and in collaboration with the Investment how NatWest Group impacts and is dependent on nature,
nature, and the resulting effects of nature Leadership Group (ILG), we contributed to ‘Let’s Discuss as well as opportunities to engage with initiatives to help
loss on society, can be material. Collective Nature with Climate: Engagement Guide’ published by the restore and protect nature in our communities.
Cambridge Institute for Sustainable Leadership. We
action will be required to help address the continue to contribute to the Sustainable Markets Initiative – We hosted a Nature Hackathon in November 2023,
challenge, including the need to scale Financial Services Taskforce (SMI FSTF) on nature-based which saw 199 colleagues from across the bank engage
industry guidance, as well as the Green Finance Institute’s with a two-day innovation challenge in response to the
financial flows into global biodiversity
UK Financial Institutions for Nature Group (G-FIN) to help question ‘How can we help our customers to understand
conservation.(1) support investment into UK nature recovery. their impact and dependency on nature?’
– NatWest Group convened several roundtable events in – Through their web browsing in 2023, colleagues helped to
Following the publication of the Task Force for Nature- 2023, aimed at exploring the converging topics of climate fund an estimated 224,349 trees by switching to Ecosia
related Disclosures (TNFD) recommendations in 2023, we and nature. While investors and organisations are in the as NatWest Group’s default search engine. Ecosia is a
recognise the need to develop the capabilities and tools to process of setting out their net-zero strategy, further not-for-profit organisation that channels 100% of its
measure, monitor and report on our environmental impacts, development of capabilities will be required to incorporate advertising revenue towards environmental initiatives,
dependencies, risks and opportunities. We aim to use initial nature and biodiversity challenges and projects into ESG particularly reforestation.
insights from tools like the Exploring Natural Capital strategies. Exploring the impact of nature on sovereigns, – Colleagues in India have supported community-based
Opportunities, Risks and Exposure (ENCORE) tool to inform municipalities, corporates, and financial institutions, projects to promote nature-based sustainable and
a broader TNFD LEAP assessment to identify our material discussions examined the role of emerging frameworks climate-resilient methods of agriculture. Regenerative
nature-related impacts, dependencies, risks and such as TNFD and the European Sustainability Reporting farming practices such as multi-cropping and the use of
opportunities. The results of this analysis will inform the Standards in providing guidance on integrating nature into organic fertilisers and bio-pesticides have helped improve
development of our approach to nature. decision-making and disclosures. yields and reduce input costs.
Supporting the development of industry
Read more on our approach to nature on page 18 of our 2023
standards Climate-related Disclosures Report.
In 2023, we continued to engage with key stakeholders to
help develop an impactful, consistent and meaningful
response to nature loss.
Developing our approach to nature in NatWest Markets NV
– In addition to chairing the Banking Working Group for the
In 2023, NatWest Markets NV – NatWest Group’s Netherlands-based subsidiary – continued to develop its
Transition Plan Taskforce (TPT), we contributed to the
approach to emerging topics such as nature. This included the extension of work started in 2022 on a high-level
TPT Nature Working Group. The aim is to integrate nature
political, economic, sociological, technological and legal (PESTL) analysis of nature-related risk factors.
considerations into climate transition plan guidance in
recognition of the impact of and dependency on nature in Capturing different environmental factors such as water, waste and biodiversity, the expanded assessment will be
helping to address the climate challenge. used to inform decision-making, product development, the allocation of resources and our approach to scenario
– As part of our one-year partnership with WWF, NatWest analysis stress testing.
Group sponsored a report, published in January 2024, that
The business also implemented environmental risk scorecards to support the assessment of customer-specific risk
sets out a roadmap to support a regenerative agricultural
exposure across different environmental physical and transition risks. These scorecards were applied to three
transition in England and ensure farmers are rewarded for
priority sectors: electricity generation, land transport and logistics, and commercial real estate. We aim to expand
producing nutritious food, tackling climate change and
scorecard sector coverage in 2024 as NatWest Markets NV embeds the management of environmental risks.
restoring nature. The report brings together views from
across the UK food value chain and shows that both The lessons from this early work in NatWest Markets NV will be used to help us better understand our nature-
public and private sources will be required to ensure a fair related impacts and dependencies.
transition towards regenerative farming.
(1) Paulson Institute, Financing Nature: Closing the Global Biodiversity Financing Gap.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 36
Supporting our customers and communities
3.12 Supporting our communities through giving
As a responsible business, we are committed to supporting our colleagues and customers
give back to help our communities thrive.
Our direct community investment in 2023 amounted to Our card payment provider for businesses, Tyl, donates
£11.1 million(*) compared with £13.6 million in 2022, as revenue from each transaction to its Giveback Community
measured using the Business for Societal Impact Fund. In 2023, it donated over £250,000 to a mixture of
benchmarking standard. This includes the funding we national and local charities.
make available to support colleague giving and the direct
Following the earthquake in Turkey and Syria in February
costs of delivering our community programmes.
2023, we activated our support for the Disasters
Colleague charitable giving Emergency Committee (DEC) appeal. Over £3 million was
raised to provide relief to those impacted.
The Do Good Feel Good campaign unites our colleagues
to support the causes they care about through
volunteering and fundraising. In 2023, we raised over
Our direct community investment in 2023
£3.8 million for good causes and volunteered over
125,000 worktime hours, providing our skills and £11.1 million(*)
expertise to support our communities.
(2022: £13.6 million)
We held our annual series of challenge events in September
2023, offering colleagues across the UK free access to
fundraising events including walking, running, bungee
jumping, abseiling and static cycling. Through this campaign
Giving Tuesday
and by NatWest Group matching donations, our colleagues
We are a founding partner in the UK of the global Giving
raised over £440,000 for charitable causes.
Tuesday initiative. We work with our charity partners to
Our longstanding partnership with The Conservation share stories of how, together, we are making an impact on
Volunteers (TCV) continued during 2023 with 3,738 our communities through our giving. We also use this annual
colleagues taking part in environmental volunteering days, day of giving to encourage colleagues to sign up for our
which included over 62,000 more trees planted as part of payroll giving scheme or increase their donation by offering
the NatWest Forest. The quality of this partnership was an incentive payment for their chosen charities. For
recognised with a Silver Award at the Corporate customers, our Giving Tuesday campaign sees us match
Engagement Awards for Best Environmental or donations to charity through their Rewards account. For
Sustainable Programme. Giving Tuesday 2023, these two initiatives led to charities
receiving an extra £350,000.
Customer charitable giving
We have innovated in recent years to make it easier for NatWest Group independent charities
customers to give digitally. Through our Rewards account, NatWest Group has two independent, well-established
customers donated £1 million in 2023. £1.8 million was charities that continue to support specific activities –
donated in 2023 through the simple giving functionality the Coutts Foundation(1) and NatWest Social &
in our mobile banking app – bringing the total raised Community Capital.(2)
through this channel to £7.7 million since it was launched
in 2020.
(1) Charity Registration No: 1150784.
(2) Charity Registration No: 1079626.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 63.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 37
SSuuppppoorrttiinngg oouurr ccuomstommuenritsi easnd communities continued
3.12 Supporting our communities through giving continued
Ongoing support for Ukraine
Disasters Emergency Committee Ivano-Frankivsk and Kam’yanets’-Podil’s’kyi. Colleagues
Our ongoing collaboration with DEC and the £10 million promoted the employment of refugees from Ukraine in
raised in 2022 for the Ukraine Humanitarian Appeal was Poland, provided a scholarship programme to 500 Ukrainian
recognised with an award for Major Project of the Year at students at Polish universities and a mentoring programme
the Better Society Awards 2023. to develop women Ukrainian leaders. 200 colleague
volunteers prepared gift bags for children, organised Polish
To mark one year from the appeal going live, DEC hosted language classes and raised money to support the
a thank you event for its supporters at our St Andrew healthcare of children.
Square office in Edinburgh. The event featured a photo
exhibition showcasing the ongoing work of the DEC and the Current Account opening
partner organisations funded in Ukraine and beyond. The NatWest Group made it easy for people arriving from
exhibition was also displayed at NatWest Group offices in Ukraine to open a bank account. Our Retail Banking team
Edinburgh and London to allow colleagues to see the impact created a bespoke journey that made it quicker and easier
of their generosity. to access bank accounts at scale. The bank opened more
than 20,000 accounts between the arrival of refugees in
Gogarburn Welcome Centre
March 2022 and 31 December 2023.
From April 2022 to June 2023, we made Gogarburn House
at our headquarters in Edinburgh available to the Scottish
Government and Edinburgh Council as a welcome centre
for people displaced from Ukraine. Over 10,000 Ukrainian
refugees passed through the Welcome Centre at ‘We wanted to thank NatWest Group for
Gogarburn, and through the efforts of NatWest Group
the use of their Gogarburn site as the
volunteers, many of them received a backpack of essential
goods to make their start to life in Scotland as comfortable welcome hub for displaced Ukrainians
as possible. arriving in Scotland. There is no doubt
Code First Girls this site has played a hugely important
In a first-of-its-kind in Scotland, NatWest Group partnered part in our initial response and in many
with Code First Girls and the Capital City Partnership
ways has been the flag ship of our Warm
to launch a bespoke recruitment initiative for displaced
Ukrainian women to build a career in coding and Scottish Welcome.’
software engineering.
Shirley-Anne Sommerville
Since its launch in March 2023, we have taught 53 women Scottish Government Cabinet Secretary for Social Justice
to code for free. Ten of the women who completed the
programme applied and were selected to complete an
intensive Code First Girls Degree programme, with the
potential to result in a permanent role as a software
engineer at our Edinburgh offices from early 2024.
Our colleague-led response in Poland
In 2023, our colleagues in Poland have continued to lead
several initiatives to support those impacted by the Ukraine
crisis. We cooperated with local NGOs in Ukraine to help
renovate three buildings and a dormitory, and to furnish
90 apartments and a collective centre in the cities of
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 38
Supporting our colleagues
3.13 Championing our colleagues’ potential Key ESG
topic
Delivering long-term, sustainable provides learning tools and resources that are helpful to allowing them to bring new skills into their team and to
them. 51% of our elective learning completions have focused develop new skills at pace. During 2023, 338 gigs were
performance means recognising that
on building critical skills for the future, and 73% of colleagues raised, providing potential opportunities for over 1,100
the skills our people need to succeed in have told us that learning they have completed has helped colleagues to develop different skills through a short-term
the future will be different from those of them develop in their role (up 11% from 2022). As a result, gig opportunity.
we were proud to achieve a bronze award for Learning
today. We are passionate about providing Our rapid reskilling programmes teach colleagues the skills
Culture of the Year at the 2023 Learning & Performance
they need to change career direction. Over several months
our colleagues with the capabilities they Institute (LPI) Awards.
of intensive learning and coaching, colleagues are taught
need to thrive. Cross-skilling, reskilling and upskilling the foundational skills they need for future-focused jobs.
Many colleagues who started the programme with no
We continue to offer personalised career recommendations
We have an ambition to become a skills-driven organisation experience in the skills they were learning have attained
including mentors, learning, jobs and gigs via the Career
where skills will drive learning, talent, recruitment and a new job and career path. As of 31 December 2023,
Hub in our human resources system Workday. Gigs are
mobility, supporting the bank’s longer-term strategic 320 colleagues have already joined our rapid reskilling
small, discrete pieces of work that colleagues can perform
workforce planning. We aim to upskill colleagues in programmes to build skills in software and data engineering,
alongside their day job and provide opportunities for
future-focused skills by giving all colleagues a minimum of testing automation, human-centred design and Microsoft
cross-skilling, reskilling and upskilling. Colleagues can post
two dedicated learning days every year to build the future Dynamics since 2022.
gigs to request support for short-term pieces of work,
skills they need. We have ambition to provide our colleagues
with 2.5 million hours by the end of 2026. Since launch in
May 2022, 319,000 hours have been booked so far (13% of
our 2026 ambition). This approach contributes to the bank’s
transformation plans and is embedded in our people
proposition. It also aligns to our values, culture plans, skills, Reskilling spotlight
and behaviour framework.
Rachelle Maconeghy, from our Payments Technology
Building skills with the NatWest Group team, was supported into a new role through one of
our reskill programmes. Rachelle had been with the
Academy
bank a little over five years, primarily in customer-
By the end of 2026, we want everyone to have skills that
facing roles.
prepare them for the future. The NatWest Group Academy
is where colleagues can find learning that best suits their She took part in a six-month rapid reskill programme
needs. All colleagues have access to a wide range of to train as a Full Stack Software Engineer, where she
learning opportunities from quick videos and podcasts to job learned the fundamentals of software engineering.
shadowing, short-term gigs and reskilling programmes. After the initial bootcamp element of the training,
Since launching the NatWest Group Academy in 2020, our Rachelle had the chance to put her learning into action
colleagues’ elective learning has increased by 49%. and work on a real-world application. For 24 weeks,
Rachelle and other reskillers worked through the
Our Learning for the Future programme focuses on
learning and created a fully working app.
ensuring our colleagues undertake the right learning to build
critical skills for the future. With the help of AI, colleagues After successfully completing the programme, Rachelle
have access to a personalised learner experience with joined our Orchestration team as a Software Engineer
recommendations to help them better understand what and is now creating new micro-services to replace
skills they need and how to build them. legacy systems to improve the customer journey. She
has become the Scrum Master for her team and has
A pulse survey in 2023 showed that 79% of colleagues
completed a nano degree in Amazon Web Services
know what skills they need to develop in their career (up 7%
Cloud DevOps.
from 2022). 81% of colleagues said that NatWest Group
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 39
Supporting our colleagues
3.13 Championing our colleagues’ potential continued
Cross-skilling, reskilling and upskilling We also offered career development options such as We are also developing the strategic leadership skills of a
153 colleagues joined in 2023, with four out of five Squiggly Careers and Personal Boardroom, as well as the targeted group of our most senior leaders in the One Bank
programmes launched complete by year end. 97% of Data Immersive Experience which was attended by more Leadership Team (OBLT). We have partnered with the
colleagues who have completed one of our reskilling than 500 colleagues and shortlisted for a Learning & Institute for Management Development (IMD) to create new
programmes have accepted permanent jobs in their Performance Institute Learning Impact Award. In addition: ways to realise our potential, instil a greater sense of
new field at NatWest Group. – Since 2022, 106 colleagues have been selected to ambition and build capability for being data-driven with
rapid experimentation.
In 2023, we continued our £1.5 million partnership with participate in Ivy House, an external leadership
the University of Edinburgh Centre for Business, Climate programme for junior colleagues. Scaling experimentation
Change and Sustainability to deliver tailored climate – Self and peer nomination resulted in a broader and more Building a culture of experimentation will help us to innovate
education to all NatWest Group colleagues. diverse applicant pool than any previous talent and simplify for our stakeholders through a data-led
programmes. This was a key design principle from the approach to decision-making. In 2023, we developed an
Read more about our approach to climate education and
outset, winning The Association for Business Psychology Experimentation Hub to inspire colleagues and provide
colleague engagement on page 34 of our 2023 Climate-related
‘Excellence in Inclusive Assessment Experiences’ award. access to learning and support resources, and a place to log
Disclosures Report.
The cohort finished their development journey in August and share their experiments.
Reskilling for the future 2023. We continue to evolve our talent strategy to identify Succession planning
and progress priority talent segments, and support
During 2023, the UK Mobility Hub has continued to evolve We continue to embed our One Bank talent cycle, including
colleagues to progress in their careers.
its offering, supporting colleagues going through transitional succession planning, reviewing value-creating and specialist
stages of their career and those impacted by change Junior Management Team roles, and talent profiling. To enhance our strategic
programmes. The aim is to drive internal mobility and The third bank-wide Junior Management Team was approach, in 2022 we identified the top c.200 value-creating
reskilling across NatWest Group, helping colleagues upskill, confirmed in April 2023. The JMT comprises colleagues at and specialist roles that are subject to succession planning
reskill and find alternative opportunities in future-focused Grade B and mirrors the NatWest Group Executive in addition to our CEO-1 and CEO-2 level roles. This
roles. The hub offers career-focused services including job Committee, bringing a fresh perspective and voice. enables us to proactively manage talent against these
matching, career coaching and guidance, and delivers our Members also deliver key strategic projects to broaden their critical roles which receive Board and NatWest Group
reskilling programmes. experience, exposure and connections, as well as attending Executive Committee oversight and attention.
In 2023, the UK Mobility Hub supported over 1,900 Group Executive Committee. We began running the Succession Council in 2021, which
colleagues with one or more services. The Net Promoter gives potential successors the opportunity to engage directly
Supporting our leaders’ development
Score® for our core five services – job matching support, with the NatWest Group CEO and other members of the
career coaching one-to-one, career guidance one-to-one, As at 31 December 2023, over 5,000 leaders have enrolled Executive Committee. This not only offers potential
career strategy and skills workshops, and career transition on the Thrive Leadership experience, giving them successors the chance to develop their profile and visibility,
workshops – was +79 and we successfully redeployed opportunities to learn and experiment to lead successfully. but also allows members of Executive Committee to
73% of the 390 colleagues who went through our Thrive Leadership helps our leaders to build their impact determine whether they have the ability and aspiration to
job matching service. and connection to our strategy. 93% of colleagues who reach Executive Committee level.
completed a Thrive module agreed that they are doing
Talent Academy and Ivy House something differently at work as a result. Over the past three years, 27 successors have attended the
Our Talent Academy launched in 2021 to identify, develop Succession Council, which is supported by development
Each Thrive Leadership theme is closely aligned to our
and support our highest potential colleagues from Grades A plans to accelerate succession readiness. Our most talented
refreshed values to help colleagues build skills that they can
to D to create deeper diverse talent pipelines. senior leaders are also given exposure through Board and
continuously apply and adapt. Thrive Leadership sits
Talent Connectivity sessions to discuss topics that are
Talent Academy members were offered an extensive and alongside the Leadership Fundamentals programme, a
shaping the direction of NatWest Group. Since 2020, 59
diverse range of development activities, with 120 exclusive blended learning offering for new and aspiring leaders to
leaders have had this opportunity. This proactive approach
events delivered focused on future skills and careers. help them grow or refresh their core leadership skills. 528
has enabled us to continue to build robust, diverse
Opportunities included career coaching, our Power MBA colleagues starting out as leaders enrolled on a new leader
succession plans during 2023. In H1 2023, we designed and
and Future Leader programmes, NatWest Group mentoring learning pathway in 2023, which covers the basics of people
launched a talent toolkit to embed the One Bank talent
schemes, and a Group Executive Committee speaker series. leadership centred around three key learning themes:
cycle deeper into the organisation, building strong talent
understanding myself as a leader, leading and managing
(1) Net Promoter®, NPS®, NPS Prism®, and the NPS-related emoticons are pipelines and increasing visibility.
performance, and leading and developing others.
registered trademarks of Bain & Company, Inc., NICE Systems, Inc., and Fred
Reichheld. Net Promoter ScoreSM and Net Promoter SystemSM are service
marks of Bain & Company, Inc., NICE Systems, Inc., and Fred Reichheld.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 40
Supporting our colleagues
3.13 Championing our colleagues’ potential continued
Inclusive recruitment We have formed a successful partnership Early career programme
To make sure our managers have the right with the Return Hub, a firm which specialises We are investing in building future talent capability through our early
skills to interview and provide a positive in recruitment of senior female candidates. career programmes. In 2023, we increased our intake across all
experience to every candidate, we have In 2023, we hired one new senior programmes, hiring over 1,400 graduates, interns and apprentices,
refreshed and re-launched our ‘Interviewing at CEO-3 woman through the programme including 158 apprentices from a lower-income socio-economic
NatWest’ training to help maintain a bias-free and interviewed 80 candidates across background.(1) Since 2022, we have also improved our gender and
recruitment process. This includes 90 minutes the organisation. ethnicity representation across our early careers programme intake.
of learning across two modules – ‘Interviewing We continue to utilise several flexible
For a full breakdown of our early career programme profiles, refer to our
Skills’ and ‘Championing Potential through our contingent labour channels to support delivery
2023 Non-Financial information datasheet.
interviews’ (which is inclusion-focused). The – retaining the ability to dial up or dial down at
learning is mandatory for all hiring managers pace remains important. We continue to focus
when they open a vacancy. on increasing and improving permanent 36th
During 2023, we have re-engaged and technical capability, reducing dependency on in the UK The Times 100 graduate employers
retrained new and existing Inclusive Interview contingent labour. league table
Ambassadors. This initiative involves We continue to focus on bringing diversity into
colleagues from across the business who have the organisation through our recruitment and
been trained to interview and support hiring in 2023 have achieved a strong gender and 22nd
managers to bring diversity of thought and ethnicity profile in the recruitment of our
challenge to our interview panels. We continue senior vacancies (see below). in the RateMyPlacement.co.uk Best 100
to use our Recruitment Yes Check to ensure
Student Employers 2023–2024
hiring managers consider inclusion throughout
the recruitment process.
51st
in the RateMyApprenticeship.co.uk Best 100
External Internal Apprenticeship Employers 2023–2024
48% 52%
of senior vacancies filled by external of senior vacancies filled by internal
candidates in 2023 candidates in 2023
48% 47%
of senior external hires in 2023 were female, of senior internal hires who started new
and 22% from an ethnic minority background roles in 2023 were female, and
8% from an ethnic minority background
(1) Through working with third-party organisations, eligibility is based on qualification for Free School Meals (FSM) in secondary education; residence in bottom 30% areas of the Index of Multiple Deprivation (IMD); and other personal disadvantage.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 41
Supporting our colleagues
3.14 Performance management, fair reward Key ESG
topic
and engagement
Our colleagues are the heart of our In 2023, we furthered our commitment to fair pay by
achieving accreditation as a Regional Living Wage Employer
business. By supporting them in what
from the Fair Wage Network and are now recognised as a Engaging with employee representatives
they do, we can champion their potential Global Living Wage Employer. This demonstrates how we Regular interactions with our employee
and collectively deliver on our strategy take steps, in every location we operate, to ensure our representatives, such as trade unions, elected
colleagues are paid enough to have a decent standard of employee bodies and works councils, are a vital means
and purpose.
living, including food, water, housing, education, healthcare, of transparency and engagement for us. We
Performance management transformation transport, clothing and other essential needs, such as frequently use these sessions to discuss developments
provision for unexpected events. and updates on the progress of our strategic priorities.
Performance management has the potential to be a key
We are committed to respecting our employees’ right
enabler of our culture and needs to continue to evolve to Read more about our Fair Pay charter.
of freedom of association across all our business and
mirror our strategic ambitions. We have been on a journey
Aligning remuneration to delivery of we share information about our employee
in 2023 to understand more about the impact of
representative bodies with our colleagues on our
performance management. ESG measures
intranet. Approximately 72% of our employees are
The process to determine variable pay for executive
In 2024, we will be rolling out our brand-new Performance covered by a collective agreement and/or employee
directors continues to reflect progress against our ESG
Management approach, Beyond. representative arrangements.
priorities, with goals and targets in the 2023 annual bonus
Read more in the Strategic Report in the NatWest Group plc scorecard for Executive Directors related to climate, In addition, through the NatWest Group-wide Colleague
2023 Annual Report and Accounts. enterprise and financial capability. Read page 51 for details Advisory Panel (CAP), colleagues can engage directly
of how executive remuneration aligns with our ESG with senior management and the Board on topics
Wider workforce remuneration priorities and the five principles of a purpose-led business, which are important to them, strengthening the voice
We are committed to paying our colleagues fairly, knowing as set out in the Blueprint for Better Business framework. of colleagues in the boardroom.
this helps them feel valued, respected and recognised for The CAP is chaired by Roisin Donnelly, one of
the work they do. Our Fair Pay Charter sets out our Read more about the performance assessment against the our non-executive directors. Membership is
commitment to pay all our colleagues competitively and 2023 ED performance measures and how our stakeholders refreshed regularly and comprises 28 colleagues
transparently, and our reward policy is updated to reflect shape our approach in the 2023 Directors’ Remuneration who are self-nominated or part of an employee
the current and future needs of the business. Report in our NatWest Group 2023 Annual Report representative body.
and Accounts.
We are proud to be accredited as a Living Wage Employer We design our selection process to ensure
by the Living Wage Foundation, demonstrating our membership is representative of the bank’s population,
commitment to paying wages that meet the true cost of considering business area, organisation level, location,
living in the UK. Our rates of pay continue to exceed the working pattern and employee-led networks.
Living Wage Foundation benchmarks. For our hubs outside Thereafter, the representatives for each area are
the UK, we continue to pay above the minimum and living selected at random to ensure that everyone has a
wage rates. chance to participate and to minimise the risk of bias
in the process.
The CAP met with representatives from the Board
twice in 2023 to discuss issues such as:
– executive and wider workforce remuneration
– ESG
– consumer duty
– human rights.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 42
Supporting our colleagues
3.15 Diversity, equity and inclusion Key ESG
topic
Creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace is integral to fulfilling our purpose. We want to give everyone who works here,
and every customer who comes into contact with us, the chance to succeed and the support to thrive.
Our progress and targets
Inclusive workplace Gender Ethnicity
Colleague sentiment on inclusion is measured via Our View, We continuously monitor and report against our diversity Introduced in 2018, our target is to have 14% of colleagues
our colleague engagement survey using questions such as targets. We have a target for full gender balance in CEO-3 from ethnic minority groups in CEO-4 and above positions
‘The business supports diversity and inclusion in the positions and above globally by the end of 2030. As at in the UK by end of 2025. As at 31 December 2023, of 84%
workplace (recognising and respecting the value of people’s 31 December 2023, we had 41% women in our top three of colleagues who disclosed their ethnicity, we have an
differences)‘. In 2023, 93% of colleagues told us that they layers,(*) an increase of 1 percentage point since 2022. This aggregate 13% of colleagues from ethnic minority groups in
believe NatWest Group promotes an inclusive culture. We represents an increase of 12 percentage points since our CEO-4 and above positions.(*) This represents a 5
are 10% above the Global Financial Services Norm (GFSN) targets were introduced in 2015.(1) percentage point increase since targets were introduced(1)
and 7% above the Global High Performance Norm (GHPN). We were included in the Times Top 50 Employers for and a 2 percentage point increase from 2022. Overall, of
those who disclose their ethnicity, 20% of all colleagues in
We ran a smaller pulse survey in May 2023, focused on Women list, a position we have held since 2006 and placed the UK identify as being from an ethnic minority group.
championing belonging, in which 95% of colleagues told us in the Bloomberg Global Gender Equality Index for the 7th
they feel comfortable being themselves at work (a 2 consecutive year. We were ranked 22nd in the FTSE Women We also have a target to have Black colleagues occupying
percentage point increase from last year). In 2023, for the Leaders Review and we were recognised as one of India’s 3% of CEO-5 and above UK roles by end of 2025. As at
first time, we asked our colleagues whether they thought Top 50 Best Workplaces for Women by the Great Place to 31 December 2023, we have 1.9% of colleagues who
our work environment is accepting of everyone; 94% of Work Institute. identify as Black in CEO-5 positions in the UK, which is a
colleagues agreed (+6 vs Global Financial Services Norm). 0.4 percentage point increase from 2022. Overall, of those
who disclose their ethnicity, 3% of colleagues in the UK
identify as Black.
We are committed to achieving our current targets, and
41%(*)
to ensuring that they evolve appropriately.
women in our CEO-3 and above global roles Read more in our 2023 Pay Gap Report, our Banking on Racial
as at 31 December 2023 Equality Report, the NatWest Group plc 2023 Annual
(2021: 38%, 2022: 40%) Report and Accounts, and our 2023 Non-financial
Information Datasheet.
13%(*)
colleagues from ethnic minority backgrounds in our
CEO-4 and above UK roles as at 31 December 2023
(2021: 11%, 2022: 11%)
1.9%
colleagues who identify as Black in the UK in CEO-5
and above roles as at 31 December 2023
(2021: 1.5%, 2022: 1.5%) (1) NatWest Group’s management structures were revised during 2023. For the
purpose of remuneration reporting, the representation targets were set based
on the management structures in place at the start of 2023 with performance
assessed at 31 December 2023.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 63.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 43
Supporting our colleagues
3.15 Diversity, equity and inclusion continued
Disability LGBT+
In June 2023, we sponsored and hosted the Our colleagues took to the streets in 2023
Business Disability Forums annual conference in across 11 cities in the UK, as well as in India
London. The conference was titled ‘Back to the and Poland, with our biggest in-person Pride
future – how should employers respond to the attendance to date.
“new normal”?’
Internally, we held multiple events for
We heard from a range of speakers and panellists colleagues, and we installed inclusive flag
who explored how employers can change the building wraps on our key branches and our
narrative, and find ways to attract, advance and Gogarburn, London, Manchester, Southend,
retain colleagues with disabilities and better support Birmingham and Belfast offices.
those with caring responsibilities.
NatWest India also launched a second cohort
Over 250 people attended with more than 450 of TRANSpire to promote employability skills
people viewing the discussions, speakers and panel for the transgender community. In 2023, the
events online. Attendees came from a range of programme onboarded 11 colleagues from the
Family-focused leave policies
sectors and throughout the day they were able to community for a fully-paid six-month job
We support families and carers, ensuring they can balance
showcase the great work they had underway. training programme, supported by our
family and work responsibilities in a way that supports their
Learning Academy and external training
mental and physical wellbeing. To enable this, we offer a broad
partners. The programme also introduced a
and competitive range of family-focused leave policies which
Project buddy and Rainbow buddy to ensure
reflect not just our legal obligations and local jurisdictional
that LGBT colleagues receive project-related
practices, but also our purpose. These policies include
and personal support throughout.
maternity, adoption, partner, shared parental, parental, carers,
and dependants’ leave. To ensure continuous improvement
Socio-economic diversity across our policy offering, we actively listen to colleagues
Neurodiversity through our colleague experience feedback forums, our
Our ambition is to create an inclusive environment
employee-led networks, our employee representatives and
where everyone has the same opportunity to We continue to support our neurodivergent
regular industry benchmarking.
progress their career, irrespective of their socio- colleagues by the introduction of a Neuro-
economic background. In 2023, for the first time, Developmental Pathway through our private As a result of this engagement, we launched our market-
we marked Social Mobility Day with a panel medical cover provided by Aviva. leading Partner Leave policies in January 2023 across our
discussion where executive sponsors, senior leaders operations in the UK, Offshore, Republic of Ireland, US, Poland,
The pathway is an expert-led service,
and the CEO of Progress Together discussed the India and Western Europe. The policy supports all eligible
providing initial assessment and diagnosis of
importance of this emerging part of diversity, equity employees with significantly more time away from work to help
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
and inclusion and how it intersects with other, their partner look after their new child, whether the new child
(ADHD), Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and
more established strands. Around 480 colleagues has arrived through birth, adoption or surrogacy. The policies
Tourette’s Syndrome.
participated, and it created an open forum to introduce significantly enhanced pay and leave for eligible
share personal stories, which has ignited The cover is designed to provide short-term fathers and partners to share the caring responsibilities. The
colleague interest. support following diagnosis, either through policy is open to both same-sex parents and heterosexual
adapted Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) parents. This champions the potential of both parents and
We have collected socio-economic background data
and/or prescription and stabilisation of promotes gender equality in the workplace.
from UK colleagues in our four previous Our View
medication for ADHD. All colleagues including
colleague engagement surveys which has provided As at 31 December 2023, over 1,200 colleagues have benefited
new joiners in Great Britain, Northern Ireland,
us with strong data to inform our next steps. We from the policy. We also recognise we have an important role in
Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man can elect
have also supplied anonymised data to the Bridge supporting employees with other types of caring responsibilities,
private medical cover and receive this benefit.
Group and Progress Together to help build a better which is why we updated our Carers’ Leave policy in 2022 to
understanding of the scale of the challenge within make it easier to request carers’ leave, which can now be
our industry with regards to social mobility. taken a day at a time instead of in one-week blocks.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 44
Supporting our colleagues
3.16 Supporting colleague wellbeing Key ESG
topic
Supporting colleagues with their wellbeing Menopause continues to be an important topic and one Supporting colleagues’ financial wellbeing
Our initiative, Live Well Being You, helps our colleagues we aim to fully support our colleagues with. Since its All our graduates and apprentices receive a financial
to bring the best of themselves to work, to thrive and be launch in 2022, 2,700 colleagues have accessed and wellbeing induction to help them understand how their pay
healthy. Guided by colleague feedback and data we interacted with Peppy Health for personal support. Our works, how to read their payslip and the essentials of
invest heavily in wellbeing support tools across four Let’s Talk Health campaign for 2023 focused on cancer, budgeting, debt management and saving for life after work.
wellbeing pillars (‘mind’, ‘body’, ‘life’ and ‘money’) cardiovascular health and diabetes, providing information We also have a financial wellbeing zone available, which
providing awareness, understanding and knowledge to to empower and build healthy habits to positively impact includes tailored guides and support for all colleagues and
live healthy lives. long-term health and focus on preventative strategies. their families across a range of financial wellbeing themes
During 2023 we continued our focus on supporting In 2023, we were confirmed as one of the top 10 UK including budgeting, planning for the future or accessing
colleagues’ mental health, endorsing the Mental Health at employers for working families and won Best Mental expert assistance. We frequently run financial spotlights,
Work Commitment, an external framework of standards Health Strategy at the Employee Benefits Awards and including Money Week in May, Pensions Week in September
promoting mental health in the workplace. In 2023, over Best Mental Wellbeing Initiative at This Can Happen and Financial Wellbeing Month in November.
1,500 colleagues have acted as Wellbeing Champions, Awards, recognising the work we do to support bereaved Our new starters are enrolled in our Retirement Savings
continuing to be upskilled in supporting colleagues. Our colleagues. CCLA Investment Management accredited Plan (RSP), with the minimum pension contribution of 8% of
colleagues value the support of our Employee Assistance NatWest Group as Tier 2 in their Corporate Mental fixed pay met by NatWest Group. We also encourage
Programme (EAP), with over 2,000 colleagues engaging Health Benchmark, moving up one tier. In addition, we employees to put away more money through our award-
with EAP and 1,200 with the self-help digital cognitive have been successful in obtaining the top tier of the winning ‘Save More Tomorrow’ campaign. This lets
behavioural therapy programme since launch in 2022. MindForward Alliance’s Thriving at Work Assessment. members automatically increase their RSP contributions
In September 2023, our colleague engagement survey, every April. In 2023, we have increased active participation
Driving innovation in wellbeing support
Our View, recorded our internal wellbeing index at of our UK colleagues in our flagship RSP to 89% (2022: 86%)
In March 2023, we launched our most comprehensive 83 percentage points, one percentage point above the and have put steps in place to increase this to 100%.
mental health learning programme, working with external
Global High Performance Norm (GHPN) and five Together with its investment managers, the trustees of
provider Steps Drama to provide a set of eight modules.
percentage points above the Global Financial Services NatWest Group’s pension plans take steps to actively
10,000 line managers completed a mandatory module
Norm (GFSN). This survey also noted a favourable score monitor and take account of environmental, social and
with almost 4,000 colleagues completing a total of
of 93 percentage points from colleagues who felt their governance issues when investing the assets.
18,000 modules.
manager supported and encouraged their wellbeing.
Our bank-wide Wellbeing Implementation Committee NatWest Group Benefits Hub
Read more about how we support colleagues with
cascades information across our business, as well as All our employees have access to benefits. Employees can
their wellbeing.
taking feedback to develop our wellbeing strategy. To access our flexible benefits programme online, choosing
inform our future wellbeing strategy, we continued to from pension, protection, healthcare and lifestyle options,
build our data sources to focus on specific areas and including offers and discounts. In 2023, we added a
deliver timely and relevant wellbeing interventions. neurodevelopmental pathway to our private medical cover,
providing access to diagnoses of autism, ADHD and
We extended our relationship with JAAQ (Just Ask A
Tourette’s Syndrome, and extended cover for dependants
Question), an interactive mental health and wellbeing
to the age of 25. See page 43 for more information.
social media platform. In 2023, nearly 20,000 questions
have been answered by JAAQ and we used data from
this platform to adopt burnout as our theme for World
Mental Health Day in October. Over 15,000 colleagues
took part in our physical activity challenge Go23 in
June 2023, logging almost 200,000 activities across
two weeks.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 45
Supporting our suppliers
3.17 Engaging our suppliers Key ESG
topic
global sustainability rating company EcoVadis, we continue We issued our 2023 FLAIR racial equality survey to supply
Supplier Charter to better understand and measure the performance of our chain colleagues in Q4 2023. The survey measures our
suppliers on policies and processes in place to protect progress towards a racially equitable culture within our own
In 2023, we updated the Supplier Charter to ensure
human rights. supply chain services operations. The 2023 results will be
it’s a useful and accessible guide to working as a
bench-marked against 2022.
supplier with NatWest Group. We have an ambition to In 2023, we worked to identify areas where we can
create a diverse and responsible supply chain, be fair enhance due diligence processes around modern slavery. Learning and development
and transparent with our suppliers and reach net Completion of a standalone modern slavery e-learning
To support our supply chain teams’ development, we have
zero by 2050 across our operational value chain. The module was made a mandatory requirement for supply
collated both technical and non-technical training. We have
charter sets out our progress to date and our ask of chain managers. The completion rate was 99%.
a number of sessions specifically designed to increase
our suppliers in relation to ethical business conduct,
real living wage, prompt payment, human rights and Measuring the sustainability of our supply chain knowledge across all elements of Supply Chain
sustainability, including climate change, modern slavery,
modern slavery, environmental sustainability and We continue to work with EcoVadis to conduct sustainability
diversity, equity and inclusion, and also our EcoVadis system
diversity, equity and inclusion. We’ve also added new assessments of our suppliers. As part of the suppliers’
to support supplier conversations.
guidance around digital accessibility, included some commitment to work with us, we ask that they register on
developments and provided learning opportunities the EcoVadis platform and complete an annual assessment. Paying our suppliers
for our suppliers and their wider value chain. The This provides suppliers with valuable insight into their own Our standard payment terms are 30 days, but we have
charter plays a key part in any tender or contract company’s strengths and areas of improvement across continued to maintain immediate payment on goods and
renewal process. environmental and social factors. A valid scorecard will be services on receipt, resulting in average days to pay in H1
seen favourably at tender and contract renewal.
as 7 days, and 6 days in H. We have also asked our
Read more about our Supplier Charter. 2
NatWest Group has 528 suppliers on EcoVadis, scoring suppliers through the Supplier Charter to do the same. This
an average of 57.6% against the Global EcoVadis average goes significantly beyond our commitment undertaken as a
of 45.9%. EcoVadis also conducted the annual sustainability signatory to the Government’s Prompt Payment Code,
assessment of NatWest Group, scoring 67% (increase which requires payment to be made in 60 days. Good
Achieving our net-zero ambitions together
from 62% in 2022) which is higher than the global Business Pays is a campaign to end late or slow payments
In 2022, we established a multi-year Supplier EcoVadis average of 52%. This ranks NatWest Group in to suppliers. In 2023, NatWest Group was recognised for
Decarbonisation Programme to support the delivery of the the 91st percentile. fast payment throughout our organisation, winning the Fast
2030 and 2050 carbon reduction ambitions related to our Payer Award for a third consecutive year. The table below
operational value chain. In 2023, the programme completed During H1 2023 we developed a standardised set of shows the average number of days taken to pay invoices by
a pilot with a small sample of suppliers to understand the questions to assess sustainability as part of the procurement NatWest Group’s key legal entities for 2023. This
most effective way to meet NatWest Group’s supply chain process. This enables suppliers who are committed to information was submitted for statutory reporting purposes
decarbonisation goals and embed our climate focus across sustainability, but do not use EcoVadis, to be evaluated. In under Payment Practices and Performance Reporting as
our supply chain. The pilot enabled us to agree on our H 2 2023, a small pilot to allocate a weighting criteria to required by the UK Government. Data is sourced from
engagement approach and communications strategy, as sustainability as part of the tender selection process was internal reporting systems without any manual intervention
well as achieve a clearer understanding of education undertaken. Our ambition is to include a weighting into all for statutory reporting.
requirements for suppliers and colleagues. tenders by the end of 2024.
H2 2023 H1 2023
Read more in our 2023 Climate-related Disclosures Report. Diversifying our supply chain Coutts & Company 5 5
We’ve focused on supporting small and medium-sized Lombard North Central plc 4 5
Human rights in our supply chain
enterprises to work with us, particularly businesses owned National Westminster Bank plc 6 7
We expect our suppliers to operate in an ethical, open and by people from minority backgrounds, or by women and
RBSI Invoice Finance Limited 6 4
transparent manner and uphold the same values and businesses that are socially or environmentally aware.
commitments that we have in relation to human rights. As part of our Supplier Charter, we encourage suppliers Royal Bank of Scotland plc 7 9
These requirements are set out in full in our Supplier to consider helping small-and medium-sized enterprises NatWest Markets UK 7 7
Charter and further information can be found in our Human and review their areas of focus for ethnic minority- NatWest Group plc (overall) 6 7
Rights Position Statement and Statement on Modern owned businesses.
Slavery and Human Trafficking. Through our work with
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 46
3.18 ESG ratings performance
We recognise the importance our investors place on ESG ratings in understanding our performance compared to industry
standards and peers. Throughout the year, we have continued to engage with a number of ESG rating agencies, supporting
our desire to provide stakeholders with the information they need to make informed decisions.
(1) The ESG ratings presented on this page are ratings that
MSCI Rating(5) S&P Global CSA Sustainalytics Principles for (i) have been updated in 2023/24 on NatWest Group (or its
subsidiaries), and (ii) we have determined provide meaningful
In December 2023, NatWest Group Score Risk Report(3) Responsible benchmarking against our peers and industry standards.
received a rating of AA (on a scale These ratings are unsolicited and not a sponsorship,
NatWest Group scored 51 (out of In October 2023, NatWest Group Investing(2)
of AAA-CCC) in the MSCI ESG endorsement, or promotion of NatWest Group by the
Ratings assessment. 100) in the 2023 S&P Global received an ESG Risk Rating of 19.8 Coutts outperformed the median relevant rating provider, nor a warranty. Currently, ESG
Corporate Sustainability Assessment. and was assessed by Morningstar rating providers are not regulated like credit rating agencies.
As of 31 December 2023, we Sustainalytics to be at Low Risk of peer group score in the latest Some ESG ratings providers only rely on public information
performed in the 87th quintile in the experiencing material financial UN-supported Principles for and outputs may be subject to data gaps. ESG rating
Responsible Investment (PRI) providers use different definitions, scope and methodologies
Banks Industry in the S&P Global impacts from ESG factors. In no
assessment. Our investment and leading to variation in ESG ratings for any given company.
Corporate Sustainability Assessment. event shall the ESG Disclosure stewardship policy, detailing our (2) The transparency report alongside the assessment report
Report be construed as investment can be located at https://www.coutts.com/wealth-
approach to integrating ESG
advice or expert opinion as defined management/specialist-planning-services/responsible-
by the applicable legislation. principles into our investment investing/disclosure-and-policies.html Source: UN PRI/Coutts
process, was given a score of 91%. (The peer group has been filtered to only include investment
managers within Europe, with an AUM band of
$10-49.99 billion who submitted and were eligible to report).
Medians for modules are calculated as the 50th percentile.
(3) Copyright © 2024 Morningstar Sustainalytics. All rights
CDP Climate Change Disclosure reserved. This publication contains information developed by
Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information
In the 2023 CDP Climate Change questionnaire we achieved a score of A NatWest Group has continued to and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third
(2022: B), against a Financial Services average of B. We continue to further proactively respond to a number of key party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for
integrate climate-related considerations within business processes and informational purposes only. They do not constitute an
support the transition to a net-zero economy. ESG surveys and sustainability assessments, endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment
advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely,
achieving above industry average in accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their use is
subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.
several benchmarks.(1) com/legal-disclaimers.
(4) FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE International Limited
and Frank Russell Company) confirms that NatWest Group
has been independently assessed according to the
FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements to
become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the
FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the
ISS ESG Rating Workforce EcoVadis FTSE4Good Index performance of companies demonstrating strong
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. The
As at January 2024 we have Disclosure NatWest Group scored 67 (out of Series(4) FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of market
retained our ESG rating of C+ and 100) in the 2023, placing us at the participants to create and assess responsible investment
Initiative (WDI) In 2023 we achieved a score of 4.5
Prime status with ISS ESG, scoring 91st percentile. We were awarded a funds and other products.
out of 5, placing us at the 94th
in the top performing organisations In 2023 we achieved a disclosure Silver medal as a recognition of their (5) The use by NatWest Group of any MSCI ESG Research LLC
in the industry. score of 59%, compared with an EcoVadis Rating in March 2023. percentile among banks. or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos,
trademarks, service marks or index names herein do not
industry average of 64%. We have constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or
been participating since WDI’s promotion of NatWest Group by MSCI. MSCI services and
inception in 2017. data are the property of MSCI or its information providers,
and are provided “as-is” and without warranty. MSCI names
and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 47
Serving our
customers and
communities
every day
Governance
We balance the interests of our stakeholders in our decision making.
Board monitoring of ESG risks and opportunities is supported by clear roles
and responsibilities across our governance structure.
4.1 Responsible governance
4.2 Aligning executive pay with ESG performance and our strategy
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 48
4.1 Responsible governance
How our corporate governance framework, roles and responsibilities support our strategy and ESG oversight
This chart is a simplified visual of the NatWest Group-level approach to ESG governance. Given its strategic importance, sustainability is embedded across the organisation and
We follow the highest standards of corporate governance, business integrity and we will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these arrangements considering the risks and
professionalism in all our activities. We take an integrated approach to governance, opportunities for the bank and our stakeholders. The NatWest Group plc Board, subsidiaries,
ensuring our corporate governance framework and processes support appropriate levels Board Committees, executive fora, cross-bank working groups and day-to-day decision-
of oversight of key ESG issues. making all have a role to play in the delivery of this integrated governance approach.
Board level governance
NatWest Group plc Board – Responsible for promoting the long-term sustainable success of NatWest Group and the setting of strategic (including ESG) aims.
The Board establishes NatWest Group’s purpose, values and strategy and leads the development of NatWest Group culture, overseeing NatWest Group progress and performance.
Group Audit Committee Group Sustainable Group Nominations and Group Board Risk Committee Group Performance and
Assists the Board in respect of internal Banking Committee(1) Governance Committee Provides oversight and advice to the Remuneration Committee
controls and financial reporting, considering Supports the Board in overseeing Monitors the governance arrangements Board in relation to current and potential Reviews and approves performance
financial and non-financial disclosures, and challenging actions taken by of NatWest Group and oversees the future risk exposures, risk profile and risk measures, including those relating to ESG
including those related to ESG matters. management to run NatWest Group as a review of Board skills and succession appetite, including climate risk. activity, performance assessment and
sustainable business, including challenging planning activity. remuneration arrangements.
ESG progress and monitoring commitments
to the UN Principles for Responsible Banking.
Executive governance
Group CEO – has overall accountability for delivery of sustainable business performance. Joint Senior Manager Function (SMF)(2) accountability for identifying and managing financial risks from climate change,
together with the Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The Group CEO’s accountabilities are delegated to the executive team.
Executive Disclosure Committee (EDC) Executive Risk Committee Climate Change Executive Steering Group Group Reputational Risk Committee
Chaired by and supporting the Group Chief Chaired by and supporting the Group CRO. Chaired by the Director, Strategy, Corporate Chaired by and supporting the Group CRO.
Financial Officer (CFO). Responsible for disclosure Responsible for considering material and/or Development & Sustainability, supporting the Reviews and recommends to the CRO approval
controls and procedures. Reviews all significant enterprise-wide risks and control matters SMFs and their delegates. Responsible for delivery of the Environmental, Social and Ethical Risk
disclosures and ensures these are accurate including reputational, strategic and climate risk. and implementation of Natwest Group’s climate Framework.
and complete, and fairly represent business ambitions, ensuring a one bank approach.
and financial conditions.
ESG Disclosure Steering Group Climate Working Groups
Operating under the Group CFO’s authority, the steering group Core, cross-bank working groups support delivery, risk management and opportunities-based
reviews and approves ESG-related external disclosures. activity including the Climate Risk Oversight Forum, Climate Infrastructure Group
and Climate Opportunities Group.
Cross-bank and business level working groups
Local, business-level arrangements and cross-bank working groups, such as the Emerging Environmental Issues Working Group, Human Rights Action Group, Financial Crime Executive Steering Group and Explore
Forum (Innovation and Partnerships), promote cross-bank collaboration and support executive members and their teams to explore and deliver on the ESG agenda.
(1) The Group Consumer Duty Board champion is a member.
(2) Senior Manager Function holder (Group CEO and Group CRO).
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 49
4.1 Responsible governance continued
How our corporate governance Examples of areas considered:
framework, roles and responsibilities
support our strategy and ESG oversight. Climate and People and Culture Human rights and
environmental Considered workforce of the modern slavery
Board monitoring and oversight of ESG risks and progress future; colleague engagement; 2022 Annual Modern Slavery
opportunities is supported by clear roles and responsibilities
Progress updates and and diversity. The results of the and Human Trafficking
across our governance structure, as well as robust
approval of the climate and nature colleague opinions surveys and statement and salient human
management reporting on our strategy and progress
risk appetite statement and culture measurement reports rights issues approved.
against targets.
measures. Spotlight on sustainable provided insights including
Board oversight in action transitions, including the strategy progress on evaluating ethics
During 2023, the Board and Board Committees have and opportunities available and embedding our values.
overseen progress towards achieving NatWest Group’s in this area.
strategic ambitions, and external sustainability commitments
to deliver sustainable long-term value for stakeholders.
Strategy sessions focused on the evolving competitive Customer Consumer Duty Technology, innovation,
landscape with a particular focus on digitalisation, machine Focus on approach to complaints, Board oversight of AI and data
learning and artificial intelligence and the impact that the customer relations, implementation of Spotlights on innovation
emergence of these technologies could have on the financial
customer vulnerability, the new Consumer and partnerships, payments,
services sector. A strategic approach to sustainable
financial capability, and Duty requirements, including artificial intelligence, automation
transitions and opportunities available to NatWest Group
cost of living actions. appointment of Consumer and progress updates on
were also discussed by the Board.
Duty Board Champion. Digital X strategy.
The Board and Board Committees received a range
of updates throughout the year covering ESG and
Financial crime Enterprise and impact Health and safety
sustainability related topics via reporting from the Group
CEO and the executive management team (see opposite). Group Money Laundering measurement Health and safety
It also received regular updates on progress against Reporting Officer’s Annual Report Spotlights on annual review
strategic targets, including climate, enterprise, learning and Financial crime updates. Enterprise and impact at Board.
and diversity, equity and inclusion, via a Board MI pack. measurement.
Read the Governance section of the NatWest Group plc 2023
Annual Report and Accounts for more detail on our Board
Board and Executive succession Colleague Advisory Panel Sustainable Banking
members, our Board operating rhythm and the range of topics
considered by the Board and its Committees. planning Appointed new Chair of Colleague Committee remit expanded
Structured succession planning Advisory Panel. Board discussions Sustainable Banking Committee
with three Director appointments enhanced by inclusion of the remit expanded to include
and three Executive Committee colleague voice. technology, innovation,
appointments announced. A data, and Consumer Duty.
session was held for potential
successors to the Executive
Committee to meet the Board.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 50
4.1 Responsible governance continued
Consumer Duty Social matters
Preparation for implementation of the new Consumer Duty (CD) During 2023, the Group Sustainable Banking Committee and the How the Board listens to and
requirements has been a key area of discussion at Board, Executive Board considered social matters via management reports on supply
engages with stakeholders
and management meetings in 2023. The Board received a training chain, modern slavery, human rights activity and our salient issues.
The directors engaged with key
session on CD to broaden awareness and understanding. It also The Board approved NatWest Group’s seventh Modern Slavery and
stakeholders throughout the year
appointed a new CD Board champion and enhanced the Human Trafficking Statement and our salient human rights issues.
on a range of topics helping to promote
responsibilities of the Board and Sustainable Banking Committee to See page 57 for more information.
their voices in the boardroom. Additional
ensure the Board appropriately discharges its obligations under the
The Board has had particular focus on the impacts of cost of living information on our approach to corporate
new CD requirements.
challenges and how the bank can best support its customers and governance, including stakeholder
Climate and broader environmental governance has received regular reporting on this. It has also considered engagement and decision-making,
ln line with the wider NatWest Group ESG governance model, NatWest Group’s approach to financial capability and customer can be found in the 2023 Annual Report
climate and environmental governance is integrated in existing vulnerability to improve outcomes for customers. Updates on the and Accounts (Section 172(1) Statement
senior governance structures, building on their areas of responsibility health and effectiveness of supplier relations and related supplier and Corporate Governance report).
topics are provided to the Board. NatWest Group continues to take
and expertise. Nature is a developing area of focus for NatWest
steps to embed ESG across the supply chain and the Supplier
Group and the Board has had oversight of various matters relating
Charter was refreshed to provide better support on the principles Investors
to nature throughout 2023, reflecting the growing importance of this
and expectations of our supply chain. Supply chain decarbonisation Regular updates provided to the
element of sustainability and its potential long-term impacts. It
pilots have also provided insights that will inform our 2024 approach. Board on investor activity and share
discussed strategic ambitions with management, and the
See page 45 for more information. price performance, as well as regular
opportunities available to the bank to take action in this area.
bilateral engagement by directors
Bespoke Board training on nature and biodiversity helped to build NatWest Group is a founding signatory of the PRB and the Group on specific topics during the year.
Sustainable Banking Committee has maintained oversight of PRB
directors’ knowledge of the impact on local communities and how
since its inception in 2019. All major milestones in the four-year PRB Customers
the bank might support efforts in this area. When reviewing the
journey were achieved by September 2023 following the Regular updates on customer
Board skills matrix for 2023, directors were invited to consider their
announcement of our ambition to help 10 million, per year, manage engagement activity and sentiment,
experience in this area. At an executive level, we started to expand
their financial wellbeing ambition by 2027, which is baselined and including CMA survey results
key roles to develop our capability and understanding, including
mapped to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. and Net Promoter Scores.
appointment of a Head of Nature within the Climate Centre of
Excellence. Within our Risk function we expanded a key role to Board skills, experience and training Colleagues
become the Head of Climate and Nature Risk. Reports from the Colleague
The Board is structured to ensure that the directors provide an
Advisory Panel (June and
The Board and the executive has overseen progress on delivery of appropriate combination of skills, experience and knowledge as
December 2023).
NatWest Group’s climate ambition, including updates on the Climate well as independence. The Board skills matrix is reviewed by the
transition plan. Further information on Board, Board Committee and Group Nominations and Governance Committee and approved Regulators
management-level responsibilities and governance activity on by the Board annually. The matrix reflects directors’ FCA and PRA attended Board
climate and environmental progress are included in more detail self-assessment of what they bring to Board discussions, in line meetings to present their firm
within the Governance chapter of the 2023 NatWest Group with pre-determined criteria aligned to current and future strategic evaluation letter and Periodic
Climate-related Disclosures Report. priorities. The self-assessment includes consideration of ESG Summary Meeting letter respectively.
knowledge and experience.
Information and cybersecurity Communities and Environment
Our Board training programme builds directors’ understanding and Nature and biodiversity Board training
Information and cybersecurity is overseen by the Board and its
capability in areas of strategic and regulatory interest. In 2023 delivered in partnership with WWF.
Committees. The CIO (Chief Information Officer) and CISO (Chief
training has been provided on financial crime, recovery and
Information Security Officer) presented an annual spotlight to the Suppliers
resolution planning, digital assets, nature (delivered by the World
Board Risk Committee, providing an update on the current threat Board engagement session with
Wide Fund for Nature), legal privilege, Consumer Duty (delivered by
landscape, progress of key activity, security testing, measuring suppliers to discuss a range of issues
Oxera), and capital management and deposits.
cyber risk and future focus. To support our cybersecurity risk including future opportunities for
management, there are information and cybersecurity policies in Read the Governance section of the NatWest Group plc 2023 Annual collaboration and respective
place which are reviewed at least annually against industry best Report and Accounts for more information on Board training and the sustainability strategies.
practice. NatWest Group educates its employees and customers on Board skills matrix.
cybersecurity threats and has an education programme which is
designed around the most relevant cybersecurity threats and incidents.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 51
4.2 Aligning executive pay with ESG performance
and our strategy
In addition to considering financial measures, the process to determine variable pay for executive The ESG-related performance goals and measures agreed for executive directors flow through
directors continues to reflect progress against our ESG priorities. This is overseen by the Group to the executive management team, adjusted as appropriate to reflect individual areas of
Performance and Remuneration Committee. The combined bonus scorecard for 2023 and the responsibility.
assessment of satisfactory performance under the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) aligns with the five In a number of areas our ESG ambitions stretch over several years. However, we are clear on the
principles of a purpose-led business, as set out in the Blueprint for Better Business (BfBB) framework. specific measures and targets set for each year and publish these for our stakeholders. The
measures and targets are reviewed annually to align with our latest strategic focus areas. For the
Read the NatWest Group Directors’ Remuneration Report in the NatWest Group plc 2023
wider workforce, the annual bonus pool is based on a balanced scorecard which includes climate,
Annual Report and Accounts for details of the assessment against the 2023 performance customer and people measures, broadly aligning with the position taken on ESG measures for our
measures for executive directors. executive directors and the executive management team.
A guardian for future generations Honest and fair with customers A good citizen A responsible and responsive Has a purpose which delivers
and suppliers employer long-term sustainable performance
Variable pay for Tackling climate change is core Putting customers at the heart We can only deliver on our We are determined to create A very high proportion
2023 to our strategy and climate of what we do will help people, purpose-led strategy by continuing a diverse workforce with an of pay is delivered in shares
performance measures are families and businesses to thrive. and deepening our relationships equitable and inclusive culture. over many years.
included in the bonus scorecard with all our stakeholders. There are
We target customer satisfaction This will also help us in serving This encourages executive
for executive directors. targets to encourage and grow
and the likelihood that customers our diverse range of customers and directors to think and act in the
businesses and to increase financial
The climate category accounts for will recommend our brands in communities in the ways they need. best long-term interests of all
capability, accounting for 5% of the
10% of the 2023 bonus scorecard. annual bonus decisions. our stakeholders.
2023 bonus scorecard. There are targets to increase
The measures are as follows:
A weighted Net Promoter Score the percentage of females and If risk performance is not at the
The Group Performance and
1. Climate and sustainable funding and Customer Touchpoint Rating colleagues from ethnic minority required level, annual bonus awards
Remuneration Committee has
and financing. accounts for 10% of the 2023 backgrounds in the top layers can be adjusted. RSP awards
discretion when making decisions
2. Implementation of the initial bonus scorecard. of the organisation. also take financial and risk
to ensure outcomes are fair
iteration of our Climate considerations into account
RSP awards are also assessed and appropriate. Together our purpose, culture and
transition plan. prior to vesting.
to ensure that performance people targets account for 10% of
Variable pay can also be recovered
has been sustainable before the 2023 bonus scorecard.
from individuals if we believe the
the vesting takes place.
payments are no longer justified.
ESG alignment
E S G
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 52
Serving our
customers and
communities
every day
Risk management
How we manage risk across key ESG matters.
5.1 How we do business
5.2 Environmental, social and ethical (ESE) risk management
5.3 Human rights
5.4 Tax
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 53
5.1 How we do business
Compliance Conflicts of interest
NatWest Group has a number of systems and mechanisms The NatWest Group conflicts of interest policy sets out how
We have four key tools to guide the way
in place to monitor and manage compliance with Our Code we will identify, prevent or appropriately manage actual and
we work together:
and policies. potential conflicts of interest that may arise through the
normal course of business. It applies to all employees,
Our Code – lays out the values and behaviours – Disciplinary actions in case of breach. Colleagues falling
1 contractors and agency staff and covers all franchises,
we expect from each other. short of the expected standards would be subject to
functions and legal entities within the Group.
internal disciplinary policies and procedures, which could
Our critical people capability behaviours – Where third–party suppliers support the services that we
2 result in dismissal and, where relevant, notification to the
set expectations on what behaviours provide to customers and clients, those suppliers are also
relevant authority.
are required from all of us. required to meet the relevant requirements. Below is a
– Employee performance appraisal and remuneration.
description of our conflicts of interest policy. We are required
Our policies – and supporting guidance NatWest Group’s remuneration policy supports the
3 to take all appropriate steps to identify and to prevent or
set out what we need to do to ensure business strategy and is designed to promote long-term
manage conflicts where:
legal and regulatory requirements are met. success. Conduct and behaviour – as well as risk
The YES Check – asks five simple questions management – are assessed as part of the appraisal – the interests of one part of NatWest Group conflict
4 to guide the thinking behind our decisions process for all employees. directly with those of another part or a customer
and actions. – If conduct falls short of the required standards, the – the interests of our employees conflict with those
accountability review process is used to assess how this of our customers
Read more on how the four key tools guide
should be reflected in pay outcomes for those individuals – the interests of two or more of our customers
the way we work together.
concerned. The remuneration policy seeks to ensure that compete with one another.
the remuneration arrangements for all colleagues reflect
Our conflicts of interest policy identifies, with reference to
the principles and standards prescribed by the Prudential
the activities and services we provide, the circumstances
Regulation Authority (PRA).
which constitute or may give rise to conflicts that involve a
– Regular mandatory training for all colleagues, including
risk of damage to the interests of one or more parts of
part-time colleagues and contractors, on the YES Check,
NatWest Group or of our customers. It also specifies the
Our Code, and conduct policies. A wide range of learning,
procedures and measures that we have put in place to
both technical and behavioural, is offered across the risk
prevent or manage such conflicts. To ensure that the
disciplines. This training can be mandatory, role-specific
conflicts of interest policy is implemented effectively we seek
or for personal development, and enables colleagues
to continually and proactively identify situations where
to develop the capabilities and confidence to manage
potential conflicts may exist, and govern those situations to
risk effectively.
ensure fair and proper outcomes. Conflicts of interest fora
Externally, we welcome feedback from regulators and across both the first and second line of defence also support
industry bodies, including on our reporting. meeting our conflicts of interest requirements. We also
employ a number of techniques to manage and mitigate
Oversight and monitoring conflicts, including: using physical and electronic information
The Board is responsible for receiving reports on and barriers to control the flow of information between different
reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management and parts of the Group; separate supervision of our employees
internal control systems of NatWest Group. who are involved in different business activities which
provide services to customers whose interests may conflict;
See the Governance section (pages 47 to 51) for more
a remuneration policy that avoids our employees being
information about the relevant oversight roles and
remunerated in a way that creates conflicts; maintaining
responsibilities of our Board and Board Committees.
and reviewing a conflicts register; and provision of internal
guidance and training to relevant employees to raise their
awareness of conflicts and how to deal with conflicts when
they arise.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 54
5.1 How we do business continued
Whistleblowing to speak up in their business, and 89% believe that if Key ESG
We want our colleagues, and all those we interact they raise concerns they will be handled appropriately. topic
with, to feel confident to raise concerns about In 2023, 419 reports were made compared to 355 in
Financial crime
wrongdoing or misconduct without fear of retaliation. 2022. Of 378 reports investigated during 2023, 45%
‘Speak Up’ is NatWest Group’s formal whistleblowing of all allegations they contained related to We understand that tackling financial crime is of fundamental
framework, which enables individuals to report discrimination and harassment (including sexual importance to society. Our approach to detecting and preventing
concerns in confidence (and anonymously if preferred) harassment, racial harassment, bullying and financial crime seeks to tackle the harm generated, to protect
through a secure reporting system operated by an managerial behaviour). Where reports were people, families and businesses, and to support compliance
independent third party. This includes all employees substantiated, appropriate action was taken to rectify with relevant financial crime legislation and regulation in the
and those acting on behalf of or representing NatWest the situation, following discussion with Human jurisdictions in which we operate. Our Financial Crime Statement
Group such as contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, Resources and the respective business unit. outlines our Financial Crime Programme, which covers
temporary staff, secondees, consultants, interns and Anti-trust and competition law anti-bribery and corruption, anti-tax evasion, anti-money laundering
volunteers. This also includes any persons formerly in and counter terrorist financing, sanctions and fraud.
these roles.
We are committed to competing fairly across all
Our financial crime framework is built on the following pillars:
Colleagues using Speak Up are protected both sectors in which we operate. We take a very firm
through our internal policies and by legislation, where approach to compliance with competition law. This – Policies and procedures: These support our business
applicable. The Group Audit Committee monitors the means that all employees worldwide must understand to prevent, detect and address financial crime that may
effectiveness of NatWest Group’s whistleblowing their competition law obligations, however junior or arise as a result of our operations, products, services, our customers
process, with its chair acting as whistleblowers’ senior they may be, and whatever the nature of their and suppliers.
champion. It receives regular updates on the volume role. Under the NatWest Group competition policy, all – Regular risk assessments: These support the bank to continue to
of whistleblowing reports and any common themes. colleagues must complete annual competition law strengthen procedures in line with our inherent risks.
All colleagues receive annual awareness training on training to ensure they understand their obligations – Independent audit: This continuously assesses the effectiveness
whistleblowing and how to raise concerns. More and further specialist advice and training are also of our controls.
detailed targeted training is also provided to specialist provided by our in-house competition lawyers on an – Customers: We seek to know our customers by undertaking risk
teams involved in the management and investigation ongoing basis. based due diligence and monitoring.
of whistleblowing reports. Advocacy and political involvement – Process and technology: We aim to have high-quality detection
There is no definitive list of what can be reported and prevention systems and controls across the bank to manage
through Speak Up – we want to know of any NatWest Group has a long-standing policy of not the risks presented.
concerns colleagues have about wrongdoing or making political donations and we have no political – Culture and colleagues: We aim to have a culture of financial crime
misconduct that affects NatWest Group, its customers, association to political parties. As a financial services detection and prevention among all our colleagues,
employees, shareholders or the general public. organisation, we have relationships at a national and with deep expertise in all specialist roles. We undertake annual
However, examples of what can be reported through local level with most of the established political parties, colleague training, as well as colleague awareness activity
Speak Up are documented in the Speak Up policy. who are treated in the same way as other so that everyone understands the role that they play in tackling
The Speak Up policy sets out our commitment to stakeholders. As a matter of good business practice, financial crime. We also undertake customer awareness to help
protect anyone raising a genuine concern, even if the we keep in close touch with governments and ensure them protect themselves from financial crime. In addition in 2023,
concern raised is considered to be unsubstantiated that whenever issues arise which may affect the all colleagues in the bank had a performance objective to prevent
(not proven) after investigation. operation of our business and the interests of our and detect financial crime.
customers or shareholders we discuss these with the – Partnership working: We recognise that we cannot tackle financial
All whistleblowing concerns are investigated, as
authorities concerned. crime in isolation. However, we strive to be an industry leader, and
appropriate. Where concerns are substantiated,
we work with partners including industry bodies, law enforcement,
recommendations are made for remedial action, Our employee conduct policy states that employees
regulators and government to tackle financial crime.
which can include changes to processes and controls involved in local or national politics should ensure that
as well as disciplinary action. Furthermore, the their political activities are kept entirely separate from – Governance: We have financial crime governance in place
harassment, victimisation or discrimination of anyone their duties and that NatWest Group funds and to enable the oversight of our financial crime framework.
raising a genuine concern will be viewed as a resources are not used for political purposes. We are NatWest Group seeks to detect and prevent financial crime
disciplinary matter. a member of several trade associations, for example and fraud to protect the bank, people, families, and businesses.
UK Finance. Where appropriate, we participate in
The Group strives to avoid breaches in financial crime and
In 2023, 97% of those completing our colleague
government consultations and policy discussions to
fraud legislation.
engagement survey, Our View, agreed that they know
share our industry expertise and perspective.
how to raise concerns about wrongdoing in their Read more on detecting and preventing financial crime
business. 91% of colleagues also agreed it was safe on our Financial Crime web page and in our Financial
Crime Statement.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 55
5.2 Environmental, social and ethical (ESE) risk management
Environmental, social and ethical (ESE) using harmful child labour, forced labour, modern slavery ESE Risk Framework oversight and effectiveness is provided
or human trafficking. by the Risk Function and reported annually to the Group
risk management
Reputational Risk Committee. An overview of the ESE risk
We also have an ESE risk concerns process which seeks
We recognise that the activities of our customers can have framework is provided on page 56.
to ensure that ESE risk is identified and managed for
ESE impacts – including polluting activities and the potential
customers and transactions in sectors which are not In early 2023, we announced that we will not provide
for human rights infringements. The ESE Risk Framework
covered by RAC, or where there may be multiple issues reserve based lending specifically for the purpose
forms part of NatWest Group’s overall Reputational Risk
or complexities. Examples might include major or sustained of financing oil and gas exploration, extraction and
policy and requires enhanced due diligence to be performed
environmental, human rights, modern slavery issues in production for new customers, and, after the 31 December
for certain customer relationships, transactions, activities
sectors such as agriculture and food, chemicals, tobacco, 2025 we will not renew, refinance or extend existing
and projects.
pharmaceuticals and waste management, or companies reserve based lending used specifically for the purpose of
To manage these risks, we have developed Risk associated with controversial projects. financing oil and gas exploration, extraction and production.
Acceptance Criteria (RAC) for nine sectors which present
All customers who fall into the ‘restricted’ ESE risk category During 2023 we also developed a new standalone ESE
heightened ESE risk. These define the level of ESE risk the
(see page 56) are subject to enhanced due diligence. Human Rights RAC that covers a range of sectors which
bank is prepared to accept. The ESE Risk Framework
This includes ensuring that companies have relevant policies have heightened risk specifically around human rights and
applies to all legal entities within NatWest Group for the
and procedures to manage ESE risks and the capacity to modern slavery. This was one of our aims for 2023, as set
onboarding of non-personal customers (including, but not
manage these risks through good governance and control. out in our 2022 Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking
limited to, for the purposes of providing lending or loan
It also assesses the companies’ external ESE track record. Statement.
underwriting services). Customers are assessed at
All restricted customer relationships are approved by
onboarding and during the lifecycle of their relationship. In 2023, we undertook 520 customer ESE assessments
a business segment or legal entity accountable executive
Some of the activities which we prohibit include: provision (2022: 535), and 79 trade-related transactions involving
and where material, may be escalated to the Group
of sexual entertainment venues, the manufacture, sale, defence equipment (2022: 126). 1
Reputational Risk Committee. The Group Reputational Risk
trade, servicing or stockpiling of Highly Controversial Committee may review the appropriateness of transaction, Read more on our ESE and reput5a5tiona 8 l r 1 is 9 k m27anagement and
Weapons, establishing new coal relationships and customers
customer or product specific cases, or specific matters sector RAC.
which could have bank-wide reputational risk implications.
75
190
45
Customers assessed in 2023 by category: 3 30 7 Customers assessed in 2023 by sector: 15
1
85
3 30 7 8 19
55 27 Adult entertainment: 19
Animal welfare: 27
Defence: 190
75
Forestries, fisheries and agribusiness: 85
480 Generic: 15
190
Mining & metals: 45
High: 7 45
Oil and gas: 75
Normal: 480
15 Power generation: 55
Prohibited: 3 Private security companies: 1
480
Sensitive: 30 85 Gambling: 8
High: 7
Adult entertainment: 19
Normal: 480
Animal welfare: 27
Prohibited: 3
Defence: 190
Sensitive: 30
Forestries, fisheries and agribusiness: 85
Generic: 15
Mining & metals: 45
Oil and gas: 75
Power generation: 55
Private security companies: 1
Gambling: 8
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 56
5.2 Environmental, social and ethical (ESE) risk management continued
ESE risk framework
At NatWest Group, we have ten ESE sector Risk Initial screening is completed by the relationship Where the risk rating is restricted, a specialist
Acceptance Criteria (RAC) for sectors (nine) or management team and an ESE risk rating team conducts enhanced due diligence on
topics (one) that present heightened ESE risk. is assigned. the customer relationship or transaction. This
Customers or trade transactions that fall within a includes reviewing relevant policies and
sector RAC, or any other customer where processes in place to manage ESE risk,
associated ESE risk concerns have been identified, reviewing governance processes to ensure
are subject to enhanced due diligence. that there is accountability for ESE issues at
the right level and using external ESE track
records to ensure that these are effective.
Confirmed ESE risk rating:
Normal
Customer relationship or transaction subject to due
diligence. Customers undertaking ‘normal’ ESE
Risk Acceptance Criteria activities are assessed every five years, or more Normal
frequently if an ESE risk concern specific to the
customer is identified.
Restricted
Customer relationship or transaction
Adult entertainment approval subject to assessment by an
Accountable Executive. The customer
Restricted relationship is assessed every one or
Animal welfare
two years, or more frequently if an
Customers engaged in restricted activities undergo
ESE risk concern specific to the
enhanced due diligence by a specialist team.
customer is identified.
Defence
Mining and metals
Prohibited
Prohibited
Oil and gas
We do not support individual transactions or
customers with activities which are prohibited by
Power generation sector RAC.
A specialist risk team is responsible for
Gambling developing and maintaining our ESE Risk
Framework and assisting the business and
support functions on its implementation and
Forestry, fisheries and agribusiness oversight. Our suite of sector ESE RAC is
Customer onboarding or transaction reviewed and updated regularly to ensure it
Private security companies processing stopped. reflects the evolving risk landscape.
Human rights
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 57
5.3 Human rights Key ESG
topic
Respecting human rights In 2023, NatWest Group continued to be a member of
At NatWest Group, we understand that businesses have an the UN Global Compact’s UK Modern Slavery Working
important role to play in promoting respect for human rights Group and participated in the Modern Slavery Act Salient human rights issues
and we continue our long-term, ongoing work to align our Statement Peer Review Programme, a forum where In December 2023, we identified six salient human
approach to internationally recognised human rights businesses can discuss the challenges of producing a rights issues which have the most potential to occur
standards including the United Nations Guiding Principles Modern Slavery Act Statement. We also joined the if action is not taken to prevent or address them.
(UNGPs) on Business and Human Rights, but we know that Unseen Business Hub community, which provides us These are framed around five roles: Employer,
there is more we could be doing. with expert webinars and updates, practical resources Procurer, Retail Banker, Investor and Commercial
and access to helpline trends and analysis on Banker. The salient human rights issues are:
We work and engage with stakeholders around our high-risk sectors.
responsibilities to respect human rights. We remain – data protection and privacy
members of the Thun Group and UN Global Compact and Read our 2022 Statement on Modern Slavery and – labour rights issues and unjust working conditions
we continue to adhere to reporting requirements under Human Trafficking. – discrimination and lack of support for the vulnerable
a range of initiatives, including the Equator Principles.
In 2023, we continued to raise awareness of modern – contribution to climate change
Throughout 2023, we participated in several indices and
slavery and human trafficking with colleagues. To – land rights
benchmarks which helped to inform our activity and identify
coincide with Anti-Slavery Day in October, we published – conflict and security.
opportunities to improve and evolve our approach.
editorial content including an interview with the CEO of
The UNGPs Reporting Framework defines salient
Human Rights Action Group anti-slavery charity Unseen. During the week-long
human rights issues as those rights that are at risk of
In 2023, we refreshed and renamed the Human Rights campaign we presented a series of webinars exploring the most severe negative impact through a company’s
Steering Group to the Human Rights Action Group (HRAG) four different themes of modern slavery, through real activities or business relationships. Our initial
with the aim of accelerating progress against priority actions case studies. Unseen also hosted a ‘lunch and learn’ identification of salient human rights issues is an
to develop our approach to human rights. The HRAG event which highlighted the realities of modern slavery, essential and first step in human rights due diligence
continues to coordinate our activities, and to make the impact on victims and examined the role that the in line with the UNGPs. It is intended to serve a dual
recommendations to the NatWest Group Executive financial services sector can play in tackling the issue. purpose – enabling us to understand which actual and
Committee, Sustainable Banking Committee and Board to For the fifth year, our NatWest Markets colleagues potential human rights impacts we should address
develop and strengthen our approach. supported the TRIBE Freedom Foundation in 2023 and with the greatest urgency; and providing a principled
Read our 2022 Human Rights Position Statement. raised over £18,700 to assist in anti-slavery projects, basis to identify those human rights that are relevant
which will contribute towards the long-term support for for disclosure. We will continue to review our salient
survivors and prevention of modern slavery. human rights issues as our business, value chain and
Tackling modern slavery and human trafficking
operating environment evolve.
ESE Human Rights RAC
We recognise our obligation to comply with all applicable
legislation, including the UK Modern Slavery Act. We publish During 2023, we developed a standalone ESE Human Read more about our salient human rights issues.
our annual Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Rights RAC which applies requirements around human
Statement, which sets out the steps that we are taking to rights due diligence to additional sectors with heightened
identify and address modern slavery and human trafficking human rights risk not already covered by an ESE RAC.
within our own operations and throughout our value chain. It is in addition to checks undertaken as part of our Global Living Wage Employer
customer due diligence processes and is also intended
NatWest Group was the highest scoring bank in the 2023 In 2023, we furthered our commitment to fair pay by
to help us capture data over time on concerns mapped
CCLA Modern Slavery UK Benchmark, achieving a Tier 2 achieving accreditation as a Regional Living Wage
to our salient human rights issues to ensure we better
position of evolving good practice. Employer from the Fair Wage Network and are now
understand and address human rights risks.
recognised as a Global Living Wage Employer. Becoming
While this means there is room for improvement, we were
We intend to test, evolve and adapt the scope of our a Global Living Wage Employer was one of our aims for
recognised for providing evidence of human rights due
ESE Human Rights RAC to continually improve its 2023 as set out in the 2022 Modern Slavery and Human
diligence practices on modern slavery informed by experts
effectiveness. Further information on ESE Risk can be Trafficking Statement.
and/or civil society partners and activity in the “find it, fix it
found on pages 55 to 56.
and prevent it” categories. Read our Fair Pay Charter.
Read the 2023 CCLA Modern Slavery UK Benchmark Report.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 58
5.4 Tax payments and
responsibilities
We have a responsibility to pay the right taxpayers in terms of UK taxes paid in the
amount of tax in the jurisdictions in which PwC 2023 Total Tax Contribution survey 2023 total UK tax contribution
we operate and follow the spirit as well as of The 100 Group, which referenced our
the letter of the law. These principles are tax payments made in 2022. The 100 £2.91bn
central to our approach to tax and are Group represents members of the FTSE
underpinned by our Tax Strategy which 100 along with several large private
has been approved by the NatWest Group companies in the UK.
Board of Directors.
In addition to the taxes we pay, we also
We have a low appetite for tax risk. collect and administer taxes and social
However, as one of the largest banks security contributions on behalf of
UK tax UK tax
in the UK, we are exposed to tax risk as governments. During 2023, we collected a
collected paid
part of our day-to-day business. Through total of £0.93 billion of tax on behalf of the
£0.93bn £1.98bn
our internal risk management framework, UK Government, primarily in relation to
we have put in place operational employee income tax and National Investors
procedures and processes to reduce the Insurance contributions (NIC).
level of tax risk arising from our operations £954m
We do not offer products to our customers
as far as reasonably possible and help us to £783m employee corporate tax
that might assist them in avoiding tax. We
fulfil our global tax responsibilities. We seek also comply with global initiatives to income tax and NIC Employees
to proactively identify, assess, manage and improve tax transparency. £301m employer
monitor tax risks arising from changes
payroll taxes
in, for example, tax legislation or practice, We have zero tolerance for knowingly £147m net VAT and
Customers
our business or the wider economic facilitating tax evasion. Tax evasion is a other taxes collected
£190m bank levy
environment, through activities such criminal activity and our approach to
and other taxes paid
as regular horizon scanning. anti-tax evasion can be found in our
Financial Crime Statement.
Our tax payments are used by Suppliers
£536m
governments to benefit wider society, for Read more about our approach to tax and
irrecoverable VAT
example, through investment in education, management of tax risk in our Tax Strategy.
health services and infrastructure projects.
During 2023, we paid a total of £1.98 billion
of tax in the UK (2022: £2.17 billion). We
were ranked as one of the highest
Tax authority
NatWest Group Public spending
is committed to the responsible management of our worldwide
tax affairs including a compliant approach to tax law in a
transparent manner.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 59
5.4 Tax payments and responsibilities continued
Global tax contribution and operations in low As a UK headquartered group, the UK-controlled foreign
tax jurisdictions companies rules subject the profits of subsidiaries in low-tax
jurisdictions to UK tax where they do not fall within the
Over recent years we have substantially reduced our
exemptions legislated by the UK Government. Details of our
operations overseas and have increasingly focused on our
subsidiaries and operations overseas are provided in our
banking activities in the UK. We have a presence in the
2023 Annual Report and Accounts (refer to note 12 of During 2023,
Republic of Ireland via our regulated subsidiary Ulster Bank
Ireland DAC. On 19 February 2021, we announced that we parent company accounts). All intra-group transactions are 89%
required to be priced on an ‘arm’s length’ basis, reflecting
would begin a phased withdrawal from the Republic of
where value is created and in line with internationally of our total taxes were paid in the UK.
Ireland and during 2023, this phased withdrawal continued
accepted transfer pricing standards and local tax laws.
to progress.
We support global initiatives aimed at making the global tax
We also have a commercial presence in Jersey, Guernsey,
system more effective, for example the ‘Global Anti-Base
Isle of Man, Gibraltar and Luxembourg via RBS International.
Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two)’ published by the OECD
RBS International is a well-established business, run through
in December 2021 and legislated in the UK during
locally regulated subsidiaries and branches. RBS
2023. Details of the expected impact of this initiative
International offers a wide range of banking activities and is Over the last
are disclosed in note 7 of our 2023 Annual Report
a significant local employer. As noted in our tax strategy
and Accounts. five years,
document, we do not use low-tax jurisdictions with the main
aim of reducing tax liabilities. Read more about our global corporate income tax payments
we have paid
and our country-by-country reports.
£8.3bn
in UK taxes to the UK Government.
£1.98 billion of tax was £2.22 billion of tax was Analysis of tax paid
We are a significant employer in the
paid by NatWest Group in paid by NatWest Group during 2023 by UK and in 2023 paid
the UK during 2023 globally during 2023 geographical region £301m
in employer NIC and collected
£ million £ million £ million £52 £6
£75 £83
£783m
£301 £363 £184
in employee pay as you earn and NIC.
£115 £954 £119 £1,033
£536 £625
£1,981 In 2023, we contributed
£2.9bn
Corporate income tax: £954 million Corporate income tax: £1,033 million UK: £1,981 million
Irrecoverable VAT/sales tax: £536 million Irrecoverable VAT/sales tax: £625 million EMEA: £184 million of UK taxes through taxes paid and
collected which will go towards funding
Bank levy: £115 million Bank levy: £119 million Asia-Pacific: £52 million
valuable public services.
Employer payroll taxes: £301 million Employer payroll taxes: £363 million Americas: £6 million
Business rates/other taxes: £75 million Business rates/other taxes: £83 million
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 60
Serving our
customers and
communities
every day
Cautionary statements
6.1 Important information
6.2 Other important information, including our assurance approach
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 61
6.1 Important information
Cautions about this report between reporting periods within organisations as Therefore, there is little certainty, and no assurance or
This report has been prepared by NatWest Group plc methodologies develop. representation is given that users of this report must not
(together with its subsidiaries the ‘NatWest Group’) for Climate and sustainability-related reporting in our industry assume that NatWest Group’s reporting or description of
information and reference purposes only; it is intended to is in its infancy compared to financial reporting. Although activities, products or assets will meet their present or
provide non-exhaustive, indicative and general information internationally recognised or accepted climate and future expectations or requirements for describing or
only and does not purport to be comprehensive; and it does sustainability-related reporting principles and standards are classifying funding and financing activities as ‘green’, ‘social’,
not provide any form of legal, tax, investment, accounting, emerging, there is a lack of commonly accepted or ‘sustainable’ or attributing similar labels (unless a
financial or other advice. sustainability-related reporting practices for NatWest Group definition or standard is specified in this report). We expect
policies, regulatory requirements, standards, and definitions
to follow or align to. Accordingly, climate and sustainability-
Caution about the information this report is to be developed and continuously evolve over time.
related measures between organisations in our industry and
based on.
between reporting periods within organisations may be To support transparency about our process for reporting
This report is prepared based on reviews and analysis of non-comparable as reporting principles and standards this data and measures, NatWest Group developed a
(i) our data derived from management systems that are not develop. Sustainability Basis of Reporting document for 2023, which
necessarily part of the internal controls and procedures over details our approach, scope, and controls for selected ESG
financial reporting used for the preparation of our IFRS The further development of accounting and/or reporting measures. It should be read together with this report and is
financial statements; and (ii) financial, statistical and other standards could materially impact the performance metrics, available at natwestgroup.com.
information and data published by third parties. data points, ambitions and targets contained in this report
and the reader may therefore not be able to compare Caution about forward-looking statements in
Caution about data, metrics and performance metrics, data points, ambitions or targets from this report.
methodologies. one reporting period to another, on a direct like-for-like
Certain sections in this report contain forward-looking
basis. NatWest Group plans to continue to review available
The information in this report includes non-financial metrics, statements, such as aims, ambitions, estimates, forecasts,
data sources and enhance its methodology and processes
estimates or other information that are subject to significant plans, projections and targets and other metrics, including
to improve the robustness of its climate and sustainability-
measurement uncertainties, which may include the but not limited to:
related reporting over time aligned with recognised industry
methodology, collection and verification of data, various
estimates and assumptions, and/or underlying data that developments. – NatWest Group’s aim to at least halve the climate impact
is obtained from third parties, some of which cannot be Caution about the lack of definitions or of its financing activity by 2030 and align with the 2015
independently verified. Paris Agreement;
standards.
– NatWest Group’ ambition to become net zero by 2050
The preparation of certain information in this report requires There are an increasing number of initiatives focused on across its financed emissions, assets under management
the application of a number of key judgments, assumptions developing standardised definitions and criteria for ‘green’, and operational value chain;
and estimates, including with respect to the classification ‘social’ and ‘sustainable’ assets and liabilities, and labelling – NatWest Group’s target to provide £100 billion climate
of climate and sustainable funding and financing activities. of ‘green’, ‘social’ and ‘sustainable’ financial products and and sustainable funding and financing between
The reported measures in this report reflect good faith services. 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025;
judgments, assumptions and estimates at the given point in
time. There is a risk that these judgments, assumptions or To date, there is currently no single globally recognised or – NatWest Group’s intention not to provide reserve-based
estimates may subsequently prove to be incorrect and/or accepted, consistent and comparable set of definitions or lending specifically for the purpose of financing oil and gas
may need to be restated or changed. standards (legal, regulatory or otherwise) of, nor widespread exploration, extraction and production for new
cross-market consensus customers, and, after the 31 December 2025 not to
The quality of the data relied upon for the purposes of renew, refinance or extend existing reserve-based
climate and sustainability-related reporting is often not yet i. as to what constitutes, a ‘green’, ‘social’ or ‘sustainable’ lending used specifically for the purpose of financing oil
of the same standard as more traditional financial reporting, or similarly-labelled activity, product or asset; or and gas exploration, extraction and production;
and the systems and controls that support non-financial ii. as to what precise attributes are required for a particular
reporting are generally considerably less sophisticated than activity, product or asset to be defined as ‘green’, ‘social’
the systems and controls for financial reporting and also or ‘sustainable’ or having equivalent-labelled activity,
include manual processes. This may result in non- product or asset.
comparable information between organisations and
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 62
6.1 Important information continued
– NatWest Group’s intention not to provide reserve-based There are many significant uncertainties, assumptions, See also, Section 7.1 (‘Caution about climate metrics and
lending specifically for the purpose of financing oil and judgements, opinions, estimates, forecasts and statements data required for climate reporting’) and Section 7.2
gas exploration, extraction and production for new made of future expectations underlying these forward- (‘Climate-related and other forward-looking statements and
customers, and, after the 31 December 2025 not to looking statements which could cause actual results, metrics’) of the 2023 NatWest Group’s Climate-related
renew, refinance or extend existing reserve-based performance, outcomes or events to differ materially from Disclosures Report.
lending used specifically for the purpose of financing oil those expressed or implied in these forward-looking such
Accordingly, undue reliance should not be
and gas exploration, extraction and production; statements.
placed on these statements.
– NatWest Group’s aim to provide an additional £1 billion
The most important of these uncertainties and factors that
of lending to the UK manufacturing sector by the end of Furthermore, changing national and international standards,
could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially
2030, aiming to stimulate growth and help manufacturers industry and scientific practices, regulatory requirements,
from those expressed or implied in forward-looking
invest in cleaner, more efficient forms of energy government policy and market expectations regarding
statements are summarised in the ‘Risk Factors’ included on
generation and use; climate change and other sustainability-related matters,
pages 417 to 441 of the NatWest Group 2023 Annual
– NatWest Group’s ambition to remove barriers to Report and Accounts (with special regard to the risk factors which remain under continuous development, are subject to
enterprise and provide businesses in the UK with the in relation to ‘Climate and sustainability-related risks’ that different interpretations. There can be no assurance that
support they need to grow; describe several particular uncertainties, climate and these standards, practices, requirements and expectations
will not be interpreted differently across different regulators
– NatWest Group’s ambition to help more people start, run sustainability-related risks to which NatWest Group is
in different jurisdictions, or to what was NatWest Group’s
and grow their own business than ever before, helping exposed and which may be amended from time to time).
understanding when defining its climate and sustainability-
them achieve success and ultimately grow and contribute
Other uncertainties and factors include, without limitation: related ambitions and targets or change in a manner that
to a strong national economy;
substantially increases the cost or effort for NatWest Group
– NatWest Group’s aim to promote economic growth by i. the extent and pace of climate change, including the
to achieve such ambitions and targets.
supporting awareness and education around funding, timing and manifestation of physical and transition risks;
investment and business growth, as well as fostering the ii. the macroeconomic environment; Caution about the use of graphics and
right conditions and support for women starting and iii. the effectiveness of actions of governments, legislators, case studies.
scaling up their businesses; regulators and businesses;
This report contains a number of graphics, infographics, text
– NatWest Group’s aim to champion ethnic minority-led iv. the response of the wider society, investors, customers, boxes and illustrative case studies and credentials which
businesses; suppliers and other stakeholders to mitigate the impact aim to give a high-level overview of certain elements of this
– NatWest Group’s aim for 20% of spaces on its enterprise of climate and sustainability-related risks; report and improve accessibility for readers. These graphics,
and accelerator programmes to go to business owners v. changes in customer behaviour and demand; infographics, text boxes and illustrative case studies are
from ethnic minority backgrounds;
vi. appetite for new markets, credit appetite, concentration illustrative and should be read within the context of this
– NatWest Group’s ambition to help people to take control risk appetite, lending and underwriting opportunities; report as a whole.
of their finances, to make the most of their money, safely
vii. developments in the available technology;
and securely – now and in the future; Caution about references to websites.
viii. the roll-out of low carbon infrastructure;
– NatWest Group’s ambition to help 10 million people, Reference to websites and other reports is made for
ix. the timely implementation and integration of adequate
per year, manage their financial wellbeing by 2027; information purposes only. Information available on such
government policies;
– NatWest Group’s ambition to become a skills-driven websites or in such reports is not incorporated by reference
organisation; and x. the availability of accurate, reliable, auditable, consistent into this report. To the extent permitted by law, NatWest
and comparable data; Group makes no representation, warranty or assurance of
– NatWest Group’s ambition to create a diverse and
xi. lack of transparency and comparability of climate-related any kind, express or implied, or takes no responsibility or
responsible supply chain, be fair and transparent with
forward-looking methodologies; liability as to the fairness, accuracy, reliability,
its suppliers and reach net zero by 2050 across its
xii. variation in approaches and outcomes – variations in reasonableness, correctness or completeness with respect
operational value chain.
methodologies may lead to under- or overestimates, and to (i) the third-party information found at any websites
Words or phrases such as ‘ambition’, ‘aim’, ‘believe’, consequently present an exaggerated indication of operated by third parties; or (ii) the information provided in
‘budget’, ’continue’, ‘could’, ‘effort’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, climate-related risk; and sections of this report (Case Studies).
‘goal’, ‘guidance’, ‘intend’, ‘intention’, ‘may’, ‘objective’, xiii. reliance on assumptions and future uncertainty
‘plan’, ‘potential’, ‘predict’, ‘seek’, ‘should’, ‘target’, ‘will’, (calculations of forward-looking metrics are complex and
‘would’ or similar expressions that convey the prospective require many methodological choices and assumptions).
nature of events or outcomes generally indicate other
forward-looking statements.
NatWest Group
2023 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report INTRODUCTION METRICS AND TARGETS STRATEGY GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT IMPORTANT INFORMATION 63
6.2 Other important information,
including our assurance approach
No duty to update. Assurance Name and address
The forward-looking statements contained in this report NatWest Group plc appointed Ernst & Young LLP (EY) to ‘NWG’ and ‘NatWest Group’ mean the company and its
only speak as of the date they were published. Except to provide independent assurance over certain sustainability subsidiary and associated undertakings.
the extent legally required, we expressly disclaim any metrics and elements of the UN Principles for Responsible
Principal office
obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward- Banking (‘UN PRB’) Template. These sustainability metrics
NatWest Group plc
looking statements in this report, whether to reflect any are marked with an asterisk (*) and the UN PRB Template is
PO Box 1000, Gogarburn
change in our expectations regarding those forward-looking presented within the ESG Frameworks Appendix. The
Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ
statements, any change in events, conditions or assurance engagement was planned and performed in
circumstances on which any such statement is based, accordance with the International Standard on Assurance
or otherwise. Engagements (UK) 3000 (July 2020) Assurance
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical
No offer of securities or investment.
Financial Information (‘ISAE (UK) 3000 (July 2020)’).
The information, statements and opinions contained in this
An assurance report was issued and is available at
report do not constitute a public offer under any applicable
natwestgroup.com. It includes further details on the scope,
legislation, an offer to sell or solicitation of any offer to buy
respective responsibilities, work performed, limitations
any securities or financial instruments or any advice or
and conclusion.
recommendation with respect to such securities or other
financial instruments.
Read more: EY independent assurance statement.
This report, the information, statements and disclosure
Future sustainability reporting developments
included in this report are not formally part of any offering
documents and are not contractually binding. This report is In June 2023, the International Sustainability Standards
not intended to form part of any communication of any Board (ISSB) issued its inaugural standards. The standards
offering issued under this report and it is not intended to be will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or
an advertisement for the purposes of the UK Prospectus after 1 January 2024. We continue to assess the
Regulation and investors should not make any investment requirements of these standards and build capability.
decisions based on the information included in this report. – IFRS S1 – General Requirements for Disclosure of
Sustainability-related Financial Information.
– IFRS S2 – Climate-related disclosures.
NatWest Group plc
2023 Environmental,
Social and Governance
Disclosures Report
February 2024 Designed and produced by Black Sun Global www.blacksun-global.com