Top and emerging risks
The Group employs a continuous process for identifying and managing its principal and emerging risks. These are defined as scenarios that
could have a significant negative impact on the Group’s ability to operate or meet its strategic objectives
Type Risk Mitigation
3
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
ecneiliser
TI
dna
lanoitarepO
RBS’s information technology systems are critical to the services it A major security programme has delivered control
provides, with any outages experienced in the banking sector enhancements to mitigate the risk of cyber attack. The
widely publicised. Cyber attacks continue to evolve in frequency, Group continues to invest in its defences.
sophistication and severity. There is a risk that a cyber attack
A major investment programme within the RBS Group has
damages the Group’s ability to do business and/or compromises
improved systems resilience. As the Group continues to
data security.
simplify and modernise infrastructure and applications,
The Group’s information technology systems are complex, making system sustainability has improved.
recovery from failure challenging.
The Group monitors people risk closely and has plans in
There is a risk that the Group lacks sufficient capability or capacity place to support retention of key roles, with wider
to deliver, or adapt to, change. programmes supporting engagement and training.
There is a risk that achieving cost reductions will lead to The Group continues to implement change in line with its
heightened operational risk, particularly against a backdrop of project plans while assessing the implementation risks and
political and economic uncertainty. mitigating where possible.
There is a risk that the actions of a third-party supplier could The Group continues to maintain a strong focus on its
negatively affect the Group’s reputation or profitability. control environment at all stages of the customer journey,
including its approach to data management. Relationships
A breach in data privacy, either within the Group or in a third-party
with third-party suppliers are subject to a number of controls
organisation, may lead to negative impacts. There is a risk that the
and guidelines outlined in the appropriate policy within the
Group’s data strategy is not adequate for the evolving landscape.
RBS Group Policy Framework.
ksir
lacitilop
dna
cimonocE
The Group remains vulnerable to changes and uncertainty in the The Group uses a number of complementary approaches to
economic and political environment. Scenarios that could have a inform strategic planning and risk mitigation relating to a
potentially material negative effect on the Group include the impact range of economic and political risks. These include robust
of the UK’s exit from the European Union; a UK recession risk assessment and dynamic portfolio management in
(including significant falls in house prices); a protracted period of accordance with the risk appetite framework, the setting of
low interest rates and growth in the UK; vulnerabilities in emerging prudent lending criteria and, for specific market risks,
market economies resulting in contagion in the Group’s core structural hedging. Stress testing and scenario planning is
markets; a Eurozone crisis or major geopolitical instability. also used extensively across the Group.
Accelerating climate change may lead to faster-than-anticipated The Group is working to embed climate risk into the risk
climate-related impacts on the Group and the wider economy. framework, and adapting its operation and business strategy
to mitigate the risks of both climate change and the
transition to a low-carbon economy.
ecneiliser
laicnaniF
The Group’s ongoing compliance with the UK’s ring-fencing regime The Group’s planning and strategy takes into account the
may entail significant costs, and may also impose significant risks related to ring-fencing implementation, particularly as
operational, legal and execution risk in the Group’s day-to-day they relate to the funding plan.
activities.
The Group continues to innovate – including the
The Group’s target markets are highly competitive, which poses development of a number of digital initiatives designed to
challenges in terms of achieving some strategic objectives. meet evolving customer needs – and monitor the
Moreover, changes in technology, customer behaviour and competitive environment as well as associated regulatory,
business models in these markets have accelerated. technological and strategic developments in order to make
adjustments as appropriate.
There is a risk that, as new technologies develop, the Group’s
business model is disrupted or that its customer focus fails to keep
pace with evolving customer needs.
The changing demographic in core markets, as the average age of
the population rises, may affect profitability.
ksir
tcudnoc
dna
yrotaluger
lageL
The Group expects government and regulatory intervention in the The Group considers and incorporates the implications of
financial services industry to remain high for the foreseeable future, proposed or potential regulatory activities in its strategic and
and also subject to increasing regulation in new areas such as financial plans.
financial risks relating to climate change and artificial intelligence.
The Group has invested significant resources to meet the
The Group is subject to the requirements of the UK ring-fencing terms of the Alternative Remedies Package and manage the
regime and is required to ensure operational continuity in associated risks.
resolution. The steps required to ensure such compliance entail
An enhanced compliance and conduct risk framework has
significant costs, and also impose significant operational, legal and
been developed, setting minimum standards for the
execution risk that could continue to affect its business model.
management of conduct risks across the RBS Group.
Implementation of the Alternative Remedies Package (regarding
Building a healthy culture is a core priority. RBS continues
the business previously described as Williams & Glyn) brings a
to focus on creating a solid platform for behavioural and
range of risks for the Group including significant costs, loss of
cultural change.
customers/deposits and associated execution risks.
In addition, RBS continues to strengthen its control
The impacts of past business conduct resulting in future litigation
environment and the journey of improvement remains an
and conduct charges could be substantial. The Group is involved in
ongoing area of focus.
a number of investigations, including: investigations into the
treatment of small and medium-sized business customers in A programme to determine the scale and scope of the
financial difficulty; anti-money laundering; and mis-selling impacts relating to the transition to alternative risk-free rates
(including mis-selling of payment protection insurance products). is underway. Activity to manage the transition will take place
Settlements may result in additional financial penalties, non- within the Group’s control framework and in line with
monetary penalties or other consequences, which may be material. expected standards of conduct.
The transition from LIBOR and other IBOR rates to alternative risk-
free rates may lead to heightened legal, business and conduct
risks.
Capital and risk management
Page Risk appetite, which is supported by a robust set of principles,
policies and practices, defines our levels of tolerance for a variety
Risk management framework
of risks.
Introduction 9
Risk culture 10
It is a key element of the RBS Group’s risk management framework
Risk governance 11 and culture, providing a structured approach to risk-taking within
Risk appetite 12 agreed boundaries.
Risk controls and limits 13
Risk identification and measurement 13 Effective governance, underpinned by the three lines of defence
model, is essential to ensure the right decisions are being made by
Risk treatment and migration 13
the right people at the right time. Governance includes regular and
Risk assurance 13
transparent risk reporting as well as discussion and decision-
Model risk 13
making at senior management committees, which informs
Stress testing 14 management strategies across the organisation.
Capital, liquidity and funding risk
Definition and sources 17 The RBS Group aims to have the right tools in place to support
Key developments and liquidity portfolio 17 effective risk management. Having the appropriate capability,
Capital, Liquidity and funding risk management 18 people and infrastructure is central. This is supported by a strong
Minimum requirements 19 emphasis on systems, training and development to ensure threats
are anticipated and managed appropriately within the boundaries
Measurements 20
determined by the agreed risk appetite.
Credit risk
Definition and sources 25 Measurement, evaluation and transparency are also fundamental
Risk governance and appetite 25 elements of the framework, providing robust analysis of the
Risk controls, measurement and models 25 materiality and likelihood of specific threats as well as supporting
understanding and communication of the financial and non-financial
Risk mitigation 25
risks to which the RBS Group is exposed.
Risk assessment and monitoring 26
Banking activities 34
The RBS Group has a strong focus on defining the control
Key IFRS 9 terms and differences 49 environment to ensure the effective operation of policies and
Non-traded market risk 50 processes embedded in the customer-facing businesses, thus
Pension risk 54 facilitating the management of the risks they take in the course of
Compliance & conduct risk 54 their day-to-day activities.
Financial crime 55
Operational risk 55
RBS Group is able to RBS Group’s strategy is
Business risk 57 pre a p b a s r o e r d b t s o h o m c a k n s a a g n e d n i e s w, info a rm n e u d n d a e n r d s t s a h n a d p in e g d by
Reputational risk 57 emerging a ri n s d k s u nforeseen of the risksit faces
Presentation of information RBS Group Stress & id R e B n S ti f G ie r s o t u h p e
Where indicated in the section headers, information in the Capital and h c o o w nt i r n is u k a l i l s y m im a p n r a o g v e e d s , s a c n e a n ly a s r i i s o B s u tr s a i t n e e g s y s a ri s r k e s s u th lt a o t f a r r u is n e n i a n s g
risk management section (pages 9 to 57) is within the scope of the w b h y e t r a e k i n n e g c a e c s t s io a n ry a i n ts d b d u e s li i v n e e r s in s g
Independent auditor’s report. Where a main section header, presented Response Risk its strategy
identification
in bold, is marked as audited all sub sections are also audited. Unless
otherwise indicated, disclosures in this section include disposal groups
Risk
in relevant exposures and measures. Disposal groups comprise R th B e S a G pp ro ro u p p r i h a a te s de C fi o n n it t io ro n l & culture Risk
NatWest Holdings Group Corp in 2018 and Ulster Bank (Ireland) policies and controls effectiveness appetite Defining the level
embedded in the of risk which RBS
Holdings in 2017. Capital and risk management are generally business to Group is willing to
manage the accept
conducted on an overall basis within RBS Group such that common risks it takes
policies, procedures, frameworks and models apply across the RBS M e e v a a s lu u a re ti m on e n & t, Governance
transparency
G as r p o e u c p t . s T r h e e fl r e e c f t o s r e th , o fo s r e t i h n e t h m e o R st B p S a r G t, r d o i u s p c u a s s s r io e n le o va n n t t h f e o s r e t h q e u a b l u it s a i t n iv e e s ses u R n B d S er G st r a o n u d p s In C f p r a a e p s o a t p r b u le i c l i t t & u y , r e Grou E p ns is u r c i o n n g f i R de B n S t the
and communicates right decisions are
and operations in the Group. the financial and being taken, by the
non-financial risks right people, at
it is taking RBS Group has the tools the right time
and capability to support
Risk management framework
dec
ri
i
s
s
k
io
m
n-
a
m
n
a
a
k
g
in
e
g
m
a
e
c
n
r
t
o
a
s
n
s
d
t he
Introduction organisation
The RBS Group operates an integrated risk management framework,
centred around the embedding of a strong risk culture, which is
The RBS Group also has a strong focus on continually improving the
designed to achieve compliance with prudential and conduct
way risk is managed, particularly in terms of how threats are
obligations. Each element of the risk management framework
anticipated or responded to, but also in terms of simplifying or
functions both individually and as part of a larger continuum. The
enhancing existing controls, policies and practice.
framework ensures the tools and capability are in place to facilitate risk
management and decision-making across the organisation.
Essential to this is the ability to scan both the medium- and long-term
horizon for risks. Stress testing is used to quantify, evaluate and
The RBS Group’s strategy is informed and shaped by an
understand the potential impact that changes to risks may have on the
understanding of the risk landscape, including a range of significant
financial strength of the RBS Group, including its capital position. In
risks and uncertainties in the external economic, political and
turn, the results of stress tests can be used to inform and shape
regulatory environment. Identifying these risks and understanding how
strategy.
they affect the RBS Group informs risk appetite and risk management
practice.
9
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Capital and risk management
Risk management framework continued
Risk governance
Committee structure
The diagram illustrates the Group’s risk committee structure in 2018 and the main purposes of each committee.
National Westminster Bank Plc Board
National Westminster Bank Plc
Reviews and approves the risk Executive Committee
appetite framework and risk appetite
targets for the Group’s strategic risk Manages and oversees all aspects
objectives. ofthe Group’s business and
operations.
National Westminster Bank Plc National Westminster Bank Plc National Westminster Bank Plc
Board Risk Committee Executive RiskCommittee Asset & Liability Management
Committee
Provides oversight and advice on: Acts on all material and/or
current and potential future risk enterprise-wide risk and control Oversees the effective
exposures, and future risk strategy, mattersacross the Group. management of the current and
including determination of risk appetite
future balance sheet in line with
and tolerance; and the effectiveness
Board-approved strategy and
of the risk management framework.
risk appetite.
Capital Management & Technical Asset & Liability
ERC sub committees Provisions Committee Stress Testing Committee Management Committee
Responsible for the establishment of risk Reviews and approves large Reviews and challenges the l R im e i s ts p , o p n o s l i i b c l i e e s fo a r n s d e t c ti o n n g t r t o h l e s
policies –as well as oversight of compliance creditimpairment charges or end-to-end capital relating to financial balance
–for each relevant risk type. In addition, they releases. management process. It is sheet risks, including funding
are responsible for the approval of certain risk the focal point for prudential and liquidity,intra-group
measuresand recommendation of other regulatory requests regarding exposures, non-traded
measures to Group Board for approval. IFRS 9 Metrics Oversight Committee as a s n e d t s q t u re a s li s ty t e re s v ti i n e g w . s m f a o r r k e e ig t n ri s c k u r a r n e d n c s y t r r u is c k tu s r . al
Includes Retail Credit Risk Committee,
.
Wholesale Credit Risk Committee,
Responsible for approving the
Operational Risk Executive Committee,
Significant Deterioration framework
Financial Crime Risk Executive Committee,
and data rules for missing variables.
and ReputationalRisk Committee.
Franchise and function risk committees
Risk committees review and monitor all risks, providing guidance, recommendations
and decisions on risks affecting the franchises and functions.
Note:
(1) National Westminster Bank Plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NatWest Holdings Limited. The diagram above illustrates the risk governance structure of
National Westminster Bank Plc. The IFRS 9 Metrics Oversight Committee has delegated authority from the Provisions Committee to approve the Significant
Deterioration framework, the data rules for missing variables, materiality decisions relating to the expected credit loss calculation, adjustments relating to the
expected credit loss calculation if necessary, and changes in expected credit loss provision calculation methodology.
11
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Capital and risk management
Risk management framework continued
Risk management structure
The diagram illustrates the Group’s risk management structure in 2018 and key risk management responsibilities.
Director, Operational Risk Design and delivery of operational risk strategy and service proposition; and oversee
& Services effective management. Provides advice, oversight and challenge to Services business
Director, Risk Policy and Design and delivery of risk policy, governance and frameworks (including risk appetite, Frameworks model risk governance and validation, risk culture, risk performance assessment); and oversees effective management
ChiefFinancial Crime Officer Design and delivery of financial crime strategy and service proposition; and
oversees effective management
Director,Restructuring Design and delivery of restructuring strategy and service proposition including specialist exposure management, restructuring and recoveries
Head of Risk Strategy
& Transformation Provides a change and business improvement service to the Risk function
12
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
fo thgisrevo
,egnellahc
dna
etiteppa
ksir ,krowemarf
lortnoc
dna
ksiR
tnemeganam
ksir
Deputy Chief Risk Officer, Design and delivery of risk reporting, analysis and insight service propositions. Ring-Fenced Bank Provides advice, oversight and challenge to the Commercial & Private Banking and Personal Banking businesses
Director, Compliance &Conduct Design and delivery of compliance and conduct strategy and service proposition;
and oversees effective management
RBS Group Chief Risk Officer,
Chief Ring-Fenced Executive RBS Group Chief Bank
Risk Officer
NatWest Bank Plc NatWest Bank Plc Chief CreditOfficer Design and delivery of credit risk strategy and service proposition; Chief Executive Chief Risk Officer and oversees effective management Director, Financial Risk & Design and delivery of financial risk and analytics strategies including stress testing,
Analytics model build, funding, liquidity and earnings risk, non traded market risk, pension risk
and economic capital; and oversees effective management
Notes:
(1) NatWest Bank Plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of NatWest Holdings Limited, which is the ring-fenced sub-Group of the RBS Group. The diagram above
illustrates the risk management structure of NatWest Bank Plc.
(2) The NatWest Bank Plc CRO reports directly to i) the NatWest Bank Plc CEO, whose role is also undertaken by the same individual who undertakes the roles of
NatWest Holdings CEO and RBS Group CEO; and ii) the NatWest Holdings CRO, albeit given both these CRO roles are undertaken by the same individual, in
effect, the reporting line is to the RBS Group CRO. There is a further secondary reporting line to the chair of the NatWest Bank Plc BRC and a right of access to
the Committee, including the deputy chair, but noting the constituent members of the Committee mirror those of the NatWest Holdings BRC.
(3) The Risk function is independent of the franchises and is structured by risk discipline to facilitate effective risk management. Risk committees in the customer
businesses and key functional risk committees oversee risk exposures arising from management and business activities and focus on ensuring that these are
adequately monitored and controlled.
Three lines of defence Third line of defence – Internal Audit
The Group uses the three lines of defence model to articulate Responsibilities include:
accountabilities and responsibilities for managing risk across the  Providing assurance to the NatWest Holdings Audit Committee on
organisation. The three lines of defence model is adopted across the the appropriateness of the design and operational effectiveness of
industry to support the embedding of effective risk management and is governance, risk management and internal controls to monitor and
expressed through a set of principles as outlined below. All roles, mitigate material risks.
regardless of level, sit within one of these three lines.  Engaging with management to provide perspectives, insights and
challenge in order to influence the building of a sustainable bank.
First line of defence – Management and supervision
 Providing independent assurance to the Financial Conduct
The first line of defence encompasses most roles within the Group,
Authority, Prudential Regulation Authority, Central Bank of Ireland
including those in customer franchises, Technology and Services as
and other key jurisdictional regulators on specific risks and
well as support functions such as Human Resources, Communications
controls.
& Marketing and Finance. Responsibilities include:
 Owning, managing and supervising, within a defined risk appetite, Risk appetite
the risks which exist in business areas and support functions. Risk appetite defines the level and types of risk the RBS Group is
 Ensuring the business has effective mechanisms for identifying, willing to accept, within risk capacity, in order to achieve strategic
objectives and business plans. It links the goals and priorities to risk
reporting and managing risk and controls.
management in a way that guides and empowers staff to serve
 Ensuring appropriate controls are in place to mitigate risk, customers well and achieve financial targets.
balancing control, customer service and competitive advantage.
For certain strategic risks, risk capacity defines the maximum level of
 Ensuring that the culture of the business supports balanced risk
risk the RBS Group can assume before breaching constraints
decisions and compliance with policy, laws and regulations.
determined by regulatory capital and liquidity needs, the operational
environment, and from a conduct perspective. Articulating risk capacity
Second line of defence – Oversight and control
helps determine where risk appetite should be set, ensuring there is a
The second line of defence is the Risk function as well as the policy
buffer between internal risk appetite and the RBS Group’s ultimate
and control elements of Human Resources, Legal and the Finance
capacity to absorb losses.
function. Responsibilities include:
 Leading the articulation, design and development of risk culture Risk appetite framework
and appetite. The risk appetite framework bolsters effective risk management by
promoting sound risk-taking through a structured approach, within
 Setting the standard for risk management across the Group.
agreed boundaries. It also ensures emerging risks and risk-taking
 Overseeing and challenging the management of risks and controls. activities that would be out of appetite are identified, assessed,
 Analysing the aggregate risk profile and ensuring that risks are escalated and addressed in a timely manner.
being managed within risk appetite.
To facilitate this, a detailed annual review of the framework is carried
 Providing expert advice to the first line on risk management,
out. The review includes:
including the application of effective risk and control frameworks
and the consideration of risk in decision-making.  Assessing the adequacy of the framework when compared to
internal and external expectations.
 Providing senior executives with relevant management information
and reports, and escalating concerns where appropriate.  Ensuring the framework remains effective as a strong control
environment for risk appetite.
Capital and risk management
Risk management framework continued The process for stress testing consists of four broad stages:
Model Risk Governance  Identify the RBS-specific vulnerabilities and risks.
Model Risk Governance is responsible for setting policy and providing Define  Define and calibrate scenarios to examine risks
a governance framework for all of the RBS Group’s models and and vulnerabilities.
scenarios
related processes. It is also responsible for defining and monitoring  Formal governance process to agree scenarios.
model risk appetite in conjunction with model owners and model users,
monitoring the model risk profile and reporting on the model population  Translate scenarios into risk drivers.
as well as escalating issues to senior management, through the Model Assess  Assess impact to positions, income and costs.
Risk Forum, and the respective franchise and function risk impact  Impact assessment captures input from across the
committees. RBS Group.
Model Risk Management Calcu late  Aggregate impacts into overall results.
Model Risk Management performs independent model validation for results and  Results form part of risk management process.
material models. It works with individual businesses and functions to assess  Scenario results are used to inform the RBS’s
monitor adherence to model risk standards, ensuring that models are implications business and capital plans.
developed and implemented appropriately and that their operational
 Scenario results are analysed by subject matter
environment is fit for purpose.
Develop and experts and appropriate management actions are
Model Risk Management performs reviews of relevant risk and pricing agree then developed.
models in two instances: (i) for new models or amendments to existing management  Scenario results and management actions are
models and (ii) as part of its ongoing programme to assess the actions reviewed and agreed by senior management
performance of these models. through executive committees including Executive
Risk Committee, Board Risk Committee and the
Model Risk Management reviews may test and challenge the logic and Board.
conceptual soundness of the methodology, or the assumptions
underlying a model. Reviews may also test whether or not all Stress testing is used widely across the RBS Group. The diagram
appropriate risks have been sufficiently captured as well as checking below summarises key areas of focus:
the accuracy and robustness of calculations.
Based on the review and findings from Model Risk Management, the Financial
RBS Group’s model or risk committees consider whether a model can performance
Contingency
be approved for use. Models used for regulatory reporting may assessment
planning & management
additionally require regulatory approval before implementation.
actions
(4)
Model Risk Management reassesses the appropriateness of approved Risk
risk models on a periodic basis. Each periodic review begins with an Mitigation
Capital
initial assessment. Based on the initial assessment, an internal model adequacy
governance committee will decide to re-ratify a model or to carry out Early
warning
additional work. In the initial assessment, Model Risk Management
indicators (1)
assesses factors such as a change in the size or composition of the (3) Stress testing Strategic
portfolio, market changes, the performance of – or any amendments to Risk usage within Financial
Identification RBS & Capital
– the model and the status of any outstanding issues or scheduled
Planning
activities carried over from previous reviews.
Earnings
Model Risk Management also monitors the performance of RBS
Tail-risk volatility
Group’s portfolio of models to ensure they appropriately capture assessment (2)
underlying business rationale. Risk
Appetite
Stress testing
Stress testing – capital management Business Sector review
Stress testing is a key risk management tool and a fundamental vulnerabilities & credit limit
analysis setting
component of the RBS group approach to capital management. It is
used to quantify, evaluate and understand the potential impact of
specified changes to risk factors on the financial strength of RBS
group, including its capital position. Stress testing includes: Specific areas that involve capital management include:
 Scenario testing, which examines the impact of a hypothetical  Strategic financial and capital planning – through assessing the
future state to define changes in risk factors. impact of sensitivities and scenarios on the capital plan and
capital ratios.
 Sensitivity testing, which examines the impact of an incremental
change to one or more risk factors.
14
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Capital and risk management
Credit risk
Framework Basis for classification
Definition
Measure Other
Credit risk is the risk that customers fail to meet their contractual
Risk – based on loss
obligation to settle outstanding amounts. Single name
concentration
given default for a given
The following disclosures in this section are audited: probability of default
 Forbearance. Risk – based on
 Impairment, provisioning and write-offs. Sector economic capital and
 Transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9. Exposure other qualitative factors
 Key elements of IFRS 9 impairment provisions Probability of default of a
o Economic loss drivers (excluding economic parameters). Country sovereign and average
o IFRS 9 credit risk modelling. loss given default
o Significant increase in credit risk. Risk – based on
Product and
o Asset lifetimes. heightened risk
asset class
 Measurement uncertainty and ECL sensitivity analysis. characteristics
 Banking activities (except PDs and additional Stage 2 and Stage 3
Risk controls
analysis).
Credit policy standards are in place for both the Wholesale and
Sources of risk Personal portfolios. They are expressed as a set of mandatory
The principal sources of credit risk are lending and related undrawn controls.
commitments. Derivatives and securities financing and debt securities
Risk identification and measurement
are also a source of credit risk, primarily related to Treasury activities
Credit stewardship
for the Group. The Group is also exposed to settlement risk through
Risks are identified through relationship management and/or credit
foreign exchange and payments activities.
stewardship of portfolios or customers. Credit risk stewardship takes
Risk governance place throughout the customer relationship, beginning with the initial
Credit risk management is led by the Chief Credit Officer (CCO). approval. It includes the application of credit assessment standards,
Credit risk management activities include: credit risk mitigation and collateral, ensuring that credit documentation
 Defining credit risk appetite for the management of concentration is complete and appropriate, carrying out regular portfolio or customer
risk and credit policy to establish the key risks in the process of reviews and problem debt identification and management.
providing credit and the controls that must be in place to mitigate
Risk models
them.
The output of credit risk models is used in the credit approval process
 Approving credit limits for customers.
– as well as for ongoing assessment, monitoring and reporting – to
 Oversight of the first line of defence to ensure that credit risk
inform risk appetite decisions. These models are divided into different
remains within the risk appetite set by the Board.
categories. Where the calculation method is on an individual
The CCO has overall responsibility for the credit risk function and counterparty or account level, the models used will be probability of
chairs the Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Committees. These default (PD), loss given default (LGD), or exposure at default (EAD).
committees review, recommend or approve risk appetite limits The economic capital model is used for credit risk appetite setting.
(depending on their materiality) within the appetite set by the Board. Asset quality
All credit grades map to an asset quality scale, used for external
The Provisions Committee has authority over provisions adequacy and
financial reporting. For Wholesale customers, a master grading scale
approves proposals from business provisions committees in
is used for internal management reporting across portfolios.
accordance with approval thresholds. The Provisions Committee is
Accordingly, measures of risk exposure may be aggregated and
chaired either by the CCO or the Head of Provisions & Restructuring
reported at differing levels of detail depending on stakeholder or
Credit.
business requirements. Performing loans are defined as AQ1-AQ9
Risk appetite (where the PD is less than 100%) and non-performing loans as AQ10
The Group’s approach to lending is governed by comprehensive credit or Stage 3 under IFRS 9 (where the PD is 100%).
risk appetite frameworks. The frameworks are closely monitored and
Risk mitigation
actions are taken to adapt lending criteria as appropriate. Credit risk
Risk mitigation techniques, as set out in the appropriate credit
appetite aligns to the strategic risk appetite set by the Board, which
policies, are used in the management of credit portfolios across the
includes capital adequacy, earnings volatility, funding and liquidity, and
Group. These techniques mitigate credit concentrations in relation to
stakeholder confidence. The credit risk appetite frameworks have been
an individual customer, a borrower group or a collection of related
designed to reflect factors (for example, strategic and emerging risks)
borrowers. Where possible, customer credit balances are netted
that influence the ability to operate within risk appetite. Tools such as
against obligations. Mitigation tools can include structuring a security
stress testing and economic capital are used to measure credit risk
interest in a physical or financial asset, the use of credit derivatives
volatility and develop links between the credit risk appetite frameworks
including credit default swaps, credit-linked debt instruments and
and risk appetite limits. The frameworks are supported by a suite of
securitisation structures, and the use of guarantees and similar
transaction acceptance standards that set out the risk parameters
instruments (for example, credit insurance) from related and third
within which franchises should operate.
parties. Property is used to mitigate credit risk across a number of
The Personal credit risk appetite framework sets limits that measure portfolios, in particular residential mortgage lending and commercial
and control the quality of both existing and new business for each real estate (CRE).
relevant franchise or business segment. The actual performance of
each portfolio is tracked relative to these limits and management
action is taken where necessary. The limits apply to a range of credit
risk-related measures including expected loss at both portfolio and
product level, projected credit default rates across products and the
loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of the Personal mortgage portfolios.
For Wholesale, the four formal frameworks used – and their basis for
classification – are detailed in the following table.
25
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Capital and risk management
Pension risk
Definition The RBS Group also undertakes stress tests and scenario analyses
Pension obligation risk is the risk to the Group caused by its on its material defined benefit pension schemes each year. These
contractual or other liabilities to, or with respect to, a pension scheme tests are also used to satisfy the requests of regulatory bodies such
(whether established for its employees or those of a related company as the Bank of England. The stress testing framework includes
or otherwise). It is also the risk that the Group will make payments or pension risk capital calculations for the purposes of the Internal
other contributions to, or with respect to, a pension scheme because Capital Adequacy Assessment Process as well as additional stress
of a moral obligation or because the RBS Group considers that it tests for a number of internal management purposes.
needs to do so for some other reason.
The results of the stress tests and their consequential impact on the
Sources of risk Group’s balance sheet, income statement and capital position are
The Group has exposure to pension risk through its defined benefit incorporated into the Group’s and overall RBS Group stress test
schemes worldwide. The Main section of The Royal Bank of Scotland results.
Group Pension Fund (the Main section) is the largest source of
NatWest Bank Plc is the principal employer of the Main scheme, and
pension risk as NatWest Bank is the principal employer to the Main
could be required to fund any deficit that arises.
section with £43.8 billion of assets and £35.5 billion of liabilities at 31
December 2018 (2017 – £44.7 billion assets and £37.9 billion Risk mitigation
liabilities). Further detail on the Group’s pension obligations can be The trustee has taken measures to mitigate inflation and interest rate
found in Note 5 on the accounts. risks, both by investing in suitable financial assets and by entering
into inflation and interest rate swaps. The Main section also uses
Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest
derivatives to manage the allocation of the portfolio to different asset
rates and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the longevity
classes and to manage risk within asset classes. The contribution
of scheme members and legislation. Pension scheme assets vary
made to the Main section also facilitated a £6 billion reduction in
with changes in interest rates, inflation expectations, credit spreads,
quoted equity exposure and an increase in interest rates and inflation
exchange rates, and equity and property prices. The Group is
hedging in 2018.
exposed to the risk that the schemes’ assets, together with future
returns and additional future contributions, are insufficient to meet Compliance & conduct risk
liabilities as they fall due. In such circumstances, the Group could be Definition
obliged (or might choose) to make additional contributions to the Compliance risk is the risk that the behaviour of the Group towards
schemes, or be required to hold additional capital to mitigate this risk. customers fails to comply with laws, regulations, rules, standards and
Key developments in 2018 codes of conduct. Such a failure may lead to breaches of regulatory
requirements, organisational standards or customer expectations and
 A Memorandum of Understanding between the RBS Group and
could result in legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or
the Trustee of the Main section was reached in April 2018, which
reputational damage.
enabled RBS Group to bring the pension scheme into alignment
with ring-fencing rules and reduce exposure to pension risk. Conduct risk is the risk that the conduct of the Group and its
 The RBS Group made a £2 billion contribution to the Main section subsidiaries and its staff towards customers – or in the markets in
in H2 2018 and it was agreed this could be followed by up to a which it operates – leads to unfair or inappropriate customer
further £1.5 billion of dividend linked contributions to be paid from outcomes and results in reputational damage, financial loss or both.
2020, capped at £500 million per year.
Sources of risk
 The contribution to the scheme facilitated a reduction in the risk
Compliance and conduct risks exist across all stages of the Group’s
profile of the fund, principally the sale of approximately £6 billion of
relationships with its customers and arise from a variety of activities
quoted equity exposure and the purchase of further interest rate
including product design, marketing and sales, complaint handling,
and inflation hedging.
staff training, and handling of confidential insider information. As set
Risk governance out in Note 29 on the accounts, the RBS Group and certain members
The Pension Committee is chaired by the RBS Group Chief Financial of staff are party to legal proceedings and are subject to investigation
Officer. It receives its authority from the RBS Group Executive and other regulatory action in the UK, the US and other jurisdictions.
Committee and formulates the RBS Group’s view of pension risk. The
Key developments in 2018
Pension Committee is a key component of the RBS Group’s
 An enhanced compliance and conduct risk framework was
approach to managing pension risk and it reviews and monitors risk
developed, setting minimum standards for the management and
management, asset strategy and financing issues on behalf of the
measurement of compliance and conduct risks across the RBS
RBS Group. It also considers investment strategy proposals from the
Group.
Trustee. For further information on Risk governance, refer to page
11.  Enhanced product monitoring and reporting was introduced.
 Controls, systems and processes were revised to ensure
Risk appetite compliance with the UK’s ring-fencing rules.
The RBS Group maintains an independent view of the risk inherent in
 PPI remediation continued in advance of the FCA’s August 2019
its pension funds. The Group has an annually reviewed pension risk
deadline for claims (refer to Note 21 on the accounts).
appetite statement incorporating defined metrics against which risk is
 Work to address legacy GRG complaints continued. The process
measured. The RBS Group undertakes regular pension risk
closed to new complaints in the UK on 22 October 2018.
monitoring and reporting to the RBS Group Board, the RBS Group
 Product and pricing continued to be simplified for new and existing
Board Risk Committee and the Pension Committee on the material
customers.
pension schemes that the RBS Group has an obligation to support.
Risk governance
Risk controls
The RBS Group defines appropriate standards of compliance and
A pension risk management framework is in place to provide formal
conduct and ensures adherence to those standards through its risk
controls for pension risk reporting, modelling, governance and stress
management framework.
testing. A pension risk policy which sits within the RBS Group policy
framework is also in place and is subject to associated framework Risk appetite
controls. Risk appetite for compliance and conduct risks is set at RBS Group
Board level. Risk appetite statements articulate the levels of risk that
Risk monitoring and measurement
legal entities, franchises and functions work within when pursuing
Pension risk reports are submitted to the RBS Group Executive Risk
their strategic objectives and business plans.
Committee and the RBS Group Board Risk Committee four times a
year in the Risk Management Quarterly Report.
54
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Capital and risk management
Compliance and conduct risk continued
Risk controls Risk appetite
The RBS Group operates a range of controls to ensure its business is The Group has no appetite to operate in an environment where
conducted in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements, as systems and controls do not enable the Group to identify, assess,
well as delivering good customer outcomes. A suite of policies monitor, manage and mitigate financial crime risk. The Group’s
addressing compliance and conduct risks set appropriate standards systems and controls must be comprehensive and proportionate to
across RBS. Examples of these include the Complaints Management the nature, scale and complexity of its businesses. The Group has no
Policy, Client Assets & Money Policy, and Product Lifecycle Policy as tolerance to systematically or repeatedly breach relevant financial
well as policies relating to customers in vulnerable situations, cross- crime regulations and laws.
border activities and market abuse. Continuous monitoring and
Risk mitigation
targeted assurance is undertaken, as appropriate.
Through the financial crime framework, the Group employs relevant
Risk monitoring and measurement policies, systems, processes and controls to mitigate financial crime
Compliance and conduct risks are measured and managed through risk. This would include the use of dedicated screening and
continuous assessment and reporting to the RBS Group’s senior risk monitoring controls to identify people, organisations, transactions and
committees and at RBS Group Board level. behaviours which might require further investigation or other actions.
The Group ensures that centralised expertise is available to detect
The compliance and conduct risk framework facilitates the consistent
and disrupt threats to the Group and its customers. Intelligence is
monitoring and measurement of compliance with laws and
shared with law enforcement, regulators and government bodies to
regulations and the delivery of consistently good customer outcomes.
strengthen national and international defences against those who
The first line of defence is responsible for effective risk identification, would misuse the financial system for criminal motives.
reporting and monitoring, with oversight, challenge and review by the
Risk controls
second line. Compliance and conduct risk management is also
The Group operates a framework of preventative and detective
integrated into the RBS Group’s strategic planning cycle.
controls designed to ensure the Group mitigates the risk that it could
Risk mitigation facilitate financial crime. These controls are supported by a suite of
Activity to mitigate the most-material compliance and conduct risks is policies, procedures and detailed instructions to ensure they operate
carried out across the RBS Group with specific areas of focus in the effectively.
customer-facing franchises and legal entities. Examples of mitigation
Risk monitoring and measurement
include consideration of customer needs in business and product
Financial crime risks are identified and reported through continuous
planning, targeted training, complaints management, as well as
risk management and regular monthly reporting to RBS Group’s
independent assurance activity. Internal policies help support a
senior risk committees and the Board. Quantitative and qualitative
strong customer focus across the RBS Group. Independent
data is reviewed and assessed to measure whether financial crime
assessments of compliance with applicable regulations are also
risk is within the Group’s risk appetite.
carried out at a legal entity level.
Operational risk
Financial crime
Definition
Definition
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed
Financial crime risk is the risk presented by criminal activity in the
internal processes, people and systems, or external events. It arises
form of money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption,
from day-to-day operations and is relevant to every aspect of the
sanctions and tax evasion. It does not include fraud risk
business.
management.
Sources of risk
Sources of risk
Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage operations,
Financial crime risk may be presented if the Group’s employees,
systems, transactions and assets appropriately. This can take the
customers or third parties undertake or facilitate financial crime, or if
form of human error, an inability to deliver change adequately or on
the Group’s products or services are used to facilitate such crime.
time, the non-availability of technology services, or the loss of
Financial crime risk is an inherent risk across all of the Group’s lines
customer data. Fraud and theft – as well as the increasing threat of
of business.
cyber attacks – are sources of operational risk, as is the impact of
Key developments in 2018 natural and man-made disasters. Operational risk can also arise from
 In October 2018, the Federal Reserve Board terminated a Cease & a failure to account for changes in law or regulations or to take
Desist Order originally imposed in December 2013. The Order, appropriate measures to protect assets.
which related to RBS Group and RBS plc’s historical compliance
Key developments in 2018
with Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) economic sanctions
 Risk provided oversight of several bank-wide programmes
regulations, was terminated following a multi-year programme of
including the Transformation portfolio, structural reform, European
work to establish a robust, sustainable OFAC Sanctions
Commission (EC) State Aid obligations and Brexit preparations.
compliance framework.
 Key corporate structural reform milestones were delivered,
 While the financial crime governance framework was strengthened
including the implementation of the Financial Services Markets Act
during 2018 – along with the introduction of enhanced control
Part VII and migration activities to separate the ring-fence bank
effectiveness assurance processes, enhancements to existing risk
from the non ring-fenced bank.
assessment models, the introduction of a new Anti-Tax Evasion
 The Group is well positioned to deliver the activities required to
risk assessment; and improved monitoring controls and enhanced
support the Business Banking Switch Scheme that is due to
investigation processes – the journey of improvement continues.
commence in 2019, as part of the Group’s final EC State Aid
Risk governance obligation.
Financial crime risk is principally governed through the Financial  The Group has established an Innovation Risk Oversight team to
Crime Risk Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief provide bank-wide oversight of its innovation portfolio to help
Financial Crime Officer. The committee reviews and, where deliver safely and at pace
appropriate, escalates material risks and issues to the RBS Group  The Group continued to review its well established incident
Executive Risk Committee and the Group Board Risk Committee. management and coordination procedures to manage the
persistent and evolving nature of information and cyber security
risks.
55
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Capital and risk management
Operational risk continued Risk monitoring and measurement
 Internal security improvement programmes and controls were Risk and control assessments are used across all business areas
developed and strengthened to protect the Group and its and support functions to identify and assess material operational and
customers. The Group uses proactive threat management and conduct risks and key controls. All risks and controls are mapped to
intelligence processes to identify, manage and mitigate credible the Group’s Risk Directory. Risk assessments are refreshed at least
threats. annually to ensure they remain relevant and capture any emerging
 The Group continued to reduce and simplify its technology estate risks, with associated trigger processes to ensure risks are
through strategic investment and Technology transformation reassessed at key periods of change.
initiatives in order to limit opportunities for hackers and fraudsters.
Improvements in capability were also made to the Security The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively managed
Operations Centre, strengthening controls to prevent data leakage, and prioritised in line with risk appetite. Controls are tested at the
enhance malware defences and management of user access to appropriate frequency to verify that they remain fit-for-purpose and
key systems. operate effectively.
 Internal training programmes ensure all employees are aware of
the threats facing the Group and remain vigilant to unauthorised The Group uses the standardised approach to calculate its Pillar 1
attempts to access systems and data. operational risk capital requirement. This is based on multiplying
three years’ average historical gross income by coefficients set by the
Risk governance regulator based on business line. As part of the wider Internal Capital
A strong operational risk management function is vital to support the Adequacy Assessment Process an operational risk economic capital
Group’s ambitions to serve its customers better. Improved model is used to assess Pillar 2A, which is a risk-sensitive add-on to
management of operational risk against defined appetite directly Pillar 1.The model uses historical loss data (internal and external)
supports the strategic risk objective of improving stakeholder and forward-looking scenario analysis that is provided by Operational
confidence and is vital for stability and reputational integrity. Risk to provide a risk-sensitive view of the Group’s P2A capital
requirement.
The operational risk function, which is the second line of defence,
delivers a robust operational risk management framework and culture Scenario analysis is used to assess how extreme but plausible
across the Group. operational risks will affect the Group. It provides a forward-looking
basis for evaluating and managing operational risk exposures.
The Operational Risk function is responsible for the execution and
continuous improvement of the operational risk management Refer to the Capital, liquidity and funding risk section for operational
framework. risk capital requirement figures.
The Operational Risk Executive Committee is responsible for Event and loss data management
reviewing operational risk exposure; identifying and assessing both The operational risk event and loss data management process
current and emerging material operational risks; reviewing and ensures the Group captures and records operational risk loss events
monitoring the operational risk profile; and reviewing and approving that meet defined criteria. Loss data is used for regulatory and
material operational risk policy changes. industry reporting and is included in capital modelling when
calculating economic capital for operational risk. The most serious
Risk appetite events are escalated in a simple, standardised process to all senior
Operational risk appetite supports effective management of material management, by way of a Group Notifiable Event Process.
operational risks. It expresses the level and types of operational risk
the Group is willing to accept to achieve its strategic objectives and All losses and recoveries associated with an operational risk event
business plans. are reported against their financial accounting date. A single event
can result in multiple losses (or recoveries) that may take time to
The Group-wide operational risk appetite statement encompasses crystallise. Losses and recoveries with a financial accounting date in
the full range of operational risks faced by its legal entities, franchises 2018 may relate to events that occurred, or were identified in, prior
and functions, supported by board risk measures which, should the years. The Group purchases insurance against specific losses and to
limit be breached, would impact on our ability to achieve business comply with statutory or contractual requirements.
plans and threaten stakeholder confidence. Strategic measures and
Group-wide material risks are reviewed at least annually and Operational resilience
approved at Group Board. The Group manages and monitors operational resilience through its
risk and control assessments methodology. As challenges to
Risk controls operational resilience become more demanding, given a hostile cyber
The Control Environment Certification (CEC) process is a half yearly environment and a greater focus on serving customers through digital
self-assessment by the CEO of the Group’s business units, as well as platforms, the Group is working with supervisory authorities in the UK
the heads of the support and control functions, providing a view on to ensure the provision of its products and services can be
the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control environment in maintained regardless of the cause of disruption.
a consistent and comparable manner.
This is underpinned by setting, monitoring and testing tolerances for
CEC covers material risks and the underlying key controls, including key business services, which define the amount of disruption that
financial, operational and compliance controls, as well as supporting could be tolerated.
risk management frameworks. The CEC outcomes, including
forward-looking assessments for the next two half-yearly cycles and Risk mitigation
progress on control environment improvements, are reported to the Risks are mitigated by applying key preventative and detective
Board, Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee. They are also controls, an integral step in the risk assessment methodology which
shared with external auditors. determines residual risk exposure. Control owners are accountable
for the design, execution, performance and maintenance of key
controls. Key controls are regularly assessed for adequacy and
tested for effectiveness. The results are monitored and, where a
material change in performance is identified, the associated risk is re-
evaluated.
56
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Capital and risk management
Business risk franchise monitors its financial performance relative to plans and
Definition reports this on a regular basis to the finance directors of each
Business risk is the risk that the Group does not have a strategy that franchise.
is sufficiently well defined to provide clarity on its long-term ambitions
to key internal and external stakeholders, or that it is not able to Risk mitigation
execute upon its chosen strategy as communicated to the market, The Group operates a monthly rolling forecasting process to identify
regulators and other key stakeholders. The risk is that the Group projected changes in, or risks to, key financial metrics, and ensures
does not deliver its expected business performance which could give appropriate actions are taken.
rise to a deterioration in stakeholder trust and confidence and/or a
breach of regulatory thresholds. The Group may not be able to Reputational risk
execute its chosen strategy if there are material changes to its Definition
internal or external operating environment. Reputational risk is the risk to the Group’s public image from a failure
to meet stakeholders’ expectations in relation to performance,
Sources of risk
conduct or business profile. Stakeholders include customers,
Business risk arises as a result of the Group’s exposure to the
investors, employees, suppliers, government, regulators, special
macro-economy (including economic and political factors), the
interest and consumer groups, media and the general public.
competitive environment, regulatory and technological changes. In
addition, internal factors such as the ability to deliver complex
Sources of risk
change, volatility in sales volumes, input costs, and other operational
Reputational risk can arise from the conduct of employees; customer
risks affect the Group’s ability to execute its chosen strategic
activities and the sectors and countries in which they operate;
business plan as intended and thus contribute to business risk.
provision of products and transactions; as well as operations and
Key developments in 2018 infrastructure.
 In preparation for ring-fencing the RBS Group completed a
Key developments in 2018
business restructure. The UK Personal & Business Banking and
Commercial Banking business of NatWest Markets (formerly RBS  Metrics were reviewed and enhanced to help measure
plc renamed in 2018) were transferred to the Group. reputational risk across the Group.
 RBS Group also restructured the NatWest Markets Plc (former  Risk appetite positions for countries and sectors identified as
RBS plc) capital structure. The shares in NatWest Holdings presenting heightened reputational risk continued to be reviewed
Limited, which owns the ring-fenced sub-group, were distributed to and strengthened.
RBS Group. This separated the ring-fenced sub-group from the
Risk governance
non-ring-fenced entities, as required by ring-fencing legislation.
A reputational risk policy supports reputational risk management
RBS Group also transferred the customer interest rate and foreign
across the Group. Reputational risk committees review relevant
exchange derivatives business of National Westminster Bank Plc
issues at an individual franchise or entity level, while the RBS Group
to NatWest Markets Plc.
Reputational Risk Committee – which has delegated authority from
 NatWest Bank Plc entered into a Memorandum of Understanding
the Executive Risk Committee – opines on cases, issues, sectors and
with the Trustees of the Main Scheme of the RBS Group Pension
themes that represent a material reputational risk to the RBS Group.
Fund to address the historical funding weakness of the pension
The Board Risk Committee oversees the identification and reporting
scheme, recognising a pre-tax £2.0 billion contribution against
of reputational risk. The Sustainable Banking Committee has a
reserves and an equivalent reduction in CET1 capital.
specific focus on environmental, social and ethical issues.
Risk governance
The Board has ultimate responsibility for business risk and for Risk appetite
approving strategic plans, initiatives and changes to strategic The Group manages and articulates its appetite for reputational risk
direction. through a qualitative reputational risk appetite statement and
quantitative measures. The Group seeks a continued improvement in
The Group’s strategic planning process is managed by Strategy and the identification, assessment and management of customers,
Corporate Development. The Risk and Finance functions are key transactions, products and issues that present a material reputational
contributors to strategic planning. risk.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of business risk lies Risk controls
primarily with the franchises, with oversight by the Finance function. For more information on risk controls, refer to page 13.
The franchises are responsible for delivery of their business plans
and the management of such factors as pricing, sales volumes, Risk monitoring and measurement
marketing expenditure and other factors that can introduce volatility Primary reputational risk measures are in place to assess internal
into earnings. activity relating to the management of reputational risk, including
training. A number of secondary risk measures – including measures
Risk appetite also used in the management of operational, conduct and financial
Risk Appetite defines the level and types of risk the Group is willing to risks – are used to assess relevant external factors. Quarterly reports
accept in order to achieve its strategic objectives and business plans. on performance against these measures are provided to the
The Group articulates its appetite for business risk through the Executive Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee.
implementation of qualitative risk appetite statements and
quantitative risk measures at franchise and function level. These Risk mitigation
statements and measures help determine the level and types of Reputational risk is mitigated through the policy and governance
business risk RBS is willing to accept. framework, with ongoing staff training to ensure early identification,
assessment and escalation of material issues.
Risk controls
For more information on risk controls, refer to page 13. The most material threats to the Group’s reputation continued to
originate from historical and more recent conduct issues. As a result,
Risk monitoring and measurement the Group has been the subject of investigations and reviews by a
Business risk is identified and managed at the product and number of regulators and governmental authorities, some of which
transaction level. Estimated revenue, costs and capital are key have resulted in fines, settlements and public censure. Refer to the
considerations in the design of any new product or in any new Litigation, investigations and reviews section of Note 29 on the
investment decision. Business risk is reported, assessed and accounts.
challenged at every governance level within the organisation. Each
57
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Report of the directors
The directors present their report together operational processes under Intra-Group
with the audited accounts for the year ended Agreements. Health and wellbeing of colleagues
31 December 2018. As a strong component of making the RBS
Creating a healthy culture Group a great place to work, wellbeing has
Other information incorporated into this report Building a healthy culture that embodies Our successfully delivered against three pillars –
by reference can be found at: Values is a core priority for the RBS Group. physical, mental, and social; and in 2018 built
Page/Note momentum on the fourth pillar, financial
RBS Group ring-fencing 1 Our Values, which guide the way the RBS wellbeing. Further details can be found on
Board of directors and secretary 2 Group identifies the right people to serve page 16 of the 2018 Annual Report and
Financial review 4 customers well, and how to manage, engage Accounts of the RBS Group and on the
Segmental analysis Note 4
and reward colleagues, are at the heart of Our Sustainable Banking pages on rbs.com.
Share capital and reserves Note 22
Code (the bank-wide Code of Conduct).
Post balance sheet events Note 38
Employee consultation
Risk factors 132
Engaging colleagues The RBS Group recognises employee
Engaging colleagues is crucial to achieving representatives such as trade unions and
Group structure
RBS Group’s ambition. Every year colleagues work councils in a number of businesses and
National Westminster Bank Plc (the ‘Bank’) is
are asked to share their thoughts on what it’s countries, and management regularly discuss
a wholly-owned subsidiary of NatWest
like to work for the RBS Group via a colleague developments and updates on the progress of
Holdings Limited (‘NWH Ltd’, ‘NatWest
opinion survey. The results from the 2018 its strategic plans with the European
Holdings’ or the ‘intermediate holding
survey are the most positive ever reported Employee Council (EEC). The RBS Group
company’). The ultimate holding company is
since engagement started to be measured in has ongoing engagement and discussion with
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc
2002. All key measures have improved and those bodies given the scale of change taking
(‘RBSG’ or the ‘ultimate parent company),
the RBS Group is now above the global place across the RBS Group.
which is incorporated in Great Britain and has
financial norms in all comparable survey
its registered office at 36 St Andrew Square,
categories. The continued strengthening of Colleague Voice
Edinburgh EH2 2YB. The ‘Group’ or ‘NatWest
the culture in the RBS Group was also echoed In response to changes which have been
Group’ comprises the Bank and its subsidiary
in this year’s improved Banking Standards made to the UK Corporate Governance Code,
and associated undertakings. Details of the
Board assessment which provided further the RBS Group has established a Colleague
principal subsidiary undertakings and their
proof of progress across a range of measures. Advisory Panel (“the Panel”) which is chaired
activities are shown in Note 15 on the
by Lena Wilson, Non-executive Director. The
accounts. A full list of related undertakings of
Rewarding employees purpose of the Panel is to promote greater
the Bank is shown in Note 39 on the
The RBS Group’s approach to performance colleague voice in the boardroom and provide
accounts. ‘RBS Group’ comprises The Royal
management provides clarity for employees an additional way for the Board to engage
Bank of Scotland Group plc (the ‘ultimate
about how their contribution links to the RBS directly with colleagues. The Panel consists of
holding company’) and its subsidiary and
Group’s ambition. existing employee representatives (e.g. Unite,
associated undertakings.
Financial Services Union (FSU), EEC,
The RBS Group has made further progress on Employee Led Networks, Junior
The financial statements of The Royal Bank of
making sure employees are paid fairly for the Management/Colleague Focus Groups and
Scotland Group plc can be obtained from RBS
work they do with simple and transparent pay colleagues who have volunteered to be
Corporate Governance and Regulatory
structures, and in the UK the RBS Group’s involved). Colleagues from locations outside
Affairs, RBS Gogarburn, Edinburgh, EH12
rates continue to exceed the Living Wage. of the UK and Ireland also sit on the Panel to
1HQ, the Registrar of Companies or through
More information can be found on page 62 of ensure a broad, diverse range of views. In
the RBS Group’s website rbs.com.
the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts of the total, there are approximately 20 colleagues
RBS Group. (or their representatives) who attend each
Strategic report
Panel meeting. The Panel does not duplicate
Activities
Developing colleagues existing methods to inform and consult, in
The Group is engaged principally in providing
The RBS Group offers a wide range of particular with employee representatives,
a wide range of banking and other financial
additional learning opportunities. In 2018 the focusing instead on broader strategic issues
services.
NextGen talent development programme was facing the RBS Group. The design of the
launched for high-potential colleagues at Panel has been built around having two-way
Results and dividends
managerial level, helping them become the dialogue with clear outputs from the sessions
The profit attributable to the ordinary
future leaders the RBS Group will need. and follow-up to ensure it is viewed as a
shareholders of the Group for the year ended
valuable addition to existing colleague voice
31 December 2018 was £2,619 million
There is also a range of Female Development methods. More detail can be found on page
compared with a profit of £2,065 million for the
Programmes supporting women to reach their 14 of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts of
year ended 31 December 2017, as set out in
full potential, and helping the RBS Group in the RBS Group.
the consolidated income statement on page
the aspiration to be fully gender balanced by
72.
2030. Inclusion
Building a more inclusive RBS Group is
The Bank paid an ordinary dividend to RBSG
2018 also saw Sales Excellence, the RBS essential for customers and colleagues. The
in 2018 totalling £292 million. No dividend was
Group’s bank-wide sales programme, get ambition to be number one for customer
paid in 2017.
underway, teaching the tools and techniques service, trust and advocacy will only be
that enable those in sales roles to be the best achieved by understanding the needs of all
Employees
at ethical, needs-based selling. More colleagues and customers.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group
information can be found on page 15 of the
employed 56,800 people (full-time equivalent
2018 Annual Report and Accounts of the RBS The RBS Group’s inclusion guidelines apply
basis, including temporary workers). Details of
Group and on the Sustainable Banking pages to all colleagues globally and cover being
related costs are included in Note 3 on the
on rbs.com. LGBT Innovative, Gender Balanced, Disability
consolidated accounts.
Smart, Ethnically Diverse, all leading to
Youth Employment Inclusive Culture. Detailed information can be
Following the completion of the ring-fencing
In 2018, the RBS Group welcomed 516 found on page 16 of the 2018 Annual Report
exercise, the Bank provides the majority of
people across the Graduate and and Accounts of the RBS Group and on the
shared services (including technology) and
Apprenticeship schemes as well as around Sustainable Banking pages on rbs.com.
150 Interns into internship programmes.
58
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Report of the directors
The RBS Group has been recognised for work The DINEDs are independent in two respects: to ensure that, as far as is reasonably
on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in 2018 by (i) independent of management as non- practicable, the NWH Ltd sub-group is able to
retaining position in the Times Top 50 executives; and (ii) independent of the rest of take decisions independently of the wider
Employers for Women; being recognised the RBS Group by virtue of their NWH Ltd sub RBS Group. The Audit, Performance &
again as a Top 10 Employer for Working group-only directorships. They play a critical Remuneration, Nominations and Executive
Families; being rated as an Exemplary Level role in our ring-fencing governance structure, Committees of NWH Ltd operate as the Audit,
Employer by Carer Positive Scotland; being with an enhanced role in managing any Performance & Remuneration, Nominations
named a Stonewall Global Diversity conflicts which may arise between the and Executive Committees of each of, NWH
Champion; being Platinum Ranked by interests of NWH Ltd and RBSG. The DINEDs Ltd, the Bank, Ulster Bank Limited and The
Business in the Community for both Gender attend RBSG Board meetings in an observer Royal Bank of Scotland plc, with meetings
and Ethnicity work; and being upgraded to capacity. running concurrently.
Gold Rated Disability Standard for the
Business Disability Forum. The RBS Group On 30 April 2018 Yasmin Jetha stood down The Audit Committee comprises at least three
was also proud to be named Employer of the as a director of RBSG allowing her to assume independent non-executive directors and
Year by Women in Finance 2018. DINED status. A further 3 DINEDs were assists the Board in discharging its
appointed to the NWH Ltd sub-group boards responsibilities for monitoring the quality of
Going concern with effect from 1 May 2018: Francesca the financial statements. It reviews the
The Group’s business activities and financial Barnes, Graham Beale and Ian Cormack. accounting policies, financial reporting and
position, the factors likely to affect its future regulatory compliance practices of the Bank,
development and performance and its Board of directors the Bank’s system and standards of internal
objectives and policies in managing the The Board is the main decision-making forum controls, and monitors the Bank’s processes
financial risks to which it is exposed, and its for the Bank. The Board is collectively for internal audit and external audit.
capital are discussed in the Business review. responsible for the long-term success of the
The risk factors which could materially affect Bank and the delivery of sustainable value to The Board Risk Committee comprises at least
the Group’s future results are set out on its shareholders. The Board’s role is to three independent non-executive directors. It
pages 132 to 141. The Group’s regulatory provide leadership of the Bank. It monitors provides oversight and advice to the Board on
capital resources and significant and maintains the consistency of the Bank’s current and potential future risk exposures of
developments in 2018, and anticipated future activities within the strategic direction of the the Group and future risk strategy. It reviews
developments are detailed in the Capital, RBS Group; it reviews and approves risk the Bank’s compliance with approved risk
liquidity and funding section on pages 17 to appetite for strategic and material risks in appetite and oversees the operation of the
24. This section also describes the Group’s accordance with the RBS Group Risk Appetite RBS Group’s Policy Framework and
funding and liquidity profile, including changes Framework and it monitors performance submission to regulators.
in key metrics and the build up of liquidity against risk appetite for the Bank. It approves
reserves. the Bank’s key financial objectives and keeps The Performance and Remuneration
the capital and liquidity positions of the Bank Committee comprises at least three
Having reviewed the Bank’s forecasts, under review. The Board’s terms of reference independent non-executive directors and
projections and other relevant evidence, the includes key aspects of the Group’s affairs assists the RBSG Performance and
directors have a reasonable expectation that reserved for the Board’s decision and are Remuneration Committee with the oversight
the Bank will continue in operational existence reviewed at least annually. and implementation of the RBS Group’s policy
for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the on remuneration. It also considers and makes
financial statements of the Bank have been There are a number of areas where the Board recommendations on remuneration
prepared on a going concern basis. has delegated specific responsibility to arrangements for senior executives of the
management, including the Chief Executive Group.
Corporate governance and the Chief Financial Officer. These include
Internal control over financial reporting responsibility for the operational management The Nominations Committee comprises four
The internal controls over financial reporting of the Group’s businesses as well as non-executive directors, and is chaired by the
for the Group are consistent with those at the reviewing high level strategic issues and Chairman of the Bank. It is responsible for
RBS Group level. The Group has designed considering risk appetite, risk policies and risk assisting the Board in the formal selection and
and assessed the effectiveness of its internal management strategies in advance of these appointment of directors. It reviews the
control over financial reporting as of 31 being considered by the Board and/or its structure, size and composition of the Board,
December 2018 based on the criteria set forth Committees. and membership and chairmanship of Board
by the Committee of Sponsoring committees.
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Specific delegated authorities are also in
the 2013 publication of ‘Internal Control – place in relation to business commitments The Executive Committee comprises the
Integrated Framework’. Any deficiencies across the Group. Bank’s most senior executives and supports
identified are reported to the Group Audit the Chief Executive Officer in managing the
Committee along with management’s The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Bank’s businesses. It is responsible for
remediation plans. are distinct and separate, with a clear division managing and overseeing strategic, financial
of responsibilities. The Chairman leads the capital, risk and operational issues.
The RBS Group's auditors have audited the Board and ensures the effective engagement
effectiveness of the RBS Group's internal and contribution of all executive and non- Directors
control over financial reporting and have given executive directors. The Chief Executive has The names of the current directors are shown
an unqualified opinion. responsibility for all Group businesses and on page 2.
acts in accordance with authority delegated by
Double Independent Non-Executive the Board. The non-executive directors All directors of the Bank are required to stand
Directors combine broad business and commercial for election or re-election at the Annual
An integral part of our ring-fencing experience with independent and objective General Meeting.
governance arrangements is the appointment judgement and they provide independent
of “Double Independent Non-Executive challenge to the executive directors and the Directors’ interests
Directors” or “DINEDs” to the NWH Ltd sub- leadership team. Where directors of the Bank are also directors
group boards (NWH Ltd, the Bank, Ulster of RBSG, their interests in the shares of the
Bank Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland The governance arrangements for the ultimate holding company at 31 December
plc), and board committees. committees have been designed to enable 2018 are shown in the Corporate governance,
RBSG to exercise appropriate oversight and Annual report on remuneration section of the
59
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
This statement should be read in conjunction with the responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on pages 63 to 71.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts. The directors are required by Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation (European Commission Regulation No 1606/2002) to prepare Group accounts, and as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 have
elected to prepare company accounts, for each financial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the
European Union. They are responsible for preparing accounts that present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of
the Group and the Bank. In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Bank and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Bank and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 the Strategic report and Directors’ report (incorporating the Financial review) includes a fair review of the development and performance of
the business and the position of the Bank and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Howard Davies Ross McEwan Katie Murray
Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
14 February 2019
Board of directors
Chairman Executivedirectors Non-executivedirectors
Howard Davies Ross McEwan Francesca Barnes
Katie Murray Graham Beale
Alison Rose-Slade Ian Cormack
Alison Davis
Patrick Flynn
Morten Friis
Robert Gillespie
Yasmin Jetha
Baroness Noakes
Mike Rogers
Mark Seligman
Dr Lena Wilson
61
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Independent auditor’s report to the members of National Westminster Bank Plc
Risk Our response to the risk
Impairment of loans
On 1 January 2018, a new accounting standard As IFRS 9 was adopted at the start of the year, we performed audit procedures on the
for financial instruments (IFRS 9) became opening balances to gain assurance on the transition from IAS 39. This included
effective, which introduced impairment based on evaluating the accounting interpretations for compliance with IFRS 9 and testing the
expected credit losses, rather than the incurred adjustments and disclosures made on transition.
loss model previously applied under IAS 39. We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls across the processes
At 31 December 2018 the Group reported total relevant to the ECL. This included the allocation of assets into stages, model
gross loans of £216 billion and £1.7 billion of governance, data accuracy and completeness, credit monitoring, multiple economic
expected credit loss provisions. scenarios, post model adjustments, individual provisions and production of journal
Key judgements and estimates in respect of the entries and disclosures.
timing and measurement of expected credit We observed the key executive finance and risk committees where the inputs,
losses (‘ECL’) include: assumptions and adjustments to the ECL were discussed and approved.
 Allocation of assets to stage 1, 2, or 3 using We performed an overall assessment of the ECL provision levels by stage to determine
criteria in accordance with the accounting if they were reasonable considering the Group’s portfolio, risk profile, credit risk
standard; management practices and the macroeconomic environment. We considered trends in
the economy and industries to which the Group is exposed.
 Accounting interpretations and modelling
We challenged the criteria used to allocate an asset to stage 1, 2 or 3 in accordance
assumptions used to build the models that
with IFRS 9; this included peer benchmarking to assess staging levels. We tested
calculate the ECL;
assets in stage 1, 2 and 3 to verify that they were allocated to the appropriate stage.
 Completeness and accuracy of data used to With the support of our internal modelling specialists, we tested the assumptions, inputs
calculate the ECL; and formulas used in a sample of ECL models. This included assessing the
 Inputs and assumptions used to estimate appropriateness of model design and formulas used, considering alternative modelling
the impact of multiple economic scenarios; techniques and recalculating the Probability of Default, Loss Given Default and
 Completeness and valuation of post model Exposure at Default for a sample of models.
adjustments; To verify data quality, we tested the data used in the ECL calculation by reconciling to
source systems. To test credit monitoring, we recalculated the risk ratings for a sample
 Measurements of individually assessed
of performing loans.
provisions including the assessment of
With the support of our internal economic specialists, we assessed the base case and
multiple scenarios; and
alternative economic scenarios, including challenging probability weights and
 Accuracy and adequacy of the financial comparing to other scenarios from a variety of external sources, as well as EY internally
statement disclosures. developed forecasts. We assessed whether forecasted macroeconomic variables were
appropriate, such as GDP, unemployment, interest rates and House Price Index. With
the support of our modelling specialists we challenged the correlation and impact of the
macroeconomic factors to the ECL including how non-linearity was captured.
We assessed the completeness and appropriateness of post model adjustments and
recalculated a sample. Based on current economic conditions and market
circumstances, we considered the need for sector or systemic adjustments. We
assessed the appropriateness of the scenarios used and calculation of the overlay in
response to Brexit related economic uncertainty.
With the support of our internal valuation specialists, we recalculated a sample of
individually assessed provisions including comparing to alternative scenarios and
challenging probability weights assigned. The sample was based on a number of
factors including higher risk sectors such as construction, retail, automotive, commercial
real estate, shipping and oil and gas
We assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of disclosures for compliance with the
accounting standards including disclosure of transition from IAS 39.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee
We are satisfied that credit impairment provisions were reasonable and in compliance with IFRS 9.
We highlighted the following matters to the Audit Committee:
 Control deficiencies were identified on the transition to IFRS 9 and several compensating controls were implemented notably in the
process to produce the financial statement disclosures;
 Our testing and sensitivity analysis on the staging criteria did not identify material differences and overall, we concluded that the stage
allocation at 31 December 2018 was reasonable;
 Our testing of models and model assumptions did not highlight material differences; and
For individually assessed impairments, in a few instances we reported judgemental differences in respect of the extent of the impairment
identified, however none of these differences were considered material.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts
Credit Risk section of the Capital and risk management section
Accounting policies
Note 13 on the financial statements
65
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Independent auditor’s report to the members of National Westminster Bank Plc
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee
We are satisfied that IT controls relevant to financial reporting operated effectively at year-end. We highlighted the following matters to the
Audit Committee:
 Instances of user access related deficiencies were identified. Compensating controls were tested or alternate procedures were
performed; and
 Exceptions were reported in some Service Organisation Controls Reports provided by third parties including Cloud providers. We tested
compensating controls with no issues noted.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts
Accounting policies
In the prior year, our auditor’s report included key audit matters in relation to costs recharged to or from other RBS Group companies and
provision for restructuring costs. In 2018, given materiality and our assessment of the risk, these were not considered key audit matters.
An overview of the scope of our audit
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each
component of the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements. We take into account the size and risk
profile of the component and its activities, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business
environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component. The
scoping below is consistent with the prior year.
Component Scope Keylocations
UK Personal & Business Banking Full United Kingdom
Commercial Banking Full United Kingdom
Private Banking Specific United Kingdom
Central items, Treasury and Services Full United Kingdom, India, Poland
The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams, the coverage includes the full scope components
presented in disposal groups as noted above. We considered total assets, total equity and absolute value of the amounts in the income
statement (meaning the magnitude of the amounts without regard to their positive or negative value) to verify we had appropriate overall
coverage on the income statement.
Full scope (1) Specific scope (2) Other procedures (3) Total
Total assets 85% 14% 1% 100%
Total equity 71% 27% 2% 100%
Absolute value of the income statement 92% 4% 4% 100%
The audit scope of Specific scope component may not have included testing of all significant accounts within the component. However, the
testing will have contributed to the total coverage of significant accounts tested for the overall Group.
Notes:
(1) Full scope audit procedures on all significant accounts.
(2) Specific scope: audit procedures on selected accounts
(3) Other procedures: considered in analytical procedures.
Involvement with component teams
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken in each of the
components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors in the United Kingdom or from other EY global network
firms operating under our instruction.
The primary audit engagement team interacted regularly with the component audit teams where appropriate throughout the course of the audit,
which included holding planning meetings, maintaining regular communications on the status of the audits, reviewing key working papers and
taking responsibility for the scope and direction of the audit process. The primary audit engagement team also participated in meetings with key
management personnel in the components and, for certain overseas locations, implemented a programme of planned visits. These visits
involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local
management. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the
Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in
forming our audit opinion.
Materiality
The magnitude of omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group and Bank to be £175 million (2017 materiality: £160 million), which is 5% of profit before tax of the
Group and 1% of equity of the Bank (2017 materiality basis was equity). As the Group has been profitable for the past two years, we
changed our basis of materiality to profit before tax. This measure is consistent with the wider industry and is the standard for listed and
regulated entities and we believe it reflects the most useful measure for users of the financial statements. The materiality of the Bank is
based on equity as we consider this to be the most appropriate factor to the users of the financial statements.
69
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Independent auditor’s report to the members of National Westminster Bank Plc
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability
that the aggregate of uncorrected and corrected misstatements exceed materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that
performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely £88 million (2017: £80 million). We have set performance materiality at this
percentage (which is at the lowest end of the range of our audit methodology) based on various considerations including the past history of
misstatements, the effectiveness of the control environment and other factors affecting the entity and its financial reporting.
Audit work of component teams for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on
a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component team is based on the relative scale and risk
of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, the range of
performance materiality allocated by the primary audit engagement team to components was between £60 million and £30 million.
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all corrected and uncorrected audit misstatements in excess of £8 million,
which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative
grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative and qualitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of
other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and Accounts, including the Strategic report, Report of the
directors, Statement of directors’ responsibilities, and Forward-looking statements, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report
thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether
there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration disclosure to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 the information given in the Strategic report and the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
 the Strategic report and the Report of the directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Bank and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not
identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Report of the directors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our
opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Group, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches
not visited by us; or
 the Bank financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit
Responsibilities of directors
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for the implementation of such internal control as the directors determine is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing
the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
Group or the Bank or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but
is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are; to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to
fraud; to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and
implementing appropriate responses; and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit. However, the primary
responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management. We
70
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk factors
Republic of Ireland and continental Europe stakeholders.
and rationalisation initiatives fail to achieve are represented by employee representative
the expected results or prove to be insufficient bodies, including trade unions. Engagement The Group’s operations are subject to
due to cost challenges or otherwise, this could with its employees and such bodies is inherent reputational risk.
negatively affect the Group’s operations, its important to the Group in maintaining good Reputational risk relates to stakeholder and
reputation and ability to retain or grow its employee relations. Any failure to do so could public perceptions of the Group arising from
customer business or adversely impact its impact the Group’s ability to operate its an actual or perceived failure to meet
competitive position, thereby negatively business effectively. stakeholder expectations due to any events,
impacting the Group’s financial position. behaviour, action or inaction by the Group, its
A failure in the Group’s risk management employees or those with whom the Group is
The Group, including the Bank, is required framework could adversely affect the associated. This includes brand damage,
to comply with regulatory requirements in Group, including its ability to achieve its which may be detrimental to the Group’s
respect of the implementation of the UK strategic objectives. business, including its ability to build or
ring-fencing regime. Risk management is an integral part of all of sustain business relationships with customers,
The UK ring-fencing regime came into force the Group’s activities and includes the and may cause low employee morale,
on 1 January 2019. As part of the transition to definition and monitoring of the Group’s risk regulatory censure or reduced access to, or
become compliant with the UK ring-fencing appetite and reporting on its risk exposure an increase in the cost of, funding.
regime, the Bank has established stand-alone and the potential impact thereof on its Reputational risk may arise whenever there is
market-facing capabilities for derivatives, financial condition. Financial risk management a material lapse in standards of integrity,
foreign exchange and fixed income, in order is highly dependent on the use and compliance, customer or operating efficiency
to manage funding and market risk in the effectiveness of internal stress tests and and may adversely affect the Group’s ability
Group. The Bank is now a direct member of models and ineffective risk management may attract and retain customers. In particular, the
GBP and EUR payment systems and a direct arise from a wide variety of factors, including Group’s ability to attract and retain customers
member of the London Clearing House and lack of transparency or incomplete risk (and, in particular, corporate and retail
the Continuous Linked Settlement. The reporting, unidentified conflicts or misaligned depositors) may be adversely affected by,
Group’s ongoing compliance with the UK ring- incentives, lack of accountability control and amongst others: negative public opinion
fencing regime may entail significant costs, governance, lack of consistency in risk resulting from the actual or perceived manner
and may also impose significant operational, monitoring and management or insufficient in which the Group or any other member of
legal and execution risk in the Group’s day-to- challenges or assurance processes. Failure to the RBS Group conducts or modifies its
day activities. manage risks effectively could adversely business activities and operations, media
In addition, the implementation of the UK ring- impact the Group’s reputation or its coverage (whether accurate or otherwise),
fencing regime may impact the Group’s relationship with its customers, shareholders employee misconduct, the Group’s financial
treasury operations, including internal and or other stakeholders. performance, IT systems failures or
external funding arrangements and the The Group’s operations are inherently cyberattacks, the level of direct and indirect
Group’s funding strategy as certain Group exposed to conduct risks. These include government support, or the actual or
entities, including the Bank, will be required to business decisions, actions or incentives that perceived practices in the banking and
access the debt capital markets as new stand- are not responsive to or aligned with the financial industry in general, or a wide variety
alone entities which may entail increased Group’s customers’ needs or do not reflect the o f other factors.
execution risk for the Group’s funding plan Group’s customer-focussed strategy, Modern technologies, in particular online
and may increase the cost of funding for ineffective product management, unethical or social networks and other broadcast tools
certain Group entities, including the Bank. inappropriate use of data, outsourcing of which facilitate communication with large
The Group relies on attracting, retaining customer service and product delivery, the audiences in short time frames and with
and developing senior management and possibility of alleged mis-selling of financial minimal costs, may also significantly enhance
skilled personnel, and is required to products and mishandling of customer and accelerate the impact of damaging
maintain good employee relations. complaints. Some of these risks have information and allegations.
The Group’s current and future success materialised in the past and ineffective Although the Group has implemented a
depends on its ability to attract, retain and management and oversight of conduct risks Reputational Risk Policy to improve the
develop highly skilled and qualified personnel, may lead to further remediation and regulatory identification, assessment and management
including senior management, directors and intervention or enforcement. The Group’s of customers, transactions, products and
key employees, in a highly competitive labour businesses are also exposed to risks from issues which represent a reputational risk, the
market and under internal cost reduction employee misconduct including non- Group cannot be certain that it will be
pressures. This entails risk, particularly in light compliance with policies and regulations, successful in avoiding damage to its business
of heightened regulatory oversight of banks negligence or fraud (including financial from reputational risk.
and the increasing scrutiny of, and (in some crimes), any of which could result in
cases) restrictions placed upon, employee regulatory fines or sanctions and serious Economic and political risk
compensation arrangements, in particular reputational or financial harm to the Group. Uncertainties surrounding the UK’s
those of banks in receipt of government The Group is seeking to embed a strong risk withdrawal from the European Union may
support such as the RBS Group, which may culture across the organisation and has adversely affect the Group.
have an adverse effect on the Group’s ability implemented policies and allocated new Following the EU Referendum in June 2016,
to hire, retain and engage well-qualified resources across all levels of the organisation and pursuant to the exit process triggered
employees. The market for skilled personnel to manage and mitigate conduct risk and under Article 50 of the Treaty on European
is increasingly competitive, especially for expects to continue to invest in its risk Union in March 2017, the UK is scheduled to
technology-focussed roles, thereby raising the management framework. However, such leave the EU on 29 March 2019. The terms of
cost of hiring, training and retaining skilled efforts may not insulate the Group from future a Brexit withdrawal agreement negotiated by
personnel. In addition, certain economic, instances of misconduct and no assurance the UK Government were decisively voted
market and regulatory conditions and political can be given that the Group’s strategy and against by Parliament on 15 January 2019.
developments (including Brexit) may reduce control framework will be effective. Any failure The UK Government and Parliament are
the pool of candidates for key management in the Group’s risk management framework currently actively engaged in seeking to
and non-executive roles, including non- could negatively affect the Group and its determine the terms of this departure,
executive directors with the right skills, financial condition through reputational and
including any transition period, and the
knowledge and experience, or increase the financial harm and may result in the inability to
number of departures of existing employees. achieve its strategic objectives for their resulting economic, trading and legal
relationships with both the EU and other
Many of the Group’s employees in the UK, customers, employees and wider
133
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk factors
confidence, higher levels of unemployment or its financial policy frameworks, including
macro-economic deterioration in the underemployment, adverse changes to levels proposals (e.g. through amendments to MiFID
Eurozone, China or the US, increased of inflation, and falling property prices in the II) for institutional investors (including pension
instability in the global financial system and markets in which the Group operates. funds) to consider and disclose climate risk
concerns relating to further financial shocks or criteria as part of their investment decision,
The Group expects to face significant risks
contagion (for example, due to economic and also proposals to consider changes to
in connection with climate change and the
concerns in emerging markets), market RWA methodologies. Furthermore, credit
transition to a low carbon economy
volatility or fluctuations in the value of the The risks associated with climate change are ratings agencies are increasingly taking into
pound sterling, new or extended economic subject to rapidly increasing prudential and account environmental, social and
governance (‘ESG’) factors, including climate
sanctions, volatility in commodity prices or regulatory, political and societal focus, both in
risk, as part of the credit ratings analysis, as
concerns regarding sovereign debt. This may the UK and internationally. Embedding climate are investors in their investment decisions.
be compounded by the ageing demographics risk into the Group’s risk framework in line
of the populations in the markets that the with expected regulatory expectations, and If the Group does not adequately embed
Group serves, or rapid change to the adapting the Group’s operation and business climate risk into its risk framework to
economic environment due to the adoption of strategy to address both the risks of climate appropriately measure, manage and disclose
technology and artificial intelligence. Any of change and the transition to a low carbon the various financial and physical risks it faces
the above developments could impact the economy are likely to have a significant associated with climate change, or fails to
Group directly (for example, as a result of impact on the Group. adapt its strategy and business model to the
credit losses) or indirectly (for example, by changing regulatory requirements and market
impacting global economic growth and Multilateral and UK Government undertakings expectations on a timely basis, it may have a
financial markets and the Group’s customers to limit increases in carbon emissions in the material and adverse impact on the Group’s
and their banking needs). near and medium term will require widespread
level of business growth, its competitiveness,
levels of adjustment across all sectors of the
In addition, the Group is exposed to risks profitability, prudential capital requirements,
economy, with some sectors such as
arising out of geopolitical events or political credit ratings, cost of funding, results of
property, energy, infrastructure (including
developments, such as trade barriers, operation and financial condition.
exchange controls, sanctions and other
transport) and agriculture likely to be
measures taken by sovereign governments particularly impacted. The nature and timing Changes in foreign currency exchange
that may hinder economic or financial activity of the far-reaching commercial, technological rates may affect the Group’s results and
levels. Furthermore, unfavourable political, and regulatory changes that this transition will financial position.
military or diplomatic events, including entail are currently uncertain but the impact of The Group’s foreign exchange exposure
secession movements or the exit of other such changes may be disruptive, especially if arises from structural foreign exchange risk,
member states from the EU, armed conflict, such changes do not occur in an orderly or including capital deployed in the Group’s
pandemics and widespread public health timely manner or are not effective in reducing foreign subsidiaries, branches and joint
crises, state and privately sponsored cyber emissions sufficiently. Furthermore, the nature arrangements, and non-trading foreign
and terrorist acts or threats, and the and timing of the manifestation of the physical exchange risk, including customer
responses to them by governments and risks of climate change (which include more transactions and profits and losses that are in
markets, could negatively affect the business extreme specific weather events such as a currency other than the functional currency
and performance of the Group. flooding and heat waves and longer term of the transaction entity. The Group is
shifts in climate) are also uncertain, and their required to issue instruments in foreign
Continued low interest rates have impact on the economy is predicted to be currencies that assist in meeting the Group’s
significantly affected and will continue to more acute if carbon emissions are not minimum requirements for own funds and
affect the Group’s business and results. reduced on a timely basis or to the requisite eligible liabilities (‘MREL’). The Group
Interest rate risk is significant for the Group, extent. The potential impact on the economy maintains policies and procedures designed
as monetary policy has been accommodative includes, but is not limited to, lower GDP to manage the impact of exposures to
in recent years, including as a result of certain growth, significant changes in asset prices fluctuations in currency rates. Nevertheless,
policies implemented by the Bank of England and profitability of industries, higher changes in currency rates, particularly in the
and HM Treasury such as the Term Funding unemployment and the prevailing level of sterling-US dollar and euro-sterling exchange
Scheme, which have helped to support interest rates. rates, can adversely affect the value of
demand at a time of pronounced fiscal assets, liabilities (including the total amount of
tightening and balance sheet repair. However, UK and international regulators are actively MREL eligible instruments), income, RWAs,
there remains considerable uncertainty as to seeking to develop new and existing capital base and expenses and the reported
the direction of interest rates and pace of regulations that are directly and indirectly earnings of the Bank’s UK and non-UK
change, as set by the Bank of England. focussed on climate change and the subsidiaries and may affect the Group’s
Continued sustained low or negative interest associated financial risks. Such new reported consolidated financial condition.
rates could put pressure on the Group’s regulations are being developed in parallel
interest margins and adversely affect the with an increasing market focus on the risks Decisions of major central banks (including by
Group’s profitability and prospects. In associated with climate change. In October the Bank of England, the ECB and the US
addition, a continued period of low interest 2018, the Group’s prudential regulator, the Federal Reserve) and political or market
rates and flat yield curves has affected and PRA, published a draft supervisory standard events (including Brexit), which are outside of
may continue to affect the Group’s interest which sets forth an expectation that regulated the Group’s control, may lead to sharp and
rate margin realised between lending and entities adopt a Board-level strategic sudden variations in foreign exchange rates.
borrowing costs. approach to managing and mitigating the HM Treasury (or UKGI on its behalf) could
financial risks of climate change and embed
Conversely, while increases in interest rates the management of them into their exercise a significant degree of influence
may support Group income, sharp increases governance frameworks, subject to existing over the RBS Group.
in interest rates could lead to generally prudential regulatory supervisory tools In its November 2018 Autumn Budget, the UK
weaker than expected growth, or even (including stress testing and individual and Government announced its intention to
contracting GDP, reduced business systemic capital requirements). Climate risk is continue the process of privatisation of RBSG
and to carry out a programme of sales of
also subject to various legislative actions and
RBSG ordinary shares with the objective of
proposals by, among others, the European
selling all of its remaining shares in RBSG by
Commission’s Sustainable Finance initiative
2023-2024. On 5 June 2018, the UK
that focuses on incorporating climate risk into
Government (via HM Treasury and UK
135
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk factors
vary considerably from year to year. if default rates consequently increase. In
Government Investments Limited (‘UKGI’)) Furthermore, the focus on meeting cost addition, the Group’s credit risk may be
disposed of approximately 7.7% of its stake in reduction targets may result in limited exacerbated if the collateral that it holds
RBSG. As at 31 December 2018, the UK investment in other areas which could affect cannot be realised as a result of market
Government held 62.3% of the issued the Group’s long-term product offering or conditions or regulatory intervention or if it is
ordinary share capital of RBSG. There can be competitive position and its ability to meet its liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover
no certainty as to the continuation of the sell- other targets, including those related to the full amount of the loan or derivative
down process or the timing or extent of such customer satisfaction. exposure that is due to the Group. This is
sell-downs. most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity
There is no certainty that the RBS Group’s
UKGI manages HM Treasury’s shareholder strategy will be successfully executed, that the o r depressed asset valuations.
relationship with RBSG and, although HM Group will meet its targets and expectations, Concerns about, or a default by, a financial
Treasury has indicated that it intends to or that the Group will be a viable, competitive institution could lead to significant liquidity
respect the commercial decisions of the RBS or profitable banking business. problems and losses or defaults by other
Group and that the RBS Group entities financial institutions, since the commercial
(including the Group) will continue to have The Group has significant exposure to and financial soundness of many financial
their own independent board of directors and counterparty and borrower risk. institutions is closely related and inter-
management team determining their own The Group has exposure to many different dependent as a result of credit, trading,
strategy, its position as a majority shareholder industries, customers and counterparties, and clearing and other relationships among these
(and UKGI’s position as manager of this risks arising from actual or perceived changes financial institutions. Any perceived lack of
shareholding) means that HM Treasury or in credit quality and the recoverability of creditworthiness of a counterparty may lead to
UKGI could exercise a significant degree of monies due from borrowers and other market-wide liquidity problems and losses for
influence over, among other things, the counterparties are inherent in a wide range of the Group. This systemic risk may also
election of directors and appointment of senior the Group’s businesses. The Group is adversely affect financial intermediaries, such
management, the RBS Group’s (including the exposed to credit risk if a customer, borrower as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks,
Group’s) capital strategy, dividend policy, or counterparty defaults, or under IFRS 9, securities firms and exchanges with which the
remuneration policy or the conduct of the RBS suffers a sufficiently significant deterioration of Group interacts on a daily basis. See also,
Group’s (including the Group’s) operations, credit quality under SICR (‘significant ‘The Group may not be able to adequately
and HM Treasury’s approach depends on increases in credit risk’) rules such that it access sources of liquidity and funding’.
government policy, which could change, moves to Stage 2 for impairment calculation
including as a result of a general election. The purposes. The Group’s lending strategy and As a result, borrower and counterparty credit
exertion of such influence over RBS Group associated processes may fail to identify or quality may cause accelerated impairment
could in turn have an adverse effect on the anticipate weaknesses or risks in a particular charges under IFRS 9, increased repurchase
governance or business strategy of the sector, market or borrower category, or fail to demands, higher costs, additional write-downs
Group. adequately value physical or financial and losses for the Group and an inability to
collateral, which may result in an increase in engage in routine funding transactions.
Financial resilience risk default rates for loans, which may, in turn,
The Group may not meet targets nor impact the Group’s profitability. See ‘Capital The Group operates in markets that are
generate sustainable returns. and risk management — Credit Risk’. highly competitive, with increasing
As part of the RBS Group’s strategy, the competitive pressures and technology
Group has principally become a UK-focussed The credit quality of the Group’s borrowers disruption.
domestic banking group and is included in a and other counterparties is impacted by The market for UK financial services is highly
number of financial, capital and operational prevailing economic and market conditions competitive, and the Group expects such
targets for the RBS Group including in respect and by the legal and regulatory landscape in competition to continue or intensify in
of: cost:income ratios, cost reductions the UK and any deterioration in such response to customer behaviour,
leverage ratio targets, funding plans and conditions or changes to legal or regulatory technological changes (including the growth of
requirements, reductions in RWAs and the landscapes could worsen borrower and digital banking), competitor behaviour, new
timing thereof, employee engagement, counterparty credit quality and consequently entrants to the market (including non-
diversity and inclusion as well as impact the Group’s ability to enforce traditional financial services providers such as
environmental, social and customer contractual security rights. See also, ‘The large retail or technology conglomerates),
satisfaction targets. Group faces increased political and economic industry trends resulting in increased
risks and uncertainty in the UK and global disaggregation or unbundling of financial
The Group’s ability to meet the RBS Group markets’. In particular, developments relating services or conversely the re-intermediation of
and the Group’s respective targets and to to Brexit or the consequences thereof, may traditional banking services, and the impact of
successfully meet its strategy are subject to adversely impact credit quality in the UK, and regulatory actions and other factors. In
various internal and external factors and risks. the resulting negative economic outlook could particular, developments in the financial
These include, but are not limited to, market, drive an increased level of credit impairments sector resulting from new banking, lending
regulatory, economic and political factors, reflecting the more forward-looking nature of and payment solutions offered by rapidly
developments relating to litigation, IFRS 9. evolving incumbents, challengers and new
governmental actions, investigations and entrants, notably with respect to payment
regulatory matters, and operational risks and Within the UK, the level of household services and products, and the introduction of
risks relating to the Group’s business indebtedness remains high although the pace disruptive technology may impede the
model and strategy (including emerging risks of credit growth has slowed during 2018. The Group’s ability to grow or retain its market
associated with environmental, social and ability of such households to service their share and impact its revenues and
governance issues). A number of factors may debts could be challenged by a period of high profitability, particularly in its key UK retail
impact the Bank’s ability to maintain its unemployment or increased interest rates. In banking segment. These trends may be
current CET1 ratio, including impairments, particular, the Group may be affected by catalysed by various regulatory and
limited organic capital generation or volatility in property prices both in the competition policy interventions, particularly
unanticipated increases in RWAs. In addition, residential and commercial sectors (including as a result of the UK initiative on Open
the run-down of RWAs may be accompanied as a result of Brexit) given that the Group’s Banking and other remedies imposed by the
by the recognition of disposal losses which mortgage loan portfolio as at 31 December Competition and Markets Authority (‘CMA’)
may be higher than anticipated. 2018, amounted to £124 billion, representing which are designed to further promote
The Group’s ability to meet its respective 59% of the Group’s customer loan exposure. competition within retail banking, as well as
cost:income ratio targets and the planned If property prices were to weaken this could the competition-enhancing measures under
reductions in its annual underlying costs may lead to higher impairment charges, particularly the RBS Group’s Alternative Remedies
136
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk factors
 developments relating to the UK initiative other matters, the setting of benchmark rates
failure to comply with new rules and on Open Banking and the European such as LIBOR and related derivatives
regulations) could have a significant impact on directive on payment services; trading, product mis-selling, customer
the Group’s authorisations and licenses, the mistreatment, anti-money laundering, antitrust
products and services that the Group may  new or increased regulations relating to and various other compliance issues. Legal
offer, its reputation and the value of its assets, customer data and privacy protection as and regulatory actions are subject to many
the Group’s operations or legal entity well as IT controls and resilience, including uncertainties, and their outcomes, including
structure, and the manner in which the Group the GDPR; the timing, amount of fines or settlements or
conducts its business. Areas in which, and  the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, the form of any settlements, which may be
examples of where, governmental policies, levies or fees applicable to the Group’s material and in excess of any related
regulatory and accounting changes and operations, such as the imposition of a provisions, are often difficult to predict,
increased public and regulatory scrutiny could financial transaction tax, changes in tax particularly in the early stages of a case or
have an adverse impact (some of which could rates, changes in the scope and investigation, and the Group’s expectations
be material) on the Group include, but are not administration of the Bank Levy, increases for resolution may change.
limited to, those set out above as well as the in the bank corporation tax surcharge in
following: the UK, restrictions on the tax deductibility In particular, the Group has for a number of
years been involved in conduct-related
 general changes in government, central of interest payments or further restrictions
reviews and redress projects, including a
bank, regulatory or competition policy, or imposed on the treatment of carry-forward
review of certain historic customer
changes in regulatory regimes that may tax losses that reduce the value of
connections in its former Global Restructuring
influence investor decisions in the markets deferred tax assets and require increased
Group (GRG), management of claims arising
in which the Group operates; payments of tax;
from historic sales of payment protection
 amendments to the framework or  laws and regulations in respect of climate insurance. In relation to the GRG review, the
requirements relating to the quality and change and sustainable finance (including Group established a complaints process in
quantity of regulatory capital to be held by ESG) considerations; and November 2016, overseen by an independent
the Group as well as liquidity and leverage  other requirements or policies affecting the third party. The complaints process closed on
requirements, either on a solo, Group and its profitability or product 22 October 2018 for new complaints in the UK
consolidated or subgroup level; offering, including through the imposition and, with the exception of a small cohort of
 changes to the design and implementation of increased compliance obligations or potential complainants for whom there is an
of national or supranational mandated obligations which may lead to restrictions extended deadline, on 31 December 2018 for
recovery, resolution or insolvency regimes on business growth, product offerings, or new complaints in the Republic of Ireland. An
or the implementation of additional or pricing. additional provision of £50 million was taken
conflicting loss-absorption requirements, Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in in Q4 2018, reflecting greater than predicted
including those mandated under UK rules, complaints volumes in the week leading up to
their interpretation or enforcement, or the
the BRRD, MREL or by the Financial implementation of new laws, rules or the closure of the complaints process. In
Stability Board’s (‘FSB’) recommendations regulations, including contradictory or addition, the Group continues to handle
on total loss-absorbing capacity (‘TLAC’); conflicting laws, rules or regulations by key claims in relation to historic sales of payment
 additional rules and regulatory initiatives regulators or policymakers in different protection insurance and took additional
provisions of £125 million in Q3 2018,
and review relating to customer protection jurisdictions, or failure by the Group to comply
reflecting increased complaint volumes as the
and resolution of disputes and complaints, with such laws, rules and regulations, may
complaint deadline of 31 August 2019
including increased focus by regulators adversely affect the Group’s business and
approaches. See ‘Litigation, investigations
(including the Financial Ombudsman results. In addition, uncertainty and insufficient
and reviews’ of Note 29 on the consolidated
Service) on how institutions conduct international regulatory coordination as
for details of these matters. The Group has
business, particularly with regard to the enhanced supervisory standards are
dedicated resources in place to manage
delivery of fair outcomes for customers developed and implemented may adversely
claims and complaints relating to the above
and orderly/transparent markets; affect the Group’s ability to engage in effective
and other conduct-related matters. Provisions
 rules and regulations relating to, and business, capital and risk management
taken in respect of such matters include the
enforcement of, anti-corruption, anti- planning.
costs involved in administering the various
bribery, anti-money laundering, anti- The Group is subject to a number of legal, complaints processes. Any failure to
terrorism, sanctions, anti-tax evasion or regulatory and governmental actions and administer such processes adequately, or to
other similar regimes; investigations including conduct-related handle individual complaints fairly or
 the imposition of additional restrictions on reviews and redress projects, the appropriately, could result in further claims as
the Group’s ability to compensate its outcomes of which are inherently difficult well as the imposition of additional measures
 senior management and other employees to predict, and which could have an or limitations on the Group’s operations,
and increased responsibility and liability adverse effect on the Group. additional supervision by the Group’s
rules applicable to senior and key The Group’s operations are diverse and regulators, and loss of investor confidence.
employees; complex and it operates in legal and Adverse outcomes or resolution of current or
regulatory environments that expose it to
 rules relating to foreign ownership, future legal or regulatory actions, including
potentially significant legal proceedings, and
expropriation, nationalisation and conduct-related reviews or redress projects,
civil and criminal regulatory and governmental
confiscation of assets; could result in restrictions or limitations on the
actions. The Group has settled a number of
 changes to corporate governance practice legal and regulatory actions over the past Group’s operations, and could adversely
and disclosure requirements, senior several years but continues to be, and may in impact the Group’s capital position or its
manager responsibility, corporate the future be, involved in such actions in the ability to meet regulatory capital adequacy
structures and conduct of business rules; UK, the US and other jurisdictions. requirements. Failure to comply with
undertakings made by the Group to its
 financial market infrastructure reforms
The legal and regulatory actions specifically regulators may result in additional measures
establishing new rules applying to
referred to below are, in the Group’s view, the or penalties being taken against the Group.
investment services, short selling, market
most significant legal and regulatory actions to
abuse, derivatives markets and investment The Group may not effectively manage the
which the Group is currently exposed.
funds; transition of LIBOR and other IBOR rates
However, the Group is also subject to a
 increased attention to the protection and number of ongoing reviews, investigations to alternative risk free rates.
resilience of, and competition and and litigation proceedings relating to, among UK and international regulators are driving a
innovation in, UK payment systems and transition from the use of interbank offer rates
140
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Risk factors
including the FCA and the Financial the Alternative Remedies Package), the
(IBOR’s), including LIBOR, to alternative risk Ombudsman Service, in recent years, Group will lose existing customers and
free rates (RFRs). In the UK, the FCA has including with a number of reviews/inquiries deposits, which in turn will have adverse
asserted that they will not compel LIBOR being carried out, including market reviews
impacts on the Group’s business and
submissions beyond 2021, thereby conducted by the CMA and its predecessor
associated revenues and margins.
jeopardising its continued availability, and the Office of Fair Trading regarding SME
have strongly urged market participants to banking and personal banking products and Furthermore, the capability and innovation
transition to RFRs, as the CFTC and other services, the Independent Commission on fund (which also comprises part of the
regulators in the United States. The Group Banking and the Parliamentary Commission Alternative Remedies Package) is intended to
has significant exposure to IBORs primarily on on Banking Standards. benefit eligible competitors and negatively
its commercial lending and legacy securities. impact the Group’s competitive position. To
Until there is market acceptance on the form These reviews raised significant concerns support the incentivised switching initiative,
of alternative RFRs for different products, the about the effectiveness of competition in the upon request by an eligible bank, the RBS
legal mechanisms to effect transition cannot retail banking sector. The CMA’s Retail Group has agreed to grant those customers
be confirmed, and the impact cannot be Banking Market Order 2017 imposes which have switched to eligible banks under
determined nor any associated costs remedies primarily intended to make it easier
the incentivised switching scheme access to
accounted for. The transition and for consumers and businesses to compare
its branch network for cash and cheque
uncertainties around the timing and manner of personal current account (‘PCA’) and SME
handling services, which may impact
transition to RFRs represent a number of risks bank products, increase the transparency of
customer service quality for the Group’s own
for the Group, its customers and the financial price comparison between banks and amend
customers with consequent competitive,
services industry more widely. These include PCA overdraft charging. These remedies
financial and reputational implications. The
risks related to: legal risks (as changes may impose additional compliance requirements
implementation of the incentivised switching
be required to documentation for new or on the RBS Group and the Group and could,
scheme is also dependent on the engagement
existing transactions); financial risks (which in aggregate, adversely impact the Group’s
of the eligible banks with the incentivised
may arise from any changes in valuation of competitive position, product offering and
switching scheme and the application of the
financial instruments linked to benchmarks revenues.
eligible banks to and approval by the
rates and may impact the Group’s cost of Adverse findings resulting from current or Independent Body. The incentivised transfer
funds and its risk management related future competition investigations may result in of SME customers to third party banks places
financial models); pricing risks (such as the imposition of reforms or remedies which reliance on those third parties to achieve
changes to benchmark rates could impact may impact the competitive landscape in satisfactory customer outcomes which could
pricing mechanisms on certain instruments); which the Group operates or result in give rise to reputational damage to the Group
operational risks (due to the potential restrictions on mergers and consolidations if these are not forthcoming.
requirement to adapt IT systems, trade within the financial sector.
reporting infrastructure and operational A failure to comply with the terms of the
processes); and conduct risks (which may The cost of implementing the Alternative Alternative Remedies Package could result in
relate to communication regarding the Remedies Package could be more onerous the imposition of additional measures or
potential impact on customers, and than anticipated. limitations on the Group’s operations,
engagement with customers during the In connection with the implementation of the additional supervision by the Group’s
transition period). Alternative Remedies Package (regarding the regulators, and loss of investor confidence.
business previously described as Williams &
It is therefore currently difficult to determine to Glyn), an independent body (‘Independent Changes in tax legislation or failure to
what extent the changes will affect the Group, Body’) has been established to administer the generate future taxable profits may impact
or the costs of implementing any relevant Alternative Remedies Package. The the recoverability of certain deferred tax
remedial action. Uncertainty as to the nature implementation of the Alternative Remedies assets recognised by the Group.
of such potential changes, alternative Package has involved costs for the Group, In accordance with IFRS, the Group has
reference rates or other reforms and as to the including but not limited to the funding recognised deferred tax assets on losses
continuation of LIBOR or EURIBOR may commitments of £425 million for the Capability available to relieve future profits from tax only
adversely affect financial instruments using and Innovation Fund and £350 million for the to the extent it is probable that they will be
LIBOR or EURIBOR as benchmarks. The incentivised switching scheme, both being recovered. The deferred tax assets are
implementation of any alternative RFRs may administered by the Independent Body. quantified on the basis of current tax
be impossible or impracticable under the Implementation of the Alternative Remedies legislation and accounting standards and are
existing terms of such financial instruments Package may involve additional costs for the subject to change in respect of the future
and could have an adverse effect on the value Group and may also divert resources from the rates of tax or the rules for computing taxable
of, return on and trading market for such Group’s operations and jeopardise the p rofits and offsetting allowable losses.
financial instruments. delivery and implementation of other Failure to generate sufficient future taxable
significant plans and initiatives. In addition, profits or further changes in tax legislation
The Group operates in markets that are under the terms of the Alternative Remedies (including with respect to rates of tax) or
subject to intense scrutiny by the Package, the Independent Body may require accounting standards may reduce the
competition authorities. the Group to modify certain aspects of the recoverable amount of the recognised tax loss
There is significant oversight by competition Group’s execution of the incentivised deferred tax assets, amounting to £1.4 billion
authorities of the markets which the Group switching scheme, which could increase the as at 31 December 2018. Changes to the
operates in. The competitive landscape for cost of implementation. Furthermore, should treatment of certain deferred tax assets may
banks and other financial institutions in the UK the uptake within the incentivised switching impact the Group’s capital position. In
and the rest of Europe is rapidly changing. scheme not be sufficient, the Independent addition, the Group’s interpretation or
Recent regulatory and legal changes have Body has the ability to extend the duration of application of relevant tax laws may differ
and may continue to result in new market the scheme by up to twelve months, impose from those of the relevant tax authorities and
participants and changed competitive penalties of up to £50 million, and can compel provisions are made for potential tax liabilities
dynamics in certain key areas, such as in the RBS Group to extend the customer base that may arise on the basis of the amounts
retail and SME banking in the UK where the to which the scheme applies which may result expected to be paid to tax authorities. The
introduction of new entrants is being actively in prolonged periods of disruption to a wider amounts ultimately paid may differ materially
e ncouraged by the UK Government. p ortion of the Group’s business. from the amounts provided depending on the
The UK retail banking sector has been As a direct consequence of the incentivised ultimate resolution of such matters.
subjected to intense scrutiny by the UK
switching scheme (which comprises part of
competition authorities and by other bodies,
141
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
Forward-looking statements
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements These include the significant risks presented by: operational and IT resilience
Certain sections in this document contain ‘forward-looking statements’ as that risk (including in respect of: the Group being subject to cyberattacks; operational
term is defined in the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of risks inherent in the Group’s business; the Group’s operations being highly
1995, such as statements that include the words ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘project’, dependent on its IT systems; the Group being required to comply with regulatory
‘anticipate’, ‘commit’, ‘believe’, ‘should’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘could’, ‘probability’, ‘risk’, requirements in respect of the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime; the
‘Value-at-Risk (VaR)’, ‘target’, ‘goal’, ‘objective’, ‘may’, ‘endeavour’, ‘outlook’, Group relying on attracting, retaining and developing senior management and
‘optimistic’, ‘prospects’ and similar expressions or variations on these skilled personnel and maintaining good employee relations; the Group’s risk
expressions. management framework; and reputational risk), economic and political risk
(including in respect of: uncertainties surrounding the UK’s withdrawal from the
In particular, this document includes forward-looking statements relating, but not European Union; increased political and economic risks and uncertainty in the
limited to: future profitability and performance, including financial performance UK and global markets; continued low interest rates; climate change and the
targets such as return on tangible equity; cost savings and targets, including transition to a low carbon economy; changes in foreign currency exchange rates;
cost:income ratios; litigation and government and regulatory investigations, and HM Treasury’s ownership of RBSG and the possibility that it may exert a
including the timing and financial and other impacts thereof; the implementation significant degree of influence over the RBS Group), financial resilience risk
of the Alternative Remedies Package; the continuation of the Group’s balance (including in respect of: the Group’s ability to meet targets and generate
sheet reduction programme, including the reduction of risk-weighted assets sustainable returns; deteriorations in borrower and counterparty credit quality;
(RWAs) and the timing thereof; capital and strategic plans and targets; capital, the highly competitive markets in which the Group operates; the ability of the
liquidity and leverage ratios and requirements, including CET1 Ratio, RWA Group to meet prudential regulatory requirements for capital or manage its
equivalents (RWAe), Pillar 2 and other regulatory buffer requirements, minimum capital effectively; the ability of the Group to access adequate sources of liquidity
requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities, and other funding plans; and funding; the Group’s reliance on RBS Group for capital and funding support;
funding and credit risk profile; capitalisation; portfolios; net interest margin; changes in the credit ratings of RBSG, any of its subsidiaries or any of its
customer loan and income growth; the level and extent of future impairments respective debt securities; the RBS Group’s ability to meet requirements of
and write-downs, including with respect to restructuring and remediation costs regulatory stress tests; possible losses or the requirement to maintain higher
and charges; and the Group’s exposure to political risk, economic risk, climate levels of capital as a result of limitations or failure of various models; sensitivity
change risk, operational risk, conduct risk, cyber and IT risk and credit rating risk of the Group’s financial statements to underlying accounting policies,
and to various types of market risks, including interest rate risk, foreign judgements, assumptions and estimates; changes in applicable accounting
exchange rate risk and commodity and equity price risk; customer experience policies or rules; and the application of UK statutory stabilisation or resolution
including our Net Promotor Score (NPS); employee engagement and gender powers) and legal, regulatory and conduct risk (including in respect of: the
balance in leadership positions. Group’s businesses being subject to substantial regulation and oversight; legal,
regulatory and governmental actions and investigations; the replacement of
Limitations inherent to forward-looking statements LIBOR, EURIBOR and other benchmark rates; heightened regulatory and
These statements are based on current plans, estimates, targets and governmental scrutiny (including by competition authorities); implementation of
projections, and are subject to significant inherent risks, uncertainties and other the Alternative Remedies Package and the costs related thereto; and changes in
factors, both external and relating to the Group’s strategy or operations, which tax legislation).
may result in the Group being unable to achieve the current targets, predictions,
expectations and other anticipated outcomes expressed or implied by such The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as at the
forward-looking statements. In addition, certain of these disclosures are date hereof, and the Group does not assume or undertake any obligation or
dependent on choices relying on key model characteristics and assumptions and responsibility to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or
are subject to various limitations, including assumptions and estimates made by circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated
management. By their nature, certain of these disclosures are only estimates events.
and, as a result, actual future gains and losses could differ materially from those
that have been estimated. Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on The information, statements and opinions contained in this document do not
these statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date we constitute a public offer under any applicable legislation or an offer to sell or
make them and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release solicit of any offer to buy any securities or financial instruments or any advice or
publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained recommendation with respect to such securities or other financial instruments.
herein to reflect any change in the Group’s expectations with regard thereto or
any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement
is based.
Important factors that could affect the actual outcome of the forward-
looking statements
We caution you that a large number of important factors could adversely affect
our results or our ability to implement our strategy, cause us to fail to meet our
targets, predictions, expectations and other anticipated outcomes or affect the
accuracy of forward-looking statements we describe in this document including
in the risk factors and other uncertainties set out in the Group’s 2018 Annual
Report and Accounts and other risk factors and uncertainties discussed in this
document.
142
NatWest Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018