Board of directors and secretary
Chairman Auditors
Howard Davies Ernst & Young LLP
Nominations (Chairman) Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
25 Churchill Place
Executive directors London E14 5EY
Ross McEwan
Executive (Executive Committee Chairman) Registered office
36 St Andrew Square
Ewen Stevenson Edinburgh EH2 2YB
Executive Telephone: +44 (0)131 556 8555
Independent non-executive directors Head office
PO Box 1000
Frank Dangeard Gogarburn
Risk, Technology Edinburgh EH12 1HQ
Telephone +44 (0)131 626 0000
Alison Davis
Technology (Chairman), Remuneration, Sustainability The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Registered in Scotland No. SC90312
Morten Friis
Audit, Risk
Robert Gillespie
Remuneration (Chairman), Nominations, Sustainability
Penny Hughes
Sustainability (Chairman) Nominations, Risk
Yasmin Jetha
Sustainability, Technology
Brendan Nelson
Audit (Chairman), Nominations, Risk
Baroness Noakes
Risk (Chairman), Audit, Nominations
Mike Rogers
Remuneration, Sustainability
Mark Seligman
Senior Independent Director
Nominations, Remuneration
Dr Lena Wilson
Sustainability
Chief Governance & Regulatory Officer and Board Counsel
Aileen Taylor (Company Secretary)
Audit member of the Group Audit Committee
Executive member of the Executive Committee
Nominations member of the Group Nominations and Governance Committee
Remuneration member of the Group Performance and Remuneration Committee
Risk member of the Board Risk Committee
Sustainability member of the Sustainable Banking Committee
Technology member of the Technology and Innovation Committee
3
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Financial review Capital and risk management
Risk management framework (unaudited)
Introduction
The RBS Group operates an integrated risk management It is a key element of the RBS Group’s risk management
framework, centred around the embedding of a strong risk framework and culture, providing a structured approach to risk-
culture, which is designed to achieve the correct balance taking within agreed boundaries.
between prudential and conduct obligations. Each element of the
risk management framework functions both individually and as Effective governance underpinned by our three lines of defence
part of a larger continuum. The framework ensures the tools and model, is essential to ensure the right decisions are being made
capability are in place to facilitate risk management and decision- by the right people at the right time. Governance includes regular
making across the organisation. and transparent risk reporting as well as discussion and decision-
making at senior management committees, which informs
The RBS Group’s strategy is informed and shaped by an management strategies across the organisation.
understanding of the risk landscape, including a range of
significant risks and uncertainties in the external economic, The RBS Group aims to have the right tools in place to support
political and regulatory environment. Identifying these risks and effective risk management. Having the appropriate capability,
understanding how they affect the RBS Group, informs risk people and infrastructure is central. This is supported by a strong
appetite and risk management practice. emphasis on systems, training and development to ensure
threats are anticipated and managed appropriately within the
Risk appetite, which is supported by a robust set of principles, boundaries determined by the agreed risk appetite.
policies and practices, defines our levels of tolerance for a variety
of risks.
RBS Group is able to RBS Group’s strategy is
absorb shocks and is informed and shaped by
prepared to manage new, an understanding
emerging and unforeseen of the risksit faces
risks
RBS Group
RBS Group Stress & identifies the
continually improves scenario Business risks that arise as
how risk is managed, analysis strategy a result of running
by taking action its business
where necessary and delivering
Response Risk its strategy
identification
Risk
RBS Group has Control culture
the appropriate definition & Risk
policies and controls effectiveness appetite Defining the level
embedded in the of risk which RBS
business to Group is willing to
manage the accept
risks it takes
Measurement,
evaluation & Governance
transparency
Capability,
u R n B d S er G st r a o n u d p s Inf p ra e s o t p ru le c t & u re Grou E p ns is u r c i o n n g f i R de B n S t the
and communicates right decisions are
the financial and being taken, by the
non-financial risks right people, at
it is taking RBS Group has the tools the right time
and capability to support
risk management and
decision-making across the
organisation
Measurement, evaluation and transparency are also fundamental The RBS Group has a strong focus on defining the control
elements of the framework, providing robust analysis of the environment to ensure the effective operation of policies and
materiality and likelihood of specific threats as well as supporting processes embedded in the customer-facing businesses, thus
understanding and communication of the financial and non- facilitating the management of the risks they take in the course of
financial risks the RBS Group is exposed to. their day-to-day activities.
18
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Financial review Capital and risk management
Risk management framework (unaudited) continued
Risk management structure
The diagram illustrates the RBS Group’s risk management structure in 2017 and key risk management responsibilities.
Chief Credit Officer Credit risk and control framework (including Personal and Wholesale)
Enterprise-wide risk and control framework (including stress testing and risk
Director of Enterprise-Wide Risk capital, risk appetite and framework, strategic and earnings risk, non-traded
market risk and risk model build)
Chief Risk Officer
Independent challenge on the adequacy and effectiveness of risk and conduct
Head of Risk & Conduct Assurance management practices and behaviour, model risk management and governance
Franchise Directors of Risk & Oversight and challenge to the business in their management of risk and conduct
Conduct/Chief Risk Officers
Director of Financial Crime Financial crime framework and standards, and oversight of implementation
Manages legal risk and provides legal advice on customer transactions and
Chief Executive RBS Group General Counsel products, acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures and intellectual property as well
as managing major litigation
Regulatory advisory support across all customer businesses and management of
relationships with core regulators
Capital, liquidity and funding risk as well as recovery and resolution planning.
Chie O f f F fi i c n e a r ncial Treasurer Treasury also participates in the Capital Management & Stress Testing
Committee
Notes:
(1) RBS Group risk management framework
In 2017, the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) led Risk, Conduct & Restructuring. The CRO reported directly to the Chief Executive and had a dotted reporting line to the Board Risk
Committee – as well as a right of access – to the chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
Risk, Conduct & Restructuring was a function independent of the franchises, structured by risk discipline to facilitate the effective management of risk.
Risk, Conduct & Restructuring was organised into eight functional areas: Chief of Staff; Credit Risk; Restructuring; Enterprise-Wide Risk; Risk & Conduct Infrastructure;
Operational Risk; Risk & Conduct Assurance; and Financial Crime. There were also Directors of Risk & Conduct/Chief Risk Officers for each of the franchises and for Services.
Risk committees in the customer businesses and key functional risk committees oversaw risk exposures arising from management and business activities and focused on
ensuring that they were adequately monitored and controlled.
(2) Regulatory Affairs
In 2017, Regulatory Affairs was responsible for providing leadership of the RBS Group’s relationships with its regulators. Regulatory Affairs is part of Corporate Governance &
Regulatory Affairs. Remediation & Complaints reports to the Services Chief Operating Officer.
21
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
tnemeganam
ksir
fo
thgisrevo
,egnellahc
dna
etiteppa
ksir
,krowemarf
lortnoc
dna
ksiR
Chief of Staff Proactive support to the Chief Risk Officer (including Risk, Conduct &
Restructuring strategy)
Head of Restructuring Manages RBS’s problem and potential problem Wholesale debt exposures
Director of Risk & Conduct Risk and conduct capabilities (including information services,
Infrastructure transformation, control room and surveillance, and whistleblowing)
Operational risk and control framework (including business
Director of Operational Risk processes, technology, data and organisation)
Chief Governance Head of Regulatory Developments and
Officer and Board Counsel Head of Regulator & Control Function
Liaison
Financial review Capital and risk management
Risk management framework (unaudited) continued
Risk treatment and mitigation
Risk treatment and mitigation is an important aspect of ensuring The adequacy and effectiveness of selected key controls owned
that risk profile remains within risk appetite. Risk mitigation and operated by the Risk function are also tested (with a
strategies are discussed and agreed with the businesses. particular focus on credit risk and market risk controls). The
team’s remit includes selected controls within the scope of
When evaluating possible strategies, costs and benefits, residual
Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 as well as
risks (risks that are retained) and secondary risks (those caused
selected controls supporting risk data aggregation and reporting.
by the risk mitigation actions) are considered. Monitoring and
review processes are in place to track results. Assurance is carried out on Anti-Money Laundering, Sanctions,
and Anti-Bribery & Corruption processes and controls. This helps
Information about regulatory developments and discussions is
inform whether or not the financial crime control environment is
communicated to each customer-facing business and function.
adequate and effective and whether financial crime risk is
This helps identify and execute any required mitigating changes
appropriately identified, managed and mitigated. Assurance of
to strategy or to business models.
conduct policies is predominantly focused on the Risk, Conduct &
Early identification and effective management of changes in Restructuring-owned conduct policies. Targeted work is also
legislation and regulation are critical to the successful mitigation carried out to assist the RBS Group in meeting its promises to
of conduct and regulatory risk. The effects of all changes are customers as well as its regulatory requirements.
managed to ensure timely compliance readiness. Changes
The Risk & Conduct Assurance Committee ensures a consistent
assessed as having a high or medium-high impact are managed
and fair approach to all aspects of the team’s assurance review
closely.
activities. The committee also monitors and validates the ongoing
Top and emerging risks that may affect future results and programme of reviews and tracks the remediation of the more
performance are reviewed and monitored. Action is taken to material review actions.
mitigate potential risks as and when required. In depth analysis is
Model risk
carried out, including the stress testing of exposures relative to
Model risk is the risk that a model is specified incorrectly (not
the risk.
achieving the objective for which it is designed), implemented
incorrectly (an error in translating the model specification into the
The Board Risk Committee, Asset & Liability Management
version actually used), or being used incorrectly (correctly
Committee and Executive Risk Forum provide governance and
specified but applied inappropriately).
oversight.
The RBS Group uses a variety of models as part of its risk
Risk and conduct assurance
management process and activities. Key examples include the
Risk & Conduct Assurance is an independent second line of
use of model outputs to support risk assessments in the credit
defence function which provides assurance to both internal and
approval process, ongoing credit risk management, monitoring
external stakeholders including the Board, senior management,
and reporting, as well as the calculation of risk-weighted assets.
risk functions, franchises, Internal Audit and regulators.
Other examples include the use of models to measure market
The function has three main elements – assurance, model risk risk exposures and calculate associated capital requirements, as
and risk culture. Risk & Conduct Assurance teams perform well as for the valuation of positions. The models used for stress-
quality assurance on targeted credit, market, financial crime and testing purposes also play a key role in ensuring the RBS Group
conduct risk activities. They also review selected key controls holds sufficient capital, even in stressed market scenarios.
and manage model risk governance and validation activities. In
addition, the Head of Risk & Conduct Assurance oversees the Model Risk Governance
delivery of work to embed and strengthen the RBS Group’s Model Risk Governance is responsible for setting policy and
desired risk culture. providing a governance framework for all of the RBS Group’s
models and related processes. It is also responsible for defining
The Head of Risk & Conduct Assurance also oversees the three
and monitoring model risk appetite in conjunction with model
lines of defence model, including relevant principles. For further
owners and model users, monitoring the model risk profile and
information refer to page 22.
reporting on the model population as well as escalating issues to
senior management, through the Model Risk Forum, and the
Assurance
respective franchise and function risk committees.
Qualitative reviews are carried out to assess various risk aspects
as appropriate, including: the quality of risk portfolios, the
Model Risk Management
accuracy of the Basel Model Inputs and related probability of
Model Risk Management performs independent model validation
default/loss given default classifications, the quality of risk
for material models. It works with individual businesses and
management practices, policy compliance and adherence to risk
functions to monitor adherence to model risk standards, ensuring
appetite. This can include testing the bank’s credit portfolios and
that models are developed and implemented appropriately and
market risk exposures to assist in early identification of emerging
that their operational environment is fit for purpose.
risks, as well as undertaking targeted reviews to examine specific
concerns raised either by these teams or by their stakeholders.
24
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Financial review Capital and risk management
Credit risk: management basis
The following disclosures in this section are audited: For Wholesale the four formal frameworks used, and their basis
•
Forbearance. for classification, are detailed in the following table.
•
Impairment provisioning and write-offs.
Framework Basis for classification
Definition
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a Size Other
customer or counterparty to meet its obligation to settle Single name Net exposure or
outstanding amounts. concentration loss given default
for a given
Sources of credit risk (unaudited) probability of
The principal sources of credit risk for the Group are lending, off- default
balance sheet products, derivatives and securities financing, and Sector Exposure (1) Risk – based on
debt securities. The Group is also exposed to settlement risk
economic capital and
through foreign exchange, trade finance and payments activities.
other qualitative
factors
The commentary that follows relates to Wholesale only. Credit Country Exposure (1)
risk governance for Personal is disclosed in the RBS Group
Product and Exposure – Risk – based on
Annual Report and Accounts 2017.
asset class net/gross heightened risk
Credit risk management function (unaudited) dependent on characteristics
Risk governance type of risk and
The credit risk management function is led by the Chief Credit limit definition.
Officer (CCO). The function’s activities include:
Note:
• Approving credit limits for customers. (1) Potential exposure as defined on the following page.
•
Defining concentration risk and implementing the credit risk
control framework. Risk identification and measurement (unaudited)
• Oversight of the first line of defence to ensure that credit risk Credit stewardship
remains within the risk appetite set by the Board. Risks are identified through relationship management and credit
• Developing and monitoring compliance with credit risk stewardship of portfolios or customers. Credit risk stewardship
policies. takes place throughout the customer relationship, beginning with
• Conducting Group-wide assessments of provision the initial approval. It includes the application of credit
adequacy. assessment standards, credit risk mitigation and collateral,
ensuring that credit documentation is complete and appropriate,
The CCO has overall responsibility for the credit risk function and carrying out regular portfolio or customer reviews and problem
chairs the Wholesale Credit Risk Committee. The committee has debt identification and management.
authority for risk appetite (within the appetite set by the Board),
strategy, frameworks and policy as well as oversight of the Risk measurement
Group’s credit profile. The Provisions Committee has authority The Group uses current exposure and potential exposure as its
over provisions adequacy and approves proposals from business measures of credit risk exposure. Unless otherwise stated,
provisions committees in accordance with approval thresholds. current exposure and potential exposure are reported:
The Provisions Committee is chaired either by the CCO or the
•
Net of collateral – cash and gold collateral for all product
Head of Provisions & Restructuring Credit. types as well as financial collateral for derivative and
securities financing products.
Controls • Net of provisions – credit valuation adjustments for
Credit policy standards are in place for the Wholesale portfolio. derivative and securities financing products; individual,
They are expressed as a set of mandatory controls. collective and latent provisions across all other product
types.
Risk appetite (unaudited)
The Group’s approach to lending is governed by comprehensive Exposures backed by guarantees are allocated to the guarantor
credit risk appetite frameworks. The frameworks are closely rather than the direct obligor. This does not affect the current or
monitored and actions are taken to adapt lending criteria as potential exposure amount, but does affect allocations to
appropriate. Credit risk appetite aligns to the strategic risk obligors, sectors, country and product and asset classes.
appetite set by the Board, which includes capital adequacy,
earnings volatility, funding and liquidity, and stakeholder
confidence. The credit risk appetite frameworks have been
designed to reflect factors (e.g. strategic and emerging risks) that
influence the ability to operate within risk appetite. Tools such as
stress testing and economic capital are used to measure credit
risk volatility and develop links between the credit risk appetite
frameworks and risk appetite limits. The frameworks are
supported by a suite of policies and transaction acceptance
standards that set out the risk parameters within which franchises
must operate.
36
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Financial review Capital and risk management
Traded market risk continued Model validation (unaudited)
VaR back-testing (unaudited) The Group uses a variety of models to manage and measure
The main approach employed to assess the ongoing market risk. These include pricing models (used for valuation
performance of the VaR model is back-testing, which counts of positions) and risk models (for risk measurement and capital
the number of days when a loss exceeds the corresponding calculation purposes). They are developed and signed off in
daily VaR estimate, measured at a 99% confidence level. NatWest Markets, with material models subject to independent
review by Model Risk Management. For general information on
Two types of profit and loss (P&L) are used in back-testing
the independent model validation carried out by Model Risk
comparisons: Actual P&L and Hypothetical (Hypo) P&L.
Management, which applies also to market risk models
The Actual P&L for a particular business day is the firm’s
(including VaR models), refer to page 24. Additional details
actual P&L for that day in respect of the trading activities,
relating to pricing and market risk models are presented below.
including any intraday activities, adjusted by stripping out fees
Pricing models
and commissions, brokerage, and additions to and releases
Pricing models are developed by a dedicated front office
from reserves that are not directly related to market risk.
quantitative team, in conjunction with the trading desk. They
The Hypo P&L reflects the firm’s Actual P&L excluding any
are used for the valuation of positions for which prices are not
intra-day activities.
directly observable and for the risk management of the
A portfolio is said to produce a back-testing exception when portfolio.
the Actual or Hypo P&L exceeds the VaR level on a given day.
Any pricing models that are used as the basis for valuing
Such an event may be caused by a large market movement or
books and records are subject to approval and oversight by
may highlight issues such as missing risk factors or
asset-level modelled product review committees.
inappropriate time series. Any such issues identified are
These committees comprise representatives of the major
analysed and addressed through taking appropriate
stakeholders in the valuation process - trading, finance, market
remediation or development action. Both Actual and Hypo
risk, model development and model review functions. Model
back-testing exceptions are monitored.
approval by such a committee requires review and approval by
Back-testing at the legal entity level is performed and reported
these stakeholders, including independent model review by
on 1-day 99% regulatory VaR. Back-testing for NatWest
Model Risk Management.
Markets businesses is performed on 1-day 99% internal VaR.
The review process includes the following steps:
Stressed VaR (SVaR) (unaudited) •
The committees prioritise models for review by Model
As with VaR, the SVaR methodology produces estimates of
Risk Management, considering the materiality of the risk
the potential change in the market value of a portfolio, over a
booked against the model and an assessment of the
specified time horizon, at a given confidence level. SVaR is a
degree of model risk, that is the valuation uncertainty
VaR-based measure using historical data from a one-year
arising from the choice of modelling assumptions.
p eriod of stressed market conditions. •
Model Risk Management quantifies the model risk, which
The risk system simulates 99% VaR on the current portfolio for may include comparing front office model outputs with
each 250-day period from 2005 to the current VaR date, those of alternative models independently developed by
moving forward one day at a time. The SVaR is the worst VaR Model Risk Management.
outcome of the simulated results. • The sensitivities derived from the pricing models are
This is in contrast with VaR, which is based on a rolling 500- validated.
day historical data set. A time horizon of ten trading days is
•
The conclusions of the review are used to inform risk
assumed with a confidence level of 99%. limits and by Finance to inform model reserves.
The internal traded SVaR model captures all trading book Risk models
positions. All model changes are approved through model governance
committees at franchise level. Changes to existing models are
Internal traded SVaR is monitored at RBS Group level.
subject to Model Risk Management review and the Group
Risks not in VaR (RNIVs) (unaudited) follows regulatory guidance for assessing the materiality of
The RNIV framework is used to identify and quantify market
extensions and changes to the internal model approach for
risks that are inadequately captured by the internal VaR and
market risk.
SVaR models.
Model Risk Management’s independent oversight provides
RNIV calculations form an integral part of ongoing model and
additional assurance that the Group holds appropriate capital
data improvement efforts to capture all market risks in scope
for the market risk to which it is exposed.
for model approval in VaR and SVaR.
In addition to Model Risk Management’s independent
Stress testing (unaudited)
oversight, the model testing team monitors the model
For information on stress testing, refer to page 28.
performance for market risk through back-testing, which is
Incremental risk charge (IRC) (unaudited)
discussed in more detail on page 46, and other processes.
The IRC model quantifies the impact of rating migration and
default events on the market value of instruments with
embedded credit risk (in particular, bonds and credit default
swaps) that are held in the trading book. It further captures
basis risk between different instruments, maturities and
reference entities.
46
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Financial review Capital and risk management
Pension risk (unaudited) Pension risk management function
Definition Risk governance
Pension obligation risk is the risk to the RBS Group caused by its The Main scheme operates under a trust deed. The corporate
contractual or other liabilities to, or with respect to, a pension trustee, RBS Pension Trustee Limited, is a wholly owned
scheme (whether established for its employees or those of a subsidiary of National Westminster Bank Plc. The trustee board
related company or otherwise). It is also the risk that the RBS comprises six directors selected by the RBS Group and four
Group will make payments or other contributions to, or with directors representing members. The trustee is supported by
respect to, a pension scheme because of a moral obligation or RBS Investment Executive Ltd (RIEL), which specialises in
because the RBS Group considers that it needs to do so for pension investment strategy.
some other reason.
The Pension Committee, which is chaired by the RBS Group
Sources of pension risk
Chief Financial Officer, acts as a sub-committee of the Executive
The Group has exposure to pension risk through its defined
Committee and formulates the RBS Group’s view of pension risk.
benefit schemes worldwide. The five largest schemes, which
The Pension Committee considers mechanisms that could
represent around 98% of the RBS Group’s pension liabilities are:
potentially be used for managing risk within the funds as well as
the Main Section of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension
financial strategy. The Pension Committee is a key component of
Fund (the Main scheme), the AA Section of The Royal Bank of
the RBS Group’s approach to managing pension risk and it
Scotland Group Pension Fund, the Ulster Bank Pension Scheme,
reviews and monitors risk management, asset strategy and
the Ulster Bank Pension Scheme (Republic of Ireland), and the
financing issues on behalf of the RBS Group. The Pension
Royal Bank of Scotland International Pension Trust. The Main
Committee also serves as a formal link between the RBS Group,
scheme is the principal source of pension risk. Further detail on
RIEL and the trustee.
the Group’s pension obligations can be found in Note 4 on the
consolidated accounts. For further information on Risk governance, refer to page 20.
Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest
Risk appetite
rates and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the
Investment policy for the schemes is defined by the trustee with
longevity of scheme members and legislation. Pension scheme
input from RIEL where appropriate and other specialist advisers
assets vary with changes in interest rates, inflation expectations,
employed by the trustee. While the trustee is responsible for the
credit spreads, exchange rates, and equity and property prices.
management of the scheme assets, it consults with the RBS
The RBS Group is exposed to the risk that the schemes’ assets,
Group on material changes to the Main scheme’s risk appetite
together with future returns and additional future contributions,
and investment policy.
are insufficient to meet liabilities as they fall due. In such
circumstances, the RBS Group could be obliged (or might
The RBS Group maintains an independent view of the risk
choose) to make additional contributions to the schemes, or be
inherent in pension funds, with an associated risk appetite, and
required to hold additional capital to mitigate this risk.
has defined metrics against which risk is measured. In addition to
the scrutiny provided by the Pension Committee, the RBS Group
Prior to 6 April 1997, individuals who contracted out of the UK
undertakes regular pension risk monitoring and reporting to the
State Second Pension were entitled to a Guaranteed Minimum
Board and the Board Risk Committee on the material pension
Pension (GMP). Men accrued GMP at different rates to women.
schemes that the RBS Group has an obligation to support.
The Government intends that GMP should be equalised but until
the mechanism is defined, pension funds are uncertain of their Risk controls
obligations. In the meantime, no allowance is made for GMP A pension risk management framework is in place to provide
equalisation in the IAS 19 defined benefit obligations and risk formal controls for pension risk reporting, modelling, governance
disclosures. and stress testing. A pension risk policy, which sits within the
RBS Group policy framework, is also in place and is subject to
Key developments in 2017 associated framework controls.
A memorandum of understanding between Ulster Bank Ireland
DAC and Ulster Bank Pension Trustees Limited was agreed. A Risk identification and measurement
contribution of €200 million was paid to the pension scheme and Pension risk reports are submitted to the Executive Risk Forum
the investment strategy amended to include more hedging and the Board Risk Committee four times a year in the Risk &
assets. Conduct Management Quarterly Report. This includes an
assessment of the overall deficit or surplus position, estimated
Throughout 2017, various pension risk stress-testing initiatives capital requirements, and an assessment of the associated
were undertaken, focused both on internally-defined scenarios assets and liabilities.
and on scenarios to meet integrated Bank of England stress-
testing requirements. For more information on stress testing,
refer to the following page.
51
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Financial review Capital and risk management
Conduct risk (unaudited)
Definition
•
Changes were implemented to support compliance with the
Conduct risk is the risk that the behaviour of the RBS Group and second Payment Services Directive in advance of its
its staff towards customers, or in the markets in which it operates, introduction in early 2018.
leads to unfair or inappropriate customer outcomes resulting in
•
The RBS Group updated its policies to reflect changes
reputational damage, financial loss or both. The damage or loss required in relation to the 4th Money Laundering directive,
may be the result of a failure to comply with (or adequately plan which came into force in H1 2017 to combat terrorist and
for changes to) relevant official sector policy, laws, regulations, or criminal financing.
major industry standards, or of failing to meet the expectations of
•
The Criminal Finances Act 2017 came into force in H2 2017,
customers or regulators. introducing a new corporate offence of failure to prevent the
facilitation of tax evasion. Policies and procedures in place
Sources of conduct risk
to prevent such activity were reviewed and enhanced.
Conduct risk exists across all stages of the RBS Group’s
relationships with its customers – from the development of its
Conduct risk management function
business strategies, to post-sales processes – and arises from a
The management of conduct risk is based on seven key
variety of activities. These include product design, marketing and
elements, ensuring that conduct risk exposures are understood
sales, complaint handling, staff training, and handling of
and managed in accordance with agreed risk appetite.
confidential insider information. Conduct risk also arises if the
RBS Group does not take effective action to prevent fraud, Product profitability and RBS can clearly demonstrate
RBS can clearly demonstrate pricing structures are fair that its products and services
bribery and money laundering. As set out in Note 29 on the that its business model is and transparent are designed to meet
consistent with its strategy
consolidated accounts, the RBS Group and certain members of and serves its customers well customer needs, their level
while balancing the Product of complexity is appropriate
staff are party to legal proceedings and are subject to commercial needs Profitability for the target market and
& Pricing they work in the way
investigation and other regulatory action in the UK, the US and Business Model they are expected to
other jurisdictions. RBS’s governance, & Strategy
policies and RBS has no appetite
Product RBS
so
’s
ld
c u
p
s
ro
to
d
m
uc
e
t
r
s
s
a
a
n
re
d
Key developments in 2017 Procedures for actions that result services appropriate
Ensure that in inappropriate
Parts of the Conduct & Regulatory Affairs function were merged good customer outcomes for its customers for their needs. Any
w R i e th g u th la e t o R ry is A k f f f u a n ir c s t i m on o v w e it d h t e o f C fe o c r t p f o ro ra m te 1 G J o a v n e u r a n r a y n 2 c 0 e 1 & 7. Secretariat a o a a n u c b h d t id c i e o e c v o m s e n e d b d s . y u R a c a r t B l e l S Governance or r b e r q c e e u a n i c r s e h u m l r p e e e e g n n o a t a r s l l o f t l i y e n r a a re d n g i c n u i g a la l t t o ory C L u if s e t c o y m cl e e r in p f c r o o o r v m m id a m e ti u d r o e n n i l i s e c o v a s r a t u e a n it d d t a v a b in i n c le d e a ,
while Remediation and Complaints moved to Services’ Chief relevant laws Delivery c l o e f a a r, f t f e a r i - r s w a a le y s .
O sy p n e e r r a g t i i e n s g a O c f r f o ic s e s . t T h h e e r i c s h k a , n c g o e n d w u a c s t a d n e d s i r g e n g e u d la t t o o t r a y k a e g a e d n v d a a n s t . a ge of a c a o n re n d f m l r i e c a t g s n u a o la g f t e i i n o d t n e s r e a s n t d Fi C n r a i n m c e ial Co & m C R u p e l e t w u te a r n e rd cy, su e p x p p o c e r u c t s t m a to t e i m o e n e ts s r
The RBS Group continued to remediate historical conduct issues,
while also focusing its customer-facing businesses and support RBS has robust RBS colleagues are trained, managed
systems and controls and rewarded to serve customers well
functions around the needs of its customers including the delivery in place to prevent and deliver good outcomes. RBS’s
financial crime people act with integrity and understand
of a number of regulatory change programmes. Conduct and the impact of their decisions and
behaviors on customer outcomes
litigation costs were £1.1 billion in 2017 compared with £5.2
billion in 2016 in continuing and discontinued operations.
•
The remediation of PPI continued, with the FCA confirming
Risk governance
The RBS Group defines appropriate standards of conduct and
August 2019 as the deadline for PPI mis-selling claims.
•
The FCA is reviewing the business models of UK retail
drives adherence to those standards through its framework for
managing conduct risk. The RBS Group Board and its senior
banks, building societies and credit unions, to understand
committees receive updates on conduct risk exposures and
how recent changes are affecting competition and conduct
action plans through regular reporting.
in the sector.
•
Following an enforcement notice from the Central Bank of
Key elements of the governance structure are set out below:
Ireland in respect of tracker mortgages, a significant •
The Risk, Conduct & Restructuring Executive Committee
remediation programme was established.
•
Work progressed to meet the requirements of the revised
considers emerging material risks and issues, and
implements Board and Executive Committee risk
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation
management policy decisions.
(MiFID II/MiFIR) in advance of their introduction in early •
The Financial Crime Risk Executive Committee
2018.
•
Work also progressed on the conduct-related aspects of the
(accountable to the Executive Risk Forum) ensures that the
customer-facing businesses and the Services function fulfil
UK’s ring-fencing requirements.
strategic objectives by identifying and managing their
financial crime risks effectively.
54
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Financial review Capital and risk management
Operational risk (unaudited) continued Risk controls
Operational risk is responsible for the design, development, The Control Environment Certification (CEC) process is a half
delivery and continuous improvement of the operational risk yearly self-assessment by the CEOs of RBS Group’s customer-
management framework. The Operational Risk Policy is facing franchises and business units, as well as the heads of the
incorporated into the RBS Group Policy Framework and provides RBS Group’s support and control functions. It gives an
direction for the consistent identification, assessment, assessment on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal
management, monitoring and reporting of operational risk. control environment in a consistent and comparable manner,
Through a network of oversight teams, the function seeks to highlighting areas where targeted effort is needed to meet the
ensure the integrity of the framework, and manages overall standards required in order to create a safer and more secure
operational risk profile against risk appetite. bank for customers. It covers material risks and the key controls
that underpin them, including financial, operational and
The Operational Risk Executive Committee (OREC), which is a
compliance controls, as well as supporting risk management
sub-committee of the Executive Risk Forum (ERF), acts on all
frameworks.
operational risk matters. OREC’s duties include reviewing
operational risk exposure against risk appetite; identifying and The CEC outcomes, including forward-looking assessments for
assessing both current and emerging material operational risks; the next two half-yearly cycles and the progress made to improve
reviewing and monitoring the operational risk profile; and the control environment, are reported to the RBS Group Board,
reviewing and approving material operational risk policy the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee. They
management framework changes. are also shared with external auditors.
The CEC process helps to ensure compliance with the RBS
Risk appetite
Group Policy Framework, Sarbanes-Oxley 404 requirements
The operational risk appetite framework supports effective
concerning internal control over financial reporting (as referenced
management of key operational risks. It expresses the level and
in the RBS Group 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Compliance
types of operational risk the RBS Group is willing to accept in
report on page 107), and certain requirements of the UK
order to achieve its strategic objectives and business plans.
Corporate Governance Code.
The RBS Group’s operational risk appetite is expressed through
Risk identification and measurement
a set of qualitative risk appetite statements and quantitative
Across all business areas, risk and control assessments are used
measures which are defined at an aggregate, RBS Group-wide
to identify and assess material operational and conduct risks and
and individual business level. Appetite covers the RBS Group’s
key controls. To support identification of risk concentrations, all
most material operational risks, defined by a materiality
risks and controls are mapped to the risk directory. Risk
assessment, which in turn considers past, current and future risk
assessments are refreshed at least annually to ensure they
exposures. Appetite exposures for all material risks are regularly
remain relevant and capture any emerging risks.
reported to business risk committees, the OREC, ERF and Board
Risk Committee. The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively
managed and prioritised in line with the stated risk appetite.
The aggregation of operational risk appetite allows the RBS
Controls are tested at the appropriate frequency to verify that
Group to monitor and report on its material risk exposures
they remain fit-for-purpose and operate effectively.
against predetermined limits. This drives management
intervention and action at defined points, such as the breach of During 2017, work continued to increase the coverage of the
an early warning trigger. enhanced end-to-end risk and control assessment methodology.
This approach, which strengthens understanding of the risk
Above these sit an RBS Group-level operational risk appetite
profile of key products and services, is used to identify and
statement which encompasses the full range of operational risks.
quantify the most material operational risks. Subject matter
This drives the strategic risk measurement of stakeholder
experts and key stakeholders are engaged from across the RBS
confidence and is reviewed annually by the ERF. The statement
Group to underpin management action in line with RBS Group’s
is supported by three simple measures: (i) the relationship
financial and non-financial appetite statement. The results of the
between operational risk losses and RBS Group’s gross income;
risk and control assessments support the RBS Group’s on-going
(ii) metrics covering control environment performance; and (iii)
journey to build on, and enhance, its control environment.
the requirement for the material RBS Group-wide operational
risks to be managed within risk appetite. Monitoring and reporting are part of the RBS Group’s operational
risk management processes, which aim to ensure that risks are
identified, considered by senior executives, and managed
effectively. The most material operational risks and their position
relevant to risk appetite are regularly reviewed at the OREC,
along with any emerging risks and the actions taken to mitigate
them. These are also reported to the Board Risk Committee and
the ERF. Exposures specific to each business are communicated
through regular risk and control reports discussed at business
risk committees.
57
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Financial review Capital and risk management
Business risk (unaudited) continued Risk appetite
Risk identification The RBS Group manages and articulates its appetite for
Business risk is identified and managed at the product and reputational risk through the implementation of a qualitative
transaction level. Estimated revenue, costs and capital are key reputational risk appetite statement and a committee-based
considerations in the design of any new product or in any new governance framework. This has improved the identification,
investment decision. assessment and management of customers, transactions,
products and issues that present a material reputational risk,
Business risk is reported, assessed and challenged at every
resulting in a greater awareness and focus on the importance of
governance level within the organisation. Each franchise
this risk. Moreover, the RBS Group has seen a rise in the number
monitors its financial performance relative to plans and reports
of cases being referred to franchise and group-wide reputational
this on a regular basis to the finance directors of each franchise.
risk fora as a result of increased awareness of the framework as
Risk mitigation well as training on reputational risk.
The RBS Group operates a monthly rolling forecasting process to
identify projected changes in, or risks to, key financial metrics, Risk mitigation
and ensures appropriate actions are taken. Reputational risk is mitigated through the policy and governance
framework, with ongoing staff training to ensure early
identification, assessment and escalation of material issues.
Reputational risk (unaudited)
Lessons learned from committee meetings have also improved
Definition
the way cases and issues are debated and decisions made.
Reputational risk is the risk to the RBS Group’s public image from
a failure to meet stakeholders’ expectations in relation to The most material threats to the RBS Group’s reputation
performance, conduct or business profile. Stakeholders include continued to originate from historical and more recent conduct
customers, investors, employees, suppliers, government, issues. As a result, the RBS Group has been the subject of
regulators, special interest and consumer groups, media and the investigations and reviews by a number of its regulators, some of
general public. which have resulted in fines and public censure. Refer to the
Litigation, investigations and reviews section of Note 29 on the
Sources of risk
consolidated accounts on page 155.
Reputational risk can arise from the conduct of employees;
activities of customers and the sectors and countries in which
they operate; provision of products and transactions; as well as
operations and infrastructure.
Governance
Reputational risk has RBS Group Board-level oversight
reinforced by a Reputational Risk Policy. The Board Risk
Committee and Sustainable Banking Committee are responsible
for overseeing how RBS Group manages its reputation. The RBS
Group Board’s oversight of reputational issues is supported by
the senior RBS Group-wide Reputational Risk Forum (RRF)
which opines on cases and issues that represent a material
reputational risk to the whole organisation. The RRF, which has
delegated authority from the Executive Risk Forum (ERF), also
acts as a central forum to review sector or theme-specific
reputational risk acceptance positions, including environmental,
social and ethical risk positions, for example, in the Defence and
Gambling sectors.
59
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Report of the directors
Financial performance Professionalising colleagues is important to the RBS Group. We
A review of the Group's performance during the year ended 31 continue to work closely with the Chartered Banker Institute (CBI)
December 2017 and the Group's financial position as at that date and Chartered Banker Professional Standards Board (CB:PSB)
is contained in the Financial review on pages 8 to 12. to offer RBS Group colleagues professional qualifications. In
2017 over 3,000 colleagues completed their CBI qualification and
Employees
96% completed the training element of the CB:PSB Foundation
Our colleagues
Standard.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group employed 71,200 people
(full-time equivalent basis, including temporary workers) in The RBS Group also offer a wide range of additional learning
continuing and discontinuing operations throughout the world. opportunities.
Details of related costs are included in Note 3 on the Youth Employment
consolidated accounts. The Board of Directors has considered In 2017, we welcomed 471 people across the RBS Group
ring-fencing preparations during the year and in advance of the Graduate and Apprenticeship schemes as well as around 150
legislation taking effect on 1 January 2019. Summer Interns.
Health and wellbeing of our colleagues
Engaging our colleagues is critical to delivering on our strategy
Wellbeing is a strong foundation for making the RBS Group a
and ambition as a bank. Further details on our approach can be
great place to work. For the third year running the RBS Group
found on page 33 and 34 of the RBS Group strategic report.
participated in the Global Challenge (formerly GCC) and with
34,000 colleagues taking part we won the Global Challenge 1st
Building a healthy culture
Most Active Organisation Financial Industry. Building on this
Building a healthy culture that embodies Our Values is one of
success, we embraced the rapid acceleration of digital wellbeing
RBS Group’s core priorities.
and are one of the few large organisations to pilot a digital
Our Values guide the way the RBS Group identify the right wellbeing platform.
people to serve our customers well, and how the RBS Group
During 2017 the RBS Group has continued to support Time to
manage, engage and reward colleagues. They are at the heart of
Change (removing the stigma of mental health) and actively
both Our Standards (the bank wide behavioural framework) and
encouraged open dialogue across the bank to support Mental
Our Code (the bank wide Code of Conduct).
Health in the Workplace.
Engaging our colleagues The RBS Group were successful in running bankwide major
The RBS Group know that building an engaged, healthy and online campaigns to support Mental Health Awareness Week and
inclusive workforce is crucial to achieving our ambition. Every World Mental Health Day.
year RBS Group asks colleagues to share their thoughts on what
As the RBS Group continue to support our colleagues through
it’s like to work here via our annual colleague survey.
change we have fully utilised the services of our Employee
Assistance Programme.
The 2017 results were the most positive we’ve seen in recent
times. Key measures of engagement, leadership and our culture Employee consultation
have improved significantly, and the RBS Group are now above The RBS Group recognise employee representatives such as
the global financial services norm in the majority of our survey trade unions and work councils in a number of businesses and
categories. countries. There has been ongoing engagement and discussion
with those bodies given the scale of change taking place across
Rewarding our colleagues
the RBS Group. Management have continued to meet regularly
Our approach to performance management provides clarity for
with our European Employee Council to discuss developments
colleagues about how their contribution links to our ambition. It
and update on the progress of our strategic plans.
recognises behaviour that supports our values and holds
individuals to account for behaviour and performance that does Inclusion
not. Building a more inclusive RBS Group is essential for our
customers and colleagues. Our inclusion policy standard applies
The RBS Group have a focus on paying the right wage to
to all our colleagues globally.
colleagues and the RBS Group rates of pay continue to exceed
the Living Wage Foundation Benchmarks. During 2017, we continued to roll out unconscious bias learning
to all RBS Group colleagues (over 70,000 trained, to date) to
Developing our colleagues
create a solid platform for the wider inclusion agenda.
The RBS Group continued to deliver ‘Determined to Lead’, which
is the core management system for the bank. It provides The RBS Group continue to work towards our goal of having at
consistent tools to lead and engage colleagues. This programme least 30% senior women in our top three leadership layers across
has continued in 2017 with over 3,000 leaders participating. each Franchise and Function by 2020 and to be fully gender
balanced (50/50) by 2030. We have a positive action approach in
In 2017 we launched the next stage in Service Excellence
place, tailored by business, according to the specific challenges
training, our customer service programme and had over 16,000
they face.
colleagues complete Level one.
62
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Report of the directors
The RBS Group disability plan for training, career development The RBS Group’s auditors have audited the effectiveness of the
and promotion of disabled persons employed by the company will RBS Group’s internal control over financial reporting and have
support us becoming a disability smart organisation, with upper given an unqualified opinion.
quartile performance, by 2018.
Management's report on the RBS Group’s internal control over
We continue to focus on building an ethnically diverse RBS
financial reporting will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Group. We will introduce explicit targets for BAME representation
Commission as part of the RBS Group’s 2017 Annual Report on
at senior levels in 2018.
Form 20-F.
Our LGBTQ agenda continues to deliver a better experience for
our LGBTQ colleagues and customers. The RBS Group have Board of directors
processes in place to support updating gender and title on The Board is the main decision-making forum for the Bank. It has
customers’ banking records and to support colleagues overall responsibility for management of the business and affairs
undergoing gender transition. of the Group, the establishment of Group strategy and the
allocation and raising of capital, and is accountable to
The RBS Group have been recognised for our work on Equality,
shareholders for financial and operational performance. The
Diversity and Inclusion by retaining our Platinum ranking from
Board considers strategic issues and ensures the Group
Opportunity Now (gender), retaining our Gold ranking for Race
manages risk effectively through approving and monitoring the
for Opportunity (race); retaining a position in the Times Top 50
Group’s risk appetite, considering Group stress scenarios and
Employers for Women; becoming a Top Ten Global Employer in
agreed mitigants and identifying longer term strategic threats to
Stonewall’s Global Equality Index (LGBT), Silver Status from The
the Group’s business operations. The Board’s terms of reference
Business Disability Forum and being rated a Top 10 Employer by
includes key aspects of the Bank’s affairs reserved for the
Working Families. In 2017 we were proud to be named ‘Diverse
Board’s decision and are reviewed at least annually.
Company of the Year’ at the National Diversity Awards and
winning Workplace Adjustments Innovation of the Year at the There are a number of areas where the Board has delegated
Disability Smart Awards. specific responsibility to management, including the Chief
Executive and the Chief Financial Officer. These include
The RBS Group continue to support our c.20,000 strong
responsibility for the operational management of the Group’s
employee-led networks.
businesses as well as reviewing high level strategic issues and
Going concern considering risk appetite, risk policies and risk management
The Group’s business activities and financial position, the factors strategies in advance of these being considered by the Board
likely to affect its future development and performance and its and/or its Committees.
objectives and policies in managing the financial risks to which it
Specific delegated authorities are also in place in relation to
is exposed and its capital are discussed in the Financial review.
business commitments across the Group.
The risk factors which could materially affect the Group’s future
results are set out on pages 189 to 222. The Group’s regulatory The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and
capital resources and significant developments in 2017 and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities. The Chairman
anticipated future developments are detailed on pages 30 to 32. leads the Board and ensures the effective engagement and
The liquidity and funding section on pages 33 to 34 describes the contribution of all executive and non-executive directors.
Group’s funding and liquidity profile, including changes in key The Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses
metrics and the build up of liquidity reserves. and acts in accordance with authority delegated by the Board.
Having reviewed the Group’s forecasts, projections and other The non-executive directors combine broad business and
relevant evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation commercial experience with independent and objective
that the Group and the company will continue in operational judgement and they provide independent challenge to the
existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the financial executive directors and the leadership team.
statements of the Group and of the company have been prepared The Group Audit Committee comprises at least three independent
on a going concern basis. non-executive directors and assists the Board in discharging its
Corporate governance responsibilities for the disclosure of the financial affairs of the
Internal control over financial reporting Group. It reviews the accounting policies, financial reporting and
The internal controls over financial reporting for the Group are regulatory compliance practices of the Group, the Group’s
consistent with those at the RBS Group level. The RBS Group is system and standards of internal controls, and monitors the
required to comply with Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Group’s processes for internal audit and external audit and
Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over reviews the practices of the segmental Risk and Audit
financial reporting as of 31 December 2017. Committees.
The RBS Group has assessed the effectiveness of its internal The Board Risk Committee comprises at least three independent
control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2017 based on non-executive directors. It provides oversight and advice to the
the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Board on current and potential future risk exposures of the Group
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in the 2013 and risk strategy. It reviews the Group’s performance on risk
publication of ‘Internal Control - Integrated Framework'. appetite and oversees the operation of the Group Policy
Framework.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of
31 December 2017, the RBS Group’s internal control over
financial reporting is effective.
63
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Report of the directors
The Group Performance and Remuneration Committee comprises at Directors’ interests
least three independent non-executive directors and has The interests of the directors in the shares of the holding
oversight of the Group’s policy on remuneration. It also considers company at 31 December 2017 are disclosed in the Report and
senior executive remuneration and makes recommendations to Accounts of that company. None of the directors held an interest
the Board on remuneration of executive directors. in the loan capital of the holding company or in the shares or loan
capital of the Bank or any of the subsidiaries of the Bank, during
The Group Nominations and Governance Committee comprises four
the period from 1 January 2017 to 22 February 2018.
non-executive directors, and is chaired by the Chairman of the
Group. It is responsible for assisting the Board in the formal Directors' indemnities
selection and appointment of directors. It reviews the structure, In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 (the
size and composition of the Board, and membership and “Companies Act”), Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions
chairmanship of Board committees. The Committee also has have been issued by the holding company to its directors,
responsibility for monitoring the Group’s governance members of the Group’s Executive Committee, individuals
arrangements in order to ensure best corporate governance authorised by the PRA/FCA and certain directors and/or officers
standards and practices are upheld. of the Group’s subsidiaries.
The Technology and Innovation Committee comprises of independent In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act, Qualifying Pension
non-executive directors. Recognising the strategic importance of Scheme Indemnity Provisions have been issued to all trustees of
technology and innovation to the RBS Group’s business, the the Group’s pension schemes.
Board established a new Board Committee in August 2017.The
Technology and Innovation Committee is responsible for Post balance sheet events
assisting the Board in overseeing and monitoring execution of our Other than the matter disclosed in Note 40 on the accounts, there
strategic direction in relation to technology and innovation. Alison have been no significant events between the year end and the
Davis chairs this new committee, supported by Frank Dangeard, date of approval of these accounts which would require a change
and Yasmin Jetha as members. to or disclosure in the accounts.
The Sustainable Banking Committee comprises of independent Political donations
non-executive directors. It is responsible for overseeing and During 2017, no political donations were made in the UK or EU,
challenging how management is addressing sustainability and nor any political expenditure incurred in the UK or EU.
reputation issues relating to all stakeholder groups, except where
Directors’ disclosure to auditors
such issues have already been dealt with by other Board
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report
committees.
confirms that:
The Executive Committee comprises the Group’s most senior
(a) so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit
executives and supports the Group Chief Executive in managing
information of which the Bank’s auditors are unaware; and
the Group’s businesses. It reviews strategic issues and initiatives,
monitors financial performance and capital allocations, and (b) the director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have
considers risk strategy, policy and risk management. taken as a director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the Bank’s auditors are
Share capital
aware of that information.
Details of the ordinary and preference share capital at 31
December 2017 are shown in Note 25 on the accounts. This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in
Directors accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies
The names of the current directors are shown on page 2. Act.
Howard Davies, Alison Davis, Frank Dangeard, Morten Friis, Auditors
Robert Gillespie, Penny Hughes, Ross McEwan, Brendan EY LLP are the auditors. The auditors, EY LLP, have indicated
Nelson, Baroness Noakes, Mike Rogers and Ewen Stevenson all their willingness to continue in office. A resolution to re-appoint
served throughout the year and to the date of signing the EY LLP as the company’s auditors will be proposed at the
financial statements. forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Sandy Crombie stepped down as director on 1 January 2018.
John Hughes was appointed to the Board on 21 June.
By order of the Board
Unfortunately John subsequently resigned as a director on 1
Aileen Taylor
September 2017, due to health issues. Yasmin Jetha was
appointed on 21 June 2017 and became a member of the
Sustainable Banking Committee and Technology and Innovation
Company Secretary
Committee. Mark Seligman was appointed on 1 April 2017 and
22 February 2018
assumed the role of Senior Independent Director on 1 January
2018. Dr Lena Wilson was appointed on 1 January 2018 and
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
became a member of the Sustainable Banking Committee on the
is registered in Scotland No. SC90312.
31 January 2018.
All directors of the company are required to stand for election or
re-election annually by shareholders at the Annual General
Meeting.
64
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
This statement should be read in conjunction with the responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on page 67.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts. The directors are required by Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation (European Commission Regulation No 1606/2002) to prepare Group accounts, and as permitted by the Companies Act 2006
have elected to prepare Bank accounts, for each financial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as
adopted by the European Union. They are responsible for preparing accounts that present fairly the financial position, financial
performance and cash flows of the Group and the Bank. In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to:
•
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
•
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Companies Act 2006. They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Bank and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
•
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Bank and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a
whole; and
•
the Strategic Report and Directors’ report (incorporating the Financial review) includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the Bank and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole,
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Howard Davies Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson
Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
22 February 2018
Board of directors
Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors
Howard Davies Ross McEwan Frank Dangeard
Ewen Stevenson Alison Davis
Morten Friis
Robert Gillespie
Penny Hughes
Yasmin Jetha
Brendan Nelson
Sheila Noakes
Mike Rogers
Mark Seligman
Dr Lena Wilson
65
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Independent auditor’s report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams; the coverage includes the full scope and
specific scope components presented in disposal groups as noted above. As the Group made a loss during the year and several
operations were moved to discontinued operations, we considered total assets, total equity and the absolute value of the amounts in the
income statement (meaning the magnitude of the amounts without regard to their positive or negative value) to verify we had
appropriate overall coverage on the income statement.
Full scope(1) Specific scope(2) Other procedures(3) Total
Total assets 90% 9% 1% 100%
Total equity 51% 48% 1% 100%
Absolute value of the income statement 84% 7% 9% 100%
Involvement with component teams
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken in each of the
components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors in the United Kingdom or from other EY global
network firms operating under our instruction. Of the four full scope components, audit procedures were performed on one of these
directly by the primary audit engagement team. Of the two specific scope components, where work was performed by component
auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained
as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The primary audit engagement team interacted regularly with the component audit teams where appropriate throughout the course of
the audit, which included holding planning meetings, maintaining regular communications on the status of the audits, reviewing key
working papers and taking responsibility for the scope and direction of the audit process. The primary audit engagement team also
participated in meetings with key management personnel in the components and, for certain overseas locations, implemented a
programme of planned visits. These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from
their work, as well as meeting with local management. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us
appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit
and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality
The magnitude of omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our
audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group and Bank to be £220 million (2016 materiality: £210 million), which is 0.6% of the total equity of
the Group and 0.6% of the Bank. We considered that equity represented a relevant measure used by investors, regulators and other
stakeholders when assessing the performance of the Group and Bank. Our materiality was based on the equity of the Group given the
significant losses and volatility of results in recent years. During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and increased
it from our initial level of £210 million in light of the fact that many legacy items are now reflected in equity.
Notes:
(1) Full scope: audit procedures on all significant accounts.
(2) Specific scope: audit procedures on selected accounts
(3) Other procedures: considered in analytical procedures.
78
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Independent auditor’s report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the
probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and corrected misstatements exceed materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that
performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely £110 million (2016: £105 million). We have set performance
materiality at this percentage (which is at the lowest end of the range of our audit methodology) based on various considerations
including the past history of misstatements, our ability to assess the likelihood of misstatements, the effectiveness of the control
environment and other factors affecting the entity and its financial reporting.
Audit work of component teams for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken
based on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component team is based on the
relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In
the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated by the primary audit engagement team to components was between £45
million and £85 million.
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Group Audit Committee that we would report to them all corrected and uncorrected audit misstatements in excess of
£11 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warranted
reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative and qualitative measures of materiality discussed above and
in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Accounting developments effective 1 January 2018 – IFRS 9 Financial Instruments
IFRS 9 replaces the current financial instruments standard IAS 39 effective 1 January 2018. It represents a fundamental change to the
way financial instruments are classified, measured and assessed for credit impairment. The Group has established a Group-wide
programme to implement the necessary changes as a result of this standard and disclosed the impact of transition on equity. Our audit
work on this accounting change has been performed throughout 2017, for the purpose of the transition disclosure included in the 2017
financial statements, and continues through 2018. Our procedures on the impact disclosed included:
•
Assessing the key interpretations made by management for compliance with IFRS 9
•
Classification and measurement:
o Testing the intent of holding the instruments and their contractual characteristics in order to assess their classification
•
Credit impairment:
o Testing the assumptions and judgements used in the impairment models to calculate expected credit losses, including
the incorporation of economic forecasts
o Testing the data used to run the models
o Testing the IT applications used in the credit impairment process
We also tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls over the completeness and accuracy of the transition disclosure
included in the financial statements.
Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and Accounts, including the Strategic Report (set out on
pages 3 to 59), Report of the directors (set out on pages 60 to 64), Statement of directors’ responsibilities (set out on page 65, Additional
information (set out on pages 187 to 222), Abbreviations and acronyms (set out on page 223), Glossary of terms (set out on pages 224
to 230), Forward-looking statements (set out on page 231), and Principal offices (set out on page 232) other than the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this
report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
79
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Notes on the accounts
Litigation, investigations and reviews continued
Key points
FCA Mortgages Market Study
• a plan to strengthen board and senior management oversight of
In December 2016, the FCA launched a market study into the
the corporate governance, management, risk management, and
provision of mortgages. The FCA is expected to publish an
operations of the RBS Group’s US operations on an enterprise-
interim report in Spring 2018 with the final report expected in Q4
wide and business line basis;
2018.
• an enterprise-wide risk management programme for the RBS
Group’s US operations;
At this stage, as there is considerable uncertainty around the
• a plan to oversee compliance by the RBS Group’s US operations
outcome of this market study, it is not practicable reliably to
with all applicable US laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory
estimate the aggregate impact, if any, on the RBS Group which
guidance;
may be material.
• a Bank Secrecy Act/anti-money laundering compliance
programme for the US Branches on a consolidated basis;
FCA Strategic Review of Retail Banking Models
• a plan to improve the US Branches’ compliance with all applicable
On 11 May 2017 the FCA announced a two phase strategic
provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act and its rules and regulations
review of retail banking models. The FCA will use the review to
as well as the requirements of Regulation K of the Federal
understand how these models operate, including how ‘free if in
Reserve;
credit’ banking is paid for and the impact of changes such as • a customer due diligence programme designed to ensure
increased use of digital channels and reduced branch usage.
reasonably the identification and timely, accurate, and complete
reporting by the US Branches of all known or suspected violations
Phase 1 will allow the FCA to enhance its understanding of
of law or suspicious transactions to law enforcement and
existing models and how these impact competition and conduct.
supervisory authorities, as required by applicable suspicious
Phase 2 will evaluate the impacts of economic, technological,
activity reporting laws and regulations; and
social and regulatory factors on these models. A project update is • a plan designed to enhance the US Branches’ compliance with
expected in Q2 2018 outlining the FCA’s preliminary conclusions
Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) requirements.
from Phase 1.
The Governance Order identified specific items to be addressed,
At this early stage, as there is considerable uncertainty around
considered, and included in each proposed plan or programme.
the outcome of this review, it is not practicable reliably to
The RBS Group also agreed in the Governance Order to adopt
estimate the aggregate impact, if any, on the RBS Group, which
and implement the plans and programmes after approval by the
in due course may be material.
regulators, to comply fully with the plans and programmes
thereafter, and to submit to the regulators periodic written
Governance and risk management consent order
progress reports regarding compliance with the Governance
In July 2011, the RBS Group agreed with the Board of Governors
Order.
of the Federal Reserve System, the New York State Banking
Department, the Connecticut Department of Banking, and the
The RBS Group has created, submitted, and adopted plans
Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to
and/or programmes to address each of the areas identified
enter into a consent Cease and Desist Order (Governance Order)
above. In connection with the RBS Group’s efforts to implement
(which is publicly available) to address deficiencies related to
these plans and programmes, it has, among other things, made
governance, risk management and compliance systems and
investments in technology, hired and trained additional
controls in the US branches of RBS plc and RBS N.V. branches
personnel, and revised compliance, risk management, and other
(the US Branches).
policies and procedures for the RBS Group’s US operations. The
RBS Group continues to test the effectiveness of the remediation
In the Governance Order, the RBS Group agreed to create the
efforts it has undertaken to ensure they are sustainable and meet
following written plans or programmes:
regulators' expectations. Furthermore, the RBS Group continues
to work closely with the regulators in its efforts to fulfil its
obligations under the Governance Order, which will remain in
effect until terminated by the regulators.
The RBS Group may be subject to formal and informal
supervisory actions and may be required by its US banking
supervisors to take further actions and implement additional
remedial measures with respect to these and additional matters.
The RBS Group’s activities in the US may be subject to
significant limitations and/or conditions.
165
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Additional information
Risk factors continued
• As part of the establishment of the RFB, the RFB will need • Once the UK ring-fencing regime is implemented, reliance
to operate independently from other RBS Group entities on intragroup exemptions in relation to the limits of risk-
outside the RFB, including the Bank, and as a result, weighted assets and large exposures will not be possible
amendments will need to be made to the RBS Group’s between the RFB and other RBS Group entities outside the
existing corporate governance structure to ensure the RFB RFB (including the Bank) and may result in risk-weighted
is independent of the Bank. This new structure, which will assets inflation for the Bank and/or the RBS Group.
also require the approval of the PRA, may result in • From 2026 it will not be possible for the Group or other
divergences between the various governance bodies within entities outside the RFB to participate in the same defined
the RBS Group and create operational challenges. In benefit pension scheme as RFB entities or their wholly-
particular, capital and funding requirements of the Bank and owned subsidiaries. As a result, it will be necessary to
other RBS Group entities outside the RFB will increasingly restructure the RBS Group’s defined benefit pension
be managed at the level of the Group as a result of these scheme (including The Royal Bank of Scotland Group
increasingly independent governance structures and this Pension Fund ( ‘Main scheme’) in which the Group currently
may have an impact on the availability and cost of funding participates). This restructuring will be such that either the
for the Group. Group or the RFB entities leave the current scheme. The
• The implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime will costs of separation may be material and may trigger certain
significantly impact the management of the RBS Group’s legal and regulatory obligations including possibly increased
treasury operations, including internal and external funding contributions. Such restructuring may also result in
arrangements. The changes required may adversely impact additional or increased cash contributions in the event the
the assessment made by credit rating agencies, creditors pension trustees determine that the employer covenant has
and other stakeholders of the credit strength of the Bank on been weakened as a result of such separation. See ‘The
a standalone basis and may heighten the cost of capital and Group is subject to pension risks and may be required to
funding for the Bank and its subsidiaries. The ability of the make additional contributions to cover pension funding
Bank to meet funding and capital prudential requirements deficits as a result of degraded economic conditions, any
may be dependent on obtaining adequate credit ratings. devaluation in the asset portfolio held by the pension
There can be no guarantee that such a credit rating will be trustee, or as a result of the restructuring of its pension
obtained by the Bank. The Group currently receives capital schemes in relation to the implementation of the UK ring-
and funding support from RBS Group entities, including fencing regime.’
those which will ultimately be transferred to the RFB and • The restructuring and planned transfers may also result in
which may no longer, or only to a limited extent, provide accounting consequences for the Bank. Although a number
capital and funding support to the Group once a ring-fence of transfers will be made at book value between fully owned
compliant structure is established. Restrictions or changes RBS Group entities, certain transfers will be made at fair
imposed on the ability of the RBS Group to provide intra- value which may result in a profit or loss being recognised
group funding, capital or other support directly or indirectly by the Bank. In addition, transfers of assets that have
to the Bank or its subsidiaries, may result in funding or related hedging arrangements may result in adverse
capital pressures and liquidity stress for the Bank or its operational, financial or accounting consequences if the
subsidiaries. transfer is not consistent with the unaffected continuation of
• The Group currently receives certain services from, and such hedging arrangements.
provides other services to, entities within the RBS Group • In addition, the proposed transfers may have tax costs, or
and has access to the infrastructure of the RBS Group may impact the tax attributes of the Bank and the ability to
which the Group currently requires in order to operate its transfer tax losses.
business. In order to comply with the requirements of the UK
ring-fencing regime, the RBS Group will need to revise its The steps required to implement the UK ring-fencing regime
operations infrastructure so as to comply with the shared within the RBS Group (including with respect to the Group) to
services, independence and resolvability requirements set comply with the relevant rules and regulations are complex and
out in the UK ring-fencing legislation and rules, including in require an extended period of time to plan, execute and
areas such as information technology (IT) infrastructure, implement and entail significant costs and operational, legal and
human resources and critical service providers which may execution risks, which risks may be exacerbated by the RBS
involve associated execution risk and may result in Group’s other ongoing restructuring efforts (many of which impact
increased costs. Arrangements between the RFB and other or will impact the Group). External or internal factors including
RBS Group entities outside the RFB, including the Bank and new and developing legal requirements relating to the regulatory
its subsidiaries, will also need to be reviewed in light of framework for the banking industry and the evolving regulatory
these requirements and the requirement that all such and economic landscape resulting from Brexit, as well as further
transactions take place on an arm’s-length basis, which may political developments or changes to the RBS Group’s current
result in increased operational costs for the Group if it strategy, may require the RBS Group to further restructure its
duplicates certain infrastructure that, following operations (including certain Group operations in the UK and
implementation are run from inside the RFB or rely on third Western Europe) and may in turn require further changes to be
party providers for the provision of such services or made to the RBS Group’s ring-fencing plans (including the
infrastructure. planned structure of the RBS Group post implementation).
195
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Additional information
Risk factors continued
In addition, recent and future disposals and restructurings by the
These trends may be catalysed by various regulatory and
Group relating to the implementation of non-customer facing
competition policy interventions, particularly as a result of the
elements of the transformation programme and the UK ring-
Open Banking initiative and other remedies imposed by the
fencing regime, or required by the Group’s regulators, as well as
Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) which are designed to
constraints imposed on the Group’s ability to compensate its
further promote competition within retail banking.
employees at the same level as its competitors, may also have
an impact on its ability to compete effectively. Intensified
Increasingly many of the products and services offered by the
competition from incumbents, challengers and new entrants in
Group are, and will become, technology intensive and the
the Group’s core markets could lead to greater pressure on the
Group’s ability to develop such services has become increasingly
Group to maintain returns and may lead to unsustainable growth
important to retaining and growing the Group’s customer
decisions. These and other changes in the Group’s competitive
business in the UK.
environment could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s
business, margins, profitability, financial condition and prospects.
There can be no certainty that the Group’s investment in its IT
capability intended to address the material increase in customer
The Group is reliant on the RBS Group for capital, liquidity
use of online and mobile technology for banking will be
and funding support and expects to continue to be reliant, at
successful or that it will allow the Group to continue to grow such
least during its transition to becoming a standalone sub-
services in the future. Certain of the Group’s current or future
group to comply with the UK ring-fencing requirements.
competitors may have more efficient operations, including better
The Group currently receives capital, liquidity and funding
IT systems allowing them to implement innovative technologies
support from the RBS Group, including from RBS Group entities
for delivering services to their customers.
which will ultimately be situated inside of the RFB.
Furthermore, the Group’s competitors may be better able to
Although the Group is transitioning to becoming a standalone
attract and retain customers and key employees and may have
sub-group of the RBS Group that will be independent of the RFB
access to lower cost funding and/or be able to attract deposits on
to operate in compliance with the UK ring-fencing regime by 1
more favourable terms than the Group. Although the Group
January 2019, the Group is expected to continue to rely on the
invests in new technologies and participates in industry and
RBS Group for capital, liquidity and funding support, at least
research led initiatives aimed at developing new technologies,
during the transition period and such reliance may be necessary
such investments may be insufficient, especially given the RBS
for a longer period.
Group’s focus on its cost savings targets, which may limit
additional investment in areas such as financial innovation and
The Group will likely be required to hold securities that are
therefore could affect the Group’s offering of innovative products
compliant with the minimum requirements for own funds and
and its competitive position.
eligible liabilities (‘MREL’) on an internal basis and in compliance
with the capital requirements for a ‘material subsidiary’ as set
The Group may also fail to identify future opportunities or derive
forth by the Bank of England. RBSG is the only entity that is able
benefits from disruptive technologies in the context of rapid
to issue MREL securities externally. As a result, the Group’s
technological innovation, changing customer behaviour and
ability to meet its internal MREL is substantially reliant on
growing regulatory demands, including the UK initiative on Open
RBSG’s ability to issue sufficient amounts of external MREL
Banking (PSD2), resulting in increased competition from both
securities and downstream the proceeds to the Group. If RBSG
traditional banking businesses as well as new providers of
is unable to issue adequate levels of MREL securities such that it
financial services, including technology companies with strong
is unable to downstream sufficient amounts to the Group, this
brand recognition, that may be able to develop financial services
could lead to a failure of the Group to meet its own individual
at a lower cost base. If the Group is unable to offer competitive,
internal MREL requirements as well as the internal MREL
attractive and innovative products that are also profitable, it will
requirements of subsidiaries within the Group. See ‘Failure by
lose market share, incur losses on some or all of its activities and
the RBS Group or the Group to comply with regulatory capital,
lose opportunities for growth.
funding, liquidity and leverage requirements may result in
intervention by their regulators and loss of investor confidence,
For example, companies in the financial services industry are
and may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s results of
increasingly using artificial intelligence and/or automated
operations, financial condition and reputation and may result in
processes to enhance their output and performance. As part of
distribution restrictions and adversely impact existing
this broader trend, the RBS Group is in the early stages of
shareholders.’ and ‘As a result of extensive reforms being
automating certain of its solutions and interactions within its
implemented relating to the resolution of financial institutions
customer-facing businesses. Such developments may result in
within the UK, the EU and globally, material additional
unintended consequences or conduct risk for the RBS Group and
requirements will arise to ensure that financial institutions
the Group if such new processes, including the algorithms used,
maintain sufficient loss-absorbing capacity. Such changes to the
are not carefully tested and integrated into the RBS Group’s and
funding and regulatory capital framework may require the RBS
the Group’s current solutions. In addition to such reputational
Group to meet higher capital levels than anticipated within the
risks, the development of automated solutions will require
RBS Group’s strategic plans and affect the RBS Group’s and the
investment in technology and will likely result in increased costs
Group’s funding costs.’
for the RBS Group and the Group.
201
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
Additional information
Risk factors continued A failure by any of these three lines to carry out their
The Group may be adversely impacted if its or the RBS responsibilities or to effectively embed this culture could have a
Group’s risk management is not effective and there may be material adverse effect on the RBS Group and/or the Group
significant challenges in maintaining the effectiveness of the through an inability to achieve their strategic objectives for their
Group’s risk management framework as a result of the customers, employees and wider stakeholders.
number of strategic and restructuring initiatives being
carried out by the RBS Group simultaneously. As a result of the commercial and regulatory environment in
The management of risk is an integral part of all of the Group’s which it operates, the Group may be unable to attract or
activities. Risk management includes the definition and retain senior management (including members of the board)
monitoring of the RBS Group’s risk appetite and reporting of the and other skilled personnel of the appropriate qualification
RBS Group’s and the Group’s exposure to uncertainty and the and competence. The Group may also suffer if it does not
consequent adverse effect on profitability or financial condition maintain good employee relations.
arising from different sources of uncertainty and risks as The Group’s current and future success depend on its ability to
described throughout these risk factors. attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and qualified
personnel, including senior management (which includes
Ineffective risk management may arise from a wide variety of directors and other key employees), in a highly competitive
events and behaviours, including lack of transparency or labour market. This cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of
incomplete risk reporting, unidentified conflicts or misaligned heightened regulatory oversight of banks and the increasing
incentives, lack of accountability control and governance, lack of scrutiny of, and (in some cases) restrictions placed upon,
consistency in risk monitoring and management or insufficient employee compensation arrangements, in particular those of
challenges or assurance processes. banks in receipt of Government support (such as the RBS
Group), which may place the Group at a competitive
Failure to manage risks effectively could adversely impact the disadvantage. In addition, the market for skilled personnel is
RBS Group’s and/or the Group’s reputation or their relationship increasingly competitive, thereby raising the cost of hiring,
with their customers, shareholders or other stakeholders, which training and retaining skilled personnel.
in turn could have a significant effect on the Group’s business
prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of the Group’s directors as well as members of its
executive committee and certain other senior managers and
Risk management is also strongly related to the use and employees are also subject to the new responsibility regime
effectiveness of internal stress tests and models. See ‘The RBS introduced under the Banking Reform Act 2013 which introduces
Group and the Group rely on valuation, capital and stress test clearer accountability rules for those within the new regime. The
models to conduct their business, assess their risk exposure and senior managers’ regime and certification regime took effect on 7
anticipate capital and funding requirements. Failure of these March 2016, whilst the conduct rules were applied to the wider
models to provide accurate results or accurately reflect changes employee population from 7 March 2017, with the exception of
in the micro-and macroeconomic environment in which the Group some transitional provisions. The new regulatory regime may
operates or findings of deficiencies by the Group’s regulators contribute to reduce the pool of candidates for key management
resulting in increased regulatory capital requirements could have and non-executive roles, including non-executive directors with
a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, capital and the right skills, knowledge and experience, or increase the
results.’ number of departures of existing employees, given concerns over
the allocation of responsibilities introduced by the new rules.
A failure by the Group to embed a strong risk culture across In addition, in order to ensure the independence of the RFB as
the organisation could adversely affect the ability of the RBS part of the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime, the
Group and the Group to achieve their strategic objectives. RBS Group will be required to recruit new independent directors
In response to weaknesses identified in previous years, the RBS and senior members of management to sit on the boards of
Group is currently seeking to embed a strong risk culture within directors and board committees of the RFB and other RBS Group
the RBS Group (including the Group) based on a robust risk entities, and there may be a limited pool of competent candidates
appetite and governance framework. from which such appointments can be made.
The RBS Group’s evolving strategy has led to the departure of a
A key component of this approach is the three lines of defence large number of experienced and capable employees, including
model designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk across all Group employees. The restructuring relating to the ongoing
levels of the organisation. This framework has been implemented implementation of the transformation programme and related
and improvements continue and will continue to be made to cost-reduction targets may cause experienced staff members to
clarify and improve the three lines of defence and internal risk leave and prospective staff members not to join the RBS Group,
responsibilities and resources, including in response to feedback including the Group. The lack of continuity of senior management
from regulators. Notwithstanding the RBS Group’s efforts, and the loss of important personnel coordinating certain or
changing an organisation’s risk culture requires significant time, several aspects of the RBS Group’s restructuring (including those
investment and leadership, and such efforts may not insulate the which impact the Group) could have an adverse impact on the
RBS Group or the Group from future instances of misconduct. Group’s business and future success.
217
RBS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017