NatWest Group plc
2021 Environmental,
Social and Governance
Supplement
Thrive
Together
We are a relationship bank for a digital world.
Our purpose is to champion potential, helping
people, families and businesses to thrive.
This guides and underpins everything we do.
It enables us to build long-term value, to invest for
growth, to make a positive contribution to society
and to drive sustainable returns for shareholders.
At the centre of our approach is the belief that
we must have a reciprocal relationship with
society, the environment and the communities
where we operate. Because when people,
families and businesses succeed, we…
Thrive
Together
Contents
Committed to our focus on ESG Additional disclosures 60
A relationship bank for a digital world 4 UN Principles for Responsible Banking 61–78
Group Chief Executive’s statement 5–6 (PRB) reporting
Our strategy and highlights 7–8 World Economic Forum International 79
Business Council metrics alignment
How we create value 9
Global Reporting Initiative index 80–91
How we engage with stakeholders 10
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board 92–96
Our 2021 reporting suite brings together NatWest Group’s financial, Key ESG topics for our stakeholders 11–12 (SASB) index
non-financial and risk performance for the year. The reports are Responsible governance 13–14
Important information 97
designed primarily to meet the expectations of our investors
Collective action 15
Other information – including our 98
including holders of bonds issued under our Green, Social and
Partnerships for the goals 16 assurance approach
Sustainability Framework, as well as regulators and our wider
stakeholders, including customers, colleagues and society more Integrating ESG across our services 17–19
broadly. The main reports within this suite and their focus are and operations Caution about the information in this
detailed below and are available at natwestgroup.com:
Focus area – Climate 20 ESG supplement
In general, assessing materiality requires thoughtful consideration not
Available within this report:
Our ambition 21 only of any applicable materiality standards, but also of our purpose
An overview of our purpose in action and key environmental, in assessing materiality and in communicating to our stakeholders.
Biodiversity and climate change 22–23 Our public disclosures, including our climate-related and voluntary
social and governance matters including progress in 2021. environmental, social and governance (ESG) disclosures, include a
Focus area – Enterprise 24 range of topics that we believe are relevant to our businesses and
At www.natwestgroup.com that are of interest to investors and other stakeholders. For the
purposes of complying with our annual, periodic and interim disclosure
NatWest Group Annual Report and Accounts Our ambition 25 obligations in the United Kingdom and the United States we apply a
materiality standard based on the applicable rules and regulations
Removing the barriers to enterprise 26–28
An overview of our business and our 2021 financial and non- governing public reporting in the United Kingdom and the United
States. However, in our climate-related and voluntary ESG
financial performance. Also includes our Financial statements and Focus area – Learning 29 disclosures, we have adapted our approach to materiality based on
related notes, together with our Governance and remuneration, both the subject matter and purpose of the disclosures. In particular,
and Risk and capital management reports. Our ambition 30 o b u ro r a a d p e p r r u o n a d ch e r t s o ta t n h d e i s n e g s d i o sc f l m os a u t r e e r s ia m lit a y y b s a o s m ed e t o im n e c s e r h ta a i v n e e r x e t g e a rn rd a l t o
Building financial confidence and resilience 31–33 frameworks and reporting guidelines that take into consideration a
Company Announcement and Financial supplement wider range of factors relevant to climate and ESG disclosures,
Championing our colleagues’ potential 34–37 including the views of our key stakeholders and our ambition to be a
Our latest company information including our financial performance leading bank in the UK helping to address the climate challenge.
for the year with a focus on key metrics and measurement. Responsible business 38 Certain parts of this ESG Supplement – such as the climate-related
disclosures – may use longer time frames to assess potential impacts
than those time frames customarily used in certain of our other
NatWest Group Climate-related Disclosures Report How we do business 39–43 disclosures, including our annual, periodic and interim financial reports
filed with the London Stock Exchange (“LSE”) in the United Kingdom
Details our progress in 2021 on our climate ambitions including an Engaging our suppliers 44 and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) in the United
overview of our approach to climate-related governance, strategy Tax payments and responsibilities 45–46 S di t s a c t l e o s s . u T re h s is a E n S d G c l S im up a p te le - m re e la n t t e , d a n d d is c m lo a s n u y re o s f , o in u c r l u v d o in lu g n t w a i r t y h E re S s G p ect to
(including scenario analysis), risk management, metrics and targets. climate-related risks and opportunities, includes certain information
Respecting human rights 47 that we have not included in our LSE and SEC filings for which we
use a different approach to materiality. In addition, the data
Pillar 3 Report Supporting our customers 48–52
underlying our ESG disclosures, including our climate-related
Focuses on our regulatory reporting requirements and provides Supporting our communities 53 disclosures, analysis and strategy and market practice in relation to
such disclosure will evolve over time. As a result, we expect that
an explanation of our risk profile, including our capital adequacy, Supporting our colleagues 54–59 certain disclosures made in this ESG Supplement are likely to be
risk appetite and risk management. amended, updated, recalculated and restated in the future.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 3
Committed to our focus on ESG
A relationship bank
for a digital world
Our purpose
Our purpose underpins everything we do.
We are guided We champion potential, helping people, It enables us to build long-term value, to invest for
growth, to make a positive contribution to society
families and businesses to thrive
by our purpose Read more on and to drive sustainable returns for shareholders.
page 34–37
Our stakeholders
We aim to balance the different interests of our
stakeholders in our decision-making, especially
We are informed Delivering long-term sustainable value and attractive when there are difficult choices to be made. We
returns, now and for the next generation also recognise the need for transparency and
by the needs of openness, regularly engaging and seeking the
views of our stakeholders.
our stakeholders
Customers Regulators Communities Our strategy
We are a relationship bank for a digital world.
Our robust balance sheet, strong capital position
and capital generative businesses mean we are
Colleagues Investors Suppliers well placed to support our customers and invest
for growth. Our strategy for growth delivers
on our purpose, drives sustainable returns
to shareholders and creates long-term value
Read more on for our stakeholders through our four
page 10 strategic priorities.
We have four Focused on growth, underpinned by our values and an Our values
Our values are at the heart of how we deliver
intelligent approach to risk:
strategic priorities… our purpose-led strategy. In 2021, responding
to feedback from stakeholders, we engaged
Supporting customers at Powered by innovation with colleagues, customers and communities
every stage of their lives and partnerships to re-envision a modernised set of values
that fully align with our strategic priorities.
These collaborative and evolved values will
Sharpened capital be launched in 2022 and will form an integral
Simple to deal with
allocation part of our cultural identity.
Read more in our 2021 Our positive impact
Annual Report and Accounts
We recognise the huge responsibilities that our
role brings – from supporting the day-to-day
…creating a positive financial needs of 19 million customers, to the
positive impacts we can have on the environment
impact through our and wider society.
Climate Enterprise Learning We have identified three focus areas where we
areas of focus can make a meaningful contribution and build
Read more long-term value in our business: Climate,
on page 7–8 Enterprise and Learning.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 4
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Group Chief Executive’s
statement
People, planet
and purpose
Our purpose drives us, defines us and
guides us. But to be truly purpose-led
requires an in-depth understanding of
includes over 450 financial firms in
the environmental, social and 45 countries focused on broadening,
deepening and raising net-zero ambitions
governance (ESG) factors that are
across the financial system. It means
influential to, and for, our business. that NatWest Group is now a prominent
presence in the key forums for sustainable
financing, able to use its position to
positively influence market-wide change
Alison Rose in the UK and globally.
Group Chief Executive Officer
In practical terms, we have scaled our
efforts to help meet the demand for
sustainable financing. In 2020, we set
out to provide £20 billion of Climate and
Sustainable Funding and Financing over
two years. I am delighted that we met
Committed to our purpose For this reason, I am delighted to share During the conference, we signed up to
this initial target in under 18 months,
with you in this report the progress we the UK Government’s joint declaration
Monitoring and managing ESG outcomes so in October 2021 we committed to
have made during 2021, enhancing and on accelerating the transition to 100%
are an integral part of NatWest Group’s an ambitious new goal of providing an
embedding ESG across all business zero-emission vehicles and we consulted
operating structure. It not only enables additional £100 billion of Climate and
segments of NatWest Group. on the Green Finance Institute’s initiative
us to fulfil our commitments to our Sustainable Funding and Financing
to de-carbonise road transport, to help
stakeholders and the environment, it between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025.
Committed to our environment unlock £150 billion of investment. We
also has a clear commercial imperative.
also announced that we will be one of 27 We have also worked on a range of other
Put simply, we believe our focus on ESG During the year, it was a huge honour
new members of the Powering Past Coal climate-related actions: from publishing
is a crucial component that allows us to for NatWest Group to be a principal partner
Alliance, to accelerate the global transition our ‘Springboard to Sustainable Recovery’
create sustainable long-term value, thereby for COP26. We know the financial sector is
from coal – which builds on our existing report, which explored the climate-
generating consistent financial returns. a key enabler in the drive towards net-zero
enhanced coal-lending policy. transition opportunities for small
Once again, in 2021, we used the Blueprint emissions, so our involvement was a great
and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs),
for Better Business framework to inform opportunity for us to showcase the support These commitments are part of a long-
to developing a carbon-tracking feature
our purpose-led decision-making, helping we offer our retail and business customers standing and ongoing ambition. In 2021,
in our mobile banking app, as well as
to create and protect value for customers, to help them measure and mitigate their we became a founding member of the Net
launching Green Mortgages and the
suppliers, colleagues, communities, future carbon footprint. Zero Banking Alliance and joined the new
development of a more transparent
generations and our shareholders. coalition of the Glasgow Financial Alliance
global marketplace for carbon offsets.
for Net Zero (GFANZ), which currently
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 5
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Group Chief Executive’s statement continued
‘We have been a signatory to the UN Principles for
Responsible Banking for over two years now and we
remain committed to aligning our strategy to the UN
Sustainable Development Goals’
Committed to our society Against this backdrop, we have once again During 2021, we worked with a range Committed to our focus
progressed initiatives specifically linked to of external partners to strengthen our
Knowing the ongoing impact that COVID-19 on ESG
two of our focus areas, learning and approach and governance on human
is having on our colleagues, customers,
enterprise. Notably, these included the rights. Recognising the importance of Importantly, our commitment to ESG spans
suppliers and the communities we live in,
launch of ‘CareerSense’, a programme the UN Guiding Principles on Business and the entire NatWest Group. Whether it has
we have continued to respond to the
for 13 to 24-year-olds to develop skills for Human Rights, we have begun to further been through the issuing of a €1 billion
pandemic with empathy and adaptability.
work, as well as ongoing actions related to align our approach to this framework which affordable housing social bond (the first
Through extensive colleague interviews, the commitments of our Banking on Racial includes gaining a deeper understanding of its kind by a UK bank), the fantastic
executive engagement and external Equality report. of NatWest Group’s salient issues. achievement of Coutts receiving B Corp
status, or from the work of NatWest
research, we designed a structured
programme for returning to the work Committed to our governance On 7 October 2021, NatWest Bank Plc pled Markets supporting our corporate clients
guilty to breaches of the Money Laundering in sustainability-linked financing, our focus
environment. Our ‘Ways of Working’
We continued to strengthen our Regulations 2007 relating to the monitoring on ESG is being integrated throughout our
framework is built around three models
governance structures in 2021. In addition of the accounts of a UK-incorporated business. We have also been a signatory to
to provide a flexible and dynamic way to
to considering financial measures, the customer. NatWest Group takes its the UN Principles for Responsible Banking
deliver colleague choice and better meet
process to determine variable pay for responsibility to prevent and detect for over two years now and we remain
customer needs, both now and in the
executive directors will continue to financial crime extremely seriously. We committed to aligning our strategy to the
future. Colleague safety has been
reflect progress against our ESG priorities deeply regret that we failed to adequately UN Sustainable Development Goals. paramount during this period, and we have
to align with the principles of being monitor one of our customers between
put in place a range of measures to help
a purpose-led business. 2012 and 2016 to prevent money We also recognise that now more than ever
protect physical and mental well-being.
laundering. Detecting and preventing our stakeholders are eager to understand
Throughout the year we continued to The Board operates a boardroom inclusion financial crime to protect people, families how we are working to address key
enhance the way we interact with our policy which reflects the most recent and businesses is a key priority for environmental and societal issues. It was
customers and communities through a industry targets and is aligned to the NatWest Group. We have subsequently therefore particularly pleasing to see the
variety of face-to-face, digital and remote NatWest inclusion policy and principles made significant, multi-year investments to launch of our inaugural ESG Supplement
options. Whether it is through features such applying to the wider bank. This policy strengthen and improve our financial crime and our Climate-related Disclosures Report
as video banking, the mobile banking app, provides a framework to ensure that the control framework with prevention systems in the first half of 2021. Both of these
our AI virtual assistant Cora, or Board attracts, motivates and retains the and capabilities. documents have not only helped us to be
best talent and avoids limiting potential more transparent with our stakeholders,
improvements in our branch network,
caused by bias, prejudice or discrimination. they will also support wider reflection and
we have strengthened the connection with
In 2021, the Board met the engagement on ESG matters across
our customers at a time when it has been
recommendation of the Parker Review NatWest Group.
needed most. In terms of direct support,
with at least one member of the Board
NatWest Group colleagues and customers
being of a Black, Asian and Minority
contributed £500,348 to the Disasters Ethnic background and exceeded the Alison Rose
Emergency Committee’s Coronavirus and recommendation of the FTSE Women Group Chief Executive Officer
Afghanistan Crisis Appeals during the year.
Leaders Review (formerly the Hampton-
Alexander Review), with 36% of the Board
being female.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 6
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Our strategy and highlights
Our purpose-led strategy we seek to create enhanced social value, Our blueprint for better business
seeing this as a healthy and natural
aims to deliver sustainable,
expectation of us to do business.
long-term business
It’s why we have chosen to work closely Honest and fair A good citizen
performance and create with ‘Blueprint for Better Business’, an with customers
the greatest value for independent charity which aims to enable and suppliers
a better society through better business.
our stakeholders. Its principles allow us to think more widely Our purpose:
about our purpose and what is needed to Deliver long-term
bring it to life across our organisation: by
sustainable
As a relationship bank for a digital world, being honest and fair with our customers
performance by
we exist to champion our customers’ and suppliers; acting as a responsible
potential by supporting them at every stage employer; operating as a good citizen championing
of their lives. With this lifecycle approach, in our communities; and being potential, helping
our purpose will create longer-term and guardians for the next generation. people, families and
deeper relationships with our customers, businesses to thrive
helping them, our communities and Implicit within the Blueprint for Better
economy to thrive – and, in turn, deliver Business framework and embedded A responsible
sustainable returns. through all our activities is a commitment and responsive A guardian for
to understanding the key ESG issues for
employer future generations
We recognise the need to be a sustainable our business and where we can have the
bank, resilient to future environmental and most meaningful impact – with a focus on
social shifts, and better able to capitalise three areas: Climate, refer to page 20,
on the commercial opportunities that these Enterprise, refer to page 24 and Learning
shifts can also present. At the centre of our refer to page 29. This is reinforced by being
approach is the belief that we must have a signatory to the UN Principles for
a reciprocal relationship with society, the Responsible Banking (PRB). Our focus areas
environment and the communities where
we operate. Crucially, the way we measure the impact
of our business is vital for understanding Climate Enterprise Learning
As a large corporation we benefit from how we as a company live our purpose.
a range of social goods in the form of The outcomes we report on in this Find out more on Find out more on Find out more on
customer trust, deposits, an educated document are designed to illustrate page 20 page 24 page 29
workforce, licences, protections and how we have advanced over the past
infrastructures, all of which enable us to year, as well as the areas where we are
operate. In return, through our purpose, committed to making further progress.
Excellence in responsible business Find out more on
page 38
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 7
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Our strategy and highlights continued
A selection of our 2021 ESG highlights
Honest and fair with A responsible and A guardian for
A good citizen
customers and suppliers responsive employer future generations
We prevented 542,969 cases of attempted We worked with anti-slavery charity We commissioned an in depth review to MoneySense Climate Savers competition
fraud against our customers, amounting to Unseen to deliver a bespoke package of refresh Our Values and People Proposition, showcased the actions primary school
over £193.3 million(*) in the UK. support for survivors of modern slavery in collaboration with colleagues, customers pupils challenge us to take to tackle
which includes the provision of safe, and communities. climate change and impact
reliable access to a bank account. household finances.
NatWest Group has reached 88% of its We supported the DEC Coronavirus Appeal Coutts, the wealth manager and private A principal partner for COP26, widening
in-scope 3rd party spend being assessed extended to include India, raising over bank became a Certified B Corporation the involvement of the business
by EcoVadis(1) against ESG credentials. £425,000 primarily through the mobile app (B Corp)™. community, young people and civil society
EcoVadis recognised NatWest Group and Reward Accounts. at COP26, enabling voices to be heard to
as a `first mover’ in the UK Financial help progress be made. Highlighting our
Services Sector. determination to be a leading bank
in the UK helping to address the
climate challenge.
During the financial challenges caused by We launched our new tree planting We hired over 1,000 interns, graduates £17.5 billion(*) Climate and Sustainable
COVID-19, we have helped 262,000* programme with The Conservation and apprentices in 2021 including Funding and Financing completed,
customers with mortgage payment Volunteers in 2021 and colleagues 205 colleagues who have been recruited including £8.1 billion(*) contribution towards
holidays (*2020 – 2021 total). planted 32,235 trees. through our social mobility apprentice our £100 billion target.(2)
programmes.
Our ESG ratings performance(3)
MSCI Rating Sustainalytics Risk Report(5) ISS ESG CDP Climate Change Survey Coutts
We continue to be rated “AA” In 2021 our Sustainalytics score We have retained both our C rating We achieved a B score in the 2021 CDP Coutts scored the highest possible
(Leader)(4) by MSCI, maintaining our improved to Low Risk (17.3 in and Prime status in the ISS ESG Climate Change Survey, aligning us with rating A+ (compared to a median
rating from 2020. December). Survey, scoring in the top 10% of the financial services average. Though our score of A) for its Strategy &
organisations in our industry. latest rating was a downgrade compared Governance on the UN-supported
FTSE4Good Index This places us in the top 14th
to 2020, we are working to further Principles for Responsible
percentile for Banks. S&P CSA
We were once again included integrate climate-related considerations Investment assessment, and received
in the index. We achieved a score of 63/100 within business processes and support the scores of As and Bs in line or ahead
(80th percentile). transition to a net-zero economy. of its peers for all other categories.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 98. 4. The use by NatWest Group of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (`MSCI’) data do not constitute a sponsorship,
1. EcoVadis is a leading global organisation in providing companies with third-party evidence-based assessments endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of NatWest Group by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI
of an organisation’s sustainability performance. or its information providers, and are provided `as-is’ and without warranty. ’Leader’ definition as per MSCI methodology.
2. In October 2021, having surpassed our previous 2020–21 £20 billion target during H1 2021, NatWest Group announced an 5. All Sustainalytics information and data contained herein are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third
ambition to provide £100 billion Climate and Sustainable Funding and Financing between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025. Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project,
3. ESG ratings on this page are: (i) unsolicited; (ii) not a sponsorship, endorsement, or promotion of NatWest Group by the relevant nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their use
rating provider, nor (iii) a warranty. Currently, ESG rating providers are not regulated like credit rating agencies. Some ESG is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
ratings providers only rely on public information. So, their outputs may be subject to data gaps. ESG rating providers use different
definitions, scope and methodologies leading to variation in ESG ratings for any given company. Ratings as of 14/02/2022.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 8
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
How we create value
We aim to create value for our stakeholders, having a positive impact on our environment and wider society.
1 Our resources 3 How we create value for our customers and society
Financial Supporting – £34.6 billion gross lending to SMEs and mid-corporates in Commercial Banking, supporting
enterprise economic growth.
Human and relationships – £1 billion additional funding made available to support female business in the UK to recover
from the disruption caused by COVID-19.
Nature
Building financial – MoneySense has helped 10 million young people learn about money since it was launched in 1994.
Infrastructure capability – 470,813(*) additional customers helped to start to save and 6.1 million(*) financial capability interactions
delivered in 2021.
2 Our business activities Helping to – £17.5 billion(*) Climate and Sustainable Funding and Financing completed, including £8.1 billion(*)
address the contribution towards our £100 billion target.(1)
Products and services climate challenge – 38%(*) of Retail Banking mortgages are at or above EPC rating C.(2)
We provide a comprehensive range of banking and
Protecting our – We prevented 542,969 cases of attempted fraud against our customers, amounting to over £193.3(*)
financial services to personal, business and commercial
customers million in the UK.
customers via our businesses.
– We are one of the original pilot organisations behind the new ‘159’ fraud reporting hotline,
Revenues and returns launched in 2021.
We earn income from interest charged on lending to our
Improving digital – 60%(*) of our active current accounts are customers exclusively banking with us using digital channels
customers and fees from transactions and other services.
The attributable profit generated is either returned to capability through mobile or online.
shareholders or retained and reinvested into improving – 9.7 million active digital customers. 8.3 million actively use our mobile app and 4.2 million use our online
our business to benefit our stakeholders. banking platform.(*)
Customer relationships Community and – 32,235 trees planted by colleagues, in our new tree planting programme with The Conservation
We support our personal, business, commercial and charitable giving Volunteers.
institutional customers with financial services that – 43,003 hours were volunteered by our colleagues to local communities and good causes received over
meet their needs which include keeping their funds £3.5 million through their giving and fundraising.
safe and secure, improving financial capability and
Helping our – Our integrated wellbeing strategy allows us to support colleagues, customers and communities,
supporting enterprise.
colleagues to and is a key part of NatWest Group being a purpose-led organisation.
Partners and networks thrive – Colleague sentiment on inclusivity has continued to increase in 2021, now reaching a score of
Being powered by innovation and partnerships means 93 percentage points. We are 14 percentage points above the Global Financial Services Norm
we work with a diverse range of partners to help shape and 10 percentage points above the Global High Performing Norm.
our business strategy and deliver positive outcomes for
customers and society. (*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 98.
1. In October 2021, having surpassed our previous 2020–21 £20 billion target during H1 2021, NatWest Group announced an ambition to provide £100 billion
Climate and Sustainable Funding and Financing between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025.
For the full version, visit our 2021 Annual 2. Percentage of £110.3 billion UK Retail Banking mortgages where EPC data is available. 2020 comparative for England and Wales mortgages only.
Report and Accounts at natwestgroup.com
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 9
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
How we engage with stakeholders
Our purpose recognises that our business is made up of a network of relationships. Listening, engaging, and partnering
with stakeholders helps us to address our business impacts and improve outcomes for customers, society and the
environment. Below, we highlight who our key stakeholders are and some examples of how we engage with them.
How we engaged
The people and businesses we serve We engaged with our retail customers through face to face branch interactions and video banking, as well as
via complaints, telephony and secure messaging. We discussed their financial wellbeing, goals and plans and
Read more about our customers on pages their experience banking with us. We also engaged with our business customers through Bankline, and our
Accelerator and Business Builder programmes, on the barriers to starting a business and SME support.
Customers 54 to 56 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts,
and pages 48 to 52 of this ESG Supplement In 2021, the NatWest Group non-executive directors took part in a customer engagement programme that
allowed them to hear feedback directly from our customers.
The people who deliver our purpose We engaged with our colleagues through our Inclusion Champions, our Colleague Experience Squad,
Employee-led networks and our colleague opinion survey, Our View. We discussed key issues such
Read more about our colleagues on pages as our purpose, inclusion, learning and skills, and new ways of working during the pandemic.
Colleagues 58 to 61 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts, The Board proactively engaged with colleagues through the Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) which is chaired
and pages 54 to 59 of this ESG Supplement by Lena Wilson, a non-executive director. Wellbeing and sustainability were featured topics of discussion.
The places where we can have an impact We engaged with our charity relationships on raising awareness of charitable donations, enabling employee
volunteering and fundraising. MoneySense, our free financial education programme, is used by parents and
Read more about our communities on pages teachers to help young people learn skills like saving, budgeting and being-scam aware, while our CareerSense
programme provided critical employability skills – especially to those from underprivileged backgrounds.
Communities 62 and 63 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts, Working with the Centre for Social Justice, we completed research into what communities need to thrive.
and page 53 of this ESG Supplement
Acting as a principal partner, several NatWest Group Board members and members of the executive team
attended COP26, talking to stakeholders about our climate change strategy.
Where we source our goods and services Our suppliers were engaged through regular review meetings, policy due diligence activity and audits.
We worked with EcoVadis – a leading organisation providing third-party evidence-based assessments
Read more about our suppliers on page 53 of sustainability performance – to measure our own performance and that of our suppliers against our
Supplier Charter, enabling us to identify social, environmental and ethical improvements. We also
Suppliers of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts,
discussed prompt payment and managing supply chain related risks.
and page 44 of this ESG Supplement
The NatWest Group Board received regular updates on key supplier relations via Business Review reporting
from the Executive team, providing visibility of key supplier activity and how this supports our purpose.
Providers of our capital and funding We engaged with our investors through spotlight sessions, presentations at industry conferences and face-to-
face meetings with our senior management. These presentations provided a deep dive into key areas of the
Read more about our investors on page business, progress to date and future priorities.
Investors 57 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts The NatWest Group Chairman, CEO, and CFO had a programme of engagement through quarterly results
presentations and 1–1 meetings with our largest investors, discussing progress against strategic priorities,
financial performance, regulation and the macroeconomic environment, and ESG topics.
Who we seek to comply with We engaged with regulators such as the PRA and the FCA, discussing key topics such as COVID-19 recovery,
EU-UK relations and ESG issues. Specifically, we co-operated with the investigation by the FCA and pleaded
Read more about our regulators on page guilty to three breaches of the Money Laundering Regulations 2007.
Regulators 63 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts Non-executive directors engaged with regulators through continuous assessment and proactive engagement
meetings, discussing strategy, Board effectiveness, financial crime, and risk and control environment.
For information on outcomes of engagement and challenges we faced with respect to our stakeholder groups, NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 10
please see our stakeholder engagement dashboard on pages 14 and 15 of the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts.
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Key ESG topics for
our stakeholders
Being purpose-led means we strive to create
value by balancing the different needs of our Cybersecurity & Diversity, equity
data protection & inclusion
stakeholders. And as the leading bank in the
Customers in
UK for business customers, and one of the
Colleague vulnerable
largest for retail customers, we know the wellbeing situations &
accessibility
impacts of our business are wide-ranging.
Own operational
In 2021, our ESG materiality – are topics we already focus on Responsible supply footprint Tax responsibility
chain
assessment involved a and will continue to strengthen
programme of stakeholder further. On the other hand, Customer Emissions
engagement to deepen our topics such as biodiversity and transition to a net- associated with
understanding of the ESG human rights are less progressed zero economy lending &
issues that matter most to them. and will require further work in financing
The findings guide our reporting 2022 and beyond.
and decision-making, ensuring Our purpose Operational
we remain focused on the In delivering our purpose-led Human rights We champion potential, resilience &
right issues. strategy, we expect the helping people, families and responsible
measures we report on to businesses to thrive governance
While we have identified climate, adapt and expand over time
enterprise and learning as the as we seek to improve our
three focus areas of our understanding of our Financial
Colleague learning
purpose where we can make environmental and social impact wellbeing
a meaningful contribution, our – as well as our stakeholders’
Environmental
2021 assessment confirmed that changing expectations on how
degradation,
broader ESG topics and those we address these topics. Financial crime
biodiversity &
related to our core business nature loss Enterprise
responsibilities, as illustrated Refer to page 3 for a brief note
opposite, are also important about some important
for many of our stakeholders. differences in our approach to Innovation & Social impacts of
materiality between our
digitisation financing & lending
As a responsible business, some regulatory disclosures and our
topics like financial crime, voluntary ESG disclosures.
Fair products & Fair &
operational resilience and
responsible transparent
responsible governance – as well marketing reward
as diversity, equity and inclusion
ESG topics aligned to our
purpose focus areas
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 11
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG
continued
Key ESG topics for our stakeholders
continued
Identifying the key ESG topics In 2021, we have achieved different levels Colleague learning Customer transition to a net-zero
for our stakeholders of progress against the various key ESG Delivering long-term, sustainable economy through our products
topics identified, as described throughout performance means the skills we need to and services
Our ESG materiality assessment in 2021 this document. Outlined below is an succeed in the future will be different from We continue to work with, and help,
was supported by a third-party expert update on the ESG topics closely aligned those today. Read more on page 35 about our customers transition to a net-zero
and involved three steps: to the three focus areas of our purpose. how we support our colleagues to realise economy: by giving them the tools to track
We expect further work to be required their potential, as part of our Learning their emissions; by providing incentives to
1. Refinement of key ESG topics.
in 2022 to continue to strengthen our focus area. make their homes more energy efficient;
This involved desk research and
approach in delivering our and by helping make our towns and cities
internal consultation, including a senior purpose-led strategy. Own operational footprint cleaner through financing renewable
management working group and wider
Our contribution to the climate challenge energy. In 2021, NatWest Group
employee engagement, to challenge and Enterprise
starts with our direct own operations. announced an ambition to provide a £100
evolve our list of ESG topics. Our review Enterprise is the lifeblood of a thriving During 2021(1) we reduced our direct own billion Climate and Sustainable Funding and
was further informed by societal economy but for many, starting and operations(2) carbon footprint by 46% Financing between 1 July 2021 and the end
megatrends, the UN SDG’s and our growing a business remains harder than it against a 2019 baseline, and increased our of 2025. We also concluded credible
top and emerging risks. should be. As the biggest supporter of UK renewable electricity consumption to 97%. transition plan (CTP) assessments for in
businesses, we continued to address the Read more in section 5.6 of our 2021 scope customers to support our ambition
2. Stakeholder engagement. barriers for start-ups, specifically in Climate-related Disclosures Report. related to help end the most harmful
We carried out qualitative interviews underrepresented groups. Read more about activities. Read more in sections 3.5.1, 3.5.2
with representatives across all our our Enterprise focus area on page 24. Emissions associated with lending and 3.5.3 of our Climate-related Disclosures
stakeholder groups (customers, and financing
Report for more details.
colleagues, communities, investors, Financial wellbeing Lending to companies or sectors with
regulators and suppliers). We also Wider economic issues such as – Brexit, the activities related to the most harmful
conducted a quantitative survey with pandemic and the end of furlough schemes activity, such as coal or oil and gas
over 2,500 respondents to explore the – meant the financial resilience and extraction, is one of the most significant
relative importance of the various ESG wellbeing of wider society came under ways in which we can have a negative
topics. This included specialist samples severe pressure in 2021. Read more on impact on climate change. Our climate
of SMEs and opinion formers, as well page 29 about our work to help build a ambition seeks to at least halve the climate
as a sample of UK consumers and society which is financially confident and impact of our financing activity by 2030
NatWest Group customers. resilient, as part of our Learning focus area. and align with the 2015 Paris Agreement.
Read more in section 5.7 of our 2021
Climate-related Disclosures Report.
3. Strategic analysis.
We conducted analysis of both the
qualitative and quantitative findings,
and the inter-relations between them,
giving us an understanding of the ESG
1. Our own operational footprint reporting year runs from October 2020 to September 2021.
topics and their importance to our
2. NatWest Group defines direct own operations as our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (paper, water, waste, business Read more in our 2021
stakeholders. travel, commuting and work from home) emissions. It therefore excludes upstream and downstream emissions from our Climate-related Disclosures Report
value chain.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 12
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Responsible governance
How our corporate governance framework, roles and responsibilities support our purpose and appropriate ESG oversight
We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism in all our activities. As we prepared for the launch of our new purpose-led strategy
in February 2020, we opted for an integrated approach to governance, ensuring purpose was appropriately embedded within our existing corporate governance framework and processes,
and that these would support appropriate levels of oversight on ESG issues. We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these arrangements.
The NatWest Group plc Board and Board Committees all have a role to play in the delivery of this integrated governance approach.
Responsible for promoting the long-term sustainable The Board establishes NatWest Group’s purpose, values and strategy and
NatWest Group plc Board success of NatWest Group and the setting of strategic leads the development of NatWest Group culture. It oversees NatWest
(including ESG) aims. Group progress and performance as a purpose-led organisation.
Group Audit Group Sustainable Group CEO Group Nominations & Group Board Risk Group Performance Technology &
Committee Banking Committee Overall accountability Governance Committee & Remuneration Innovation
Assists the Board in Supports the Board in for delivery of Committee Responsible for Committee Committee
discharging its overseeing and sustainable business Monitors the providing oversight and Responsible for Assists the Board in
responsibilities in challenging actions performance. Joint governance advice to the Board in reviewing and overseeing and
respect of internal being taken by Senior Management arrangements of relation to current and approving performance monitoring the
controls and financial management to run Function accountability NatWest Group potential future risk measures, including execution of NatWest
reporting, as escalated NatWest Group as a with the Group Chief and makes exposures, future those relating to ESG Group’s strategic
by the Executive sustainable business Risk Officer for recommendations to risk profile and and purpose activity, direction in relation to
Disclosure Committee. including challenging identifying and the Board to ensure determination of risk performance technology and
Considers financial and ESG ambitions and managing financial risks that such arrangements appetite, including assessment and innovation.
non-financial external commitments, from climate change. are consistent with best climate risk. remuneration
disclosures related for example, UN Both are key members corporate governance arrangements for senior
to the broader ESG Principles for of the Group Climate standards and management
agenda as required. Responsible Banking Change Executive practices. individuals.
(PRB). Steering Group, which
acts as the principal
forum overseeing
NatWest Group’s
climate-change
activities.
Board Committee
Group Executive Disclosure Committee Group Executive Committee Group Executive Risk Committee Group CEO and
Chaired by Group CFO and supported by the ESG Chaired by the Group CEO and supporting her Chaired by Group CEO. Responsible for considering Executive Committees
Disclosure Steering Group. Responsible for disclosure individual accountabilities including input on design, material and/or enterprise-wide risks including Note: This diagram shows the
controls and procedures. Reviews all significant development and delivery of purpose and strategy and reputational, strategic and ethical, social and Board and Board Committee
structure of NatWest Group
disclosures and ensures these are accurate and consideration of material emerging issues including environmental (ESE) risk. Considers climate risk
plc, together with the
complete and fairly represent business and financial ESG trends and commitments. reporting including delivery against regulatory plans. responsibilities of the Group
condition. This includes significant ESG disclosures. CEO and relevant executive
committees on ESG matters.
NatWest Group plc reports on its compliance with applicable corporate governance and disclosure requirements in its Annual Report This section of the supplement focuses on the governance arrangements in place at NatWest Group plc (parent company) level, which
and Accounts, including the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and applicable New York Stock are supported and replicated as appropriate across our subsidiaries through the operation of our corporate governance framework.
Exchange Standards. Further information on our corporate governance framework can be found in the 2021 NatWest Group plc Report and Accounts.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 13
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Responsible governance continued
Board monitoring and oversight of ESG risks and opportunities is supported by having clear roles
and responsibilities across our governance structure, as well as robust management reporting on our
purpose strategy, ambition and progress against targets
Key purpose and ESG Reviewing roles and responsibilities Examples of how we have embedded purpose In November, the Group Chairman,
governance activity and focus The roles and responsibilities of the Board into Board discussions and decision-making Group CEO and selected Board Directors
and its Committees were enhanced during include: a board strategy spotlight session on attended the COP26 along with members of
areas in 2021 2020 to ensure a strong focus on our purpose how to consider business conundrums in light the Executive team. This provided a unique
How our purpose guided the Board’s was built into their respective terms of of purpose, using the Blueprint for Better opportunity to engage with a wide variety of
response to COVID-19 reference. Following a further review in 2021, Business framework to reflect multiple stakeholders, specifically through the lens of
updates to our Group Audit and Sustainable stakeholder perspectives; our annual budgeting our climate ambitions.
As the UK continued to navigate the
Banking Committees were agreed to support process which now incorporates Blueprint for
pandemic, our Board and Committees effective oversight of ESG issues. Better Business principles to clearly articulate Money laundering
continued to meet virtually following their
stakeholder interests and impacts. The Board In order to comply with anti-money laundering
established schedules. The Group CEO
Enhancing governance papers and Board Committees also receive a range legislation and regulation, the Group Money
and wider executive management team
Board and Board Committee papers include of updates throughout the year covering ESG Laundering Reporting Officer provided their
kept the Board informed on our pandemic
a dedicated section which explains how a topics. Additional information on our approach annual report to the Board on the operation
response. This supported effective Board
proposal or update aligns to our purpose; to purpose-led decision-making can be found and effectiveness of the systems and controls
oversight and challenge as NatWest Group
this is complemented by a section detailing in the Annual Report and Accounts (section in place. This report also included an
continued to manage the required stakeholder impacts. Enhanced purpose- 172(1) statement). assessment of the systems and controls in
operational response, focusing on our
alignment reporting is required for complex place to prevent terrorist financing, bribery
customers’ financial health, prioritising decisions. These features, embedded within Board training and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions
colleague safety and wellbeing, and helping
our Board and Committee reporting format, Our Board training programme prioritised breaches and fraud. This continues to be
our local communities. During recent Board
help to ensure that our purpose and key areas of focus and included consumer an important topic for the Board and annual
evaluations, directors commented positively
stakeholders remain firmly at the centre of protection, operational resilience, financial crime training on financial crime aims to build
on how our purpose guided Board
Board discussions. In addition, the features and climate. During the annual climate training knowledge and awareness among directors.
discussions and decision-making during
support Board oversight of NatWest Group’s session the Board received an update on
the pandemic. During 2022, the Board will progress and performance as a purpose-led progress towards meeting our climate ambitions Climate governance
continue to oversee the Group’s purposeful
organisation. A Board insights pack which and on insights ahead of COP26. To support In line with the wider purpose and ESG
journey and promote stakeholder voices in
tracks and reports on progress against their review and approval of the Bank of governance model, climate governance is
the boardroom.
NatWest Group’s purpose-related targets England Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario integrated in existing committees and builds
Board composition is shared ahead of each Board meeting. (CBES) exercise, video training was provided on their areas of responsibility and expertise.
covering, among other things: an overview of Details of this and management’s role in
Our Board is structured to ensure that the
Board oversight in action the CBES process and scenarios; the approach assessing and managing climate-related risks
directors provide NatWest Group plc with the
Since NatWest Group announced its purpose to modelling the climate risks; and how the and opportunities can be found in our 2021
appropriate combination of skills, experience,
in February 2020, the Board has been kept results are used to drive decision-making and Climate-related Disclosures Report.
knowledge and diversity, as well as
informed on progress towards our purpose- the management response plan.
independence. Details on our Board directors, Additional information on our approach to
led ambitions and external sustainability
Board composition (including information on How we listen and engage on purpose corporate governance, including stakeholder
commitments – covering achievements to
board diversity and inclusion, skills and date and future priorities. Purpose, remained The Board has engaged with key stakeholders, engagement and purpose-led decision-
experience) are contained in our Governance a key component of Board-level strategic including investors, employees, thought making can be found in the 2021 Annual
at a glance page within the Strategic report discussions during 2021. leaders, throughout the year on a range Report and Accounts (section 172(1)
of our 2021 Annual Report and Accounts. of topics, including purpose. statement and Corporate Governance).
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 14
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Collective action
We continue to make progress against the UN Principles
for Responsible Banking and remain committed to aligning
our strategy with the UN Sustainable Development Goals
Six principles our understanding of the positive and Our three focus areas are aligned to seven
1. negative impacts in our lending. SDGs where we believe we can make a
shaping our future
6. Alignment 2. positive contribution.
We continued to work collaboratively
Transparency & Impact & Target
and are active on the portfolio impact tool SDGs are embedded into our green, social
Accountability Setting
working group and the sub-groups focused and sustainability bonds frameworks and
on producing target-setting guidance for: our Climate and Sustainable Funding and
5. 3.
Financing criteria. Our policies, including
Governance Clients & – Gender equality our Human Rights Statement, our Modern
& Culture Customers
– Financial inclusion and financial health Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement
4. Stakeholders
– Biodiversity and our Supplier Charter reinforce our
commitment to SDGs.
We are signed up to the Collective
Commitment on Climate Action (CCCA) We are members of the UN Global
and joined the industry-led UN-convened Compact (UNGC) working group on Making
Net-Zero Banking Alliance. In April 2021, Global Goals Local. In 2021, NatWest Group
alongside 42 other banks and UNEP FI, we supported the UNGC SDG Roadshows held
Principles for Responsible Banking UN Guiding Principles, which we are became founding members of the Glasgow virtually across the UK in the run up to COP
We have now been signatories to the striving to further align with through our Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ). 26, and four talented colleagues completed
Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) for approach to human rights. (see p.47). the 2021 Young SDG Innovator ten month
We welcomed the opportunity to participate
two years and remain committed to further accelerator programme.
We joined the Portfolio Impact Analysis in the UNEP FI events and invited them to
aligning our strategy with the Paris Climate
working group and piloted the PRB impact speak to our colleagues through our Talent Coutts became B Corp certified in 2021,
Agreement and the UN Sustainable
assessment tool on our lending portfolio. Academy and Sustainable Futures network and through its engagement provider EOS
Development Goals (SDGs). Our progress
The tool aims to identify potential positive to further embed the principles. at Federated Hermes, Coutts is working
on the six principles can be found in our
and negative impacts in the context of to achieve the SDGs through its voting
second self-assessment report (see p.61). sectors and countries, aligned to SDGs. Sustainable Development Goals and engagement with the companies in
In 2021, we responded to the collective The tool, which identifies impacts including The 2030 UN Sustainable Development which it invests.
progress survey, issued by UNEP FI, climate, biodiversity and employment has Goals (SDGs) have less than a decade
helping to build a global picture of the been useful as an additional source of risk to be achieved, and we recognise we 54 of our Sustainable Futures Champions
progress made by over 200 signatories. analysis. While in its infancy, we will can have positive, and potentially set a personal SDG objective and 98 set
We welcomed recommendations on the continue to work collaboratively with negative, impacts on all 17 goals. a professional objective on our Workday
report from the Civil Society Advisory Board, UNEP FI to address challenges and use platform, following a webinar on the goals.
including recognising the importance of the the tool and its methodology to deepen
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 15
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Partnerships for
the goals
Building a
Introduction purpose-led bank Climate Enterprise Learning Responsible business Additional disclosures 21
These are some examples of our signatories, memberships and accreditations.
A strategic priority of NatWest
Group is to be powered by Signatories
partnerships, and progress across
– UN Global Compact
our three focus areas can only be
– UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking
achieved with collaboration. – UN supported Principles for Responsible Investment
– Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)
– The Climate Group
– The Financing a Just Transition Alliance
– Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF)
– Net Zero Asset Managers initiative (NZAM)
– Climate Action 100+
– HM Treasury Women in Finance
– Race at Work Charter
Membership
– Sustainable Markets Initiative (SMI)
– Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ)
– Equator Principles (EP)
– Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD)
– Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA)
– Business in the Community (BiTC)
– Powering Past Coal Alliance
– UK Finance
Accreditations
TZOE RLOA NWDAFSITLEL
– Sustainable Homes and Buildings Coalition
– Living Wage Foundation
– Chartered Banker Institute
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 16
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Integrating ESG across
our services and operations
At NatWest Group we are supporting our Providing ESG and sustainable represented the first regulated European gas
transmission system operator to issue in this
customers to develop more sustainable practices, finance advisory to our corporate
format.
and institutional customers
helping corporates adapt to evolving market
– Public Sector:
NatWest Group takes an integrated, product
expectations and capitalise on new opportunities.
agnostic approach in working with our – Supported King’s College London
customers on ESG matters. As such, we in structuring the first sustainable
Em assist them across many aspects including ESG finance framework for a UK university.
bedd strategy, reporting and disclosure, ESG ratings, The underlying framework covers the
p a r e a n d e m b e d C E o n S te G nt E d d u e c v a e t t l i o r o a p n in m a in e n g n d t n g D In e s v ti e t E u lo S t S p i G o m t n r a e a n l t t e s gic F E r S a / G m & I n I e n K v w t P e o I g r r k ation i R C n i & s re g k C d M a i ts E r a b n o S a n g G e m i e n n t to b u s in e s s s a ( c p o N t s i r e o n u n r a a o c m c r d t n t d W l o c u s m i u n i u r d e t c s e i s i s o s t n r t t s o t n o c g r f G m s i u a s l u t r c o t h l e o p r t a p e r a u u p n s a t r p o e ’ s e i p n r c , o g t e t g o o b w i r e a n o s p n s a n o n u l n d o m a d E s d f t y s S i y a n , c G d . a i c p o n e n e m r a o r i n b i v i b v m p t a l j i a e a e v t p t c n e i f i s o v t i i e n e r i p e v t a s l s a e e a n ) a a s n c . c , c c t e T e a r h m r h o l o p l e o s o e l r e s s f n w o e t m i d i n s n u , u g t c l h t t i s e p le – u i p a J F F E n o r r n n r U v a a o i i d n R e v n m g t s e 5 s ç r t e r S 0 o a a m s w t 0 c m i i r s t e i o u a y e m m n r c ’ l l s t k d i y e t s l u l , e c s i i o a r w m a a i B n s n m h n p e g w s i d l a p c g o A e c u h i c e q l t s d l i n f a a u u v a r v l l e l i l e s i o s b ’ r P d s o w o b o e h r n S u n e v D o m r o d d e s n c l r e a t o i i e t o a n C r p s y t l t m o e s o a F u m a l e i l i p n r y s n m c s p a t h u o n u . e r c n t e a a t u h t e é
pi n le g
H
t o
p r e
S E G di a n e e
R
s s p a a
C
ci t y B
uil di e s to
r A d v
y
is r o A d v ic e
a
R
l e
a
R
tin g
v nI
E S G
t r a
t e g y
F
f a T
c
i
o
h n
u
p
n
e a
n
p
t i
s
n
n
d
r u
u
o s c
i
e
t
n
a a
d
e
g
i c n ,
t o
a h s
s
b
r
u
o
i
e
l t i
a
p t
c
o y
c
p
i
h
a
l p a o
l
n
b r r
e
e
a
o t
w
ll e
n
d e d
r
d
d
u
e
d c
c
b
s
e
o
t b
u
r
y
d
t i
s
n m o
v
t
n
o
a
a u
l
o r
u
i
r k
n
m
v e a
a
a
e
t
s
d
b
h t
,
a i v
l
w
o
e
s i
i
n s
th
o ry – F f w
m
r i a h n
il
m
l
d
c i a
i
c
o
h
e
n h e
n
i
v
c l w d
e
l i
S
e a h o
lo
d
e
l o r
p
n
k I o t n
m
i
o
o
d c s
r
e
o i t h t
n
i -
P
t e i s
t
s u
r
a t s
e
o
t r l u i u
f
t
f
o
e
h i c n
e
n
r
t & g
r
d
s u
e
u
r a ( s
d
i
c
F n p
a
s I
S
g o ) u
t
:
o
r
i
c a
o
t
c
A s c d
n
i
c
a
e v
,
p t
l
s i
c
e r s s
B
o
u
d o f
o
g u
l
r
t
a
n
r l
u
f a s
d
E o
r
m
e
U r
,
m R B
e
5 P
a
e 0 E
r
s 0
l
R .
y
s
n
oit
r
ots e o
to
v e
2
r
0
a
2
ll
0
i
.
s
(
s
S
u
o
a
u
n
r
c
c
e
e :
in
D
c
e
re
a
a
lo
s
g
in
ic
g
)
59% in comparison a
to
s s
It
o
a
c
l
i
i
a
a
t
n
e d
S M
w
E
it
s
h
.
COVID-19-related loans
S tra F t u e n g d y ing
F in a ncing Engage m e nt
Balan A c d e v S is h o
e e
r
t
y
N
r s s o e u
a
l c p e
t
t r
W
o a in r
e
n ,
s
t a f h
t
i t n e i
M
o a n e
a
n a v
r
c o
k
l i s a
e
l u l a
t
t
s
i n i n o d
h
s n
a
t a i
s
t o g u f
c
e t t i
o
n o h
n
c n e
t
i s e
i
c
n
s a o
u
n ( r
e
S p d
d
S o t
t
A r h
o
a ) e t
p
e s s
l
u ,
a
o s p
y
v t u e a
a
b r in e l
l
i
e
a c ig
a
b n
d
le s
in
,
g – S (
e p in
S
x r
o S
o c r
v
e g
A
e
e
s r s
) r
p a s
: e
o m
A i
o
g
n f
w
m
n
s E e
a s
e U
, r
t w
d
o
s
R
e u
h 2 C
d p
3 ic O
r r
h b
a e
V i
n p
w l I l D i
a e
o a
t a
- n s
i
1
t o
, 9 s
n m
f e . o
a
t
a
r
l s n
u t h
d
p
a
e
a n
t
t
o
d
E
e
U
s
p
a ,
r ’
g
s
r
o
a e
t S e
i n s
U c
c in
t R
i e g
j E o
s i
b
n
s
ES S G tr a L t i e q g u y idity & H e F S d i o n g l a u in n ti g c o i n n s g f m – i n a a C n n d o c a r e p t e m o s r a a is r t k e s e h s t : o s . J w o A n in s b t e e S le l u o c s w t t i a o : n in a o b f i o lit u y r S 2 t 0 r 2 u 1 c turing
gree D n e fi s n ig a n n i c n i g n g a n o d p t i i m on p s l e a m n e d n p ti r n o g ducts A B m o d il n v lio d is n o F r i r n a f a o m u r e g G w u a r o s a r u l k n b a i o e n n ’s d d S s is u u s s b u t s a a e i n n q c a u e b e , i n l w i t t y h E - i U L c i h R n 3 k 0 e 0 d
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 17
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Integrating ESG across our
services and operations continued
Embedding ESG outside the – Commercial paper: NatWest Markets is and management of environmental and
Read more in our 2021 Climate-related
bond market supporting the integration of ESG Disclosures Report social risks are important drivers to the
considerations in the short-term creation of long-term shareholder value.
Over the course of the year, we have also market through multiple commercial This allows us to help shape market Coutts’ approach to responsible investing
focused on embedding ESG into products paper programmes with ESG structures, guidance and reflect our customers’ won three awards in 2021, including ESG
outside the bond market. including with Holcim – whose innovative concerns and priorities. In 2021, NatWest strategy at the European WealthBriefing
Group supported Global Financial Markets
ESG Euro Commercial Paper Awards, as well as Multi-Asset Manager
– Sustainability linked loans (SLL): Association’s reports on ‘Global Principles
programme NatWest Markets had of the Year and Multi-Asset Fund of the
NatWest Group is an active participant for Developing Climate Finance
previously structured. Year at the Sustainable Finance Awards,
and coordinator in the large and Taxonomies’ as well as ‘Unlocking the
– ESG Deposits: NatWest Markets and has been recognised by the FRC for
growing global SLL market. These loans Potential of Carbon Markets to Achieve
continues to offer ESG deposits its stewardship activity.
incentivise our customers to perform on Global Net zero’ which provides an
under its ESG product framework
explicitly stated, ambitious ESG targets. overview of the developing carbon In 2021, Coutts joined the Net Zero Asset
with £317.3 million outstanding
– ESG derivatives: NatWest Markets has market and describes the evolving carbon Managers initiative and committed to
as of December 2021.
established an ESG offering across the ecosystem which contains both compliance achieving Net zero investments by 2050.
derivatives spectrum, including foreign Thought leadership and knowledge and voluntary market alternatives. We are currently working to make this
exchange (FX) and term derivative commitment explicit in all funds and
transfer leadership
products, executing transactions with Over the course of 2021, NatWest Markets discretionary portfolios we manage on
multiple clients. To support customers and the wider has conducted three investor surveys with behalf of our clients.
industry in the understanding and over 120 participants contributing globally.
– Private finance: NatWest Markets
awareness of ESG risks and opportunities, In November, we released the results of our However, Coutts have already made
played a key role in establishing
we have produced an extensive range Global ESG Investor Survey, which covers significant progress on addressing
ESG-linked subscription line facilities
of ESG focused thought leadership. buy-side views on regulatory and product climate change within our investments,
and recently co-ordinated c.€2.3 billion
Throughout 2021, NatWest Markets developments as well as sustainable debt reducing the carbon intensity of the equity
ESG-linked umbrella credit facility for
subject matter experts delivered more supply parameters. The depth and reach of component of our funds and discretionary
Carlyle’s European private equity and
than 160 external articles and events our annual surveys represents a key part of portfolios by 38% on average since
real estate platform.
across a plethora of ESG themes. These our product development in the primary December 2019 and meeting our 25%
– Securitisation: NatWest Markets
included both our regular ESG publications and private finance market. reduction target by the end of 2021.
collaborated with the Association for
(such as ‘Green Fingers’, ‘ESG Evolution’, Aligning with the 2015 Paris Agreement we
Financial Markets in Europe (AFME) and
‘Issue your Greens’) as well as dedicated Embedding ESG into asset have also committed to halving the carbon
the European Banking Authority (EBA) to
articles and webinars on topical issues. intensity of all holdings in our funds and
support the production of a cohesive due management
discretionary portfolios by the end of 2030.
diligence questionnaire and a report on An active voice in the industry Coutts Asset Management Centre of
sustainable securitisation respectively. NatWest Markets recognises the Expertise, which manages all investments Coutts is an active steward of the
– Repo: NatWest Markets’ first repo importance of industry-wide collaboration, on behalf of the NatWest Group, has investments it manages on behalf of clients,
transaction was successfully executed to to advance progress within sustainable embedded ESG into every part of its focusing on achieving real world progress
provide financing for a new senior-living finance and ESG more broadly, and is an investment process and ownership on ESG issues such as climate change,
development in Tunbridge Wells. active voice on a number of key practices. This is based on our belief that gender diversity and biodiversity.
sustainability fora. strong corporate governance practices
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 18
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Committed to our focus on ESG continued
Integrating ESG across our
services and operations continued
In 2021 Coutts voted on over 14,000 The new climate and sustainable finance Green Mortgages Green Bond
resolutions, supported over 90% of inclusion criteria (Version 1.3) is available
In November 2021 NatWest Group issued a
shareholder resolutions on climate and on the ‘Climate and sustainable finance’
£600m Green Bond, the proceeds of which
engaged with over 500 companies on ESG pages of our website.
were used to finance/refinance a selected
issues, with the support of our stewardship
pool of green mortgages located in the UK.
provider EOS at Federated Hermes. Affordable housing social bond
Read more about Green Mortgages
In February 2021, in line with the ICMA
Read more about green bond
Social Bond Principles, NatWest Group
responsible investing
issued €1 billion affordable housing social
Read more about GSS bond framework
Climate and Sustainable bond, the first of its kind by a UK bank. and GSS bonds
The proceeds of the social bond issuance
Funding and Financing are allocated to financing/re-financing Investing in GSS bonds in our
In H1 2021, six months ahead of time, loans originally provided to not-for-profit liquidity portfolio
NatWest Group exceeded its 2020–2021 registered housing associations operating
Our Treasury portfolio consists of high-
target of providing £20 billion of Climate in the UK, which provide greater access
quality liquid assets which support the
and Sustainable Funding and Financing to affordable housing, or contribute to
bank-wide sustainable banking ambition
with the delivery of £21.5 billion. enhanced access for low-income residents
by allocating a portion to green, social and
In October, NatWest Group announced a or marginalised communities (see chart).
sustainability (GSS) bonds. As at Q4 21,
new target to provide £100 billion of
Indicative Eligible Treasury held a £2.3 billion GSS portfolio,
Climate and Sustainable Funding and
Housing Type providing support to 28 GSS borrowers.
Financing by the end of 2025 (from 1 July
Based on issuer reporting, the proceeds of
2021). Part of this new Climate and
these bonds are allocated to areas such as
Sustainable Funding and Financing target
renewable energy, energy efficiency, and
will help to provide the investment needed
sustainable development. Our ambition is
to transition the UK to a Net zero economy.
to grow this portfolio materially over time.
Our new Climate and Sustainable Funding
and Financing will build on opportunities
ESG in our pension funds
across key sectors: renewables and wind,
green finance, homes and public buildings Together with its investment managers, the
and electric vehicles. trustees of the Group’s pension plans take
Social Rent: 77% steps to actively monitor and take account
We also announced our new climate and of environmental, social and governance
Affordable Rent: 12%
sustainable finance inclusion criteria which issues when investing the assets.
Shared Ownership: 6%
we will use to determine the assets,
activities and companies that are eligible Supported Housing: 5% Read more about the NatWest Group
to be counted towards the £100 billion pension fund
Climate and Sustainable Funding and
Financing from 1st January 2022.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 19
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Purpose focus area
Climate
Our ambition 21
Biodiversity and climate change 22
We acknowledge the importance of climate change not only in our
own operations, but in the lives of all our customers and wider society.
We also take compliance with the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force
on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations very
seriously. To this end, since our inaugural standalone Climate-related
Disclosures Report last year, we have progressed our assessment of
climate-related risks and opportunities, enhancing our scenario planning,
governance and risk management processes, and developing metrics
and targets.
Read more in our 2021 Climate-related Disclosures Report
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 20
Climate
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Climate
NatWest Group
climate ambition
2021 progress highlights
-50% 52% COP26
At least halve the climate impact of gross lending and investment balances Principal partner for 26th
(SDG 7.1, 7.2, 13.1, 13.3, 17.17) of our financing activity by 2030 at full year 2019 estimated for financial UN Climate Change Conference
(SDG 7.1, 7.2, 13.1, 13.3) emissions. A further eight high carbon of the Parties (COP26)
emitting sectors estimated
Our ambition
2020: 45% (four sectors)
Net zero(1) £100bn £17.5bn(*) Carbon Tracking
by 2050
feature launched in our
Climate and Sustainable Funding Climate and Sustainable Funding and Retail Banking mobile app(6) –
and Financing between 1 July 2021 Financing completed, including £8.1bn in collaboration with CoGo
and the end of 2025 contribution towards our £100bn target(4)
(SDG 7.1, 7.2, 13.1, 13.3)
2020: £12bn
50% 38%(*) £728m(*)
1. Please refer to section 1.2 for definitions related to our
net-zero ambitions.
2. Please refer to section 3.5.2 in the NatWest Group
Climate-related Disclosures Report for further details of our UK mortgage customers’ homes of Retail Banking mortgages Retail Banking Green
on outcomes.
3. Against a 2019 baseline. Direct own operations is at or above EPC C rating by 2030 are at or above EPC C rating(5) Mortgages completion(7)
defined as Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (paper, (SDG 7.1, 7.2, 13.1, 13.3)
water, waste, business travel, commuting and work 2020: 36%
from home) emissions. It excludes upstream and
downstream emissions from our value chain.
4. In October 2021, having surpassed our previous Full phase out of coal Credible transition
2020-21 £20 billion target during H1 2021, NatWest
Group announced an ambition to provide an additional
by 1 January 2030(2) plan assessments
£100 billion Climate and Sustainable Funding and
Financing between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025
5. Percentage of £110.3 billion UK Retail Banking (SDG 7.1, 7.2, 13.1, 13.3) completed for oil and gas majors
mortgages where EPC data is available. 2020
comparative for England and Wales mortgages only. and in scope coal customers(2)
6. Retail Banking RBS, NatWest and Ulster Bank
-50%
Northern Ireland mobile apps -46%
7. Retail Banking Green Mortgage products relate only
to mortgages for energy efficient homes (EPC A or B
rated) and are aligned to the World Green
Building Council definition of green mortgages. reduce our direct(3) own operational
reduction in our direct(3) own
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer page 98. carbon footprint by 2025
operations carbon footprint
(SDG 7.1, 7.2, 13.1, 13.2)
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 21
Climate
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Climate continued
Biodiversity and
climate change
In 2021, NatWest Group formalised delivering a risk management and Considering environmental impacts
the ‘Emerging Environmental Issues disclosure framework for organisations specifically, our policy is not to lend to
Working Group’ to identify, track and to report and act on nature-related risks. projects involving unsustainable vegetation
make recommendations on a wide range – United Nations Environment Programme clearance or peatland clearance/extraction.
of environmental issues relevant for our Finance (UNEP FI) Initiative, Principles
Climate change and environmental
business. In 2021, we also classified for Responsible Banking (PRB) This includes for example areas of high
degradation are inextricably linked and
‘biodiversity and nature loss’ as a formal Biodiversity sub-group, which is focusing conservation value, high carbon stock and
require immediate and significant action
emerging risk for NatWest Group. on developing indicators, metrics and primary tropical forests. For further details,
to avert potentially irreversible damage. please read our ESE risk appetite position
methodologies for target setting
The impacts of rapid climate change,
It is critical for NatWest Group and our for Forestry, Fisheries and Agribusiness.
on biodiversity.
such as forest fires and acidic oceans are
customers to work towards becoming
causing significant biodiversity and nature – HRH The Prince of Wales’s Sustainable
‘nature positive’ by reducing negative Read our FFA policy
loss. Simultaneously, protecting and Markets Initiative (as part of the
impacts and increasing restoration
restoring our natural world can make Financial Services Taskforce). It aims to
a substantial contribution to both climate of natural capital. We are at the start accelerate the flow of private investment In respect to the importance of tackling
change mitigation, by removing emissions, of the journey, in 2022 we will work into sustainable infrastructure projects, deforestation, we decided to refresh our
and adaptation – for example, rewilding to better understand nature-related which includes restoring the balance soft commodity reporting for H2 2021.
risks and opportunities.
upland areas reduces the impacts of flooding sheet of natural capital.
Read more about our soft
in downstream towns. In 2022, the UN Measuring biodiversity and nature impacts – Banking Environment Initiative (BEI) commodities reporting
Biodiversity Conference will convene of financing is an evolving and complex working group, participating in projects
governments from around the world to area. It requires collaborative approaches including: Soft Commodities Compact Expanding our positive impacts
agree to a new set of goals for nature over with partners, stakeholders and peers and BEI Financial Risks arising from on biodiversity and nature
the next decade. This will be critical as time to help mitigate the negative impacts Biodiversity Loss and Land Degradation.
Transitioning towards a nature-positive
is running out to address these issues. of financing activities on environment
economy will require reform and
and nature, as well as supporting the Helping reduce and mitigate
Ahead of COP26 NatWest Group published improvement of food, fishing and
growing sector of nature-based solutions
its biodiversity and nature statement that harmful activity agricultural systems and subsidies to ensure
to climate change.
outlined a number of initiatives and work As a bank we have significant indirect they reflect the real costs and benefits of
NatWest Group is involved in related to NatWest Group is helping to drive collective impacts on biodiversity and nature through nature in economic systems. We must
biodiversity and nature. action on nature and biodiversity through our financing. We seek to reduce and limit direct financial resources to ensure they
a number of exploratory collaborative negative impacts through our environmental, work for nature, people and planet. In 2021,
Read our Biodiversity groups including: social and ethical sector-based lending we announced our new target to provide
and Nature Statement £100 billion of Climate and Sustainable
– The Taskforce on Nature-Related policies, which help determine the customers
Funding and Financing by the end of 2025.
Financial Disclosures (TNFD) member and projects we finance. We have also
Our climate and sustainable finance criteria
of the Informal Working Group 2020, integrated the requirements of the ‘Equator
Forum Member 2021, which will be Principles’(1) and ‘Soft Commodities includes lending to projects that protect and
Compact’(2) into these policies. restore biodiversity, habitat and ecosystems.
Read more about climate
and sustainable finance
1. A voluntary set of standards adopted by financial institutions for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social
risks in project-related transactions.
2. The Soft Commodities Compact aimed to mobilise the banking industry to help transform soft commodity supply chains.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 22
Climate
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Climate continued
Biodiversity and
climate change continued
Global Farm Metric been collaborating to support the The Global Farm Metric then takes People and operations
development of the ‘Global Farm Metric’ this information and provides a detailed
Sustainability impacts can vary significantly Sustainable Futures (SF) is an employee-led
(GFM), an internationally standardised summary to farmers, highlighting strengths
from one farm to another. NatWest Group network that connects and supports our
framework to help farmers measure and areas for improvement. Further
has been helping the UK Agriculture sector colleagues to embed sustainability at work
the sustainability of farming and food developments could include building
for over 200 years, our team of expert and at home. In Q4 2021 SF launched
production. After a successful pilot interfaces with other commonly used tools,
relationship managers are dedicated to a new ‘Biodiversity 101’ training pack
in 2021, this is now being expanded. such as those that measure productivity
supporting the farming industry in an which has already started to be delivered
and calculate carbon.
ever-evolving and challenging sector. Bringing expert insight from the financial to colleagues. As part of our journey to
In line with our purpose, climate change sector, NatWest Group is helping to further The continued development of the GFM become Climate Positive in our operations
and sustainability commitments we want develop the GFM as a single platform will also enable NatWest Group to better by 2025, we recognise that our impact
to help farmers measure their sustainability through which farmers in the UK and understand the impact of its agriculture on the environment extends into the supply
impacts. This information is useful for their beyond can meet multiple sustainability portfolio and how this can be aligned with chain. NatWest Group started working
customers as well as providing data to data requests. For example, for audits the ambition of the 2015 Paris Agreement. with EcoVadis and launched its new
improve farm operations. NatWest Group or requests from retailers, banks ‘Supplier Charter’ in 2020. The charter sets
and the Sustainable Food Trust (SFT) have or governments. Carbonplace, formerly out the sustainability requirements, including
nature and biodiversity conditions, that
Project Carbon
suppliers must meet in order to do business
The framework assesses against a number of categories including:
Carbon credits are used as a tool with us. In 2021, specific details relating
by many businesses to help reduce their to deforestation-risk commodities were
Livestock management environmental impact, but there is currently also added to the charter.
no consistent transparent global value for
Productivity
carbon credits. Nature near our buildings
Plant and crop health
and sites
Through NatWest Group’s collaboration
Soil with other international banks, it is NatWest Group’s head office in Scotland
supporting the development of a is located on a large estate on the urban
Biodiversity and nature
transparent global marketplace for carbon rural fringe. Although the area is not a key
Water credits with clear and consistent pricing biodiversity site, we have a management
and standards known as ‘Carbonplace’. plan in place. Nature-based climate change
Social capital
The marketplace uses blockchain planning for the location includes maintaining
Resource use technology to enable access to transparent carbon sequestering elements that
information about carbon credits through are principally soils and trees, while
Human capital
an open digital record of ownership. simultaneously reducing the use of carbon.
Air and climate Through this we also hope to expand Maintenance and continuous improvement
the use of nature-based solutions at in soil structure allows for storing the
Energy use a global level. maximum amount of carbon as well as
Nutrient management enhancing flood attenuation. In 2022,
we plan to increase the restoration
and protection of nature on our sites and
1. Source Growing Better: Ten Critical Transitions to Transform Food and Land Use, Food and Land use Coalition 2019. explore measuring our direct nature impacts.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 23
Climate
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Purpose focus area
Enterprise
Our ambition 25
Removing the barriers to enterprise 26
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 24
Enterprise
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Enterprise
NatWest Group
enterprise ambition
(SDG 5.5, 8.3, 10.2, 17.17)
Our ambition 2021 progress highlights
35,000 200,000 c.55,000 c.200,000
individuals or businesses supported interventions delivered to start, individuals and businesses supported interventions delivered to start,
through enterprise programmes in 2021 run or grow a business in 2021 through enterprise programmes in 2021(1) run or grow a business in 2021(1)
(SDG 8.3) (SDG 8.3)
60% 75% c.60% c.75%
of those supported will be female of those supported will be based of individuals or businesses of individuals or businesses supported were
(SDG 8.3, 5.5) outside London and the South East supported identified as female based outside London and the South East
(SDG 8.3, 10.2)
20% 10% c.26% c.52%
of those supported will be of a Black, of those supported intend to create of individuals supported were of a Black, of individuals or businesses supported
Asian and/or Minority Ethnic background purpose-led businesses Asian and/or Minority Ethnic background were purpose-led businesses
(SDG 8.3, 10.2) (SDG 8.3, 10.2)
1. Represents approximate number of interventions delivered by and individuals supported through enterprise programmes during
2021, which is based upon data provided by third parties delivering these interventions without further independent verification
by NatWest Group.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 25
Enterprise
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Enterprise continued
Removing the barriers
to enterprise
Removing the barriers to developing methodology for tracking jobs (Management) scheme. The 12-week delighted that the update highlighted
created that can be applied consistently programme for SMEs is delivered by real progress on all eight Rose
enterprise – even during
across businesses, and will report this in universities across the UK to support Review recommendations.
hard times
future reports. senior managers boost their business’s
As the largest supporter of UK businesses, performance, productivity, resilience, and The first annual publication of the Investing
we champion anyone starting or growing Meanwhile, against a backdrop of long-term sustainable growth. in Women Code report – a commitment by
continued disruption due to COVID-19, financial services firms to improve female
a business. However, we know that for
we supported c.55,000 individuals and entrepreneurs’ access to tools, resources
many, it still remains harder than it should Championing diverse
businesses through c. 206,000 interventions and finance launched by Alison Rose and
be. In 2021, as part of our commitment entrepreneurship
in support of starting and growing HM Treasury in July 2019 – came out in
to remove barriers to enterprise and help
the economy build back better, we published a business. In 2021, we expanded the We remain committed to supporting the April 2021. The report contained industry
‘A Springboard to Sustainable Recovery: focus of our Business Builder programme, UN Sustainable Development goals on commentary and insight on the impact of
Building back better together’. an online tool providing learning resources, gender equalities and reduced inequalities. COVID-19, as well as outlining best practice
to support businesses at all stages Women made up at least 60% of those we from finance providers on how to support
The report is aimed at helping the UK’s of their lifecycle. supported in 2021, and more than 26% female entrepreneurs. We believe this
businesses confidently navigate today’s were Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic. marks another important output from the
Over the past 12 months we have
economic landscape. It includes a More than 75% of the businesses we Rose Review and is another step towards
continued to deliver our award-winning
commitment to scaling growing businesses, support are based outside of London and encouraging greater gender transparency
Accelerator programmes virtually through
unlocking regional potential, boosting the South East, with 53% of businesses in business funding.
coaching, workshops and events.
managerial skills and practices, and having a socially purpose-led focus.
By offering access to business expertise
supporting technology adoption. Mentoring
and a network of like-minded peers, the In 2021, NatWest Group made an
We have a target to support start-ups programme removes multiple barriers to additional £1 billion in funding available to A key barrier to female entrepreneurs
to create 50,000 incremental businesses enterprise, empowering UK entrepreneurs help support female-led businesses in the starting or scaling a business is a lack
by 2023. While we remain committed to to scale their businesses to the next level. UK recover from the impact of COVID-19, of relatable role models and access to
supporting start-ups, due to the unforeseen In addition, we launched the first of our this builds on the £1 billion announced in networks, sponsorship and mentorship
challenges presented by the COVID-19 specialist Accelerators to allow us to bring January 2020. opportunities through which they can gain
pandemic, we diverted resources to support network support to high-growth businesses relevant advice and insight. To help address
existing customers. This has impacted in specific sectors across the UK. Advancing female this, through the SME Taskforce, NatWest
collaborated with Digital Boost to provide
progress against our ambition and
Research and experience tell us that access entrepreneurship tailored digital training and advice to SMEs
we will undertake a full review of our
approach to this goal during 2022. to experts and mentors is important for In March 2021 – two years on from the and charities looking for extra support
businesses at all stages. To support our launch of the Rose Review – Alison Rose to help grow their business and boost
The number of jobs created by businesses customers, we launched our mentor and Minister Scully (Parliamentary Under- revenues. Elsewhere, following a successful
supported through our Entrepreneur matching platform pilot with 100 NatWest Secretary (Department for Business, Energy two-year pilot, our ‘Expert in Residence’
Accelerator Programme is a measure we Accelerator businesses now having access and Industrial Strategy), published the programme launched across the UK,
have reported in previous years. Jobs to 50 Coutts clients to act as mentors second progress report on the review. dedicating 28 roles based in branches and
created are self-reported by the businesses Despite the multitude of challenges and communities to help female entrepreneurs
Elsewhere, we partnered with
supported, which could result in tracking uncertainty of 2020 and 2021, we are realise their growth ambitions. Expert in
HM Treasury, providing funding, as well as
methodology being applied inconsistently Residence is delivered by local enterprise
in-person support, to the Help to Grow
between businesses. We are working on
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 26
Enterprise
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Enterprise continued
Removing the barriers
to enterprise continued
managers. Working collaboratively with our Youth enterprise support Coutts proactively supports
Local Enterprise Partners across the UK
The Prince’s Trust and NatWest Group early-stage businesses and CREME have devised actionable
they proactively spend time supporting
have been officially partnered for over 20 founders looking to scale-up. recommendations to address the
local businesses, sharing advice, creating
years. Through our partnership, we support challenges faced by ethnic minority
networks, leveraging the local ecosystem, The Prince’s Trust enterprise programme Through the Coutts Investment Club and entrepreneurs that can be adopted
and hosting events to boost businesses and colleague volunteering, as well as UK Enterprise Fund, Coutts helps a diverse by policy makers, financial
and help them grow. being a patron of ‘Women supporting range of fast-growing UK-based private institutions and business support
From a colleague perspective, a further Women’. Building on the Enterprise Relief companies find the capital they need to organisations. This is to support a
320 NatWest Group employees progressed fund set up by The Prince’s Trust and grow. Both services offer a select group collaborative and robust approach
through our ‘Women in Business’ NatWest Group during the pandemic in of Coutts clients the opportunity to invest to advancing the UK’s ethnic
accreditation programme. This takes 2020, a further 458 young people received in innovative businesses trying to solve minority business owners.
the UK’s biggest challenges.
our total to over 1,000 Women in Business a grant funded by NatWest Group in 2021,
The final version of the report will
specialists, providing expertise and to test their business ideas through The Our Coutts Investment Club clients have be launched in early 2022.
delivering online events specifically Prince’s Trust enterprise programme. direct access to entrepreneurs seeking
for our female business customers. growth capital, and they are often looking
Our ‘Dream Bigger’ programme –
to bring more than investment.
in association with organisations such
Supporting all our business as National Enterprise Company and Young
They frequently act as mentors or are female-led. It is also supported by
communities Enterprise Scotland – continues to inspire
advisors, and even join boards as wider NatWest Group initiatives to support
and provide the skills and motivation for
Through the SME Taskforce, NatWest non-executive directors. It’s comprised female-led businesses and make them
young people (aged 16 to 18) to start
Group announced collaborations with of senior executives, experienced investment-ready.
a business. In 2021, we supported more
Business in The Community (BITC), Hatch entrepreneurs, investment professionals,
than 21,000 young people through our
and Digital Boost to provide tailored digital and family offices, who want access to Hatch Enterprise
digital events.
training and advice to SMEs to help grow innovative companies while making their
We collaborated with Hatch Enterprise,
their business. The collaborations focus own investment decisions.
NatWest Social & Community a leading charity whose mission is to
on supporting those who traditionally
face the highest barriers to entry. Capital (S&CC) In collaboration with BGF, Coutts launched empower 25,000 underrepresented
the UK Enterprise Fund: a unique entrepreneurs to imagine, launch and
Over the past year we have been S&CC was founded, as an independent opportunity for Coutts clients to invest in grow sustainable and impactful businesses
supporting the Centre for Research in charity in 1999 to help social enterprises, a diversified portfolio of UK-based growth- through tailored enterprise support,
Ethnic Minority Entrepreneurship (CREME) charities and community businesses make stage private companies. Inspired by the community and partnerships by 2025.
on a research project, ‘Time To Change’: a positive impact in communities across Rose Review, the fund looks to address Hatch provides an inclusive ecosystem
Advancing the UK’s Ethnic Minority the UK. The S&CC awarded its 20th the funding gap for entrepreneurs across where everyone has access to the power
Businesses. The research report explores anniversary grants in early 2020 and the UK, while offering clients a scalable of entrepreneurship.
the UK landscape, both the contribution more recently, specific coronavirus approach to investing in commercially-
of and barriers faced by the UK’s Ethnic support grants. established businesses. With £41.5m raised,
Minority Businesses. after 5 months the Fund has invested
Read more about NatWest
£10.8m into 19 businesses, of which two
Social & Community Capital
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 27
Enterprise
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Growing ambition:
Harvest London
Part of our Accelerator programme
We love seeing the firms we’ve For us, it’s the reason why
supported go from strength the programme was developed
to strength. in the first place. As the UK’s
biggest supporter of small
Harvest London, a ‘vertical’ farm business, we understand that
based in Leyton, is one such helping companies is much more
business. By employing than just traditional lending.
controlled environment Full wraparound care,
agriculture – growing crops connectivity and know-how
under LED lights without is crucial for fast-growing
pesticides and using far less companies to find their feet
water – it produces herbs and and thrive.
vegetables that are hard to
source locally in the UK. By providing entrepreneurs with
free office space, free business
Starting as a small proof of advice, mentoring, bespoke
concept almost three years ago, coaching, and access to the
the company has quickly scaled bank’s networks and supply
its operations, recently opening chains, we want to ensure that
a second farm with more our Accelerator businesses have
production sites planned the very best chance to succeed.
to follow.
This is what supporting
NatWest Group is proud enterprise looks like. By removing
to be part of its growth story. barriers to enterprise and
As a former member of our providing more opportunities,
Entrepreneur Accelerator we’ll not only help companies
programme, it’s great to know to grow, but we’ll also help the
we’ve helped such a dynamic economy to build back stronger.
and sustainable company work
towards its long-term goals.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 28
Enterprise
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Purpose focus area
Learning
Our ambition 30
Building financial confidence and resilience 31
Championing our colleagues’ potential 34
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 29
Learning
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Learning
NatWest Group
learning ambition
(SDG 4.4, 4.6, 10.2, 17.17)
Our ambition 2021 progress highlights
15m 100% 8.96m(*) 99.6%
of financial capability interactions front-line colleagues professionally financial capability interactions delivered front-line colleagues professionally
delivered by 2023(1) accredited within the first 18 months by 31 December 2021 against the accredited within the first 18 months in role
(SDG 4.4, 4.6 and 10.2) in role (SDG 4.4) 2023 target(1)
2m UK 1.07m(*)
of additional customers helped Social mobility apprenticeship additional customers helped to start
to start saving by 2023(2) programme extended across saving by 31 December 2021 against
(SDG 10.2) multiple UK locations the 2023 target(2)
(SDG 4.4, 4.6, 10.2)
1. Includes additional initiatives approved during 2021 which met the criteria for inclusion in the financial capability target
2. Includes instances where customers had existing savings with other banks and transferred them into a NatWest Group account
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 98.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 30
Learning
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Learning continued
Building financial
Financial Foundations
confidence and resilience
Workshops
We aim to champion the potential of people Commitment 2: Help 2 million
and families at every stage of their lives.
additional customers start
By working to create a society which is
saving by 2023.
financially confident and resilient, we want
to empower more people, both customers Our priority is to support customers
and non-customers, to take control of their who have no, or very limited, savings
finances and their futures, and to make the with us to develop good savings habits.
most of their money. Our success measures are based on the
number of customers that have managed
Commitment 1: 15 million to save £100 or more since January 2020
Knowing how to manage your money Initial pilots have been delivered to
financial capability interactions – and comparing that with the number and make the most of it is an essential young people, job seekers and clients
of customers who had less than £100
by 2023. life skill that it is never too early, or too of a charity providing support
in savings the previous year. In the period
late, to develop. Based on the success to survivors of domestic abuse.
Our ambition is to help our customers 1 January to 31 December 2021, we helped
of our MoneySense programme, we Independent evaluation showed
and communities develop the knowledge, 470,813 customers start to save, with a
identified a need for support for those participants felt more confident,
skills and confidence to manage their cumulative total of 1,070,813 customers
new to the world of work, starting with almost all trialling new behaviour
money in ways that give them control to date against the strategic target of
their first job or wanting to improve and tactics to manage their finances,
and peace of mind. In 2021, we stretched 2 million by 2023.
their understanding of basic financial for example setting up budget plans
our previous 2020 target of 2.5 million
concepts and products. In 2021, or opening savings accounts.
interactions per year to a cumulative target
we piloted a series of free, interactive
of 15 million interactions by 2023. In the workshops facilitated by trained After a successful year, we’re looking
period 1 January to 31 December 2021, bank colleagues: to build on this success in 2022,
we delivered 6,084,396 interactions, reaching new audiences and
with a cumulative total of 8,958,109 – Facts & Foundations, covers the developing bespoke content for
interactions to date against the strategic essentials: what a bank can offer, the 16-18 age group.
target of 15 million by 2023. how to read a payslip, reflections
on personal spending habits and Quotes from our participants:
To ensure a consistent approach to what can impact your income.
measuring financial capability across “I never budgeted before the workshop
our range of products, programmes – Changes & Choices, explores and I’ve now started putting my
participants’ relationship with money
and services, we developed a framework money into a savings account.”
and tackles the issue of debt –
to assess whether our initiatives meet
both avoidance and management. “I signed up for the workshops
essential criteria: provision of knowledge
and skills; active engagement; and – Frauds & Scams, explores the types as I wanted to learn more about
helping people change their behaviour. of scams that exist, how to spot accounts for my children e.g. an ISA
This resulted in a number of additional them and how to protect yourself for my son and how to improve my
from fraud. credit score. As a single mum who
initiatives contributing towards the
is often in fight or flight mode I need
bank-wide financial capability target.
guidance on how to improve my
credit score.”
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 31
Learning
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Learning continued
Building financial
confidence and resilience continued
Supporting everyone’s and generated £192,000 for the charities score and the actions they can take to
Young Money and SpecialEffect. improve it. Our free ‘Know My Credit
financial journey
Score’ feature has been used by 3.8 million
We have a range of products, services, Leaving school, many young people of our customers, with over 1 million
tools and activities designed to support become financially independent for the first monthly users. So far, 130,000 customers
people’s ability to develop their financial time. Our team of volunteers have delivered who used the tool have improved their
capability at every stage of their lives – Financial Foundations Workshops to 9,131 credit score.
from receiving their first pocket money, people in 2021, empowering attendees to
opening their first savings account, know their ISA from their VAT, check their Developing a savings habit and integrating
or reaching their next life goal. payslip and get budgeting. We continue to saving into day-to-day money management
deliver fraud education workshops in the is another essential part of building financial
Recognising the role a bank plays in the community, including a specialist workshop resilience. We have helped 470,813 people
lives of everyone in our communities, focused on the needs of young adults and start to save in 2021, with 385,168
we offer a range of free, easy-to-access in 2021 helped 111,895 people to identify customers signing up to our Digital Regular
initiatives for both customers and non- scams and know where to go to get help. Saver account which helps customers
customers to develop good money habits. save little and often, making savings
The importance of learning money We also provide one-to-one financial health feel more achievable.
management skills from a young age checks with anyone who wants to review
is well understood and MoneySense, their personal finances and set goals to When our customers are in a good financial
our free financial education programme reach them. Available online, by video position to think about investing their
for 5-to-18-year-olds, helps teach banking or over the phone, in 2021 we money, we have several investment
children about money both at home and helped 936,970 people discover ways products with different levels of risk for
in schools. We’ve helped over 10 million to get financially fit. them to choose from. We supported 37,791
young people since we launched in 1994, investing journeys in 2021, with 32,944
reaching 1.2 million in 2021, with the Building customers’ customers choosing to invest directly
programme being used by 66,736 teachers financial capability through their online investment platform.
across 52% of schools in the UK.
Part of having great financial capability The importance of planning for the future
Outside of the classroom, parents have starts with taking control of your finances. is supported by ‘Plan Ahead’, a free digital
open access to free online articles, videos Our spending feature in our mobile app service which aims to simplify and
and games supporting conversations about allows customers to track their outgoings consolidate end-of-life planning. The online
money at home. Our innovative, free video and categorise their spending. Insights like tool helps customers create, securely store
game Island Saver reflects the way many these help customers understand where and share key documents and plans with
children engage with the world by teaching their money goes each month and family members including creating a will
money skills through play. The game, which to budget. The feature is used over and recording assets. Planning ahead
is available free on consoles and mobile 3.8 million times per month by customers. shouldn’t be a daunting task and this
platforms, has been downloaded over service aims to enhance people’s financial
3.5 million times and in 2021 received Another important skill for many of our confidence as well as giving peace of mind
the coveted ‘Mumsnet Rated’ badge customers is understanding their credit for the future.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 32
Learning
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
The response
2,019
Entries
Climate Savers legacy in schools
1,322
“The competition started conversations
about climate change across the school
and at home. A great precursor to COP26
and lots more activities in school. We will Teacher registrations*
be starting an Eco Council.”
2,292
Sacred Heart Primary School, Battersea.
The outcome
– 26 winning pupils had their designs Teacher packs downloaded
made into a Climate Savers Top Trumps
deck that was showcased at COP26.
– Prizes also included Adidas Parley
Showed young people they can make
MoneySense The purpose trainers made from ocean plastics,
a difference:
which reinforced the benefits
NatWest Group’s MoneySense programme of recycling. “Playing Climate Savers taught Tymon
Climate Savers helps educate over 1 million young people that you can save the climate with
– Three winning schools received
every year towards a better financial simple actions.”
a total of £26,000 towards
competition future. With our Climate Savers
a sustainability project.
competition, we showcased the connection Sparked conversations at home:
between money and climate and gave “As a mum, I have definitely been
Conclusion
a voice to the generation that will be more mindful of things I do which
Climate Savers has inspired young people
at the heart of combating climate change. have an impact but know I have
to confront the challenges of climate
to try much harder.”
We joined forces with the popular card change and explore the connection
game Top Trumps, challenging primary between saving money and the climate, Inspired pupils to turn their ideas
school pupils to design a special COP26 while building trust in NatWest Group and into action:
Inspiring young people deck with ideas to help save money and establishing a meaningful legacy among “Honor has been determined to walk to
the planet. Through gameplay, we inspired pupils, families and schools. school more despite it being a 25 minute
to save money and save
young people to turn their knowledge walk. No petrol saves money and saves
The impact
the planet and learnings into action. the planet.”
Climate Savers helped pupils
With NatWest Group a principal partner understand the connection between Encouraged young people to share
at COP26, the competition brought money and climate: top tips:
together two of our focus areas – learning “Stan is more aware of energy usage “Buy gifts and clothes in charity shops
and climate – and showed how, through and costs. He understands doors should instead of cheap chain stores. You are
young people’s creativity and passion, be closed to retain heat and lights more likely to get something original
we can all drive positive change. switched off.” in a second-hand shop.”
1. Includes sign ups from other communications activity 1-30 September 2021 NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 33
Learning
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Learning continued
Championing our
colleagues’ potential
A focus on learning
Delivering long-term, sustainable performance means the skills we need
to succeed in the future will be different from those today. Whether it relates
to a current role, or a future career (inside or outside of NatWest Group),
we are passionate about providing our colleagues with the capabilities they
require to fulfil their potential to thrive. We have made a commitment that
half our learning at NatWest Group is focused on building critical skills for
the future, with data and digital capability prioritised.
We provide all colleagues with access to
build future skills through the NatWest Group Academy
(regardless of role, level, working pattern or location),
bringing together learning opportunities and curated
content into a single place. This supports our commitment
for all colleagues to be upskilled in future-focused skills
by 2025. A total of 80% of colleagues have used it since
it launched in 2020, and in 2021 we’ve offered new topics
including cybersecurity and innovation. The NatWest Group
Academy has helped increase learning across NatWest
Group by 10%, with our target (aligned to the UN
Sustainable Development Goals) to increase NatWest
Group colleague learning by 50% by 2023.
While increasing our colleagues’ learning and development,
we’re also focused on ensuring it’s the right kind.
To support our commitment to build skills for the future
we have given our colleagues access to a range of
opportunities to build their data and digital skills through
the NatWest Group Academy, from content playlists
(a blend of learning resources) to ‘Nanodegrees’
(online programmes to learn skills and demonstrate
mastery). Early progress is positive, with data skills
learning up 134% and digital skills learning up 31%.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 34
Learning
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Learning continued
Championing our
colleagues’ potential continued
Additionally, we invested in an online opportunity to reskill as software engineers. To develop a culture of continuous learning, More broadly, our mandatory learning
learning platform that allows all our Of these, 17 have accepted permanent we encourage our colleagues to learn, team set a 2021 target to reduce the time
colleagues to assess their data skills positions. We also have a Mobility Hub reflect and share at every opportunity. our colleagues spend on mandatory
and start the journey to develop the data which supports with redeploying colleagues We help our colleagues to see learning learning across the year by up to 50%, to
literacy they’ll need for the future. 6,853 and reskilling them for future work. The differently, building their skills in learning to reinvest in personal development or serving
colleagues registered with the platform in hub supports colleagues on several fronts learn, reflective practice, knowledge-share our customers. Through innovative design
2021. As well as a focus on future skills, we such as CV reviews, interview skills, support and collaboration. To support this, we’ve and improved processes, a 36% reduction
continue to invest in our people to do their to find a new role internally or getting used the NatWest Group Academy to has been achieved at end of 2021, while
job, with 99.6% of our front-line colleagues ready for working outside NatWest Group. curate a range of bite-size content, balancing our regulatory commitments and
professionally accredited within their first In 2021, 1,162 colleagues registered with alongside more traditional instructor-led ensuring our colleagues have the right
18 months in role. the Mobility Hub. Of the 545 that have been learning. In addition, our social community knowledge and skills to keep us safe
through Job Matching Support and have an for learning ‘#LoveLearning’ (part of the and secure.
We also commenced our first formal reskill outcome, 21% were successfully matched NatWest Group Academy) now has 49,046
programme in 2021, with 20 colleagues to an internal job, and 50% were supported members (c.80% of colleagues). This gives We believe we have an obligation to help
who were at risk of redundancy taking the to find an internal job themselves. colleagues a place to connect and learn build skills across our industry. Working
from each other and is where we with the Financial Services Skills
host regular campaigns and activities to Commission, we led the build of an
engage colleagues. industry-wide skills framework that is
available via an online tool to individuals
Throughout 2021, we have continued to and financial services organisations in the
promote NatWest Group’s ‘capability UK. The purpose of the framework is to
checker’ – our self-assessment tool for the create a consistent language around skills
critical people capabilities (CPCs), which across the industry – which in turn will
allows colleagues to understand their support mobility and is in line with our
strengths and development areas. To make commitment to support wider communities.
the most of colleagues’ valuable time, each
colleague receives a bespoke development
report, providing suggested on-the-job
activities and opportunities linked to our
learning academy. At the end of 2021,
there have been over 25,000 completions of
the new improved ‘Checker’, with 53% of
completions from customer-facing
colleagues. Through activity on Workplace
(internal social media), colleagues have
been empowered to share best practice
and knowledge off the back of completing
the checker, fostering peer-to-peer learning
and a culture of continuous learning.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 35
Learning
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Learning continued
Talent, employability and supporting young people Supporting
In 2021, we launched our global Talent Academy to help identify and learning
develop colleagues with high potential through a programme of challenging
and purposeful development opportunities. All colleagues could apply in our
through self or peer nomination (regardless of role, level, working pattern
or location) and following the assessment process 3,911 colleagues were communities
accepted on to the programme. Of the final cohort, there was a gender split
of 53% male to 47% female, with 23% of successful applicants coming from
Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic backgrounds.
We’re investing in our talent pipeline In 2021, we also supported young people
In wider society, the pandemic has Supporting the CareerSense
internally and investing in the next (16 to 18-year-old’s) through our ‘Insight
particularly impacted access to jobs for programme, we have developed the
generation. As we committed to, we’ve Weeks’ and work experience programme
young people. So, as part of our focus on mycareersense.com website, which
hired over 1,000 interns, graduates and as part of our social mobility partnerships.
learning, we’ve expanded our offering in offers access to a range of free tools and
apprentices in 2021, including 205 We hosted 80 pupils as part of insight
this area. In 2021, we launched our resources including our ‘Find Your
colleagues who have been recruited weeks, 18% of whom are of Black heritage.
‘CareerSense’ programme – which Potential’ tool for those aged 13–24, as
through our social mobility apprentice We expanded our social mobility
provides free-to-access tools to develop well as the learning content accessed
programmes during 2021. In addition, programme in 2021 to include a number
critical skills and support youth through our NatWest Learning Academy.
we aim to hire a further 1,100 interns, of our contact centres across five different
employability prospects for 13 to
graduates and apprentices in 2022. locations in the UK. This enabled us to We are delighted and honoured to
24-year-olds – especially for those from
offer apprentice opportunities to candidates sponsor 831 young people (15 to 18
low-income families and Black, Asian
We continue to monitor the diversity
from under-represented backgrounds year-olds) through the Ivy House
and Minority Ethnic backgrounds. Since
of our graduate, intern and apprentice
and the opportunity to develop future Award over 2021/22. We’ve committed
its launch, over 8,200 young people have
programmes and have a three-year plan
skills and capabilities. to sponsor another 1,000 young people
attended a skills exploration workshop,
to recruit around 400 new apprentices
over 2023 and 2024. The Award
as at the end of 2021. We are also
from backgrounds of socio-economic Our approach to recruitment develops leadership and life skills, giving
delighted to report that 597 of our
disadvantage by the end of 2022. Please We post all jobs internally, via Workday, students the knowledge, skills and
colleagues have signed up to be a
refer to our Non-financial information for colleagues to apply. We run career confidence they need to step up and
CareerSense ambassador supporting
datasheet for more information. development events so that our colleagues take ownership of their future.
the programme.
can see how they can develop themselves In September 2021, we ran ‘Represent’,
and their wider career options across In November 2021, we welcomed We also launched an external academy
a series of seven live online sessions
NatWest Group. our first cohort to the CareerSense ‘Find ’Learning with NatWest’ in November
specifically aimed at encouraging
2021, which supports communities,
Your Path’, our new initiative for young
applications from students from diverse With external recruitment, our NatWest families, and businesses (both customers
people not in employment, education, or
backgrounds. The sessions featured insight Group careers site gives comprehensive and non-customers), focusing on five key
training which has been created and
from NatWest Group colleagues and insights to our jobs, culture, locations and capabilities: climate; employability;
delivered in partnership with regional
provided detailed support regarding our our application processes. It also hosts entrepreneurship; future skills; and
youth delivery partners. The scheme
application process. In total, we had 505 a variety of blog content to portray our financial capability.
helps young people to benefit from a
registrations for the series. We also worked stories of what it is like to work here.
range of skills-development sessions,
with ‘10,000 Black Interns’, a charitable We also make sure candidates can easily
mentoring and paid work experience.
organisation which provides Black students request any adjustments to help complete
with a choice of internships; successful their application or assessment.
students will join our summer internship
in 2022.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 36
Learning
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Learning continued
Championing our
colleagues’ potential continued
6% of our total CEO-1 succession pool and feedback on the values, embedding
Empowering leadership and inclusion self-disclose as being from a Black, Asian purpose, the ‘YES Check’ and the
and Minority Ethnic background, an ‘Recovery & Rebuild Taskforce’.
Effective leaders are critical to delivering our purpose-led strategy. improvement of 4% compared with October
Our ‘Determined to Lead’ (DtL) programme has helped focus and 2020. Our ‘Rising Star’ pool consisted of In terms of our ongoing diversity and
energise our people leaders (regardless of location or working pattern), 10% of people from a Black, Asian and inclusion commitments, several notable
Minority Ethnic background. Of a total milestones were reached in 2021.
cultivating a framework for common leadership behaviours and practices.
population of 288 colleagues identified Talent Acquisition colleagues worked
During 2021, there has been a continued leveraging of this resource as successors to CEO-2 roles, 48% were in conjunction with our Diversity, Equity
with 10,371 interactions for our DtL curated content, and 1,320 female and 10% were from a Black, Asian and Inclusion team and Racial Equality
colleagues attending facilitated training sessions. or Minority Ethnic background (for the Taskforce to support the main inclusion
Rising Star population this rises to 14%). agenda and commitment of the ‘Banking
on Racial Equality’ report. In January 2021,
Elsewhere, the NatWest Junior we refreshed our Line Manager interview
Management Team – which mirrors our training – ‘Championing potential through
In addition, much of our leadership, talent Supporting this, our succession planning Executive Committee to bring a fresh our interviews’ – this has a sharper focus
and career support activity is enabled processes enhance our framework to spot, perspective and voice to that team and on inclusion, bias, and candidate
by the Leadership and Coaching Faculty, develop and mobilise a diverse pool of our deliver key strategic projects to broaden experience. We launched our ‘Recruitment
established in 2021. This team houses world most promising talent. Successors are their experience, exposure and connections Yes Check’ across NatWest Group to help
class learning professionals able to work assessed and developed against a purpose- across NatWest Group – have once again maintain a bias-free recruitment process.
with leaders and talent as they navigate led profile that defines the behaviours, traits had the chance to work closely with our This encouraged line managers to take all
change and complex contexts to enable and drivers associated with success in a Executive Committee in 2021, inputting possible steps towards creating a diverse
a more purposeful business. This resource purpose-led role and organisation. Our meaningfully on the company’s strategic shortlist and interview panel, and to keep
gives our leaders access to clear thinking, Succession Council gives bank ExCo direction. Examples of initiatives they have inclusion front of our minds when
relevant frameworks and problem-solving successors the opportunity to engage worked on during 2021 are: developing recruiting. In addition, we launched
approaches at the point of need. directly with the CEO and other ExCo ‘Mystery Meetups’, which encourage the ‘Inclusive Interview Ambassadors’
The service is benchmarked against the members to ensure they have the potential connections across NatWest Group programme, in which colleagues from
external market to ensure we are efficient, and aspiration to reach ExCo level. Our promoting wellbeing and a one-bank across the business were trained to
robust, and sustainable in our approach. board and talent sessions also support the mentality; ‘Let’s Talk Diversity’ webinars interview, support line managers and bring
In 2021, NatWest Group coaching team engagement of our most talented senior to further the diversity, equity and inclusion diversity of thought and challenge to our
provided 687 hours of career coaching leaders by giving them exposure to agenda aligning to the 2021 People Pledge interview panels.
to colleagues at risk (1,162 colleagues NatWest Group Board and Committees under ‘Creating inclusive and connected
Please refer to our Non-financial information
registered with the Mobility Hub in 2021), through interactive sessions discussing teams’; the development of an
datasheet for more colleague information
improved the effectiveness of 21 of our topics that are shaping the direction of intrapreneurship framework which
most senior leadership teams, and delivered NatWest Group. We track the diversity of will impact employee engagement,
a new ‘Leading on Purpose’ programme our succession and talent cohort: In support growth mindsets, and develop
to a further 22 senior leadership cohorts October 2021, around 39% of our entrepreneurial skills and talent within
(327 leaders). successors to CEO-1 roles were female, the organisation; and providing input
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 37
Learning
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Responsible
business
Additional
disclosures
Responsible
business
How we do business 39
Engaging our suppliers 44
Tax payments and responsibilities 45
Respecting human rights 47
Supporting our customers 48
Supporting our communities 53
Supporting our colleagues 54
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 38
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business
How we do
business
Our purpose-led business strives to put Our critical people capability
the needs of people and planet at the
behaviours – how we behave
heart of everything we do. To do this, The YES Check – how we make decisions
we are building a bank that is safe, Our critical people capability behaviours The ‘YES Check’ asks five simple questions to guide the thinking behind our
simple and smart. Our ambition is to help describe how colleagues should approach decisions and actions.
all our customers, colleagues, communities, their jobs. They describe the parameters
shareholders and suppliers to thrive. that ensure we serve customers to the best The YES Check
of our abilities.
We have four key tools to guide the
1 Would others say I am acting with respect and integrity?
way we work together: Our policies –
Consider: what would your family, friends, colleagues and community think?
how we do things
Our Code
2 Does what I am doing keep the bank, our customers, and
Our Code and the YES Check are
Our Code lays out our purpose and the supplemented by a number of key policies communities safe and secure?
values and behaviours we expect from
and supporting guidance to ensure legal Consider: if you presented this decision to a group of savers or shareholders,
each other. It underpins all our actions
and regulatory requirements are met. would you be seen as taking due care?
and interactions – within the bank and in
They outline the expectations of NatWest
our external relationships – and defines the 3 Am I acting fairly and being inclusive?
Group, customers and regulators as well
principles for making responsible decisions,
as the processes and procedures that Consider: what are you trying to achieve? Have you considered everyone
as well as the values behind our purpose
must be followed. The policies also seek affected by this decision including the underserved or excluded?
and culture.
to ensure risk is managed in a way that
4 Have I sought out, listened to and taken different perspectives
protects our customers and enables
We have worked with our colleagues as
business continuity, even during challenging into account?
well as with our customers, suppliers and
times. They include policies relating to Consider: what assumptions have you made? Have you been curious
communities to create a new set of values
anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money and tested your thinking on people with different views and looked at
that reflect the organisation we are today.
laundering, sanctions, inside information different data?
These collaborative and evolved values will
and personal account dealing as well
be launched in 2022 and will form an
5 Will this advance our purpose to champion potential and help as complaints management, privacy
integral part of our company’s cultural
and client confidentiality and our people, families and business thrive?
identity, matching the ambition, optimism
and energy our purpose has given us, records management. Consider: how? Try writing the press release – does it sound good for
and that we can all believe in. customers and communities? What is the impact on future generations?
Find out more about how
we support compliance with
The integrity of Our Code rests in the
Our Code at natwestgroup.com.
hands of everyone in NatWest Group and
is fully aligned to the Prudential Regulation
Authority (PRA) and Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) Rules.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 39
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
How we do
business continued
The importance of risk culture market risk, capital adequacy or liquidity If conduct falls short of the required Oversight and monitoring
and funding – or non-financial risks, standards, the accountability review
Risk culture is at the centre of both The Board is responsible for receiving
such as conduct risk, financial crime process is used to assess how this
the risk management framework and risk reports on and reviewing the effectiveness
risk, operational risk and climate risk. should be reflected in pay outcomes
management practice. NatWest Group’s of the risk management and internal
Work continued during 2021 to further for those individuals concerned.
risk culture target is to make risk part control systems of NatWest Group.
integrate climate risk into the enterprise- The remuneration policy seeks to ensure
of the way colleagues work and think.
Colleagues are expected to take personal wide risk management framework – that the remuneration arrangements for For more information about the relevant
responsibility for understanding and including the adoption of first-generation all colleagues reflect the principles and oversight roles and responsibilities
proactively managing the risks associated climate risk appetite measures. Climate standards prescribed by the PRA and of our Board and Board Committees,
with their roles. The target risk culture considerations are also incorporated into FCA rules. see the Responsible governance
behaviours are embedded in our critical transaction acceptance standards as part – Regular mandatory training for all section on page 13.
of NatWest Group’s wholesale credit risk colleagues on the YES Check, Our Code,
people capabilities.
management approach. A principles-based and conduct policies. A wide range of Conflicts of interest
climate risk policy, approved by NatWest learning, both technical and behavioural
How we manage risk Group’s Board Risk Committee, is also is offered across the risk disciplines. We have in place a conflicts of interest
NatWest Group operates an enterprise- in place, defining minimum requirements This training can be mandatory, policy which sets out how we will identify,
wide risk management framework. for managing and reporting climate risk role specific or for personal development prevent or appropriately manage actual
The framework – which is centred around across the organisation. and enables colleagues to develop and potential conflicts of interest that may
arise through the normal course of
the embedding of a strong risk culture – the capabilities and confidence
business. Below is a description of our
sets out a consistent approach to managing Compliance to manage risk effectively.
conflicts policy. We are required to take all
risk across the organisation. While the – Testing and monitoring. Specific
NatWest Group has a number of systems appropriate steps to identify and to prevent
NatWest Group Board reviews and activities relating to compliance, conduct
and mechanisms in place to monitor and or manage conflicts where:
approves the framework, it is designed and financial crime risk are subject to
manage compliance with Our Code
and maintained by NatWest Group’s and policies: testing and monitoring. This confirms – the interests of one part of NatWest
independent Risk function, which is led to both internal and external Group conflict directly with those of
by the Chief Risk Officer. Risk appetite – Disciplinary actions in case of breach. stakeholders – including the Board, another part or a customer;
is a key component of the framework. Colleagues falling short of the expected senior management, the customer- – the interests of our employees conflict
It defines the level and type of risk standards would be subject to internal facing businesses, Internal Audit and
with those of our customers; or
NatWest Group is willing to take disciplinary policies and procedures, NatWest Group’s regulators – that risk
– the interests of two or more of our
as part of its business activities. which could result in dismissal and, policies and procedures are being
customers compete with one another.
where relevant, notification to the correctly implemented and that they
The industry-standard three lines
relevant authority. are operating adequately and effectively. Our conflicts policy identifies, with
of defence model is used to articulate
– Employee performance appraisal Selected key controls are also reviewed reference to the activities and services we
accountabilities and responsibilities for
and remuneration. NatWest Group’s for adequacy and effectiveness. provide, the circumstances which constitute
managing risk. For more details on the
remuneration policy supports the Thematic reviews and deep dives are or may give rise to conflicts which involve
three lines of defence, refer to the Risk &
business strategy and is designed to also carried out where appropriate. a risk of damage to the interests of one
capital management section of the NatWest
promote long-term success. Conduct or more parts of NatWest Group or of our
Group Annual Report and Accounts. Externally, we welcome feedback from
and behaviour – as well as risk customers. It also specifies the procedures
regulators and industry bodies, including
NatWest Group classifies its principal risks management – are assessed as part and measures that we have put in place
on our reporting.
as either financial risks – such as credit risk, of the process for all employees. to prevent or manage such conflicts.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 40
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
How we do
business continued
To ensure that the conflicts policy is understand their obligations and further Financial crime understands the role that they play in
implemented effectively we seek to specialist advice and training is also tackling financial crime.
We understand that tackling financial crime
continually and proactively identify provided by our in-house competition – Partnership working. To recognise that
is of fundamental importance to society.
situations where potential conflicts may lawyers on an ongoing basis. to tackle financial crime, we cannot
Our approach to preventing financial crime
exist, and govern those situations to ensure do this in isolation and we work with
seeks to tackle the harm generated, to
fair and proper outcomes. We also employ Lobbying and others including industry bodies,
protect people, families and businesses,
a number of techniques to manage and political involvement as well as support relevant financial crime law enforcement, regulators
mitigate conflicts, including: using physical and government.
legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions and electronic information barriers to We make no contribution and have no
in which we operate. Our Financial Crime
control the flow of information between political association to political parties. In December 2021, NatWest Bank Plc was
Statement states our lack of tolerance for
different parts of the group; separate As a financial services organisation, we fined £264.8 million by the FCA for three
breaches of money laundering, terrorist
supervision of our employees who are have relationships at a national and local breaches of the Money Laundering
financing, sanctions, bribery and corruption,
involved in different business activities level with most of the established political Regulations 2007. We deeply regret that we
tax evasion and fraud laws. We seek to
providing services to customers whose parties, who are treated in the same way failed to adequately monitor one of our
comply with financial crime legislation and
interests may conflict; a remuneration as other stakeholders. As a matter of good customers between 2012 and 2016 for the
regulation as well as the spirit of applicable
policy to avoid our employees being business practice, we keep in close touch purpose of preventing money laundering.
laws and regulation. Our financial crime
remunerated in a way that creates with government and ensure that, For full details, please see the litigation
framework is built on the following pillars:
conflicts; maintaining and reviewing whenever issues arise which may affect the note on page 371 of the 2021 Annual
a conflicts register; and provision operation of our business and the interests – Policies and procedures. To ensure Report and Accounts.
of internal guidance and training of our customers or shareholders, we that our business seeks to prevent,
to relevant employees to raise their discuss these with the authorities detect and address financial crime Whistleblowing
awareness of conflicts and how concerned. Our employee conduct policy as a result of our operations, products, We want our colleagues, and all those we
to deal with conflicts when they arise. states that employees involved in local or services, our customers and suppliers. interact with, to feel confident to raise
national politics should ensure that their
– Regular risk assessments. To ensure concerns about wrongdoing or misconduct
Anti-trust and political activities are kept entirely separate that we align and continue to without fear of retaliation. ‘Speak Up’ is
from their duties and that NatWest Group
anti-competitive practices strengthen procedures in line with NatWest Group’s formal whistleblowing
funds and resources are not used for
our inherent risks. framework, which enables colleagues
We are committed to competing fairly political purposes.
– Independent audit. To continuously to report concerns in confidence (and
across all sectors in which we operate.
We are a member of several trade assess the effectiveness of our controls. anonymously if preferred) through a secure
We take a very firm approach to compliance
associations, such as UK Finance. – Customer. To know our customers reporting system operated by an
with competition law. This means that all
Where appropriate, we participate in by undertaking due diligence independent third party. Colleagues using
employees worldwide must understand
government consultations and policy and monitoring. Speak Up are protected both through our
their competition law obligations, however
junior or senior they may be, and whatever discussions to share our industry expertise – Process and technology. To have internal policies and by legislation,
the nature of their role. and perspective. For instance, this has systems and controls to manage where applicable.
included input on the UK’s transition to net the risks presented.
The Group Audit Committee monitors the
Under the group-wide competition policy, zero, the setting of industry standards, – Culture and colleagues. To undertake effectiveness of NatWest Group’s
all colleagues must complete annual the provision of shared services and colleague and customer training and
whistleblowing process, with its chairman
competition law training to ensure they the supply of training services. awareness activity so that everyone
acting as whistleblowing champion.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 41
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
How we do
business continued
It receives regular updates on the volume believe that if they raise concerns they these risks through good governance Customers assessed against the
of whistleblowing reports and any common will be handled appropriately. In 2021, and control. As such, NatWest Group ESE policy in 2021 by category
themes. All colleagues receive annual 415 cases were raised compared to has developed RAC on nine sectors which
awareness training on whistleblowing 441 in 2020. present heightened ESE risk. The ESE risk
and how to raise concerns. More detailed concerns process seeks to ensure that ESE
targeted training is also provided to Environmental, social and risk is identified and managed for
specialist teams involved in the customers and transactions in sectors
ethical risk management
management and investigation of which are not covered by a sector RAC.
whistleblowing reports. There is no We recognise that the activities of our Examples might include major or sustained
definitive list of what can be reported customers can have environmental, environmental, human rights, modern
through Speak Up – we want to know social and ethical (ESE) impacts – including slavery or social issue-related campaigns
of any concerns colleagues have about polluting activities and the potential for against a company in sectors such as
wrongdoing or misconduct that affects human rights infringements. To help us agriculture/food, chemicals, tobacco,
NatWest Group, its customers, employees, assess and manage these risks, we have pharmaceuticals and waste management,
shareholders or the general public. an ESE risk framework comprising policies or companies associated with controversial High: 9 Prohibited: 8
Examples of what can be reported and processes to give us better insight into projects. Our oil and gas, power and mining
through Speak Up are documented our customers’ activities and address issues & metals sector RAC encompass the Normal: 257 Sensitive: 31
in the Speak Up policy. of concern. The framework forms part of NatWest Group commitment to stop lending
NatWest Group’s overall reputational risk and underwriting to companies with >15% Customers assessed against the
Our Speak Up policy sets out our policy and requires enhanced due diligence of activities related to thermal and lignite ESE policy in 2021 by sector
commitment to protect anyone raising to be performed for certain customer coal, and to major oil and gas producers
a genuine concern, even if the concern relationships, transactions, activities and unless they had a credible transition plan
raised is considered to be unsubstantiated projects. Risk officers and customer-facing aligned with the 2015 Paris Agreement
(not proven) after investigation. colleagues receive regular training on ESE in place by the end of 2021.
All whistleblowing concerns are risks and procedures. Our policies reflect
investigated, as appropriate. applicable national and international laws In 2021, we made additional enhancements
Where concerns are substantiated, and confirm that we expect our customers to our power generation and mining and
recommendations are made for remedial to adhere to local and international metals sector RAC which confirm that we
action, which can include changes to environmental, social and human rights will have no new exposure to thermal and
processes and controls as well as standards. The policies also incorporate lignite coal (coal). We will plan to phase out
disciplinary action. a number of voluntary standards such of coal for UK and non-UK customers who
as the Equator Principles (EP) and the have UK coal production, coal fired
Furthermore, the harassment, victimisation UN Global Compact. generation and coal related infrastructure Adult Generic: 12
or discrimination of anyone raising by 1 October 2024, with a planned full entertainment: 18
a genuine concern will be viewed as a ESE sector risk acceptance criteria (RAC) global phase out by 1 January 2030. Mining & Metals: 27
Animal testing: 16
disciplinary matter. In 2021, 98% of those apply to all legal entities within NatWest See our 2021 Climate-related Disclosures Oil and Gas: 46
completing our colleague opinion survey Group and define the level of ESE risk the Report for full details. In 2021, Defence: 88 Power
indicated that they know how to raise bank is prepared to accept. This includes we undertook 305 customer ESE Forestries, Generation: 51
concerns about wrongdoing in their having relevant policies and procedures assessments (2020: 140), and 108 fisheries and
Private Security
business. 89% of colleagues felt it was safe which demonstrate a good understanding trade-related transactions involving agribusiness: 42 Companies: 5
to speak up in their business, and 88% of ESE issues and the capacity to manage defence equipment (See graph – 2020: 90).
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 42
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
How we do
business continued
ESE risk framework
At NatWest Group, we have nine ESE sector risk Initial screening is The specialist ESE assessments team perform an
acceptance criteria (RAC) for sectors that present completed by the relationship managing team ESE risk assessment and confirm the ESE risk
heightened ESE risk. Customers or trade and an ESE risk rating is assigned. rating of the customer relationship or transaction.
transactions that fall within a sector RAC, or any The risk rating determines approval requirements
other customer where associated ESE risk and when the next ESE assessment is required in
concerns have been identified, are subject to the customer lifecycle.
enhanced due diligence.
NatWest Group ESE sector Confirmed ESE risk rating:
risk acceptance criteria (RAC) Normal
Customer relationship or transaction subject to due Normal
diligence. Customers undertaking ‘normal’ ESE activities
Adult entertainment
are assessed every five years, or before then if an ESE Confirmed ESE risk rating:
risk concern specific to the customer is identified.
Restricted
Animal testing
The customer relationship or transaction is approved by
an accountable executive and/or a specialist risk
Defence customer committee. The customer relationship is assessed every
one or two years, or before then if an ESE risk concern
Restricted
specific to the customer is identified.
Mining and metals Customers engaged in restricted activities undergo
enhanced due diligence by a specialist team.
Confirmed ESE risk rating:
Oil and gas
Prohibited
Power generation
Prohibited
We do not support individual transactions or customers A specialist risk team is responsible for developing
Gambling with activities which are prohibited by sector RAC. and maintaining our ESE risk framework and
assisting the business and support functions on its
implementation and oversight. Our suite of sector
Forestry, fisheries and agribusiness ESE RAC is reviewed and updated regularly to
ensure it reflects the evolving risk landscape.
Customer onboarding or transaction processing stopped
Private security companies
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 43
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Engaging our
suppliers
The NatWest Group Central to the aims of charter, we worked with EcoVadis – a leading organisation providing Working together,
Supplier Charter third-party evidence-based assessments of sustainability performance. EcoVadis are helping towards common challenges
us to understand and measure our own performance and that of our suppliers against
We collaborate with our suppliers to
the charter, enabling us to identify social, environmental and ethical improvements.
encourage and enable a diverse supply
NatWest Group has made significant progress in the first year of working with EcoVadis,
chain that is not only sustainable, but is
with 834 suppliers invited to take part in assessment and 480 rated, representing 88% of its
Trusted Partner also expected to have a positive impact
in scope 3rd party spend being assessed against ESG credentials. The assessment criteria
to deliver great on the global community. This collaboration
are shown below:
Supply Chains also supports the bank’s ambition to halve
emissions across our operational value
Labour and Sustainable
Environment Ethics chain by 2030. Below are some examples
human rights procurement of how we expect this to happen:
As a purpose-led business we foster strong
relationships with all our key stakeholders, Policies – Actions – Results – We expect our suppliers to implement
including our supply chain. By 2022, our the standards of the charter with their
– Energy consumption – Employee health and – Corruption – Supplier
ambition is to quantify the impact of all and GHGs Safety – Anticompetitive environmental own suppliers.
supplier activities through a supplier – Water – Working conditions practices practices – The charter (and sustainability)
engagement framework. – Biodiversity – Social dialogue – Responsible – Supplier social is covered in our tender process,
– Local and accidental – Career management information practices and is a standing agenda point of
A key milestone towards this ambition pollution and training – Management supplier review meetings conducted as
was the launch of the NatWest Group – Materials, chemicals – Child labour, forced part of ongoing contract management.
Supplier Charter in September 2020 and waste labour and human These meetings are conducted monthly,
(replacing our supplier code of conduct). – Product use trafficking quarterly or annually dependent on the
The charter sets out our aims and – Product end-of-life – Diversity, Topics covered by the EcoVadis assessment supplier’s tier classification. They enable
expectations in the areas of ethical – Customer health discrimination and are weighted and activated according to us to review supplier performance to
business conduct, human rights, and safety harassment supplier industry, size and geography. ensure compliance with their contract
e a n n v d i r in on cl m us e i n on ta , l t s h u e s L ta iv in in a g b i W lit a y, g d e i v a e n r d s i p ty r o mpt – E se n r v v i i r c o e n s m a e n n d t al – E hu x m ter a n n a r l i s g t h a t k s eholder and service-level agreements.
Advocacy – Supply chain managers are continually
payment. It details what we expect from
trained internally on onboarding and
our suppliers, but also outlines our own
performance management of suppliers,
commitments in these key areas and the “We are very pleased to be working with NatWest Group, helping them collaborate
as well as on key ESG topics, such as
with suppliers to drive sustainability performance. Significant progress has been
outcomes we aim to achieve by working
made in just one year with 85% of in-scope spend already rated on sustainability climate, diversity and inclusion and
together. In 2021, led by NatWest Group’s
topics across environmental, labour & human rights, ethics and sustainable sustainable procurement to equip them
Chief Administrative Officer and with procurement. Their commitment to embed this into business as usual is real with with the knowledge and skills to drive
collaboration from subject matter experts the EcoVadis rating integrated into contract clauses, internal procurement systems forward supplier discussions and activity.
and policy owners, we have completed and processes and supplier relationship management. NatWest has been a first
– Embedding EcoVadis into performance
our first annual review of the effectiveness mover for the FS sector in the UK. We’re proud to be partnering with them to drive
meaningful impact at scale” objectives of procurement.
of the charter and its expectations.
– Nicola Sherwin, Vice President Customer Success – EcoVadis
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 44
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Tax payments and
responsibilities
2021 Total UK Tax Contribution
We are privileged to play a central role in As one of the largest banks in the UK,
the UK economy. That brings with it a deep we have a responsibility to society to pay £2.57bn
responsibility to the communities we serve the right amount of tax in the jurisdictions
and to wider society. Our tax contributions in which we operate and follow the spirit
are just one of the ways in which we as well as the letter of the law.
achieve this. These principles are central to our
approach to tax and are underpinned
Our tax payments are used by by our Tax Strategy which has been UK Tax Collected UK Tax Paid
governments to benefit wider society, approved by the NatWest Group Board £0.84bn £1.73bn
for example, via investment in education, of Directors and is reviewed and updated
health services and infrastructure projects. each year. We have put in place policies
During 2021, we paid a total of £1.73 billion and processes to ensure that we fulfil
of tax in the UK (2020: £1.14 billion). our responsibilities. Investors £787m Corporate Tax
We were ranked the 5th highest taxpayer
in the PricewaterhouseCoopers 2021 We do not offer products to our customers
Total Tax Contribution survey of The 100 that might assist them in avoiding tax.
Group, which referenced our tax payments We also comply with global initiatives £661m Employee £257m Employer
Employees
made in 2020. The 100 Group represents to improve tax transparency. Income Tax and NIC Payroll Taxes
members of the FTSE 100 along with
We have no appetite for knowingly
several large private companies in the UK.
facilitating tax evasion. Further details
In addition to the taxes we pay, we also are available in the financial crime section £175m Net VAT and Customers £214m Bank Levy and
collect and administer taxes and social of this supplement, page 41. Other Taxes Collected Other Taxes Paid
security contributions on behalf of
governments. During 2021 we collected a
total of £0.84 billion of tax on behalf of the
£473m
UK Government, primarily in relation to Suppliers
Read more about our approach to tax and Irrecoverable VAT
employee income tax and National access our Tax Strategy here
Insurance Contributions.
5th We were ranked the 5th highest taxpayer in terms of UK taxes paid in PwC’s Tax Authority
latest Total Tax Contribution survey of The 100 Group
Public Spending
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 45
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Tax payments and
responsibilities continued
Global tax contribution International are well-established (refer to note 12 of parent company
and operations in businesses, run through locally regulated accounts beginning p.376). We are We realise 89% of our total
subsidiaries. RBS International (and Ulster continuing our efforts to simplify the legal income in the UK and 90% of our
low tax jurisdictions
Bank Ireland DAC historically) offer entity structure and reduce the complexity
total taxes are paid in the UK.
Over recent years we have substantially a wide range of banking activities and are of NatWest Group. This includes reducing
reduced our operations overseas and have significant local employers. As noted in our our presence in low-tax jurisdictions.
In 2021, for every £1 of UK
increasingly focused on our banking Tax Strategy document, we do not use All intra-group transactions are required
activities in the UK and Ireland, the latter low-tax jurisdictions with the main aim to be priced on an ‘arm’s length’ basis, corporation tax paid, we also
via our regulated subsidiary Ulster Bank of reducing tax liabilities. reflecting where value is created and in paid an additional £1.20 in other
Ireland DAC. On 19 February 2021, line with internationally accepted transfer UK taxes.
As a UK headquartered group, the
we announced that we would begin pricing standards and local tax laws.
UK-controlled foreign companies rules
a phased withdrawal from the Republic
subject the profits of subsidiaries in low-tax We support global initiatives aimed at Over the last five years, we have
of Ireland over the coming years.
jurisdictions to UK tax where they do not making the global tax system more paid £7.2bn in UK taxes to the
We also have a commercial presence in fall within the exemptions legislated by the effective, for example the ‘Global Anti-Base UK Government.
Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man, Gibraltar UK Government. Details of our subsidiaries Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two)’ published
and Luxembourg via RBS International. and operations overseas are provided in by the OECD in December 2021.
Both Ulster Bank Ireland DAC and RBS our 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
We are a significant employer in
the UK and in 2021 paid £257m
£1.73 billion of tax was paid by £1.92 billion of tax was paid by Analysis of tax paid during 2021 in employer NIC and collected
NatWest Group in the UK during 2021 NatWest Group globally during 2021 by Geographical Region £661m in PAYE and NIC.
In 2021, we contributed £2.57bn
of UK taxes through taxes paid
and collected which will go
towards funding valuable
UK tax paid Global tax paid Geographical Region
£1.73 billion £1.92 billion public services.
More detail on our global
corporate income tax payments
and our country-by-country
Corporate income tax: £787 million Corporate income tax: £856 million UK: £1,731 million
reports can be found at
Irrecoverable VAT/sales tax: £473 million Irrecoverable VAT/sales tax: £504 million EMEA: £157 million natwestgroup.com.
Bank levy: £126 million Bank levy: £163 million Asia-Pacific: £26 million
Employer payroll taxes: £257 million Employer payroll taxes: £306 million Americas: £7 million
Other taxes: £88 million Other taxes: £92 million
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 46
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Respecting
human rights
We have established a human rights and non-governmental organisations We also continued to support survivors
steering group, a management group that (NGOs), which helps us to grow our of modern slavery by working with
brings representatives from across NatWest understanding and knowledge of the issue. Unseen to deliver a package of support
Group together to coordinate our activities, which includes the provision of safe
and to make recommendations to NatWest In 2021, we continued to raise awareness and reliable access to a bank account
Group Executive Committee and Board to of MSHT amongst colleagues. Prior to and bespoke, ongoing support through
At NatWest Group, we understand that
develop and strengthen our approach. Anti-Slavery Day in October, we held a a dedicated team of customer support
businesses have an important role to play
webinar with charitable organisations specialists. For the third year, our
in promoting respect for human rights. In 2021, we worked with a specialist TRIBE Freedom Foundation and Unseen colleagues in NatWest Markets supported
We seek to promote and respect
human rights consulting firm, twentyfifty, which highlighted the realities of modern the TRIBE Freedom Foundation and raised
human rights through the continued
to undertake an analysis of how our slavery, the impact on victims and over £30,000 to assist the charity’s
implementation of policies and practices
existing policies, processes and governance examined the role that the financial anti-slavery projects, enabling long-term
covering our colleagues, customers and
perform against the global standard set services sector can play in tackling the support for survivors and helping to prevent
suppliers. This approach reflects our desire
out in the UNGPs. The analysis involved issue. The webinar coincided with the modern slavery.
to maximise any positive impacts and
an assessment to identify our salient human launch of a group wide e-learning module
reduce, where possible, any potential
rights issues. This work is ongoing and which was created alongside Unseen. The
negative impacts that our activity and Read more: Our modern slavery
we will continue to report on our progress. module highlights red flag indicators that and human trafficking statement
the activity in our value chain, may have
colleagues can use to recognise possible
on society.
signs of modern slavery and provides
Read more: Our latest
information on how to report any concerns.
Recognising the importance of human human rights statement
rights, we seek to operate in accordance
with the Universal Declaration of Human
Tackling modern slavery
Rights. Our approach to respecting human
rights is also informed by a range of and human trafficking
international standards and principles Tackling modern slavery and human
including the UN Guiding Principles on trafficking (MSHT) forms an integral part
Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). of our approach to respect and promote
human rights. We seek to address the
NatWest Group engages on the issue through continued implementation of
responsibilities of businesses in respecting policies covering our customers, colleagues
human rights. We are a member of the and suppliers and by monitoring our
Thun Group, which discusses how the financing and supply chain for this activity.
financial service sector can incorporate
and embed the UNGPs into due diligence NatWest Group is a member of the UN
processes. We also participate in several Global Compact’s UK Modern Slavery
indices and benchmarks which help to Working Group and we engage with
inform our activity and identify opportunities a range of stakeholders, including law
to continually improve our approach. enforcement agencies, think tanks, charities
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 47
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting
our customers
Transformation and innovation Spending and CoGo carbon and through collaborations with funded programmes that, informed by an
footprint tracker experienced and innovative companies, active intelligence team, continually develop
We are continuing to innovate and
we have driven significant benefits for and improve the deployed defences.
accelerate our digital transformation. Since its launch in the mobile app in 2019,
our customers. For example, Tyl allows
By harnessing new technology and our ‘Spending’ feature has provided merchants to take payments anytime, In 2021, we had consistently high
partnering with leading organisations, 71 million insights to our customers anywhere with next day settlements as performance and stability of our most
we are enhancing and evolving our so they can understand their spending standard – improving the customer’s critical systems, which have been available
customer experiences. During the period behaviours better. Carbon Tracking funding position and through the integration 99.98% of the time. The same timeframe
2021–2023, we’re investing £3 billion, has now been added to help customers of Tyl with other innovations like Payit has seen nine Criticality 1 incidents(1)
with 80% of that investment spent understand the climate impact of their and Mettle, we will offer a ‘one bank’ compared with eight for 2020.
on digital and technology transformation. spending while being supported with SME and payments proposition. These numbers include all events
ideas to lower their carbon footprint.
which had an impact on our operations,
We continue to evolve our retail mobile app.
Our use of artificial intelligence not just system issues.
In 2021 some of our deliveries included: Facial biometrics
Our artificial intelligence (AI) virtual
Since March 2021, more than 8 million Through strong control frameworks and
Cheque image capture and pay in assistant Cora, continues to learn and
transactions have been completed with appropriate investment, we continue to
Since launch in May 2021, our customers our facial biometrics technology, grow, using intelligent automation to maintain focus on our operational resilience
have deposited 1.9 million cheques quickly removing the need for a card reader. provide personalised and contextual capability, with customer service a priority.
and easily using their mobile app. support services to our customers 24/7. In support of this, we have policies,
Open Banking and APIs Cora now also operates with interactive
standards and mature processes in place
Dark mode voice response. Customers can speak
Our ‘Bankline Direct’ Indirect Payments API to minimise the potential for any technology
In March 2021 we became the first high allows financial institutions to give their to Cora and complete requests like pin or IT system disruptions. These include
street bank to provide a dark mode option customers 24/7 secure access to faster reminders with many opportunities recovery procedures and incident response
on our app, which has helped over 3.5 payment services. That’s possible because to come for future conversations. plans, all of which we test on a regular
million customers to date to reduce energy of our approach in leveraging API In 2021, Cora handled 10.7 million retail basis to reduce risk.
consumption on their mobile devices. technology and the intelligent use of our banking conversations, up 27% on the
data. In 2021 our API processed more than previous year. The Board and executive management
PayMe 2.1 million transactions to the value of are engaged in our security strategy and
So customers can easily settle payments £4 billion thereby displaying customer trust, Information security review process. The accountable executive
between family and friends (without the resilience, and competitive value. In the and system availability for information and cybersecurity is the
need to share account details or hold cash) same period, we processed 4.8 million Group’s Chief Administrative Officer who
we launched PayMe. Customers can either transactions of a total value of £2.2 billion NatWest Group has a comprehensive set provides regular reports to the Executive
request payment by generating a link that Open Banking payments across of layered security defences against new Committee and Board on relevant security
is shareable, or generate a QR code from NatWest Group. and emerging threats. These are regularly matters. The Group’s Chief Information
the app, which can be scanned by the tested by both our in-house security testing Security Officer presents an information
payer and fulfilled through Open Banking. Product innovation for our team and some of the leading experts in and cybersecurity update to the Executive
the cybersecurity industry. To ensure we
commercial customers Risk Committee and Group Board Risk
continue to defend against new and Committee annually as a minimum.
With a strong track record on innovation,
emerging threats, there is a series of
backed by a large and mature ecosystem
1. By way of illustration, a Criticality 1 incident could be a loss of key IT systems resulting in an impact to more than 5% of the bank’s customers or an incident that NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 48
leads to a financial loss of over £100,000.
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting
our customers continued
Colleague and supplier training Keeping money safe Fraud and scams education Android and iOS devices and provides
Information and cybersecurity risks are and secure We are committed to ensuring we empower anti-malware capabilities, as well as
referenced in our internal e-learning system customers to detect and prevent fraud protection against phishing,
and learning modules that every colleague Our fundamental goal is to keep our and scams at first point of contact. In 2021, robo-calls, known scammers
and contractor must complete annually. customers’ money safe and secure. we ran a range of campaigns to arm and malicious text filtering.
Remaining ahead of frauds and scams has
Advice is available to all colleagues via customers with the knowledge and tools to
therefore been a vital focus during the year. We are also offering our Bankline
the intranet security portal. In addition, keep their money safe, including a seasonal
customers free access to ‘Heimdal Security’
colleagues receive job-specific training. shopping education campaign with a focus
In 2021, we prevented 542,969 cases which provides a suite of AI-powered
For instance, security personnel attend on purchase and delivery scams and virtual
of attempted fraud against our customers, endpoint threat prevention tools to
courses with the Centre for the Protection ‘keeping your money safe’ lessons.
amounting to over £193.3 million in protect their businesses.
of National Infrastructure and the
the UK.(*)
National Cyber Security Centre, Manage My Limits Identifying criminal networks
as well as having opportunities 159 fraud hotline This feature was implemented into online
Implemented in June 2021, the Ne04J
to gain professional qualifications. Along with other major banks and telecoms banking and the mobile app, putting Graph database software enables us to
customers in control of their payments
We operate a group-wide security response companies, we participated in a pilot by defaulting limits to historic levels, identify complex criminal networks, fraud
and recovery hotline for information scheme to introduce a hotline to help fight thus reducing opportunities for fraudsters. and mule rings across our banking network.
security events. All colleagues can use this fraud across the industry and protect our The initial release resulted in 95% of The new system improves on the existing
service to escalate suspicions. NatWest customers from fraud and scams customers’ daily payment limits being capability providing a wider dataset, a more
Group also has a group-wide ‘Alertline’ Spearheaded by Stop Scams UK (SSUK), reduced to £5,000. intelligent interface while streamlining our
service that colleagues can use in relation the phone number 159 is designed to current operational processes.
disrupt scams in which victims have been
to suspicions of physical security threats. Free security software
contacted or engaged by a scammer via
The Alertline phone number is detailed on We continue to provide our customers
phishing or impersonation. The number
the reverse of employee security passes with ‘Malwarebytes Premium’ security
works by encouraging customers
for convenience. software solution, free of charge until 2024.
experiencing suspected fraud to stop, hang
The software, taken up by over 164,000
up and call 159, at which point they are
users by the end of 2021, can be used on
directed to their bank.
79% 9.7m(*) 529,910(*)
of our active current account customers are We have 9.7 million active digital users. Video banking interactions during 2021.
digitally active, using either mobile or online channels. We’re constantly improving our award-winning
mobile app, which is now regularly used by more
than 8.3 million customers.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer page 98.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 49
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting
our customers continued
Accessible banking We’re the only UK bank to offer customers everyday support such as text alerts In 2021, we continued to work with
the ability to lock their debit card on the app to help customers manage their money. organisations such as GamCare and the
We continue to invest in a range of
and still get cash from an ATM using our We currently have over 670,000 basic Money Advice Trust to improve the support
ways to make banking more accessible.
‘Get Cash’ service. Customers can lock and bank account customers with this number available to customers in vulnerable
Our customers can choose from digital,
unlock their card for six different payment increasing. We also continued to work with situations, connecting them to expert advice
face-to-face and remote options. We have
channels, so they have even more control Her Majesty’s Prison and Probation Service where appropriate.
more than 800 branches and 16,000
over their card spend. Customers also have and the Scottish Prisons Service in 2021
physical points of presence, including the ability to add a gambling block onto to provide a bank account for those We continued to run digital lessons and
our ATM network and our relationship their card which, once removed, provides leaving prison. fraud and scam awareness events remotely
with the Post Office. the customer with a 48 hour ‘cool off’ via virtual delivery.
We also offer a free community bank
Customers now have more control of their period. Supporting customers via the account to not-for-profit organisations We significantly expanded our successful
finances through our mobile app, including ‘message us’ feature in the app, is our (with a turnover less than £100,000), referral programme with Citizens Advice,
the ability to open an account, check and AI virtual assistant Cora. And if Cora can’t including our free accounting software connecting customers to their advisers
understand their credit score and apply help, with ‘tap to call’, our contact centre FreeAgent and Bankline for Communities. where we identify additional advice or
for a mortgage. colleagues are just a click away. vulnerability needs.
Find out more about how we’re working to
We are committed to making our customer Our video banking service supports create a society which is financially In February 2021, with the domestic abuse
and colleague journeys accessible by design. customers when they want the reassurance confident and resilient on page 31 charity SafeLives, we launched The Circle
To support this, we aim to follow the World of a face-to-face conversation with our Supporting customers in Fund. The Circle Fund, available for three
Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Web Content highly trained colleagues. We offer vulnerable situations years, supports SafeLives to provide small
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) to Level A customers who require additional support grants to help economic abuse victims
and AA. We gain insight and direction from a range of accessibility services, such as At any time, a customer may find themselves and survivors to regain financial confidence
disabled people in our research and we accessible statements in braille, large print either in a vulnerable situation or caring for a and control. This follows from our
have invested in internal and external digital and audio CD. In addition, we also provide loved one experiencing a vulnerability. The announcement to donate £1 million
accessibility specialists to evaluate our sign video and translation services. BT’s continuing impact of COVID-19 has meant for the fund in 2020.
experiences and share SME knowledge. Relay UK service also supports customers that for many of our customers this has been
with hearing impairments through a a reality in 2021.Our dedicated customer To help our colleagues become
In our app, biometrics reduce the need type-to-talk service, while accessible card care line, which was set up as a result of the more informed and better support the
to remember passwords, while keeping readers, rubber signature stamps, braille pandemic, has helped and supported 527,123 accessibility needs of our digital customers,
our customers secure. As well as the card wallets and our talking ATM service people in 2021. we have created a digital mastery video
environmental benefits, dark mode are other key accessibility features. as well as an accessibility knowledge base
also helps to reduce eye strain, Our support service ‘Banking My Way’ where colleagues can become more
supports people with light sensitivity Financial inclusion continues to develop. Customers can familiar with accessibility tools such
and improves readability for people We know that access to a bank account is now tell us via the mobile app about as Microsoft Edge’s read-aloud and
with visual impairments. Furthermore, the first crucial step towards financial reasonable adjustments we can make translation functionality.
we have an executive level sponsored inclusion. It’s why we provide a personal to help them. Customers can also alert
accessibility working group delivering basic current account to anyone who us to such adjustments in our branches, Read more about how we support customers
strategy for more inclusive experiences. doesn’t have one already. The account has via our telephony teams and online. So far, in vulnerable situations
no monthly fee and provides a debit card, over 75,000 people have registered for
access to digital banking services and Banking My Way.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 50
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting
our customers continued
Fair products and NatWest Group must also meet the needs
of customers (new and existing) who are 2 Product and service distribution 3 Ongoing management
responsible marketing
in (or are at risk of being in) a vulnerable
Product governance situation and must be able to evidence We aim to identify all activity that We have a complementary process that
Creating and distributing products to our how we comply with the Customers constitutes a financial promotion and reviews the existing portfolio of products
customers to meet their needs is at the in Vulnerable Situations Policy. ensure all financial promotions comply and services, which seeks to ensure
heart of what we do. Our end-to-end with relevant regulation set out in our the following:
We must also comply with all local legal
product-lifecycle process is designed to Financial Promotions Guides. All financial
keep our customers and NatWest Group and regulatory requirements where these promotions are approved by the Financial – Customers are treated fairly after
safe while delivering a financial return. go further than the minimum standards Promotions Approval team, with separate the point of sale;
set out in this policy. There are three key
We use four tools to guide this: the teams providing oversight and assurance – The removal of any barriers to switching
phases of the Product Lifecycle Policy:
‘YES check’; ‘Our Code’; the ‘Critical as part of our three lines of defence model. products and services (where the barrier
People Capabilities’; and our internal Financial promotions are reviewed at is not in the best interests of the
policies. Among our key policy documents Product and least annually. customer and/or it impacts the delivery
1
are the ‘Product Lifecycle Policy’, the service development of fair customer outcomes).
‘Customers in Vulnerable Situations Policy’ In addition, controls are in place to ensure
and the ‘Complaints Management Policy’. We aim to ensure that the proposals are that any direct marketing and the use of Addressing complaints
designed to deliver fair customer outcomes cookies complies with our data protection Colleagues welcome any complaints,
The Product Lifecycle Policy assists us by: ensuring that the target market is obligations. We also ensure that the sale take ownership of them and provide the
in delivering safe and sustainable products identified and aligned to a specific product of products and services and the provision resolution for the customer as quickly as
and services as well as enabling growth, strategy; the proposal meets the needs of of advice is undertaken fairly and meets possible. Where the issue is more complex,
customer retention and customer customers in the target market; the the standards of suitability and one of our complaint handling experts will
satisfaction. All our products and services distribution strategy works for the identified appropriateness. Throughout the sales become involved. A key priority for the
are in scope of this policy, with product target market; the proposal is designed to journey we inform and educate our business is to reduce complaints by
lifecycle governance also ensuring our benefit the customer; that customers in the customers about all aspects of a product addressing the underlying causes. In 2021,
customers receive products that are target market will be able to understand in a clear, fair and not misleading way. we received 239,108 reportable complaints
appropriate for their immediate and the product or service and its features; We also operate a training and competence compared to 303,129 in 2020.
future financial goals. and that consideration is given to the voice framework to monitor the competence and
of the customer. Our pricing standards capability of our sales staff.
How we manage compliance Read more: Our complaints data
ensure that customers are paying a fair
The Product Lifecycle Policy applies to price for the products and services they
all legal entities, franchises and functions.
are receiving. Read more about customers
All colleagues involved in the product in vulnerable situations on page 50
lifecycle are required to be aware of the
policy, understand their responsibilities and
undertake training. Our remuneration plans
and incentive packages for staff promote
and encourage fair customer outcomes
throughout the product lifecycle.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 51
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting
our customers continued
Protecting privacy and Transparency Training topics include: Accountable: Am I confident that
customer confidentiality NatWest Group has adopted a layered and I understand my responsibilities when
– What the bank’s privacy and client
accessible approach to providing privacy using customers’ and colleagues’
We see privacy as a vital component to information, as recommended by the UK confidentiality obligations are. information to make decisions?
achieving our purpose and is therefore – Privacy considerations for new projects,
Information Commissioner. We present
embedded across all parts of our business. systems and so on. Fair: Are decisions made using customers’
an overview of our approach to data
A central privacy team oversees privacy protection and privacy on our website and – How colleagues should recognise and and colleagues’ information, accurate, just
compliance and all business areas have an these pages are constantly reviewed so respond to requests from individuals and reasonable, including those decisions
accountable executive responsible for they are up to date and accessible to users to exercise their data rights. made using AI?
privacy compliance, supported by a local across all digital platforms. We also aim – What to do in the event of a breach. Ethical: Are decisions made using
privacy team. The Group Data Protection
to have marketing preferences that customers’ and colleagues’ information
Officer oversees awareness, training and The privacy and client confidentiality
adequately reflect customer wishes. reflective of our core values, inclusion
reporting to the UK Information training module is updated annually, with
and pro-diversity?
Commissioner’s Office, supported by Data transfers and collaboration new topics and learnings from the previous
additional country data protection officers. year. Job-specific training is provided as
We’re continually refining our systems to Privacy by design and default
necessary for colleagues based upon their
Our Privacy and Client Confidentiality comply with the General Data Protection job roles, for example job specific training New data-driven innovation brings
Policy includes both data protection and Regulation (GDPR), the UK Data Protection on redactions for the Subject Access Team. opportunities to build systems using client confidentiality. The policy has a Act and other local legislation. We factored The bank uses internal checklists intended fundamental privacy principles such
defined escalation process for privacy and in the impact of Brexit and UK & European to guide the best decision-making, as ‘privacy by design’ and ‘default’.
client confidentiality issues. It also clearly case law on our privacy obligations and and the safe use, storage and sharing The privacy teams work closely together
sets out how we manage privacy, client cross-border data flows. In addition to this, of information, which include the to ensure fundamental privacy concepts
confidentiality and personal data breaches we have a close relationship with regulators YES Check and Info SAFE checklists. are implemented and to ensure
and specifies that anyone breaching the and industry bodies as appropriate. consistency across the bank. Privacy
policy can be subject to disciplinary action. Our privacy teams are in regular contact Artificial intelligence impact assessments are also carried out
All our customers, colleagues and third with other internal teams to assist with ‘Info SAFE’ is used to support our AI to ensure that privacy risks are identified
parties can therefore be confident that initiatives such as to support victims and machine learning strategy via ‘fairness and minimised as early as possible.
of financial crime.
we treat protection of their data with the assessments’ of models, in addition to the
Regulator communications and data
utmost seriousness. NatWest Group Privacy and client checklist questions below which are
provides updates to senior management on relevant for all colleagues across NatWest subject rights
confidentiality training
privacy and client confidentiality, including Group when they deal with customers’ or NatWest Group has specialist teams who
at Board level and to the Group Board Risk All colleagues and contractors are required colleagues’ data. The Info SAFE checklist respond to queries relating to data-subject
Committee. Updates and reminders are to undertake annual mandatory privacy asks the following questions: rights. Data-subject access requests have
also provided through internal and client confidentiality training. Each remained relatively steady following
communications to ensure privacy is at the year, we also engage with our suppliers to Secure: Are you confident that NatWest the GDPR rules that came into force in
forefront of all of our colleagues’ minds. understand the privacy governance Group and its suppliers are meeting May 2018, with a low volume of requests
arrangements they have in place (including the required policies and standards concerning other data subject rights.
policy, mandatory procedures and training for protecting our customers’ and
and awareness) and review the responses colleagues’ information?
to ensure that satisfactory controls exist.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 52
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting Tree Planting
our communities
NatWest Group commits
to plant 100,000 trees
A thriving economy depends on thriving colleagues supported the Disasters
communities. As a leading financial firm Emergency Committee’s Coronavirus Trees are the ultimate carbon capture and storage machines
in the UK, we believe we can make a real Appeal. NatWest Group, which has 13,000
Since 2007, NatWest Group colleagues have given their time, energy and skills to undertake
and positive difference to people’s lives. employees in India, also donated £260,000
vital conservation projects across the UK.
to UNICEF’s VaccinAid campaign to help
We’re committed to supporting and giving vaccinate two billion people worldwide. Together we have created new forests, built new green parks, and restored derelict land
back to the communities we operate in.
to community use. The impact of this work will be felt for years to come.
Our direct community investment in 2021 Following our support of the National
amounted to £7,266,818(*) compared with Emergencies Trust Coronavirus Appeal In 2021, we began an ambitious project to continue this legacy. Working with The
£11,078,270(1) in 2020, as measured using in 2020, for which we were shortlisted for Conservation Volunteers, we launched a programme to plant 100,000 trees in local
the Business for Societal Impact several awards, NatWest Group became communities across Scotland, England and Northern Ireland. The idea was simple: to make
benchmarking standard. This includes a patron of the NET in January 2021. a positive contribution to tackling climate change, while helping to improve natural
the funding we make available to support In this new capacity, we are one of the environments and enjoying the benefits of being outdoors and working together as a team.
colleague giving and the direct costs of first organisations the charity calls on in
delivering our community programmes. an emergency response and on hand While the pandemic impacted our ability to undertake as much of the conservation work
to supply surge capacity volunteers. as we would have liked, the programme continues into 2022, with tree planting planned
In 2021, we continued to promote our throughout the first and fourth quarters of the year.
Do Good Feel Good campaign to give our NatWest Group has three independent,
colleagues opportunities to support the well-established charities, which continue Colleagues are encouraged to take part in projects in their local area, learning about
good causes they care about. As COVID-19 to support specific activities in line with our different planting methods and how these will support biodiversity. It also gives our
restrictions eased, we recommenced our purpose – including The NatWest India volunteers the chance to directly help their local communities, seeing the benefits of their
popular challenge events in October 2021, Foundation(2), the Coutts Foundation(3) and work for years to come.
offering colleagues free access to walking, NatWest Social & Community Capital(4).
Trees are the ultimate carbon capture and storage machines. Because every tree planted
running and abseil events across the UK,
as well as a virtual event, enabling To better understand where and how has the potential to absorb an average of one tonne of CO 2 during its lifetime, the project
colleagues around the globe to take part. we can impact, we needed to deepen our is also a very tangible way for colleagues to support NatWest Group’s climate ambitions.
Across all our fundraising and volunteering understanding of the communities in which
programmes, our colleagues have given we live and serve. In 2021, we produced
£3,543,533 and 43,003 worktime leading research into why communities
volunteering hours. matter to people (and how to build them) Partnering with Cancer Research UK to maximise donations
with the Centre for Social Justice,
The COVID-19 response was still very and researched the role ethnicity plays Charities are losing out on potentially hundreds of millions of pounds in extra funding when
much in our focus in 2021. In April, as the in the lived experience of banking donors don’t Gift Aid eligible donations. NatWest Group therefore partnered with Cancer
pandemic in India was escalating, our services in the UK. Research UK (CRUK) to explore how we could start to fix this problem. The result was the
‘Maximise Your Giving’ pilot created using our Mimo technology, which we launched in
October 2021. Customers who have made a payment to CRUK will receive a prompt on our
1. Includes a one-off matching donation of £5 million to the National Emergencies Trust Coronavirus Appeal.
2. The Foundation’s company registration number (CIN) is: U45200MH2007NPL167933. mobile banking app pointing them to our web pages that provide information about
3. Charity Registration No: 802643. maximising charity giving. One of the options is to link through to the CRUK website where
4. Charity Registration No: 1079626. the customer can then complete a Gift Aid declaration allowing CRUK to claim the Gift Aid
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 98.
on the donations they’ve made.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 53
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting
our colleagues
Helping our colleagues thrive We also track metrics and key performance In addition, through the CAP established in The CAP met with representatives from the
indicators to benchmark with sector and 2018, our colleagues can engage directly Board three times in 2021 to discuss issues
We want NatWest Group to be a great
high-performing comparisons. with senior management and the Board such as wellbeing, remuneration (including
place to work. By offering a fulfilling job,
on topics which are important to them, executives and the wider workforce),
a healthy workplace, fair rewards, excellent Over 46,700 colleagues (81%) participated
thereby strengthening the voice of climate, retail banking strategy,
development and great leadership, in our September 2021 Our View survey.
colleagues in the Boardroom. The CAP sustainability and purpose. The CAP
we believe together our colleagues can The results show that colleague sentiment
is made up of 28 colleagues who continues to be highly regarded by those
thrive and unlock the full potential of remains strong, despite the pandemic.
represent employee-led networks, talent who attend and has proven to be an
NatWest Group. Lead measures in culture, purpose,
programmes, employee representative effective way of establishing two-way
inclusion and building capability showed
Our People Pledge sets out commitments bodies or are self-nominated. In this way dialogue between colleagues and Board
continued and sustained year-on-year
and initiatives in direct response to what we ensure the panel is diverse, inclusive members. In 2022 we are reviewing our
improvement (+1 percentage point each)
colleagues tell us is important to them. and representative of the workforce. approach to how the Board engages with
and, across all 15 measured categories,
The pledge is split into five promises: the workforce.
NatWest Group sits an average of 11
‘Help you develop your skills’; ‘Support your
percentage points above the Global
wellbeing’; ‘Help customers thrive’; ‘Create
Financial Services Norm (GFSN) and five
inclusive and connected teams’; and ‘Help Family-friendly and
percentage points above the Global High
you make a difference’. Throughout 2021,
Performance Norm (GHPN).(1) leave policies
we have worked with colleagues across
all these promises to help champion their Regular interactions with our employee
potential and help them to thrive. representatives such as trade unions, We’re committed to supporting families and carers, ensuring they are able to balance
elected employee bodies and works family and work responsibilities in a way that supports their mental and physical
The pandemic has drastically altered how
councils are a vital means of transparency wellbeing. To enable this, we offer a broad and competitive range of family-friendly
we work and has changed, perhaps
and engagement for us. We frequently use and leave policies which reflect local practices in each of our global jurisdictions.
forever, the relationship between employers
these sessions to discuss developments and These policies include maternity, adoption, shared parental, paternity, parental, carers,
and employees. We listen to colleagues and
updates on the progress of our strategic and dependents’ leave. To ensure continuous improvement across our policy offering,
use this insight to ensure we attract,
priorities: in 2021, for example, topics we actively listen to colleagues through our colleague experience feedback forums,
engage and retain the best talent for the
included ‘ways of working’ and ‘health and our employee-led networks, our employee representatives, and regular industry
future. Our colleague listening strategy –
safety in the context of the pandemic’. We benchmarking.
which includes our colleague opinion
are committed to respecting our
surveys; a ‘Colleague Advisory Panel’ (CAP) As a purpose-led organisation, we also recognise we have an important role in
employees’ right of freedom of association
that connects colleagues directly with our proactively supporting colleagues during difficult times. As such, in 2021 we introduced
across all our business and we share
Board; the Colleague Experience Squad, support for colleagues experiencing domestic abuse through our ‘Safe Leave Policy’.
information about our employee
a group of colleagues who volunteer to Under the policy, colleagues will be able to take two weeks paid leave to support with
representative bodies with our colleagues
provide feedback on colleague products relocating, and unlimited paid time off to attend related appointments (e.g. court
on our intranet. Approximately 76% of
and services; and ‘Workplace’, our social hearings, solicitor meetings). We also provide bereavement support for colleagues
our employees are covered by a
media platform – all contribute to a deeper experiencing loss, including those who have lost a baby. Recognising that individuals
collective agreement and/or employee
understanding of colleague sentiment. will deal with loss differently, our Bereavement Policy provides for paid leave, with
representative arrangements.
further support available through our Employee Assistance Programme, and Family
1. NatWest Group ‘Our View’ results exclude Ulster Bank RoI.
and Carers Employee Led Network.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 54
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting
our colleagues continued
Diversity, equity & inclusion While representing an increase of 9% were introduced. We also have a target created a roadmap for becoming an
since targets were introduced in 2015, to have Black colleagues occupying 3% even more neuroinclusive employer.
We are committed to progressing our
we know we have more to do and of CEO-5 and above UK roles by 2025. – LGBT+ innovative: We participated in
diversity, equity and inclusion strategy.
continue to focus on the recruitment, At 31 December 2021, we have 1.5% the UK Stonewall Workplace Equality
In summary:
retention and advancement of women. of colleagues who identify as Black in Index and, as founding partner, again
– Inclusive workplace: Colleague sentiment – Ethnically diverse: Our ethnicity target CEO-5 and above UK roles. Overall, supported the British LGBT Awards.
on inclusivity continued to increase with is to have 14% Black, Asian and Minority of those who disclose their ethnicity,
a score of 93 percentage points. Ethnic colleagues in our CEO-4 and 2% of our colleagues in the UK identify
– Gender balanced: We have a target to above UK roles by 2025. At 31 as Black. We continued to embed our F R o e r p f o u r l t l a d n et d a A ils c , c r o e u fe n r t s t , o a o n u d r N 20 o 2 n 1 - f A in n a n n u c a ia l l
have full gender balance in our CEO-3 December 2021, of 86% of colleagues Racial Equality Taskforce commitments. information datasheet
and above global roles by 2030. At 31 who have disclosed in CEO-4 and above – Disability smart: We supported our
December 2021, we had 38% women UK roles, we have 11% Black, Asian colleagues with disabilities through a
in our CEO-3 and above global roles, and Minority Ethnic colleagues. This career development programme and
a decline of 1% since 31 December 2020. represents a 3% increase since targets
Transforming our diversity, Our Inclusion Champions Inclusion Week 2021 One Bank Diversity, Equity &
equity and inclusion learning Inclusion Action Committee
With help from our Inclusion Champions, We have around 1,500 Inclusion Champions Diversity, equity and inclusion was In line with our ‘One Bank’ transformation,
we transformed our e-learning module who are passionate change advocates from showcased globally through our dedicated which aims to break down internal barriers
by featuring videos focusing on colleagues’ all areas of NatWest Group. In 2021 we Inclusion Week. The theme was ‘Action for and build relationships across the
‘lived experiences’. Video participants delivered an ambassadors education Inclusion’, challenging colleagues to commit organisation, we created a ‘One Bank
shared barriers they had encountered and programme to our Champions and in to taking real action to drive change. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Action
how they champion inclusive behaviours. November we ran a survey to understand During the week, there was a 300% Committee’. Announced as part of the 2021
the impact our Champions are having. Of increase in visits to our inclusion intranet Inclusion Week, we brought together key
The module asked colleagues to reflect,
the 462 Champions who responded, 99% page, as well as a 218% increase in activity stakeholders, including employee-led
share their own lived experiences and
had taken action to increase either their on Workplace. We received strong feedback networks, to share best practice and drive
feedback via Workplace. Almost a third knowledge or that of their colleagues, and from colleagues: a focused, action-orientated and impactful
of colleagues (over 18,000) had completed
88% believed their actions had a positive approach. Chaired by our Chief People &
the learning by the second week and impact on their colleagues. The three most ‘It really felt that our leaders are living the Transformation Officer and Chief Marketing
they rated it 4.3 out of 5, alongside common actions were: 1) Using their bank’s purpose of championing people from Officer, the group will ensure we work
affirming feedback: learning time to understand more about all backgrounds and that the inclusion together to push forward our diversity,
diversity, equity and inclusion; 2) Joining agenda is being taken seriously.’ equity and inclusion agenda, removing
‘Can’t remember coming out of a
one or more of our employee-led networks; duplication of activities and to utilise
mandatory piece of learning with
3) Sharing insights with their colleagues. resources more efficiently.
goosebumps before!’
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 55
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting our We continued to focus on supporting
mental health throughout 2021, fully
colleagues’ wellbeing
supporting the Mental Health at Work Safe and healthy workforce
Commitment. Our Wellbeing Champions
To be part of NatWest Group means being In 2021, the number of overall health and safety related incidents and accidents
are there to listen and ‘be there’ for their
part of something bigger than ourselves, has slightly increased by 4% in line with greater numbers of colleagues starting to
colleagues in every location globally.
where the strength of our culture underpins return to offices. We saw a continuing downward trend in the overall number of
Launched in 2020, we now have over 1,300
everything we do; an organisation where employee-related reportable injuries decreasing from 14 to 11 in 2021 – despite
colleagues acting as Wellbeing Champions
we all learn, grow, thrive and support greater numbers of colleagues working in offices. NatWest Group is within the
and they continue to be upskilled on various
each other. 2021 HSE benchmarks for reportable employee injuries.
aspects of wellbeing to support and amplify
A vital part of this is having a fully our wellbeing strategy, and signpost For any reportable injuries to members of the public, any property defects
embedded wellbeing strategy. Through our colleagues to the right resources presented as part of investigation procedures have been remediated following
People Pledge and our group-wide People at the right time. these incidents.
Strategy we are able to provide the support
Our Go Challenge in 2021 helped our
our colleagues, customers and communities Read our health and safety performance in detail here
colleagues improve their physical and
need. In 2021, we were delighted to
mental wellbeing and create social
be recognised externally, winning the
connections through a bank-wide activity
‘HR Excellence Awards: Best health
challenge. During the challenge, 17,000
and wellbeing strategy’ category and
cycled, walked, ran, danced and climbed
the ‘This Can Happen: Best COVID-19
their way to an incredible total of 6.9 billion Supporting colleagues
Company Response – Internal’ category.
steps (3.4 million miles) in nine weeks – with Long COVID
During 2021, COVID-19 support continued 2,600 trees will be planted by teams as
to be front and centre as we launched a result of the challenge; one for every Supporting the physical and mental wellbeing of our colleagues throughout the
a 12-week rehabilitation programme team who took part. COVID-19 pandemic continued to be a priority throughout 2021. With many colleagues
to support colleagues and families who returning to work after contracting COVID-19, but still living with the effects of Long
We continued to monitor the wellbeing of
are experiencing Long COVID symptoms. COVID, we wanted to introduce a programme in partnership with Nuffield Health
our colleagues throughout 2021 and our
In India, we helped our colleagues to source that helped in their recovery.
pulse surveys helped us understand the
oxygen and medical equipment, assisted
specific points of wellbeing impacting our
with the cost of COVID-19 vaccinations, Pam Lawson, a Product Owner in the Technology team in Edinburgh, was one
colleagues. Our September 2021 Our View
and set up emotional wellbeing support colleague who was able to benefit from the programme. Pam was supported in her
survey noted a favourable score of 93
for them and their families. return to work by her line manager through adjustments to her working pattern
percentage points when asking colleagues
tailored to her needs. She believes that the remote Long COVID programme, through
We continued our ‘Let’s Talk’ health focus if they felt their manager supported and a structure of physical and mental activities, helped kickstart her rehabilitation and
in 2021 as we focused on physical health encouraged their wellbeing. Our internal improved her energy levels towards living with this chronic illness: “At the beginning of
topics such as menopause, reproductive wellbeing index (84 percentage points) the programme I hadn’t really been exercising, the fatigue was bad, but I had it in my
health and cancer awareness, as well as shows that we are three percentage points head I had to start walking, so I’d been starting to do that when the course started.
a focus on mental health. We introduced above the Global High Performance Norm At the beginning of the programme, I could manage a 30-minute walk, and after six
virtual ‘cafés’ that provide emotional (GHPN) and 10 percentage points above weeks I was able to do a two-hour walk.”
support and a safe space for colleagues to the Global Financial Services Norm (GFSN).
talk on topics such as menopause, caring, This progress has not been continuous, and Pam’s condition continues to fluctuate due
bereavement and mental health. Through to the effects of Long COVID; at some points returning to finding a 30-minute walk
our collaboration with the Bank Workers tiring again. Despite this, the programme has had a positive impact on her health and
Charity and Kooth, we were delighted to the lessons learned through the programme have continued to aid in her recovery.
support the mental health of colleagues’
young family members aged 11 to 18.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 56
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting
our colleagues continued
Financial wellbeing We’ve increased participation in our Financial wellbeing offerings for our colleagues
flagship UK RSP to 85% and have put
When colleagues first join us, it’s
steps in place to increase this to 100%.
a great opportunity to demonstrate
We continue to use new and innovative
our commitment to their wellbeing. Colleague joins
techniques to engage colleagues and
All our graduates and interns receive a NatWest Group
garner their views about retirement
financial wellbeing induction to help them
savings. This has included Deliberative
understand how their pay works, how to
Democracy sessions with a cross section
read their payslip and the essentials of
of members challenging how their
budgeting, debt management and saving Joins the
Retirement Savings Plan should be
for life after work. All of our new starters
invested, and the Environmental, Social and Retirement Savings
are enrolled in our Retirement Savings
Governance (ESG) factors to be prioritised. Plan
Plan (RSP), with the minimum pension
Comprehensive member interviews have
contribution of 8% fully met by NatWest
also been undertaken to understand how
Group, and we encourage colleagues to
to best provide the right pension data and Receives a
put away more money through our award
information to enable informed decisions. Financial Wellbeing
winning ‘Save More Tomorrow’ campaign.
induction
This lets our members automatically We have also rolled out Tumelo in
increase their RSP contributions in small collaboration with Legal & General.
but meaningful ways every April. It demonstrates purpose in our approach
to pensions by allowing colleagues to:
Colleagues have access to a wide offering
to help their financial wellbeing. They can – find out which companies their pension Financial Wellbeing Financial Wellbeing Financial Wellbeing
access benefits through RBSelect, our savings are invested in
Tool and Guide Hub webinars and videos
flexible benefits programme allowing
– let Legal & General know which
colleagues to choose from a range of
matters are important to them
pension, protection, healthcare and lifestyle
and how they’d vote
options. They can also book in for a
– use their voice to influence the way
financial health check with one of our
companies are run.
Personal Bankers, use our Employee
Employee RBSelect Benefits Timed Nudges
Assistance Programme for counselling
Assistance
and support, and they can view a wide
Programme
range of webinars and videos as part
of our wellbeing campaigns. A new
Financial Wellbeing hub is available
to all colleagues, and RSP members Save More Wellbeing Pension Training
can now access their pension account Tomorrow Campaigns Modules
on the go via a smartphone app.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 57
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting Our Fair Pay Charter
Principles to support fairness for all our colleagues
our colleagues continued
1. Simplicity. The reward 2. Consistency. 3. Flexibility. Colleagues
proposition has been The structure of pay are supported in working
simplified to make and benefits is consistent flexibly, in ways that
Fair and transparent reward benchmarks. For our major hubs outside
it easier for colleagues for colleagues based on balance customer and
We want our colleagues to perform at their the UK, we continue to pay above the to understand. their location and role, business needs and their
minimum and living wage rates in the with a clear rationale personal circumstances.
best every day. In return, we promise to
Republic of Ireland as well as exceeding for exceptions. Colleagues can also select
pay competitively and transparently.
the minimum wage benchmarks in India the combination and level
For full details about our remuneration of benefits that best meets
and Poland. The number of colleagues at
policies and colleague share plans, their needs.
NatWest Group who believe they are paid
as well as the latest gender and ethnicity
fairly is significantly above the Global
pay gap reporting, read our 2021
Annual Report and Accounts and Financial Services Norm. 4. Transparency. Pay decisions reflect the performance 5. Listening. Colleagues
of NatWest Group and the individual, taking into account the are surveyed regularly,
natwestgroup.com pages. Alongside the financial clarity and certainty behaviours and values demonstrated. Information and engagement sessions
we provide our colleagues through our on salary ranges and the annual pay review is readily are held on reward with our
All colleagues have performance goals
approach to fair pay, we also offer a range available to all colleagues. Gender and ethnicity pay colleague representatives
across a balanced scorecard that helps to
of benefits designed to help colleagues gaps are reported. Please see natwestgroup.com and the Colleague
clearly link their contribution to our overall for more details. Advisory Panel.
make their lives easier and save money.
purpose. Goals are revised as needed
Through RBSelect and other platforms,
throughout the year, with progress,
development and feedback discussed in colleagues can access and choose from 6. Clarity. Clear 7. Reliability. Pay is well 8. Inclusive. NatWest
a range of pension, protection, healthcare communications are administered with Group requires fairness one-to-one conversations and quarterly
and lifestyle benefits to suit their needs. provided on pay and colleagues paid accurately and inclusion and that
check-ins. At the end of the year,
performance decisions. and on time. Colleagues judgement is exercised
colleagues are allocated a rating that Climate in remuneration Clear expectations are set can access their payslips with thought and integrity.
reflects their overall performance. on how colleagues are and other pay documents There is a Group-wide
We ensure that our climate strategy
Importantly, this is not only assessed rewarded and the principles 24/7 via Workday. commitment to rewarding
by what was achieved. Through our is embedded in personal and business guiding decisions, including colleagues in a way that is
performance measures. From 2020, having clearly defined free from discrimination.
‘Critical People Capabilities’ framework,
we included a clear climate goal and performance goals, regular
we also have a consistent behavioural
measures in our executive director goals. check-ins with managers
measure for how it was achieved. and feedback.
From 2021, climate has been included
Wider workforce remuneration as part of the performance adjustment
process for variable remuneration pools
We’re committed to paying our colleagues
across NatWest Group, ensuring that
fairly, knowing this helps them feel valued, 9. Competitive. A competitive total 10. Security. There is an appropriate mix
respected and recognised for the work they the work of all colleagues to support reward proposition is provided that of fixed and variable pay and a core level
the transition to a low carbon economy enables NatWest Group to attract, of benefits. NatWest Group is an accredited
do. Our ‘Fair Pay Charter’ sets out our
is reflected in business performance. motivate and retain colleagues based Living Wage Employer in the UK with rates
commitment to pay all our colleagues
on market rates for their role, location, of pay that exceed the Living Wage
competitively and transparently, and our performance, skills and experience. Foundation Benchmarks.
‘Reward Policy’ is updated according to the
current and future needs of the business.
In the UK, our rates of pay continue to
exceed the ‘Living Wage Foundation’
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 58
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Responsible business continued
Supporting
our colleagues continued
Aligning executive remuneration to The Chairman of Group RemCo meets
delivery of ESG measures with colleagues each year through the
CAP, where discussions take place on the
The value of long-term incentive awards
alignment of executive and wider workforce
made to executive directors (ED) is based
remuneration. Feedback from the meeting
on performance against a range of
held in November 2021 was positive,
measures and targets. Over the past few
with members of the CAP stating that
years, these targets have increasingly
the principles behind executive director
been aligned to NatWest Group’s purpose,
pay were clear and fair.
including targets related to climate,
enterprise and financial capability with ESG
Celebrating contribution
metrics fully embedded. The ‘Blueprint
There are many ways we recognise
for Better Business’ (BfBB) framework
colleagues for the contribution they make,
was used to complement the existing
outside of the annual pay and performance
balanced scorecard.
cycle. These include:
Full details of the 2021 performance
– ‘Living Our Values’, our colleague
assessment and the 2022 ED performance
recognition programme, which
measures can be found in the NatWest
recognises colleagues who have
Group Directors’ Remuneration Report.
demonstrated our values in a significant
How stakeholders shape our way. This can include awarding gifts
approach or ‘ovations’; recognition vouchers
which allow colleagues to choose
A number of measures are in place to
their own gifts.
make sure that we consider employee and
– long service awards of between
shareholder views on our approach to pay
£250 and £500, depending on the
and performance. The Group Performance
length of service.
and Remuneration Committee (Group
RemCo) engages with institutional investors
and regulators on our pay proposals.
We also hold a number of shareholder
events each year which allow retail
shareholders and colleague shareholders
to engage with Board directors and
executives on issues of interest, including
pay. The views of shareholders are taken
into account by the Group RemCo when
reviewing the remuneration policy and
pay decisions for the year.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 59
Responsible
business
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Additional
disclosures
Additional
disclosures
UN Principles for Responsible Banking reporting (PRB) 61
World Economic Forum International Business Council Metrics 79
Global Reporting Initiative index 80
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) index 92
Important information 97
Other information – including our assurance approach 98
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 60
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
NatWest Group became a founding signatory of the PRB in September 2019, and we
are committed to an ongoing process to further align our strategy to the objectives of
the 2015 Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
This is our second PRB self-assessment report and demonstrates our progress against
all six principles, using the PRB template.
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
Principle 1: Alignment
We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the 2015 Paris Climate
Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks.
1.1 Describe (high-level) your NatWest Group provides a comprehensive range of banking and financial services to personal, business and commercial customers A Strategic report
bank’s business model, including the via our franchises. Examples include current and savings accounts, credit cards, mortgages and investments for our personal p35
main customer segments served, customers; to banking, lending, project finance, risk management and trading solutions for our large commercial customers.
E Committed to our
types of products and services
We earn income from interest charged on lending to our customers and fees from transactions and other services. We pay interest to focus on ESG p9
provided, the main sectors and types
customers who place deposits with us and to investors who buy our debt securities. We also make reward payments on products like
of activities, and where relevant the
our Reward bank accounts and credit cards. The attributable profit generated is either returned to shareholders or retained and
technologies financed across the
reinvested into new and improved products and services for our customers.
main geographies in which your
bank has operations or provides We support our personal, business, commercial and institutional customers with financial services that meet their needs, which
products and services. include keeping their funds safe and secure, improving financial capability and supporting enterprise. We believe in treating
customers fairly, offering flexibility to our customers in how they choose to bank with us and providing extra help to customers in
vulnerable situations or financial difficulty.
Key: A= 2021 Annual Report and Accounts, C= 2021 Climate-related Disclosures Report, E= 2021 ESG Supplement, W= NatWest Group Website, S= Coutts Sustainability Report
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 61
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
1.2 Describe how your bank has We recognise the huge responsibilities that our role brings from supporting the day-to-day financial needs of 19 million customers, A Strategic report
aligned and/or is planning to align its to the positive impacts we can have on the environment and wider society. p13
strategy to be consistent with and
Purpose focus areas – We have identified three focus areas where we can make a meaningful contribution and build long-term C Introduction p1,
contribute to society’s goals, value in our business: Strategy p18-46,
as expressed in the Sustainable
Metrics and Targets
Development Goals (SDGs), Climate: We have made addressing the climate challenge and supporting our customers in their transition to net zero a key
p57-94
the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement, strategic priority.
and relevant national and Enterprise: We are committed to removing barriers to enterprise and providing business in the UK the support they need to grow. E Committed to our
regional frameworks. focus on ESG p4,
Learning: We are helping people to take control of their finances, to make the most of their money, safely and securely – now and Climate p20-23,
in the future. Enterprise p24-28,
We aim to create value for all our stakeholders while having a positive impact on the environment and wider society, supporting Learning p29-37
SDGs particularly: 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 13 and 17. W ESG Policies
Policies and commitments – SDGs are embedded into our green, social and sustainability (GSS) bond framework and our Climate and Downloads
and Sustainable Funding and Finance criteria. Our policies, including our Human Rights Statement, our Modern Slavery and Human Repository,
Trafficking Statement and our Supplier Charter reinforce our commitment to SDGs. GSS bond
framework
National and regional frameworks – We align with, and support, a number of frameworks and external commitments, including the
UK Strategy for Financial Capability; HM Treasury’s Alison Rose Review into Female Entrepreneurship; Business in the Community’s
Race at Work Charter for colleague inclusion; the UK Government’s Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks; the Soft Commodities
Compact for Consumer Goods; the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC); UN Guiding Principles (UNGP), Partnership for Carbon
Accounting Financials (PCAF); Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI); and the Equator
Principles. We are signed up to the Collective Commitment on Climate Action (CCCA) and joined the industry-led UN-convened
Net-Zero Banking Alliance. In April 2021, alongside 42 other banks and UNEP FI, we became founding members of the Glasgow
Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ).
2015 Paris Agreement alignment – We have set ourselves the challenge to at least halve the climate impact of our financing
activity by 2030 and align with the 2015 Paris Agreement.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 62
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and self-assessment requirement High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
further details and
full descriptions
Principle 2: Impact and Target Setting
We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and environment resulting from our activities, products and services.
To this end, we will set and publish targets where we can have the most significant impacts.
2.1 Impact Analysis: PRB Portfolio Impact Assessment tool – In 2021 we undertook an initial Portfolio Analysis working A Strategic report
Show that your bank has identified the areas in which it has its most alongside United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) using the PRB tool p2-80
significant (potential) positive and negative impact through an impact for an initial assessment of potential impacts in our lending book. E Committed to our
analysis that fulfils the following elements: Scope and scale of exposure – We are predominately a UK business supporting retail, focus on ESG p15
a) Scope: The bank’s core business areas, products/services across business banking, commercial and large corporate and institutional customers with a range
the main geographies that the bank operates in as described under of banking products.
1.1. have been considered in the scope of the analysis. Context & Relevance – The scope of portfolio analysis focused on data from our core business
b) Scale of Exposure: In identifying its areas of most significant impact portfolios and the main geographies where we operate: Retail Banking and Commercial Banking in
the bank has considered where its core business/its major activities lie the mainly in the UK.
in terms of industries, technologies and geographies. Scale and intensity/salience of impact – Our three areas of focus (Climate, Enterprise and
c) Context & Relevance: Your bank has taken into account the most Learning), seek to make positive impacts aligned with seven SDGs. The preliminary findings from
relevant challenges and priorities related to sustainable development the PRB tool were useful in identifying other possible positive and negative impact areas which
in the countries/regions in which it operates. complemented other processes of monitoring emerging areas of risk including ongoing stakeholder
engagement, a 2021 ESG materiality assessment and emerging risk working groups and monitoring.
d) Scale and intensity/salience of impact: In identifying its areas of
most significant impact, the bank has considered the scale and While the tool is still in its infancy, we will continue to work collaboratively with UNEP FI to address
intensity/salience of the (potential) social, economic and environmental challenges and use the tool and its methodology to deepen our understanding of positive and
impacts resulting from the bank’s activities and provision of products negative impacts in our lending.
and services. (Your bank should have engaged with relevant
stakeholders to help inform your analysis under elements c) and d))
Show that building on this analysis, the bank has:
Identified and disclosed its areas of most significant (potential) positive
and negative impact.
Identified strategic business opportunities in relation to the increase of
positive impacts/reduction of negative impacts.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Impact Analysis.
We have demonstrated commitment and significant progress towards this principle by undertaking an initial portfolio impact analysis using the PRB tool, supplemented by new and existing
processes to identify and monitor areas of impact. We anticipate further development of impact analysis and measurement and are committed to working collaboratively through the PRB.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 63
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
2.2 Target Setting As a PRB signatory we have been working to ensure that the ambitions for our three purpose focus areas contribute positively to the A Strategic report
Show that the bank has set and SDGs and we strive that they are aligned with the objectives of the 2015 Paris Agreement. p2-80
published a minimum of two Specific, Climate (SDG 7.1, 7.2, 13.1, 13.3, 17.17) C Introduction p3,
Measurable (can be qualitative or – We have an ambition to support our UK mortgage customers to increase their residential energy efficiency and incentivise Strategy p18-46,
quantitative), Achievable, Relevant purchasing of the most energy efficient homes, with an ambition that 50% of our mortgage book has an EPC or equivalent rating Metrics and Targets
and Timebound (SMART) targets, of C or above by 2030. p57-94
which address at least two of the
identified ‘areas of most significant – We plan to reduce the carbon intensity of our funds and discretionary portfolios by 50% by 2030 and to achieve net zero on E Committed to our
impact’, resulting from the bank’s discretionarily managed assets by 2050. focus on ESG p4-19,
Climate p20-23,
activities and provision of products – We intend to: 1) By 1 October 2024: phase out of coal for UK and non-UK customers who have UK coal production, coal fired
Enterprise p24-28,
and services. Show that these generation and coal infrastructure. 2) By 1 January 2030: full phase out of coal.
Learning p29-37
targets are linked to and drive
– We have an ambition to provide £100 billion Climate and Sustainable Funding and Financing between 1 July 2021 and the end
alignment with and greater S Becoming a Net
of 2025.
contribution to appropriate Zero Investor p20
Sustainable Development Goals, – We have an ambition to at least halve the climate impact of our financing activity by 2030 and align with the 2015 Paris
W Results & events,
the goals of the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement. To do this, we plan to quantify our climate impact and set sector-specific targets by the end of 2022.
ESG Disclosures,
Agreement, and other relevant
– We plan to reduce carbon for our direct own operations by 50% by 2025, against a 2019 baseline. Building a more
international, national or regional
inclusive bank
frameworks. The bank should have
identified a baseline (assessed
against a particular year) and have
set targets against this baseline.
Show that the bank has analysed
and acknowledged significant
(potential) negative impacts of the
set targets on other dimensions of
the SDG/climate change/society’s
goals and that it has set out relevant
actions to mitigate those as far as
feasible to maximise the net positive.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 64
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
2.2 Target Setting continued Enterprise (SDG 5.5, 8.3, 10.2, 17.17)
– Support 35,000 businesses or individuals through enterprise programmes. 60% to female-led businesses, 20% to Black, Asian,
and Minority Ethnic-led businesses; and 10% to people intending to create purpose-led businesses.
– 200,000 interventions or interactions to start, run and grow a business.
Learning (SDG 4.4, 4.6, 10.2, 17.17)
– 15 million people reached through financial capability interactions delivered by 2023.
– 2 million additional customers helped to start saving by 2023.
– 100% front-line colleagues professionally accredited within first 18 months in role.
– UK Social Mobility Apprenticeship Programme extended across multiple UK locations.
In addition to our three purpose focus areas, we have targets for:
Gender
– We have a target to have full gender balance in our CEO-3 and above global roles by 2030.
Ethnicity
– Introduced in 2018, our ethnicity target is to have 14% Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues in our top four layers (CEO-4
and above) in the UK by 2025.
– In 2020, we launched the Racial Equality Taskforce to listen, learn and better understand the barriers faced by colleagues,
customers and communities from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic backgrounds. The Taskforce set out ten commitments in the
Banking on Racial Equality report, including a new UK target to have Black colleagues occupying 3% of UK roles (CEO-5 and
above) by 2025.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Target Setting.
We have demonstrated commitment and progress towards this principle with the targets set and on-going participation of the UNEP FI target setting working groups. We anticipate further
development and integration of the ability to measure and track progress including impact measurement and set further targets in the future.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 65
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
2.3 Plans for Target Purpose and strategic progress – We monitor and report our progress against our focus area targets and commitments, either A Strategic report
Implementation and Monitoring quantitatively or qualitatively, where possible. Updates are provided to relevant executive and non-executive governance forums p2-80
Show that your bank has defined including the NatWest Group Board during the year, as well as within our external results. C Metrics and
actions and milestones to meet the Baseline – In Q3, we published an overview of NatWest Group’s performance and measurement for a selection of our climate, Targets p57-94
set targets. Show that your bank has purpose and ESG measures. This supplemented our business performance summary section of the NatWest Group plc Q3 2021
E Committed to our
put in place the means to measure Interim Management Statement. The report details progress against targets and rationale for any changes. For example, we
focus on ESG p4-19,
and monitor progress against the explained that during H1 2021 NatWest Group exceeded its 2020-21 target of providing an additional £20 billion Climate and
Climate p20-23,
set targets. Definitions of key Sustainable Funding and Financing in the two years ended 2021. Therefore, in October 2021, NatWest Group announced a new
Enterprise p24-28,
performance indicators, any changes target to provide an additional £100 billion of Climate and Sustainable Funding and Financing between 1 July 2021 and the end
Learning p29-37
in these definitions, and any rebasing of 2025.
of baselines should be transparent W ESG Disclosures,
Assurance – NatWest Group plc appointed Ernst & Young LLP (EY) to provide independent assurance over certain sustainability data
External assurance
and disclosures presented in the Group’s 2021 Strategic Report, the 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Supplement,
and the 2021 Climate Related Disclosure Report. An assurance report was issued and is available at natwestgroup.com. This report
includes further details on the scope, respective responsibilities, work performed, limitations and conclusion.
Net-zero carbon – While there was previously no standard definition of net zero, as part of COP26, in October 2021 the SBTi
released the ‘SBTi Corporate Net-Zero Standard’, the world’s first net-zero framework which encapsulates the full value chain of
Scope 3 and deep decarbonisation targets. For own operations to support NatWest Group’s public commitments to the Net Zero
Banking Alliance, we plan to align to the SBTi’s definition and account for the wider value chain, including suppliers. We continue to
aim to halve our direct own operational carbon footprint by 2025 and set stretching targets for the wider operational value chain to
halve by 2030, with minimum 90% decarbonisation by 2050 for all emissions (excluding financed emissions, which is covered in more
detail in section 5.7 page 80 of our Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021).
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Plans for Target Implementation and Monitoring.
We have demonstrated further commitment and progress towards this principle with the targets set and updates provided during the year. We anticipate further development on the ability to
measure and track progress and set further targets in the future.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 66
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
2.4 Progress on Implementing Purpose and strategy progress – We have made significant progress on our purpose, areas of focus and related targets. A Strategic report
Targets for each target Our progress includes: p2-80
separately
Climate (SDG 7.1, 7.2, 13.1, 13.3, 17.17) C Introduction p3,
Show that your bank has – We have an ambition to support our UK mortgage customers to increase their residential energy efficiency and incentivise purchasing of Strategy p18-46,
implemented the actions it had the most energy efficient homes, with an ambition that 50% of our mortgage book has an EPC or equivalent rating of C or above by Metrics and Targets
previously defined to meet the set 2030. 38% of Retail Banking mortgages are at or above EPC rating C. £728 million Retail Banking Green Mortgage completions. p57-94
target. Or explain why actions could
not be implemented/needed to be – In 2021, the Coutts Asset Management Centre of Expertise reduced the carbon intensity of the equity holdings of all funds and E Committed to our
changed and how your bank is discretionary portfolios, joined the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative Asset Management and committed to reach net zero emissions focus on ESG p4-19,
adapting its plan to meet its set across managed investments by 2050. Carbon intensity is calculated as carbon emissions per $1 million of sales. Currently, this is only Climate p20-23,
target. Report on your bank’s measured for equity holdings as data availability is better than for other asset classes. On average, equity holdings make up 60% of the Enterprise p24-28,
progress over the last 12 months (up total assets in the funds and portfolios. Carbon intensity data is sourced from external credible sources, at fund and underlying company Learning p29-37
to 18 months in your first reporting level, and is used to calculate the weighted average carbon intensity for all in-scope assets under management. Where external data isn’t S Becoming a
after becoming a signatory) towards available, proxies are selected that match the company/fund characteristics. Reductions compared to a 2019 baseline were due to net-zero Investor p20
achieving each of the set targets and actions taken within the funds and discretionary portfolios to shift to lower-carbon investments and through engagement with the
the impact your progress resulted in. companies and funds we invest in to encourage them to reduce their carbon emissions. As we work towards the ambition of reducing W Results & events,
(where feasible and appropriate, carbon intensity by 50% across all investments by 2030, we continue to enhance our data availability and expand coverage across all ESG Disclosures,
banks should include asset classes. The Coutts Asset Management Centre of Expertise has also divested from high-impact fossil fuels in its Coutts funds Building a more
quantitative disclosures) managed by BlackRock by excluding any companies that derive more than 5% of their revenue from thermal coal extraction, Arctic oil inclusive bank
and gas and tar sands, and more than 25% of revenue from thermal coal energy generation. Following the launch of the BlackRock-
managed funds at the end of 2020, we increased our voting activity five-fold and we continue to engage with more than 500 companies
in the UK, EU and North America, supported by our stewardship partner EOS at Federated Hermes. The Coutts Asset Management
Centre of Expertise reduced the carbon intensity of equity holdings of all funds and discretionary portfolios by an average of
38%compared with 31 December 2019.
– We have an ambition to provide £100 billion Climate and Sustainable Funding and Financing between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025.
£17.5 billion Climate and Sustainable Funding and Financing completed, including £8.1 billion contribution towards our £100 billion target.
– We have an ambition to at least halve the climate impact of our financing activity by 2030 and align with the 2015 Paris Agreement.
To do this, we plan to quantify our climate impact and set sector-specific targets by the end of 2022.During 2021, we worked on
enhancing our capabilities across additional corporate carbon intensive sectors. In addition, we extended the scope of emissions
calculation for the Oil and Gas sector beyond extraction activities covered in 2020. We have now analysed 52% of our loans and
investment portfolio based on our 2019 balance sheet and estimated financed emissions for a further eight high carbon emitting
sectors. This builds upon progress in 2020, where we developed financed emissions estimates for four sectors.
– During 2021, we reduced our direct own operations carbon footprint 46% against 2019 baseline. We plan to continue making significant
emission reductions within our own operations, alongside investments to mitigate GHG emissions through carbon removal projects,
programmes and solutions that provide benefits to climate, especially those that generate additional co-benefits for people and nature,
in line with SBTi guidance.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 67
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
2.4 Progress on Implementing – We intend to: 1) By 1 October 2024: phase out of coal for UK and non-UK customers who have UK coal production, coal fired
Targets for each target generation and coal infrastructure. 2) By 1 January 2030: full phase out of coal. Credible transition plan assessments completed for
separately continued oil and gas majors and in scope coal customers: In 2021, we made additional enhancements to our power generation and mining
and metals sector RAC which confirm that we will have no new exposure to thermal and lignite coal (coal). We plan to phase out
of coal for UK and non-UK customers who have UK coal production, coal fired generation and coal related infrastructure by
1 October 2024, with a full global phase out by 1 January 2030.
Enterprise (SDG 5.5, 8.3, 10.2, 17.17)
– c.55,000 individuals and businesses supported through enterprise programmes. The distribution for the individuals or businesses
supported is c.75% to UK regions outside of London and the South East; c.60% to female-led businesses, c.26% to Black, Asian,
and/or Minority Ethnic-led businesses; and c.52% to people intending to create purpose-led businesses.
– c.200,000 interventions delivered to start, run or grow a business in 2021. (Note: Represents approximate number of interventions
delivered by and individuals supported through enterprise programmes during 2021, which is based upon data provided by third
parties delivering these interventions without further independent verification by NatWest Group.)
Learning (SDG 4.4, 4.6, 10.2, 17.17)
– 8.95 million financial capability interactions delivered by the end of 2021. (Note: Includes additional initiatives approved during 2021
which met the criteria for inclusion in the financial capability target.)
– 1.07 million additional customers helped to start saving by the end of 2021. (Note: Includes instances where customers had existing
savings with other banks and transferred them into a NatWest Group account)
– 99.6% front-line colleagues professionally accredited within first 18 months in role.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 68
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
2.4 Progress on Implementing Gender:
Targets for each target – We have a target to have full gender balance in our CEO-3 and above global roles by 2030. At 31 December 2021, we had, on
separately continued aggregate, 38% women in our top three layers, a decline of 1% since 31 December 2020. While representing an increase of 9%
since targets were introduced in 2015, we know we have more to do and we continue to focus on the recruitment, retention and
advancement of women to meet our 2030 target.
Ethnicity:
– Introduced in 2018, our ethnicity target is to have 14% Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues in our top four layers (CEO-4
and above) in the UK by 2025. At 31 December 2021, of 86% of colleagues who disclosed their ethnicity in the top four layers in the
UK, we have on aggregate 11% Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues. This represents a 3% increase since targets were
introduced. Overall, of those who disclose their ethnicity, 17% of colleagues in the UK identify as Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic.
– In 2020, we launched the Racial Equality Taskforce to listen, learn and better understand the barriers faced by colleagues,
customers and communities from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic backgrounds. The Taskforce set out ten commitments in the
Banking on Racial Equality report, including a new UK target to have Black colleagues occupying 3% of UK roles (CEO-5 and
above) by 2025. At 31 December 2021, we have 1.5% of colleagues who identify as Black in the top five layers in the UK. Overall,
of those who disclose their ethnicity, 2% of our colleagues in the UK identify as Black. In 2021, we published a first anniversary
update on the report, for full details refer to natwestgroup.com.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Implementing Targets.
As a PRB signatory we strive to positively contribute to the SDGs and align with the objectives of the 2015 Paris Agreement through our three purpose focus areas.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 69
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
Principle 3: Clients and Customers
We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that create shared prosperity for current and future generations.
3.1 Provide an overview of the We have a range of policies and practices in place to promote responsible relationships with our customers. Some examples include: A Strategic report
policies and practices your bank has p2-80
Purpose-led strategy – We are focusing on embedding purpose across our businesses and practices to further promote responsible
in place and/or is planning to put in
relationships with our customers. Our four strategic priorities include supporting customers at every stage of their lives and being E Committed to our
place to promote responsible
simple to deal with. focus on ESG p4-19,
relationships with its customers.
Responsible business
This should include high- level Culture & conduct – Our Code sets out our purpose and the values and behaviours we expect from each other. It underpins all our actions and
interactions within the bank and in our external relationships and defines the principles for making responsible decisions, as well as the values p38-59
information on any programmes
and actions implemented (and/or behind our purpose and culture. Our ‘Yes Check’ is a key tool to help guide our thinking and decision-making, and includes questions to help us W ESG Policies
consider the perspectives of different stakeholders and the potential impact we could have before making the best decision. ‘Speak Up’ is the
planned), their scale and, where and Downloads
bank’s whistleblowing service for reporting any wrongdoing. Our colleague listening strategy which includes our colleague opinion surveys; a
possible, the results thereof. ‘Colleague Advisory Panel’ (CAP) that connects colleagues directly with our Board; the Colleague Experience Squad, a group of colleagues who Repository, Conduct
& Compliance, volunteer to provide feedback on colleague products and services; and ‘Workplace’, our social media platform – all contribute to a deeper
understanding of colleague sentiment. We also track metrics and key performance indicators to benchmark with sector and high-performing Business, human
comparisons. rights and modern
slavery, Supplying
Environmental, social and ethical sensitive sectors – We acknowledge that the provision of products and services to customers
goods and services
operating in environmental, social and ethical (ESE) sensitive sectors creates the potential for harm to NatWest Group’s reputation
through customer association. This includes association with customers that engage in activities linked to climate change. Our ESE
risk framework gives clear guidance when dealing with customers, projects and transactions that present heightened ESE risk and
includes specific risk acceptance criteria (RAC) for nine sectors. Customers that engage in activities included within a sector RAC are
subject to enhanced due diligence at onboarding and throughout the customer lifecycle. In 2021, there were 305 customer ESE
assessments completed and 166 of these fell within heightened climate risk sectors that have an ESE RAC in place (power, oil and
gas, mining and metals, and forestry, fisheries and agribusiness).
Tackling modern slavery and human trafficking – Tackling modern slavery forms an integral part of our approach to human rights.
We seek to tackle modern slavery and human trafficking through continued implementation of training and policies covering our
customers, colleagues and suppliers and by monitoring our financing and supply chain for this activity.
Our Supplier Charter – The charter sets out our aims and expectations in the areas of ethical business conduct, human rights,
environmental sustainability, diversity and inclusion, the Living Wage and prompt payment. It details what we expect from our
suppliers, but also outlines our own commitments in these key areas and the outcomes we aim to achieve by working together.
In 2021, led by NatWest Group’s Chief Administrative Officer and with collaboration from subject matter experts and policy owners,
we have completed our first annual review of the charter.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 70
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
3.2 Describe how your bank has To achieve our targets outlined in 2.1, each purpose focus area is required to work with customers and clients from across our A Strategic report
worked with and/or is planning to business to tackle the barriers faced. Some examples included: p2-80
work with its clients and customers
Climate Opportunities Group – In December 2020, the Climate Opportunities Group (COG) was established to support our ambition C Introduction p3,
to encourage sustainable practices to be a leading bank in the UK in helping to address the climate challenge. It was recognised that to do so, a one-bank approach was Strategy p18-46
and enable sustainable economic
required on climate opportunities. COG brings together colleagues from all business segments and sector specialties to conceptualise
activities. This should include E Committed to our
and develop opportunities that complement the NatWest Group climate ambition. The COG has looked to develop opportunities
information on actions planned/ focus on ESG p4-19,
across five key themes: Green Finance, Clean Transport, Clean Buildings, Clean Energy and Carbon Tracking & Behaviours.
implemented, products and services Climate p20-23,
developed, and, where possible, ESG Advisory services – We offer ESG Advisory support to our corporate customers, providing tailored strategic ESG advice across Enterprise p24-28,
the impacts achieved. a breadth of areas including ESG ratings management, benchmarking corporate sustainability strategies and disclosures, and Learning p29-37
structuring of all sustainable financing instruments including loans, private placements and bonds. We offer this service to all
S Becoming a
customers; it is not limited to those who have accessed our ESG-related products or those who have inherently sustainable business
net-zero Investor p20
activities. In addition, we champion thought leadership on the corporate impact of ESG through our NatWest ‘On Point’ hub.
W Results & events,
Issuances under the GSS Bond Framework – In November 2019 we established our Green, Social and Sustainability Bond
ESG Disclosures,
Framework(1) (the ‘GSS Framework’), which was further updated in October 2020 to include a wider range of eligible loans to
Coutts B Corporation
support specified use of proceeds bonds that have a positive environmental and/or social impact. Green and social issuance
represented c.43% of NatWest Groups senior unsecured funding in 2021, demonstrating our ongoing commitment to the growth of
GSS bonds and providing further diversification to our investor base. To date, NatWest Group has issued two green bonds under its
GSS Framework, both of which directly support our commitments to finance more renewable energy projects and provide more
mortgage funding for energy efficient homes.
Inspire & Enable Action in our Clients – Coutts clients are concerned about climate change and would like support to address it.
We aspire to enable and support our clients to reduce their carbon footprint. Coutts will also work with the government, industry
peers and stakeholders to achieve net-zero emissions.
B Corp Assessment – In July 2021, Coutts officially became a B Corporation and scored 83.2 in the B Corp Impact Assessment (BIA)
– a verified assessment of our environmental and societal performance. This compares to the median score for ordinary businesses
of 50.9 and pass mark of 80.
Responsible Investing – Coutts Asset Management Centre of Expertise incorporates ESG into every stage of its investment process.
Research from the Coutts Council has illustrated that the vast majority of Coutts clients are concerned about climate change and
would like their bank to address it. Having committed to net-zero investments by 2050, Coutts helps clients manage climate risks and
reduce the carbon footprint of their investments. It will also work with stakeholders, industry peers and the government to achieve
net-zero emissions.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 71
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
3.2 Describe how your bank has Supporting Business Customers – Against a backdrop of continued disruption due to COVID-19, we supported over 55,000 E Committed to our
worked with and/or is planning to individuals and businesses through c.200,000 interventions in support of stating and growing a business. In 2021, we expanded focus on ESG p4-19,
work with its clients and customers the focus of our Business Builder programme, an online tool providing learning resources, to support businesses at all stages Responsible business
to encourage sustainable practices of their lifecycle. p38-59
and enable sustainable economic
Over the past 12 months we have continued to deliver our award-winning Accelerator programmes virtually through coaching,
activities. This should include
workshops and events. By offering access to business expertise and a network of like-minded peers, the programme removes
information on actions planned/
multiple barriers to enterprise, empowering UK entrepreneurs to scale their businesses to the next level. In addition, we launched the
implemented, products and services
first of our Specialist Accelerators to allow us to bring network support to high-growth businesses in specific sectors across the UK.
developed, and, where possible,
the impacts achieved. Continued Research and experience tells us that access to experts and mentors is important for businesses at all stages. To support our
customers, we launched our Mentor matching platform pilot with 100 NatWest Accelerator businesses now having access to
50 Coutts clients to act as mentors.
Supporting Retail Banking Customers- In July 2021, we announced the launch of our carbon tracking app in collaboration with
CoGo to enable personal customers to track their carbon footprint as they spend within our mobile app. Following a successful pilot,
the carbon tracking feature went live in our mobile app in November 2021 and means we will be able to track and show customers
the carbon footprint of their monthly spend. As a result, eight million customers can now see their carbon footprint within their
NatWest, Royal Bank of Scotland or Ulster Bank NI banking app. We are the first bank in Europe to introduce features that will help
customers analyse their spend and associated carbon footprint, and understand the impact of their spending on the environment and
how to spend in a way which reduces their carbon footprint.
Green Mortgages – In August 2021 we launched our Green remortgage product to complement the existing Green Mortgage
purchase product which went live in October 2020. Retail Banking Green Mortgage products offer a lower interest rate for customers
purchasing, porting or remortgaging a property with an EPC rating of A or B, rewarding them for helping drive the UK transition
towards a net-zero economy. In November 2021 Retail Banking extended its Green Product offering to include Green buy-to-let
Mortgages. The reduced interest rate for EPC A or B rated Buy to Let properties intends to encourage the purchase of energy
efficient homes in this market.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 72
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
Principle 4: Stakeholders
We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals.
4.1 Describe which stakeholders Our approach to stakeholder engagement – When forming our purpose, we worked closely with ‘Blueprint for Better Business’, an A Strategic report
(or groups/types of stakeholders) independent charity which aims to enable a better society through better business. Its principles allow us to think more widely about p2-80
your bank has consulted, engaged, our purpose and what is needed to bring it to life across our organisation: by being honest and fair with our customers and suppliers;
E Committed to our
collaborated or partnered with for acting as a responsible employer; operating as a good citizen in our communities; and being guardians for the next generation.
focus on ESG p4-19
the purpose of implementing these
Our approach to stakeholder engagement covers board and company engagement with customers, colleagues, communities,
Principles and improving your bank’s W Stakeholder
suppliers, investors and regulators.
impacts. This should include a engagement
high-level overview of how your In 2021, our ESG materiality assessment involved a programme of stakeholder engagement to deepen our understanding of the ESG
bank has identified relevant issues that matter most to them. The findings are used to inform our reporting, as well as our ongoing strategic thinking and help us
stakeholders and what issues were remain focused on the right issues.
addressed/results achieved. We identified climate, enterprise and learning as the three focus areas of our purpose where we can make a meaningful contribution,
and our 2021 materiality assessment confirmed that broader ESG issues and those related to our core business responsibilities,
are also important for many of our stakeholders.
Section 172(1) statement – The Board reviews and confirms its key stakeholder groups for the purposes of section 172 annually.
For 2021, they remained customers, colleagues, communities and environment, investors, regulators and suppliers. For examples
of how the Board has engaged with key stakeholders, including the impact on principal decisions refer to page 52 of our
2021 Strategic Report.
Communities – We were also once again in constant contact with our communities, including through our regional boards,
leveraging existing relationships and forming new ones. Our seven regional boards are key to delivering the bank’s strategy at a local
level and championing potential across the UK. With membership drawn from across the bank, the local insight and strong teamwork
of the boards is vital in demonstrating our purpose to the communities we are part of.
Partnership for the Goals – A strategic priority of NatWest Group is to be powered by partnerships, and progress across our
three focus areas can only be achieved with collaboration. Refer to page 16 for some examples of our signatories, memberships
and accreditations.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 73
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
Principle 5: Governance & Culture
We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking.
5.1 Describe the relevant The Board – The Board establishes NatWest Group’s purpose, values and strategy and leads the development of NatWest Group A Strategic report
governance structures, policies and culture. It oversees NatWest Group progress and performance as a purpose-led organisation. We are committed to the highest p2-80
procedures your bank has in place/is standards of corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism in all our activities. With the launch of our new purpose,
C Governance
planning to put in place to manage we opted for an integrated approach to governance, ensuring purpose was appropriately embedded within our existing corporate
p12-17
significant positive and negative governance framework and processes, and that these would support appropriate levels of oversight on ESG issues.
(potential) impacts and support E Committed to our
Executive committees – The Group Chief Executive Officer and senior executives are responsible for delivery of our purpose and
effective implementation of focus on ESG p13,
Principles of Responsible Banking commitments.
the Principles. Responsible business
Group Sustainable Banking Committee (Group SBC) – The SBC supports the Board in overseeing and challenging actions being p47
taken by management to run NatWest Group as a sustainable business including challenging ESG ambitions and overseeing
W Terms of
commitments to the PRB.
reference for the
Group Executive Disclosure Committee – Chaired by Group CFO and supported by the ESG Disclosure Steering Group. Responsible board, Business,
for disclosure controls and procedures. Reviews all significant disclosures and ensures these are accurate and complete and fairly human rights and
represent business and financial condition. This includes significant ESG disclosures. modern slavery
Climate Governance – In line with the wider purpose and ESG governance model, climate governance is integrated in existing
committees and builds areas of responsibility and expertise. Details of this and management’s role in assessing and managing
climate-related risks and opportunities can be found in our 2021 Climate-Related Disclosures Report. Additional information on our
approach to corporate governance can be found in the 2021 Annual Report and Accounts.
Independent advisors – Lord Stern continued as an independent advisor, highlighting our determination to be a leading bank in
addressing the climate challenge.
Emerging Environmental Issues Working Group – In 2020, NatWest Group established the Emerging Environmental Issues Working
Group, a cross-bank group that meets monthly to start to identify and track a wide range of environmental issues relevant for our
business and make recommendations on the view to take on these issues. In 2021, in response to the issues related to environment
we classified biodiversity and nature loss as a formal emerging risk for NatWest Group, underlining the importance of this to our
organisation and our stakeholders. This is an evolving and complex area which requires collaborative approaches with partners,
stakeholders and peers to help mitigate negative impacts of financing activities on the environment and nature, as well as supporting
the growing sector of nature-based solutions, habitat restoration and biodiversity markets.
Human Rights Steering Group – We have established a human rights steering group, a management group that brings
representatives from across NatWest Group together to coordinate our activities, and to make recommendations to NatWest Group
Executive Committee and Board to develop and strengthen our approach. In 2021, we worked with a specialist human rights
consulting firm, twentyfifty, to undertake an analysis of how our existing policies, processes and governance perform against the
global standard set out in the UNGPs. The analysis involved an assessment to identify our salient human rights issues. This work is
ongoing and we will continue to report on our progress.
One Bank Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Action Committee – In line with our ‘One Bank’ transformation, which aims to break
down internal barriers and build relationships across the organisation, we created a ‘One Bank Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Action Committee.’
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Governance Structure for Implementation of the Principles.
We have demonstrated commitment and progress towards this principle with the sustainability considerations and alignment with the principles being embedded in existing governance
structures and responsibilities, we will continue to monitor our governance approach and work to update as needed to support the embedding of the principles.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 74
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
5.2 Describe the initiatives and Our Values – Our values are at the heart of how we deliver our purpose-led strategy, shaping our culture and guiding our actions. In A Strategic report
measures your bank has 2021, responding to feedback from stakeholders, we have engaged with colleagues, customers and communities to re-envision a p2-80
implemented or is planning to modernised set of values that fully align with our strategic priorities. These collaborative and evolved values will be launched in 2022
C Strategy p34
implement to foster a culture of and will form an integral part of our company’s cultural identity.
responsible banking among its E Committed to our
Our Code and policy documents – Our Code and the YES Check are supplemented by a number of key policies and supporting
employees. This should include a focus on ESG p4-19,
guidance to ensure legal and regulatory requirements are met. They outline the expectations of the Group, customers and regulators
high-level overview of capacity Climate p20-23,
as well as the processes and procedures that must be followed. The policies also seek to ensure risk is managed in a way that
building, inclusion in remuneration Learning p24-28,
protects our customers and enables business continuity, even during challenging times. They include policies relating to anti-bribery
structures and performance Enterprise p29-37
and corruption, anti-money laundering, sanctions, inside information and personal account dealing as well as complaints
management and leadership management, privacy and client confidentiality and our records management. W Compliance
communication, amongst others. statements and
Training and learning – We provide all colleagues with access to build future skills through the NatWest Group Academy (regardless
remuneration policy
of role, level, working pattern or location), bringing together learning opportunities and curated content into a single place. This
supports our commitment for all colleagues to be upskilled in future-focused skills by 2025. A total of 80% of colleagues have used it
since it launched in 2020, and in 2021 we’ve offered new topics including cybersecurity and innovation. The NatWest Group Academy
has helped increase learning across NatWest Group by 10%, with our target (aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals) to
increase NatWest Group colleague learning by 50% by 2023.
Climate training – The annual Board climate training session in October helped to enhance directors’ climate-related knowledge.
This was a comprehensive training session where representatives from executive management were joined by NatWest Group’s
independent climate adviser, Lord Stern of Brentford, the Chair of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the
Environment. Areas of focus included recent key external developments and their impact on NatWest Group, including evolving
regulatory and investor expectations, as well as rising external expectations relating to the banking sector as a whole. Directors also
discussed expectations for COP26 from a policy, business, and banking perspective.
Chartered Banker Institute – In February 2020 we became the first bank to be awarded Corporate Chartered status by the
Chartered Banker Institute in recognition of our continuing investment in professional development and our commitment to
professional values and advocacy. 185 colleagues, predominantly in front-line and risk roles have undertaken professional
qualifications in Green and Sustainable Finance and Climate Risk through the Chartered Banker Institute in 2021.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 75
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
5.2 Describe the initiatives and Sustainable Futures Network – Sustainable Futures (SF) is an employee-led network that connects and supports our people to E Committed to our
measures your bank has embed sustainability at work and at home. Over 5,000 colleagues were upskilled through the Sustainable Futures Employee Led focus on ESG p4-19,
implemented or is planning to Network in 2021, including Climate Change 101 and the newly launched Biodiversity 101 training, which supports the Bank’s central Climate p20-23
implement to foster a culture of education strategy to embed the climate knowledge and capability at a grass roots level.
responsible banking among its
Climate-related education – We have focussed on three key education priorities throughout 2021 to support the achievement of our
employees. This should include a
climate ambition:
high-level overview of capacity
building, inclusion in remuneration 1. Providing easily accessible climate awareness content for colleagues, customers and communities through our
structures and performance NatWest Group Academy
management and leadership 2. Equip colleagues in priority and customer facing roles with the necessary climate capability to do their job, support customers
communication, amongst others. transition and meet regulatory requirements
Continued
3. Inspire climate action and innovation through learning, thought leadership and global outreach
Some examples include:
Climate Change Awareness Module – Launched a new Climate Change Awareness module in March, in collaboration with the
University of Edinburgh Centre for Business, Climate Change and Sustainability (UoE B-CCaS). Over 12,000 colleagues completed
this module in 2021, helping them to understand the impacts of climate change and the positive actions they can take.
Climate Change Transformation programme – A bespoke Climate Change Transformation Programme was provided for 1,007
priority and customer facing colleagues during 2021, developed in partnership UoE B-CCaS. Developed specifically for NatWest
Group to build climate capability through blended self-paced exercises and recorded discussions from a range of academics, all
experts in their field. 85% of those that completed the programme were confident ‘knowing how to respond and make decisions on
climate change impacts within the organisation’ compared to 32% at the start of the programme.
Aligning executive remuneration to delivery of ESG measures: The value of long-term incentive awards made to executive
directors (ED) is based on performance against a range of measures and targets. Over the past few years, these targets have
increasingly been aligned to NatWest Group’s purpose, including targets related to climate, enterprise and financial capability
with ESG metrics fully embedded. The ‘Blueprint for Better Business’ (BfBB) framework was used to complement the existing
balanced scorecard.
Full details of the 2021 performance assessment and the 2022 ED performance measures can be found in the NatWest Group
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Governance Structure for Implementation of the Principles
We have demonstrated commitment and progress towards this principle with the sustainability considerations and alignment with the principles being embedded in existing governance
structures and responsibilities. We will continue to monitor our governance approach and work to update as needed to support the embedding of the principles.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 76
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
5.3 Governance Structure for The governance structure and sources signposted in 5.1 govern our purpose and sustainability matters including targets. A Strategic report
Implementation of the Principles p2-80
Our purpose has been integrated into the format of governance-decision documentation to ensure that these are required to explain
Show that your bank has a how the proposal, business area or update aligns to our purpose. C Governance
governance structure in place for the p12-17
Our targets have also been integrated into our executive remuneration to drive purpose-led decision-making.
implementation of the PRB including:
E Committed to our
During 2021, we reinstated the Climate Education Working Group as part of climate governance and introduced climate governance
a) target-setting and actions to focus on ESG p4-19
within product lifecycle and conducted training across retail customer journey teams.
achieve targets set
PRB working groups – we have joined and engaged in the various working groups that UNEP FI established to support the
b) remedial action in the event of
embedding of the principles.
targets or milestones not being
achieved or unexpected negative
impacts being detected.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Governance Structure for Implementation of the Principles.
We have demonstrated commitment and progress towards this principle with the sustainability considerations and alignment with the principles being embedded in existing governance
structures and responsibilities. We will continue to monitor our governance approach and work to update as needed to support the embedding of the principles.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 77
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
UN Principles for Responsible Banking
(PRB) reporting
Reporting and High-level summary and some highlights in 2021 References for
self-assessment requirement further details and
full descriptions
Principle 6: Transparency & Accountability
We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution
to society’s goals.
6.1 Progress on Implementing We have now been signatories to the Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) for over two years. We remain committed to further E Committed to our
the Principles for Responsible aligning our strategy with the 2015 Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. focus on ESG p15
Banking
In 2021, we responded to the collective progress survey, helping to build a global picture of the progress made by over
Show that your bank has progressed 200 signatories. We welcomed recommendations on the report from the Civil Society Advisory Board, including recognising the
on implementing the six Principles importance of the UNGP, which we are striving to further align with through our approach to Human Rights.
over the last 12 months (up to 18
We are signed up to the Collective Commitment on Climate Action (CCCA) and continue to support working groups and UNEP FI
months in your first reporting after
pilot programmes, such as the one on biodiversity impact.
becoming a signatory) in addition to
the setting and implementation of We have welcomed the opportunity to participate in UNEP FI events and are grateful for presentations given to our colleagues
targets in minimum two areas. through our Talent Academy and Sustainable Futures Network as we work to further embed the principles.
Show that your bank has considered Climate-related Disclosures Report – Our 2021 reporting suite brings together NatWest Group’s financial, non-financial and risk
existing and emerging international/ performance for the year including our 2021 Climate-related Disclosures Report. The reports are designed primarily to meet the
regional good practices relevant for expectations of our investors and debt holders (including green, social and sustainability (GSS) bonds), as well as regulators,
the implementation of the six ESG conscious investors and our wider stakeholders, including customers, colleagues and society more broadly.
Principles for Responsible Banking.
Sustainable reporting frameworks – NatWest Group has been reporting with reference to the International Integrated Reporting
Based on this, it has defined
Council (IIRC) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for a number of years. In 2020, in recognition of the increased focus from
priorities and ambitions to align
investors on the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, the newly issued UN Global Compact and World
with good practice.
Economic Forum’s Annual Meeting of the New Champions (better known as WEF IBC), Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics. We present
Show that your bank has roadmaps in this document detailing our current alignment and will work to develop further alignment in the future.
implemented/is working on
implementing changes in existing
practices to reflect and be in line
with existing and emerging
international/regional good practices
and has made progress on its
implementation of these Principles.
Please provide your bank’s conclusion/statement if it has fulfilled the requirements regarding Progress on Implementing the Principles for Responsible Banking.
We have demonstrated commitment and significant progress towards this principle but anticipate further development in the future.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 78
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
World Economic Forum International Business Council
metrics alignment
World Economic Forum International The following tables summarise the metrics against which we provide full or partial disclosure.
Business Council (WEF IBC) announced
defined Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and Core Metrics
recommended universal disclosures for
Principles of Governance 6/6 Planet 2/4 People 6/6 Prosperity 4/5
sustainable value creation in line with the
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Setting purpose Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Pay equality Absolute number and rate
The disclosure requirements are organised of employment
into four pillars aligned with the SDGs and
Governance body composition Diversity and inclusion Total tax paid
key ESG topics: Principles of governance,
Planet, People and Prosperity. Anti-corruption Wage level Financial investment contribution
We see the WEF IBC common metrics as Impact of material issues TCFD Implementation Risk for incidents of child, forced or Economic contribution
an important initiative in the drive towards on stakeholders compulsory labour
a common standard and in supporting
Protected ethics advice and Health and safety
companies to raise the standard of their
reporting mechanisms
ESG reporting. As this is a convergence
of existing guidance, we recognise this as Integrating risk and opportunity into Training provided
a useful tool in supporting us developing business processes
our ESG disclosures and to the extent
we are not already aligned with relevant
requirements we will commit to working
to develop our reporting in the future.
We have reviewed our reporting and
currently we partially or fully report
against 18 of the 21 core and 20 of
the 34 extended disclosures. Extended
Further details can be found in the Principles of Governance 5/6 Planet 4/12 People 5/9 Prosperity 6/7
summary tables, which are included within
the scope of EY’s limited assurance. For Progress against strategic milestones Paris-aligned GHG emissions targets Freedom of association and collective Infrastructure, investments
bargaining at risk and services supported additional information, please refer to our
GRI Index and 2021 Annual Reporting suite Purpose-led management Single use plastics Living wage Total social investment
including this document, our 2021 Annual
Report and Accounts and our Climate- Remuneration Impact of solid waste disposal Pay gap Additional tax remitted
related Disclosures Report 2021.
Alignment of strategy and policies Impact of fresh consumption Human rights review, grievance Total tax paid by country
to lobbying impact & modern slavery for significant locations
Alison Rose, NatWest Group Chief
Executive Officer is a member the Monetary losses from Employee well being Significant indirect economic impacts
International Business Council for unethical behaviour
the World Economic Forum.
Social value generated
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 79
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index
Our 2021 Annual Reporting and this
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
accompanying Index have been
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
prepared in accordance with the other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards: Comprehensive option, Organisational Profile
and with relevant part of the GRI G4
102-1 Name of the organisation NatWest Group plc
Financial Services Sector Disclosures.
The tables that follow show our full 102-2 Activities, brands, products A Our business performances p38 to 50
or partial alignment to the relevant and services W Our brands
standards. This GRI Index covers 102-3 Location of headquarters Edinburgh, Scotland
our material topics and follows GRI W Worldwide locations
Standards 2016 and, where relevant
102-4 Location of operations W Worldwide locations
2018. We note the GRI standards
102-5 Ownership and legal form A Governance p80 to 81
coming into effect from 1 January
W Equity ownership statistics
2023 and look to adopt them
in the future. 102-6 Markets served A Our business performances p38 to 50
W Worldwide locations
We use the GRI framework, as well
102-7 Scale of the organisation A 2021 Financial performance and Operational highlights p2 to 3, Our purpose framework p12 to 13,
as other frameworks, to maintain the Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Our strategy and Our strategy in action p18 to 27, Our purpose
rigour of our annual ESG reporting.
led focus areas p30 to 31, Our business performances p38 to 50, Financial statements p300 to 306.
The number of persons employed at 31 December 2021 was 57,800.
We are aware of the increasing E Learning p29 to 37
importance of providing our investors N Colleagues
and other stakeholders with relevant
102-8 Information on employees and A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Financial statements p300 to 306
and meaningful sustainability other workers E Learning p34 to 37, Responsible Business p38 to 59
information so will continue to N Colleagues
W Working at NatWest Group
monitor the GRI standards and
develop our alignment going forward. 102-9 Supply chain A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17
E Responsible Business p38 to 59
W Supply chain
Key W Supplier charter
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
102-10 Significant changes to the E Responsible Business p38 to 59
organization and its supply chain W Supply chain
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
102-11 Precautionary Principle A Risk Management p188 to 285
E 2021 ESG Supplement
or approach E Responsible Business p38 to 59
N Non-financial information datasheet C Full report p1 to 99
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 80
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
102-12 External initiatives A Group Chief Executive’s review p6 to 11, Business performance p38 to 50,
Our purpose-led focus areas p30 to 31
E Collective action p15, Climate p20 to 23, Enterprise p24 to 28, Learning p29 to 37
C Strategy p18 to 46
102-13 Membership of associations A Group Chief Executive’s review p6 to 11, Business performance p38 to 50, Stakeholder focus areas p54 to 63
E Collective action p15, Climate p20 to 23, Enterprise p24 to 28, Learning p29 to 37
C Strategy p18 to 46
102-14 Statement from senior A Chairman’s statement p4 to 5, Group Chief Executive’s review p6 to p11
decision-maker E Group Chief Executive Officer’s statement p5 to 6
C Group Chief Executive Officer’s statement p5 to 6
102-15 Key impacts, risks, A Risk and capital management p188 to 285, Governance p96 to 187
and opportunities E Responsible Business p38 to 59
C Full report p1 to 99
102-16 Values, principles, standards, A Our purpose framework p12 to 13, Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Governance p96 to 187
and norms of behaviour E Key ESG topics for our stakeholders p11 to 12, How we engage with stakeholders p10,
Responsible Business p38 to 59
W Our Values, Our Code
102-17 Mechanisms for advice A Risk and capital management p188 to 285
and concerns about ethics E Responsible Business p38 to 59
102-18 Governance structure A Risk overview p72 to p75, Governance p96 to 187
E Responsible Governance p13 to 14, Responsible Business p38 to 59
C Governance p12 to 17
102-19 Delegating authority E Responsible Governance p13 to 14
C Governance p12 to 17
Key
102-20 Executive-level responsibility E Responsible Governance p13 to 14
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts for economic, environmental C Governance p12 to 17
and social topics
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
102-21 Consulting stakeholders A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17
E 2021 ESG Supplement on economic, environmental, E Key ESG topics for our stakeholders p11 to 12, How we engage with stakeholders p10
and social topics C Strategy p18 to 46
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 81
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
102-22 Composition of the highest A Governance p96 to 187
governance body and W Executive management team
its committees
102-23 Chair of the highest Howard Davies
governance body A Chairman’s Statement p4 to 5, Governance p101
102-24 Nominating and selecting the A Corporate Governance p98 and 115
highest governance body
102-25 Conflicts of interest A Governance p96 to 187
E Responsible Governance p13 to 14
102-26 Role of the highest governance A Governance p96 to 113
in setting purpose, values E Responsible Governance p13 to 14
and strategy W Board and committees
102-27 Collective knowledge of highest A Governance p96 to 187
governance body W Board and committees
102-28 Evaluating the highest governance A Governance p102 to 123
body’s performance
102-29 Identifying and managing A Market environment p32 to 33, Climate-related disclosures p64, to 71, Risk overview p72 to 75,
economic, environmental, Governance p96 to 187
and social impacts E Full report p1 to 99
C Full report p1 to 99
102-30 Effectiveness of risk A Risk and capital management p188 to 285
management processes E Responsible Governance p13 to 14
C Risk management p47 to 56
102-31 Review of economic, A Market environment p32 to 33, Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71, Risk overview p72 to 75,
Key
environmental, and social topics Governance p96 to 187
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts E Full report p1 to 99
C Full report p1 to 99
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
102-32 Highest governance body’s role A Governance p96 to 187
E 2021 ESG Supplement in sustainability reporting E Responsible Governance p13 to 14
C Governance p12 to 17
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 82
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
102-33 Communicating critical concerns A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Stakeholder focus areas p54 to 63
E Responsible Business p39 to 42
102-34 Nature and total number E Responsible Business p39 to 42
of critical concerns
102-35 Remuneration policies A Corporate Governance p98 to 115, Directors’ Remuneration Report p136 to 157
E Responsible business p58 to 59
W Director’s remuneration policy
102-36 Process for A Corporate Governance p98 to 115, Directors’ Remuneration Report p136 to 157
determining remuneration E Responsible Business p58 to 59
102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement A Governance p96 to 187
in remuneration E Responsible Business p58 to 59
102-38 Annual total compensation ratio A Annual Remuneration Report p158 to p174
102-39 Percentage increase in annual A Annual Remuneration Report p158 to p174
total compensation ratio
102-40 List of stakeholder groups A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17
E Committed to our focus on ESG p10 to 12
C Strategy p18 to 46
102-41 Percentage of total employees E Responsible business p54
covered by collective
bargaining agreements
102-42 Identifying and A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17
selecting stakeholders E How we engage with stakeholder p10, Key ESG topics for our stakeholders p11 to 12
C Strategy p18 to 46
Key
102-43 Approach to A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts stakeholder engagement E How we engage with stakeholder p10, Key ESG topics for our stakeholders p11 to 12
C Strategy p18 to 46
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
102-44 Key topics and concerns raised A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17
E 2021 ESG Supplement
E Key ESG topics for our stakeholders p11 to 12
C Strategy p18 to 46
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 83
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
102-45 Entities included in the A Financial statements p386
consolidated financial statements
102-46 Defining report content A Our purpose framework p12 to 13, Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17,
and topic Boundaries Our strategy and Our strategy in action p18 to 27
E Key ESG topics for our stakeholders p11 to 12
102-47 List of material topics A Our stakeholders 14 to 17
E Key ESG topics for our stakeholders p11 to 12
C Full report p1 to 99
102-50 Reporting period The year ended and as at 31 December 2021 unless otherwise stated.
102-51 Date of most recent report The 2021 Annual Report and Accounts released on 18 February 2022 along with the Climate-related
Disclosures Report 2021.
102-52 Reporting cycle Annual
102-53 Contact point for questions W Contact us | NatWest Group
regarding the report
102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance NatWest Group reports with reference to the Core option of the GRI Standards
with the GRI Standards
102-55 GRI Content Index GRI Index
102-56 External Assurance A Non-financial information statement p78 to 79, Financial statements p300 to 306
E Additional disclosures p61
C Introduction p13
W External assurance p1
103-1 Explanation of the material topic A Our purpose framework p12 to 13, Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Our strategy and Our strategy
and its Boundary in action p18 to 27, Our purpose led focus areas p30 to 31, Financial statements p300 to 306,
Key Risk overview p72 to p75
E Key ESG topics for our stakeholders p11 to 12
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
C Full report p1 to 99
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
103-2 The management approach A Financial performance p2 to 3, Chairman’s statement p4 to 5, Chief Executive’s review p6 to 11,
E 2021 ESG Supplement and its components Our purpose framework p12 to 13, Our stakeholders 14 to 17, Our Strategy p18 to 19
E Committed to our focus on ESG p4 to 19,Climate p20 to 23, Enterprise p24 to 28, Learning p29 to 37
N Non-financial information datasheet C Full report p1 to 99
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 84
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
Economic standards
GRI 201: Economic performance
201 Economic performance: A Financial performance p2 to 3, Chairman’s statement p4 to 5, Chief Executive’s review p6 to 11,
Management approach Business performances p38 to 50, Financial statements p300 to 306
201-1 Direct economic value generated The revenues, operating costs, employee wages and benefits, taxes and distributions are presented in the
and distributed Business review and Financial statements. Where material geographic and business splits are also included.
A Business performances p38 to 50, Chief Financial Officer’s review p82 to 95, Financial statements
p300 to 306
201-2 Financial implications and other A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71, Risk overview p72 to 75, Risk and capital management p188 to 285
risks and opportunities due to C Full report p1 to 99
climate change
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations A Risk and capital management p278, Financial statements p300 to 306
and other retirement plans
GRI 202: Market presence
202 Market presence: A Market Environment p32 to 33
Management approach E Learning p29 to 37, Responsible business p38 to 59
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level A Our stakeholders 14 to 17, Stakeholder focus areas p54 to 63
wage by gender compared to E Learning p29 to 37, Responsible business p38 to 59
local minimum wage
GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts
203 Indirect economic impacts: A Financial performance p2 to 3, Chairman’s statement p4 to 5, Chief Executive’s review p6 to 11,
Management approach Our purpose framework p12 to 13, Our stakeholders 14 to 17, Our Strategy p18 to 19
E Full report p1 to 99
Key C Strategy p18 to 46
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
203-2 Significant indirect A Financial performance p2 to 3, Chairman’s statement p4 to 5, Chief Executive’s review p6 to 11,
economic impacts Our purpose framework p12 to 13, Our stakeholders 14 to 17, Our Strategy p18 to 19
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
E Full report p1 to 99
E 2021 ESG Supplement C Strategy p18 to 46
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 85
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
205 Anti-corruption: A Stakeholder focus areas p54 to 63, Risk overview p72 to 75
Management approach E Responsible business p39 to 42
1205-1 Operations assessed for risks A Stakeholder focus areas p54 to 63, Risk overview p72 to 75
related to corruption E Responsible business p39 to 42
205-2 Communication and training A Stakeholder focus areas p54 to 63, Risk overview p72 to 75
about anti-corruption policies E Responsible business p39 to 43
and procedures
GRI 207: Tax
207-1 Approach to tax E Responsible business p45 to 46
W Tax strategy
207-2 Tax governance, control, E Responsible business p45 to 46
and risk management W Tax strategy
207-3 Stakeholder engagement E Responsible business p45 to 46
and management of concerns W Tax strategy
related to tax
207-4 Country-by-country reporting A The Capital Requirements (Country-by Country Reporting) Regulations p403 to 405
Environmental standards
GRI 302: Energy
302 Energy: Management approach A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
Key 302-1 Energy consumption within A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts the organisation C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021 302-2 Energy consumption outside A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
of the organisation C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
E 2021 ESG Supplement
302-3 Energy intensity A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
N Non-financial information datasheet C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
W NatWest Group Website 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 86
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
GRI 303: Water and effluents
303 Water and effluents: A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
Management approach C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
303-5 Water consumption A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
GRI 305: Emissions
305 Emissions: Management approach A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) emissions A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
GHG emissions C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
GHG emissions C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
305-4 GHG emissions intensity A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
305-6 Emissions of A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
ozone-depleting substances C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
GRI 306: Effluents and waste
Key
306 Effluents and waste: A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts Management approach C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021 306-2 Waste by type and A Climate-related disclosures p64 to 71
disposal method C Metrics and targets p57 to 93
E 2021 ESG Supplement
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 87
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment
308 Supplier environmental A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Stakeholder focus areas p63
assessment: C Metrics and targets p66 to 72
Management approach E Responsible business p44
W Supplier charter
308-1 New suppliers that were screened A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17
using environmental criteria C Metrics and targets p66 to 72
E Responsible business p44
W Supplier charter
Social standards
GRI 401: Employment
401 Employment: A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61
Management approach E Learning p34 to 37, Responsible business p54 to 59
W Working at NatWest Group
401-1 New employee hires and A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61
employee turnover E Learning p34 to 37, Responsible business p54 to 59
N Colleagues
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61
employees that are not E Learning p34 to 37, Responsible business p54 to 59
provided to temporary or
part-time employees
401-3 Parental leave A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61
E Responsible business p54 to 59
Key GRI 403: Occupational health & safety
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
403 Occupational health & safety: A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021 Management approach E Responsible business p54 to 59
W Health and safety
E 2021 ESG Supplement
403-1 Occupational health and safety A Stakeholder engagement p14 to 17, Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61
N Non-financial information datasheet management system E Responsible business p54 to 59
W Health and safety
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 88
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
GRI 404: Training and education
404 Training and education: A Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61
Management approach E Learning p34 to 37, Responsible business p54 to 56
C Strategy p34
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee A Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61
skills and transition assistance E Learning p34 to 37, Responsible business p54 to 56
programs N Colleagues
C Strategy p34
404-3 Percentage of employees A Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61
receiving regular performance E Learning p34 to 37, Responsible business p54 to 59
and career development reviews
GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity
405 Diversity and equal opportunity: A Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61, Governance p96 to 115
Management approach E Learning p34 to 37, Responsible business p54 to 56
W Working at NatWest Group
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies A Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61, Governance p96 to 115
and employees E Responsible business p54 to 56
N Colleagues
W Working at NatWest Group
GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and A Stakeholder focus areas p58 to 61, Governance p96 to 115
remuneration of women to men E Responsible business p54 to 56
W Working at NatWest Group
GRI 412: Human rights assessment
412 Human rights assessment: A Business performance p39
Key Management approach E Responsible business p47
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts W Human Rights Statement
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021 412-1 Operations that have been E Responsible business p47
subject to human rights
E 2021 ESG Supplement reviews or impact assessments
412-2 Employee training on E Responsible business p47
N Non-financial information datasheet
human rights policies W Human Rights Statement
W NatWest Group Website 412-3 Local communities: E Responsible business p53
Management approach
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 89
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
GRI 413: Local communities
413 Local communities: E Responsible business p53
Management approach
413-1 Operations with local community E Responsible business p53
engagement, impact assessments, N Responsible business
and development programs
GRI 414: Supplier social assessment
414 Supplier social assessment: E Responsible business p44
Management approach
414-1 New suppliers that were screened E Responsible business p44
using social criteria
GRI 415: Public policy
415 Public policy: A Governance p184 to 186
Management approach E Responsible business p39
415-1 Political contributions A Governance p186
GRI 417: Marketing and labelling
417-1 Requirements for product and E Responsible business p51
service information and labelling
GRI 418: Customer privacy
418 Customer privacy: E Responsible business p52
Management approach
Key
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
E 2021 ESG Supplement
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 90
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Global Reporting
Initiative index continued
General Standard Disclosures Page number (or Link)
Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in
other reports by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation may elect to add a specific reference
to where the relevant information can be found.
GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance
419 Socioeconomic compliance: A Governance p181 to 183, Risk and capital management p279 to 283
Management approach
419-1 Non-compliance with laws and A Financial statements p366 to 372
regulations in the social and
economic area
Financial services sector disclosures
FS7 Monetary value of products and A Key performance indicators p28 to 29, Our strategy p18 to 19, Our strategy in action p20 to 27,
services designed to deliver a Our purpose-led focus areas p30 to 31, Business performance p38 to 50
specific social benefit for each E How we create value p9, Enterprise p24 to 28
business line broken down
by purpose
FS8 Monetary value of products and A Key performance indicators p28 to 29, Our strategy p18 to 19, Our strategy in action p20 to 27,
services designed to deliver a Our purpose-led focus areas p30 to 31, Business performance p38 to 50
specific environmental benefit for E How we create value p9, Climate p20 to 23
each business line broken down C Full document p1 to 99
by purpose
FS13 Access points in low-populated A Key performance indicators p28 to 29, Our strategy p18 to 19, Our strategy in action p20 to 27,
or economically disadvantaged Our purpose-led focus areas p30 to 31, Business performance p38 to 50
areas by type E Learning p29 to 37, Responsible business p50
FS14 Initiatives to improve access A Key performance indicators p28 to 29, Our strategy p18 to 19, Our strategy in action p20 to 27,
to financial services for Our purpose-led focus areas p30 to 31, Business performance p38 to 50
disadvantaged people E Learning p29 to 37, Responsible business p50
Key
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
E 2021 ESG Supplement
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 91
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB) index
This is the second time we are reporting
Code Accounting metric Reference or Response
against the SASB disclosure framework
(version 2018-10). The tables that follow Business Ethics
detail our disclosures against the five
Financial Industry Standards that we have Quantitative FN-IB-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal A Other liabilities in Note 21 p358, Litigation and regulatory
identified as most closely aligned to our FN-CB-510a.1 proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, matters in Note 27 p366 to 372
FN-AC-510a.1 anti-competitive behavior, market manipulation, malpractice,
business, Mortgage Financing (FN-MF),
or other related financial industry laws or regulations
Commercial Banks (FN-CB), Consumer
Finance (FN-CF), Investment Banking and Discussion FN-IB-510a.2 Description of whistleblower policies and procedures A Whistleblowing p105
Brokerage (FN-IB) and Asset Management and Analysis FN-AC-510a.2 E Responsible business p41 to 42
FN-CB-510a.2
and Custody Activities (FN-AC). The tables
indicate where to find information either Data Security
in this report or within our wider
reporting suite. Quantitative FN-CF-230a.2 Card-related fraud losses from (1) card-notpresent fraud A Operational risk p279 to 281
and (2) card-present and other fraud
Unless otherwise stated all data and
Discussion FN-CF-230a.3 Description of approach to identifying and addressing A Operational risk p279 to 281
descriptions are for NatWest Group on a and Analysis FN-CB-230a.2 data security risks E Responsible business p40 to 43, p52
consolidated basis and not just the business
segment or legal entity within the group Employee Diversity & Inclusion
relevant to that sector. The tables are
Quantitative FN-AC-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group representation A Diversity, Equity and Inclusion p59 to 61,
structured by topic to take into account
FN-IB-330a.1 for (1) executive management, (2) non-executive management, Annual remuneration report p157 to 173
that some disclosure and indicator (3) professionals, and (4) all other employees E Learning p36 to 37, Responsible business p55
requirements appear in more than one N Colleagues
sector. As SASB is a global framework W Working at NatWest Group
with a US-focus we have in some instances
Employee Incentives & Risk Taking
had to provide the equivalent relevant UK
disclosure. We do not currently disclose all
Quantitative FN-IB-550b.1 Percentage of total remuneration that is variable for A Other remuneration disclosures p174 to 179
metrics within these five standards, but we Material Risk Takers (MRTs)
are aware of the increasing importance
of providing our investors and other Quantitative FN-IB-550b.2 Percentage of variable remuneration of Material Risk Takers A Other remuneration disclosures p174 to 179
(MRTs) to which malus or clawback provisions were applied
stakeholders with relevant and meaningful
sustainability information so will continue Discussion FN-IB-550b.3 Discussion of policies around supervision, control, and A Note 12 Financial instruments – valuation p335 to 343
to work with SASB to monitor develop the and Analysis validation of traders’ pricing of Level 3 assets and liabilities
alignment of our disclosures going forward.
Key
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
E 2021 ESG Supplement
N Non-financial information datasheet
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 92
W NatWest Group Website
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB) index continued
Code Accounting metric Reference or Response
Environmental Risk to Mortgaged Properties
Quantitative FN-MF-450a.1 (1) Number and (2) value of mortgage loans in 100-year A Risk overview p72 to 75, Climate risk p280 to 281,
flood zones Reputational risk p284 to 285
C Strategy p37 to 46, Risk management p47 to 56,
Metrics and targets p60 to 61
Discussion FN-MF-450a.3 Description of how climate change and other environmental A Risk overview p72 to 75, Climate risk p280 to 281,
and Analysis risks are incorporated into mortgage origination and Reputational risk p284 to 285
underwriting C Strategy p37 to 46, Risk management p47 to 56,
Metrics and targets p60 to 61
Financial Inclusion & Capacity Building
Quantitative FN-CB-240a.1 (1) Number and (2) amount of loans outstanding qualified to A Commercial Banking lending p44 to 45, 90
programs designed to promote small business and community E Enterprise p25 to 27
development
Discussion FN-CB-240a.3 Number of no-cost retail checking accounts provided E Responsible business p45 to 46
and Analysis to previously unbanked or underbanked customers
Quantitative FN-CB-240a.4 Number of participants in financial literacy initiatives A Our strategy in action p20
for unbanked, underbanked, or underserved customers E Learning p31 to 32, Responsible business p48 to 52
Incorporation of Environmental, Social and Governance Factors in Investment Management Advisory
Quantitative FN-AC-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, E Integrating ESG across our services and operations
social, and governance (ESG) factors in investment and/or p17 to 19
wealth management processes and strategies
Quantitative FN-AC-410a.3 Description of proxy voting and investee engagement W Coutts Asset Management Centre of Expertise has
policies and procedures appointed EOS at Federated Hermes to advise and
support voting and engagement activity. In doing so,
Coutts applies EOS’ responsible ownership principles
Key
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
E 2021 ESG Supplement
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 93
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB) index continued
Code Accounting metric Reference or Response
Incorporation of Environmental, Social, and Governance Factors in Credit Analysis
Quantitative FN-CB-410a.1 Commercial and industrial credit exposure, by Industry A Credit risk portfolio summary – sector analysis
p214 to 230
C Heightened climate-related risk sectors p58 to 59
Discussion FN-CB-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, A Risk overview p72 to 75, Climate risk p280 to 281,
and Analysis social, and governance (ESG) factors in credit analysis Reputational risk p284 to 285
E Responsible business p39 to 44
C Risk management p47 to 56
Incorporation of Environmental, Social, and Governance Factors in Investment Banking & Brokerage Activities
Quantitative FN-IB-410a.2 (1) Number and (2) total value of investments and loans A Climate-related disclosures overview p64 to 71
incorporating integration of environmental, social, and E Integrating ESG across our services and operations
governance (ESG) factors, by industry p17 to 19
C Strategy p32
Quantitative FN-IB-410a.3 Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, A Climate-related disclosures overview p64 to 71
social, and governance (ESG) factors in investment banking E Integrating ESG across our services and operations
and brokerage activities p17 to 19
C Strategy p32
Lending Practices
Quantitative FN-MF-270a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal A Other liabilities in Note 21 p360, Litigation and regulatory
proceedings associated with communications to customers matters in Note 27 p368 to 374
or remuneration of loan originators
Quantitative FN-MF-270a.4 Description of remuneration structure of loan originators A Directors’ remuneration report p136 to 157,
(Employee rem linked to mortgage sales) Annual remuneration report p158 to 174,
Other remuneration disclosures p175 to 180
E Fair and transparent reward p55 to 56
Key
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
E 2021 ESG Supplement
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 94
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB) index continued
Code Accounting metric Reference or Response
Managing Business Continuity & Technology Risks
Discussion FN-EX-550a.2 (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving A Operational risk p281 to 283
and Analysis personally identifiable information (PII), (3) number of E Responsible business p51 to 52
customers affected
Quantitative FN-EX-550a.3 Description of efforts to prevent technology errors, security A Operational risk p281 to 283
breaches, and market disruptions E Responsible business p48 to 52
Managing Conflicts of Interest
Quantitative FN-EX-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal A Other liabilities in Note 21 p360, Litigation and regulatory
proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, matters in Note 27 p368 to 374
anti-competitive behavior, market manipulation, malpractice,
or other related financial industry laws or regulations
Professional Integrity
Quantitative FN-IB-510b.4 Description of approach to ensuring professional integrity, A Human rights and modern slavery p39, Our Code p189
including duty of care E Responsible business p38 to 59
Selling Practices
Quantitative FN-CF-270a.1 Percentage of total remuneration for covered employees A Directors’ remuneration report p136 to 157,
that is variable and linked to the amount of products Annual remuneration report p158 to 174,
and services sold Other remuneration disclosures p175 to 180
E Fair and transparent reward p57 to 58
Discussion FN-CF-270a.4 (1) Number of complaints filed with the Consumer Financial A Compliance and conduct risk p279
and Analysis Protection Bureau (CFPB), (2) percentage with monetary or E Responsible business p51
nonmonetary relief, (3) percentage disputed by consumer, W Customer complaints
(4) percentage that resulted in investigation by the CFPB
Quantitative FN-CF-270a.5 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal A Other liabilities in Note 21 p360, Litigation and regulatory
Key
proceedings associated with selling and servicing of products matters in Note 27 p368 to 374
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
E 2021 ESG Supplement
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 95
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB) index continued
Code Accounting metric Reference or Response
Systemic Risk Management
Discussion FN-IB-550a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of results of A Risk management framework – Stress testing p193 to 196
and Analysis FN-CB-550a.2 mandatory and voluntary stress tests into capital adequacy C Strategy p37 to 46
planning, long-term corporate strategy, and other business
activities
Quantitative FN-AC-550a.3 Total exposure to securities financing transactions A Credit risk – Securities financing transactions and
collateral p245
Discussion FN-AC-550a.4 Net exposure to written credit derivatives A Credit risk – Derivatives p245 to 247
and Analysis
Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers
Quantitative FN-AC-270a.3 Description of approach to informing customers about A Our Code p189
products and services E Responsible business p51
Activity Metrics
Quantitative FN-MF-000.A (1) Number and (2) value of mortgages originated by category: A Business review p82 to 95, Credit risk p197 to 248
(a) residential and (b) commercial
Quantitative FN-CB-000.B (1) Number and (2) value of loans by segment: (a) personal, A Business review p82 to 95, Credit risk p197 to 248
(b) small business, and (c) corporate
Quantitative FN-AC-000.A (1) Total registered and (2) total unregistered assets under A Private Banking p89
management (AUM)
Quantitative FN-AC-000.B Total assets under custody and supervision A Private Banking p89
Key
A 2021 Annual Report and Accounts
C Climate-related Disclosures Report 2021
E 2021 ESG Supplement
N Non-financial information datasheet
W NatWest Group Website
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 96
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Important The further development of accounting and/or certainty that such activities and or reporting The many significant uncertainties,
reporting standards could materially impact the of those activities will meet any present or future assumptions, judgements, opinions, estimates,
performance metrics, data points and targets expectations or requirements for describing or forecasts, statements made of future
information contained in this document and the reader may classifying funding and financing activities as expectations and certain non-historical data
therefore not be able to compare performance “green” or “sustainable” or having similar labels underlying forward-looking ESG and climate-
metrics, data points or targets from one (including existing or proposed standards, such related metrics (such as carbon and other
Caution about the information in this
reporting period to another, on a direct as the EU Taxonomy, EU SFDR and EU GBS). emissions metrics) and metrics to assess ESG
ESG Supplement like-for-like basis. NatWest Group plans to We expect policies, regulatory requirements, and climate-related risk and opportunity
This ESG Supplement has been prepared continue to review available data sources and standards, and definitions to be developed outside of carbon exposure may limit the
by NatWest Group plc (together with its enhance its methodology and processes to and evolve over time. extent to which these ESG and climate-related
subsidiaries the ‘NatWest Group’) for improve the robustness of its ESG reporting metrics are used to better understand risk
To support transparency about our process
information and reference purposes only; it is over time aligned with recognised industry and evaluate progress towards established
for reporting this data and measures, NatWest
intended to provide non-exhaustive, indicative developments. The further development of strategies, targets, objectives and commitments
Group developed a Basis of Reporting document
and general information only and does not accounting and/or reporting standards could and could cause actual results, performance
for 2021, which details our approach, scope,
purport to be comprehensive; and it does not materially impact the performance metrics, or events to differ materially from those
and controls for selected ESG measures.
provide any form of legal, tax, investment, data points and targets contained in this expressed or implied in such statements.
It should be read together with this document
accounting, financial or other advice. document and the reader may therefore not
be able to compare performance metrics, data and is available at natwestgroup.com. The most important of these uncertainties
The preparation of certain information in this points or targets from one reporting period to and factors, including, without limitations, are:
ESG Supplement requires the application of a another, on a direct like-for-like basis. No offer of securities or investment
number of key judgments, assumptions and The information, statements and opinions – lack of reliable emissions and other
estimates, including with respect to the This ESG Supplement and any information contained in this ESG Supplement do not important data;
classification of climate and sustainable funding contained or otherwise accessible through the constitute a public offer under any applicable – quality of historical (emission) data;
and financing activities. The reported measures websites mentioned in this ESG Supplement legislation, an offer to sell or solicitation of – lack of common definitions and standards
in this document reflect good faith estimates, are historical and only speak as of their any offer to buy any securities or financial for ESG and climate-related data;
assumptions and judgments at the given point respective date. Reference to websites is made instruments, or any advice or recommendation – lack of transparency and comparability
in time. There is a risk that these judgments, for information purposes only, and information with respect to such securities or other of ESG and climate-related
estimates or assumptions may subsequently found at such websites is not incorporated by financial instruments. forward-looking methodologies;
prove to be incorrect. reference into this document. NatWest Group is – variation in approaches and outcomes –
Cautionary note about forward-looking
under no obligation to update these materials, variations in methodologies may lead to
ESG reporting in our industry is not yet subject absent a legal duty to do so. To the extent statements in this ESG Supplement. Certain under or overestimates, and consequently
to the same globally recognised or accepted permitted by law, NatWest Group makes no sections in this document contain ‘forward- present exaggerated indication of ESG and
reporting or accounting principles and rules representation, warranty or assurance of any looking statements’, including, but not limited to, climate-related risk;
as traditional financial reporting. Accordingly, kind, express or implied, or takes no those statements regarding our ambitions,
– limitations of ESG and climate scenario
there is a lack of commonly accepted reporting responsibility or liability as to the fairness, metrics, targets (including Climate and analysis and the models that analyse them;
practices for NatWest Group to follow or align accuracy, reliability, reasonableness, Sustainable Funding and Financing targets),
to and ESG measures between organisations correctness or completeness with respect to goals, strategy, climate scenarios and emissions – reliance on assumptions and future
in our industry may be non-comparable. (i) the third-party information found at any intensity pathways, estimated climate uncertainty (calculations of forward-looking
projections and forecasts, UK enterprise growth metrics are complex and require many
websites operated by third parties; and
In addition, the maturity of underlying data, targets and financial capability interaction methodological choices and assumptions);
(ii) the opinions or conclusions expressed
systems and controls that support non-financial targets. Words or phrases such as ‘anticipate’, – uncertainty around future ESG and
in this document.
reporting is generally considerably less ‘effort’, ‘estimate’, ‘believe’, ‘budget’, ’continue’, climate-related policy; and
sophisticated than the systems and internal Further to the above, climate and sustainable ‘could’, ‘expect’, ‘forecast’, ‘goal’, ‘guidance’, – complexity of calculation may require the
controls for financial reporting and it also funding and financing activities and their ‘intend’, ‘may’, ‘objective’, ‘outlook’, ‘plan’, assistance of one or more external data
includes manual processes. This may result classification and reporting are still not subject ‘potential’, ‘predict’, ‘projection’, ‘seek’, ‘should’, and methodology provider.
in non-comparable information between to a single recognised or accepted, consistent ‘target’, ‘will’, ‘would’ or similar expressions
organisations and between reporting periods and comparable set of definitions or standards that convey the prospective nature
within organisations as methodologies develop. in the UK or globally either. There is little of events or outcomes generally indicate
forward-looking statements.
NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 97
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
Additional disclosures continued
Other information –
including our assurance approach
In addition, we may make forward-looking – the ‘Risk Factors’ included on pages 406 to Acronym guide
statements in other publicly available 426 of the NatWest Group 2021 Annual
CET1 Common Equity Tier 1 NET National Emergencies Trust
documents, and our management may make Report and Accounts (with special regard to
forward-looking statements orally to analysts, the risk factors in relation to ‘Climate and COP15 15th United Nations Climate PCAF Partnership for Carbon Accounting
Change Conference of the Parties Financials
investors, representatives of the media and sustainability related risks’ that describes
others. These statements are generally not several particular uncertainties, climate and COP26 26th United Nations Climate PECF Programme for the Endorsement of
based on historical facts, but instead represent sustainability related risks to which NatWest Change Conference of the Parties Forest Certification
our management’s beliefs regarding future Group is exposed);
CTP Credible transition plan PRA Prudential Regulatory Authority
events, current plans, expectations, estimates, – the ‘Forward looking statements’ on page
targets and projections, and are subject to 434 of the NatWest Group 2021 Annual ED Executive director PRB United Nations Principles for
significant inherent risks, uncertainties and Report and Accounts; and Responsible Banking
other factors, both external (which are often – Section 5.8 (Cautionary note about climate- ELN Employee-led networks
PRI United Nations Principles for
beyond NatWest Group’s control) and relating related data and methodology challenges) EPC Energy Performance Certificate Responsible Investment
to NatWest Group’s strategy or operations, and the Climate-related and other forward-
which may result in NatWest Group being looking statements and metrics (page 93) of ESE Environmental, social and ethical S&CC Social & Community Capital
unable to achieve the current plans, the NatWest Group’s Climate-related ESG Environmental, social and SBC Group Sustainable Banking
expectations, estimates, targets, projections disclosure Report 2021. governance Committee
and other anticipated outcomes expressed or
implied by such forward-looking statements. Assurance EWRMF Enterprise-wide risk management SBTi Science Based Targets Initiative
framework
Further, NatWest Group has not, and does not NatWest Group plc appointed Ernst & Young SDG United Nations Sustainable
intend to, independently verify third-party data. LLP (EY) to provide independent assurance over EY Ernst and Young LLP Development Goals
By their nature, certain of these disclosures are certain sustainability metrics, indicated with (*)
only estimates and, as a result, actual future in this report. The assurance engagement was FCA Financial Conduct Authority SME Small and medium enterprise
results could differ materially from those that planned and performed in accordance with FSC Forest Stewardship Council SMI Sustainable Markets Initiative
have been estimated. Accordingly, undue the International Standard on Assurance
reliance should not be placed on these Engagements (UK) 3000 (July 2020) Assurance GDPR General Data Protection Regulation TCFD Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures
statements. The forward-looking statements Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of GFSN Global Financial Services Norm
contained in this document speak only as of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE (UK) TNFD Taskforce on Nature-related
the date we make them. Except to the extent 3000 (July 2020)”). GHG Greenhouse Gas Financial Disclosures
legally required, we expressly disclaim any
GHPN Global High Performing Norm UNEP FI United Nations Environment obligation or undertaking to update or revise An assurance report was issued and is available
Programme Finance Initiative
any forward-looking statements in this at natwestgroup.com. This report includes GRI Global Reporting Initiative
document, whether to reflect any change in further details on the scope, respective UNESCO United Nations Educational Science
our expectations regarding those forward- responsibilities, work performed, limitations MaPS Money and Pensions Service and Cultural Organisation
looking statements, any change in events, and conclusion. MREL Minimum Required Eligible Liabilities UNGC United Nations Global Compact
conditions or circumstances on which any
such statement is based, or otherwise. Name and address MSA Modern Slavery Act WEF IBC World Economic Forum International
Business Council
‘NWG’ and ‘NatWest Group’ mean the company
This cautionary statement should not be and its subsidiary and associated undertakings. MSHT Modern Slavery and Human
Trafficking
regarded as a complete and comprehensive
statement and should be read together with: Principal offices
NatWest Group plc
Read more: EY independent assurance PO Box 1000, Gogarburn NatWest Group plc 2021 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement 98
statement Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ
Additional
disclosures
Committed
to
our
focus
on
ESG
Climate
Enterprise
Learning
Responsible
business
NatWest Group plc
2021 Environmental,
Social and Governance
Supplement
February 2022