Stakeholder engagement and s.172(1) statement
Stakeholder engagement and s.172(1) statement Board and provides further proof of progress across a range of
The Board objectives, approved in February 2019, identified the measures.
Board’s key stakeholders (as set out in this statement). During 2019
the Board undertook a variety of activities to engage with stakeholders Employee consultation
and bring their voice into the boardroom. Details are set out below, Having ongoing discussion and engagement with a number of
together with additional information on related engagement activities employee representatives such as trade unions and work councils is
undertaken within RBS Group which impacted NWB Plc. vital, and RBS Group regularly discusses developments and updates
on the progress of strategic plans.
This section of the Strategic Report describes how the directors have
had regard to the matters set out in section 172(1) (a) to (f), and forms Speak Up
the directors’ statement required under section 414CZA, of The Where colleagues wish to report any concerns relating to wrong doing
Companies Act 2006. or misconduct, one of the ways they can do this is by raising their
concerns via Speak Up, RBS Group’s whistleblowing service. The
Board training and support on s.172 duties 2019 colleague opinion survey showed the highest ever score when
Directors are supported in the discharge of their duties by the asking colleagues if they feel safe to speak up, as well as
Company Secretary. All directors receive guidance on their statutory understanding the process of how they do that. In 2019, 458 cases
duties including section 172 and were briefed on the reporting were raised compared to 480 in 2018.
requirements introduced by the Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting)
Regulations 2018 in advance of the effective date. A new approach to Developing colleagues
Board and committee papers has been introduced with greater focus Culturally, becoming a learning organisation is a strategic priority.
on ensuring relevant stakeholder interests are clearly articulated; and Focus has been on preparing colleagues for the future with broader
guidance on documenting decisions has been refreshed to ensure development focused on key Critical People Capabilities. In 2019 RBS
these are recorded in a consistent manner across RBS Group. Group created an Agile Capability Hub, providing learning content to
support colleagues to confidently engage in new ways of working. This
Customers year, RBS Group was also the first UK retail bank to launch a Data
Customers are at the heart of everything NWB Plc does. During the Academy, to nurture and grow data expertise, innovation, and
year the Board received updates on key customer issues through collaboration. More information can be found in the 2019 Annual
customer service performance updates and regular business reviews. Report and Accounts of RBSG plc and on rbs.com.
There was also a dedicated Board session on the Retail Banking
environment. The directors met a range of business and personal Investing in colleagues
customers during a programme of visits in September 2019, which RBS Group has also transformed colleagues’ experience by deploying
provided an opportunity to gain insights into customer issues and new digital tools. Workday was implemented as a new digital HR
challenges. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have regular platform in November 2019, and includes a mobile app, giving
meetings with customers to enhance relationships and understand colleagues an experience on par with the digital experience customers
their views. enjoy. ServiceNow was extended to improve how RBS Group
responds to colleagues’ queries, and an expanded HR chat bot has
helped over 50,000 colleagues to answer their basic queries. These
Colleagues
enhancements are enabling RBS Group to respond to the evolving
References to “colleagues” in this Report mean all members of the
world of work and needs of its colleagues.
workforce (for example contractors, agency workers).
Health and wellbeing of colleagues
Colleague voice
As a strong component of making RBS Group a great place to work,
The Board promotes colleague voice in the boardroom through a
wellbeing initiatives have been successfully delivered against four
variety of channels.
pillars; Physical, Mental, Social and Financial Wellbeing. Further
details can be found in the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts of
During 2019 the Board engaged with colleagues during a number of
RBSG plc and on rbs.com.
Board and committee visits to businesses and functions and there was
also a Meet the Board event for colleagues.
Inclusion
RBS Group is proud to be building an inclusive bank which is a great
The Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP), established in 2018, met twice
place for all colleagues to work. RBS Group’s inclusion guidelines
during 2019, providing a valuable mechanism for directors to engage
apply to all colleagues globally and focus on five key priorities - LGBT
directly with colleagues on topics of strategic interest affecting RBS
Innovative, Gender Balanced, Disability Smart, Ethnically Diverse, all
Group and the workforce; and offering colleagues a greater
leading to Inclusive Culture. Detailed information can be found in the
understanding of the Board’s role. A number of directors attended CAP
2019 Annual Report and Accounts of RBSG plc and on rbs.com.
meetings during the year and discussion topics included Purpose,
future strategy, executive pay, inclusion and sustainability. Outputs
RBS Group has been recognised for work on Equality, Diversity and
were reported to the Board and have influenced the Board’s
Inclusion in 2019 by retaining position in the Times Top 50 Employers
consideration of these topics.
for Women; being recognised again as a Top 10 Employer for Working
Families; being Exemplary Level in the Scottish Carer Positive
Engaging colleagues
Campaign; being a Top Global Stonewall employer; being a Top Ten
Every year colleagues are asked to share their thoughts on what it’s
Employer in the Investing in Ethnicity Maturity Matrix; and rated as
like to work for RBS Group via a colleague opinion survey. The results
Gold in the Business Disability Forum benchmark.
from the 2019 survey, which were considered by the Board in October
2019, showed a further improvement in colleague sentiment and
Employment of people with disabilities
demonstrate that the culture of RBS Group is changing for the better.
RBS Group policy is that people with disabilities are given full and fair
Key measures of engagement, leadership and culture have increased
consideration for employment and subsequent training, career
further, and RBS Group is above the global financial services norm in
development and promotion based on merit. If members of staff
all comparable survey categories.
become disabled, it is the policy of RBS Group, wherever possible, to
retain them in their existing jobs or re-deploy them in suitable
The colleague opinion survey results were one culture oversight tool
alternative duties.
available to the Board and the Board also listened to colleague views
during the process of establishing RBS Group’s Purpose. The
continued strengthening of RBS Group’s culture was also echoed in
this year’s improved Banking Standards Board annual assessment of
culture in the UK banking sector, which was also considered by the
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 3
Stakeholder engagement and s.172(1) statement
Regulators
The Board recognises the importance of open and continuous NWB Plc defines principal decisions as those that are material, or of
dialogue with regulators. Representatives from the Financial Conduct strategic importance, to NWB Plc, and also those that are significant to
Authority (FCA) attended the February 2019 Board meeting to present any of its key stakeholder groups.
and discuss their annual Firm Evaluation letter. The Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) conducted a Board effectiveness review in In making its decisions, the Board considers the outcomes of relevant
2019, which included attendance at the October 2019 Board meeting stakeholder engagement as well as the need to maintain a reputation
and meetings with directors. The Chairman and executive directors for high standards of business conduct, and to consider the long-term
have regular meetings with both the FCA and PRA. In addition, consequences of its decisions.
individual directors engage regularly with regulators through
Continuous Assessment and Proactive Engagement meetings. The appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer in 2019 provides
one example of how stakeholder interests were considered in a
Suppliers principal decision made by the Board.
The Board recognises the key role suppliers play in ensuring NWB Plc
delivers a reliable service to customers. In October 2019 the Board Appointment of Chief Executive Officer
held a suppliers’ spotlight session, which included an overview of RBS In 2019 the Board approved the appointment of Alison Rose as Chief
Group’s key suppliers and provided insights on the approach towards Executive Officer with effect from 1 November 2019. From the outset,
managing supplier relationships, including payment practices. The the Board placed stakeholder interests at the core of its objectives in
directors discussed the future approach to suppliers and the changing the search for Ross McEwan’s successor.
regulatory landscape in relation to outsourcing. Meetings with key
suppliers in September 2019 provided a first hand opportunity for The Nominations Committee, on behalf of the Board, agreed a role
directors to hear directly from strategic partners and to discuss current specification which required candidates to demonstrate broad and
challenges. authoritative banking and strategic experience that would serve to
deliver long-term sustainable growth to the business for the benefit of
Community and environment its shareholders and wider stakeholders. A rigorous search process
NWB Plc is committed to managing the wider social, environmental was undertaken, involving the consideration of both internal and
and economic impacts of its operations which includes the way it deals external candidates. Alison Rose was identified as the strongest
with its customers and manages sustainability issues in its supply candidate on the basis of the role specification criteria.
chain. Refer to rbs.com for RBS Group’s Modern Slavery Statement
and details of the Supplier Code of Conduct, both of which apply to In reaching its decision, the interests of RBS Group customers were a
NWB Plc. It is recognised by the Board that climate change must have key focus for the Board, particularly each candidate’s ability to lead a
greater prominence at both senior management and board levels business that would be recognised as truly customer centric. The
across RBS Group, including NWB Plc. Further details on RBS Board also ensured that colleague interests were taken into account
Group’s response to climate change can be found within the 2019 when agreeing the critical capabilities used to assess potential
Annual Report and Accounts of RBSG plc. candidates. These required candidates to demonstrate the strong
ethical and moral principles needed to lead the culture and values of
How stakeholder interests have influenced decision-making RBS Group. The Board ensured that relevant regulators, another of its
NWB Plc recognises the importance of engaging with stakeholders to key stakeholder groups, were kept regularly apprised of progress
help inform strategy and Board decision-making. Relevant stakeholder during the search.
interests, including those of employees, suppliers, customers and
others are taken into account by the Board when it takes decisions. The Board will continue to ensure that its nominations process is
based on the principles of fairness, respect and inclusion and that all
nominations and appointments are made on the basis of individual
competence, skills and expertise measured against identified objective
criteria and taking into account a broad range of stakeholder interests.
Further details on how RBS Group engages with its stakeholders can
be found in the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts of RBSG plc and on
rbs.com.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 4
Top and emerging risks
The NWB Group employs a continuous process for identifying and managing its top and emerging risks. Top and emerging risks are those that
could have a significant negative impact on the NWB Group’s ability to operate or meet its strategic objectives.
External
As a UK-focused bank, the NWB Group is exposed to the economic and political risks facing the UK including
risks from a sustained period of low economic growth and low interest rates RBS continues to use a range of
complementary approaches to inform strategic planning and risk mitigation. This includes active management of
portfolios and adjustment of risk appetite, scenario planning and stress testing. In addition, the NWB Group has
Economic & Political
implemented plans to prepare for the loss of access to the European Single Market and continues to monitor
Risks
geopolitical risks and developments in relation to a second Scottish independence referendum. In the longer
term, demographic change, high levels of debt and financial inequality in the UK could all have financial impacts
for the NWB Group and, as a result, are closely monitored with strategic plans adapted as appropriate.
Accelerating climate change may lead to heightened financial risks and faster-than-anticipated impacts on the
Group and the wider economy. These include financial loss as a result of deterioration in credit quality, market
Climate Related Risks risk exposure and operational risk. The Group continues to adapt its operation and business strategy to mitigate
the risks of both climate change and the transition to a low carbon economy. In addition, the NWB Group is
embedding climate risk into its risk management framework.
Cyber-attacks continue to increase in frequency, sophistication and severity. There is a risk that a catastrophic
cyber-attack damages the NWB Group’s ability to do business and/or compromises data security. The NWB
Cyber Threats Group operates a multi-layered approach to its defences and continues to invest in a multi-year programme to
build resilience and cybersecurity capabilities.
The NWB Group’s target markets are highly competitive, with changes in technology, regulation, customer
behaviour and business models continuing to accelerate competitive pressure. The NWB Group monitors the
Competitive competitive environment and adapts strategy as appropriate. RBS remains focused on innovating to evolve the
Environment business model to deliver compelling propositions for customers. This included the launch of new digital retail and
business banks, Bo and Mettle.
The NWB Group continues to face stringent regulatory and supervisory requirements, particularly regarding
conduct, financial crime, the use of models, and capital and liquidity management. The NWB Group continues to
Regulatory, Legal & embed a strong and comprehensive risk and compliance culture. The NWB Group engages with regulators to
Conduct Risk implement new regulatory requirements and incorporates the implications of proposed or potential regulatory
activities in its strategic and financial plans.
UK and international regulators are driving a transition from the use of interbank offer rates (IBORs), including
LIBOR, to alternative risk-free rates. Uncertainties around the timing and manner of transition represent a number
LIBOR transition
of risks for the NWB Group including elevated legal and conduct risks. While a programme to manage the
transition is underway, there is a risk that the NWB Group may not effectively manage the transition.
Internal
Inadequate control over selection, governance and oversight of third-party suppliers could affect operational
Third Party Suppliers resilience. The NWB Group is diligent in its screening of suppliers with strict contractual obligations governing
supplier relationships and activity.
The NWB Group continues to invest in IT infrastructure to prevent customer service disruption, which could result
IT System Resilience in reputational and regulatory damage. To mitigate these risks, a major investment programme has significantly
improved the resilience of the systems and further progress is expected.
There is a risk that the NWB Group lacks sufficient capability or capacity at a senior level to deliver – or adapt to
– change. The NWB Group monitors people risk closely and has plans in place to support retention of key roles,
Culture & People Risk with wider programmes supporting engagement and training for all employees. Ensuring a healthy culture
remains a core priority and a multi-year programme focused on enhancing culture – including risk culture – is
ongoing.
Ineffective management of data, including a breach in data privacy, could have material negative impacts. RBS
Data Management
operates a control and policy framework governing data usage and continued to evolve a long-term data strategy.
Losses may arise from a failure to successfully execute major changes to the Group’s business model. The
Group continues to implement change in line with its strategic plans while assessing the implementation risks and
Change Risk
taking appropriate mitigating action as required. In addition, the Group continues to strengthen its control
environment.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 6
Capital and risk management
Page
Presentation of information 10 All RBS Group colleagues share ownership of the way risk is
Risk management framework managed, working together to make sure business activities and
Introduction 10 policies are consistent with risk appetite.
Risk culture 10
The methodology for setting, governing and embedding risk appetite is
Risk governance 11
being further enhanced with the aim of revising current risk appetite
Risk appetite 13
processes and increasing alignment with strategic planning and
Risk controls and limits 13 external threat assessments.
Risk identification and measurement 13
Risk treatment and mitigation 14 During 2019, a number of enhancements to the RBS Group risk
Risk testing and monitoring 14 management framework were developed. The increasing significance
Stress testing 14 of climate risk was considered as part of these developments and will
be fully integrated as part of the implementation of the enhanced
Capital, liquidity and funding risk
framework in 2020.
Definition and sources 16
Key developments and liquidity portfolio 17 Risk culture
Capital, Liquidity and funding risk management 17 Risk culture is at the centre of both the risk management framework
Minimum requirements 18 and risk management practice. RBS Group’s risk culture target is to
Measurements 18 make risk part of the way employees work and think.
Credit risk
A focus on leaders as role models, and action to build clarity, develop
Definition and sources 23
capability and motivate employees to reach the required standards of
Risk governance, appetite and controls 23
behaviour are key to achieving the risk culture target. Colleagues are
Risk identification, measurement and models 23 expected to:
Risk mitigation, assessment and monitoring 24  Take personal responsibility for understanding and proactively
Problem debt management and forbearance 24 managing the risks associated with individual roles.
Economic loss drivers 26  Respect risk management and the part it plays in daily work.
Credit risk modelling 29
 Understand the risks associated with individual roles.
Banking activities 33
 Align decision-making to RBS Group’s risk appetite.
Non-traded market risk 56
 Consider risk in all actions and decisions.
Pension risk 60
 Escalate risks and issues early; taking action to mitigate risks and
Compliance & conduct risk 60
learning from mistakes and near-misses.
Financial crime risk 61
 Challenge others’ attitudes, ideas and actions.
Climate-related financial risk 61
Operational risk 62  Report and communicate risks transparently.
Model risk 63
The target risk culture behaviours are embedded in Our Standards and
Reputational risk 64
are clearly aligned to the core values of “serving customers”, “working
Presentation of information
together”, “doing the right thing” and “thinking long term”. These act as
Where indicated in the section headers, information in the Capital and
an effective basis for a strong risk culture because Our Standards are
risk management section (pages 10 to 64) is within the scope of the
used for performance management, recruitment and development.
Independent auditor’s report. Where a main section header, presented
in bold, is marked as audited, all subsequent sub sections are also
Training
audited, the end of the audited section is marked by ∆. Unless
A wide range of learning, both technical and behavioural, is offered
otherwise indicated, disclosures in this section include disposal groups
across the risk disciplines. This training can be mandatory, role-
in relevant exposures and measures. Disposal groups comprise
specific or for personal development and enables colleagues to
NatWest Holdings Group Corp in 2018. Capital and risk management
are generally conducted on an overall basis within RBS Group such develop the capabilities and confidence to manage risk effectively.
that common policies, procedures, frameworks and models apply
across RBS Group. Therefore, for the most part, discussion on these Code of Conduct
qualitative aspects reflects those in RBS Group as relevant for the RBS Group’s Code of Conduct provides guidance on expected
businesses and operations in NWB Group. behaviour and sets out the standards of conduct that support the
values. The code explains the effect of decisions that are taken and
Risk management framework describes the principles that must be followed.
Introduction
RBS Group operates an integrated risk management framework, These principles cover conduct-related issues as well as wider
which is centred around the embedding of a strong risk culture. The business activities. They focus on desired outcomes, with practical
framework ensures the tools and capability are in place to facilitate risk guidelines to align the values with commercial strategy and actions.
management and decision-making across the organisation. The embedding of these principles facilitates sound decision-making
and a clear focus on good customer outcomes.
Risk appetite, supported by a robust set of principles, policies and
practices, defines the levels of tolerance for a variety of risks and If conduct falls short of RBS Group’s required standards, the
provides a structured approach to risk-taking within agreed accountability review process is used to assess how this should be
boundaries. reflected in pay outcomes for those individuals concerned. The RBS
Group-wide remuneration policy ensures that the remuneration
arrangements for all employees reflect the principles and standards
prescribed by the PRA rulebook and the FCA handbook. Any
employee falling short of the expected standards would also be subject
to internal disciplinary policies and procedures. If appropriate, the
relevant authority would be notified.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 10
Capital and risk management
Risk management framework continued
Risk management structure
The diagram illustrates NWB Group’s risk management structure in 2019 and key risk management responsibilities.
Director of Risk, Personal Banking
Design and delivery of Personal Banking risk strategy and service proposition.
Oversight of risk management across Personal Banking.
Director of Risk, Commercial & Private Banking (2)
Design and delivery of Commercial & Private Banking risk strategy and service
Group C
O
h
f
i
f
e
i
f
c e
E
r
x ecutive
proposition. Oversight of risk management across Commercial & Private Banking.
NWB Chief Executive Officer
Director of Risk, Services & Functions and Operational Risk
Design and delivery of operational risk strategy and service proposition. Oversight of risk
management across Services & Functions teams. Provides specialist technical advice to
the Directors of Risk responsible for business oversight.
Director of Compliance & Conduct
Design and delivery of compliance and conduct strategy and service proposition.
Provides specialist technical advice to the Directors of Risk responsible for
business oversight.
Group Chief Risk Officer
RBS Director of Financial Risk & Analytics
Group Design and delivery of financial risk and analytics strategies, including
Chief Risk non-traded market risk, liquidity and earnings risk, funding and stress testing, oversight of
Officer risk management. Provides specialist technical advice to the Directors of Risk responsible
for business oversight.
Chief Financial Crime Officer
Design and delivery of financial crime strategy and service proposition, oversight of
effective financial crime risk management. Provides specialist technical advice to the
Directors of Risk responsible for business oversight.
NWB Chief Risk Officer
Chief Operating Officer
Centralised support for the risk management function including framework
development and design. Provides specialist advice on risk culture, model risk and
risk appetite matters to the Directors of Risk responsible for business oversight.
Director of Restructuring
Design and delivery of restructuring strategy and service proposition, including
.
specialist exposure management, restructuring and recoveries. Provides
restructuring expertise to frontline teams on an Early Engagement basis.
Notes:
(1) The NWB Chief Risk Officer reports directly to the NWB Plc Chief Executive Officer (who is also the Group Chief Executive Officer, RBS Group) and to the
Group Chief Risk Officer. There is a further secondary reporting line to the chair of the NWB Group Board Risk Committee and a right of access to the
committee, including the deputy chair. The members of the committee mirror those of the NWH Group Board Risk Committee.
(2) As of January 2020, the Director of Risk, Commercial & Private Banking role was split into two roles (Director of Risk, Commercial Banking and Director of Risk,
Private Banking).
(3) The Risk function is independent of the franchises and support functions. Its structure is divided into three parts (Directors of Risk, Specialist Risk Directors and
Chief Operating Officer) to facilitate effective management of the risks facing NWB Group. Risk committees in the customer businesses and key functional risk
committees oversee risk exposures arising from management and business activities and focus on ensuring that these are adequately monitored and controlled.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 12
Capital and risk management
Risk management framework continued Risk appetite framework
Three lines of defence The risk appetite framework bolsters effective risk management by
RBS Group uses the industry-standard three lines of defence model to promoting sound risk-taking through a structured approach, within
articulate accountabilities and responsibilities for managing risk. It agreed boundaries. It also ensures emerging risks and risk-taking
supports the embedding of effective risk management throughout the activities that would be out of appetite are identified, assessed,
organisation. All roles below the CEO sit within one of these three escalated and addressed in a timely manner.
lines. The CEO ensures the efficient use of resources and the effective
To facilitate this, a detailed annual review of the framework is carried
management of risks as stipulated in the risk management framework
out. The review includes:
and is therefore considered to be outwith the three lines of defence
principles.  Assessing the adequacy of the framework when compared to
internal and external expectations.
First line of defence  Ensuring the framework remains effective as a strong control
The first line of defence incorporates most roles in RBS, including environment for risk appetite.
those in the customer-facing franchises, Technology and Services as  Assessing the level of embedding of risk appetite across the
well as support functions such as Human Resources, Legal and organisation.
Finance. The RBS Group Board approves the risk appetite framework annually.
 The first line of defence is empowered to take risks within the
Establishing risk appetite
constraints of the risk management framework and policies as well
In line with RBS Group’s risk appetite framework, risk appetite is
as the risk appetite statements and measures set by the Board.
communicated across NWB Group through risk appetite statements.
 The first line of defence is responsible for managing its direct risks. The risk appetite statements provide clarity on the scale and type of
With the support of specialist functions such as Legal, HR and activities that can be undertaken in a manner that is easily conveyed to
Technology, it is also responsible for managing its consequential staff.
risks by identifying, assessing, mitigating, monitoring and reporting
risks. Risk appetite statements consist of qualitative statements of appetite
supported by risk limits and triggers that operate as a defence against
excessive risk-taking. They are established at RBS Group-wide level
Second line of defence for all strategic risks and material risks, and at legal entity, business,
The second line of defence is the Risk function and is independent of and function level for all other risks.
the first line. The annual process of establishing risk appetite statements is
 The second line of defence is empowered to design and maintain completed alongside the business and financial planning process. This
the risk management framework and its components. It undertakes ensures plans and risk appetite are appropriately aligned. The Board
proactive risk oversight and continuous monitoring activities to sets risk appetite for the most material risks to help ensure NWB
confirm that the Group engages in permissible and sustainable Group is well placed to meet its priorities and long-term targets even
risk-taking activities under challenging economic environments. It is the basis on which
 The second line of defence advises on, monitors, challenges, NWB Group remains safe and sound while implementing its strategic
approves, escalates and reports on the risk-taking activities of the business objectives.
first line, ensuring that these are within the constraints of the risk NWB Group’s risk profile is frequently reviewed and monitored and
management framework and policies as well as the risk appetite management focus is concentrated on all strategic risks, material risks
statements and measures set by the Board. and emerging risk issues. Risk profile relative to risk appetite is
reported regularly to the Board and senior management.
Third line of defence
The third line of defence is the Internal Audit function and is Risk controls and limits
independent of the first and second lines. Risk controls and their associated limits are an integral part of the risk
 The third line of defence is responsible for providing independent appetite approach and a key part of embedding risk appetite in day-to-
and objective assurance to the RBS Group Board, its subsidiary day risk management decisions. A clear tolerance for material risk
legal entity boards and executive management on the adequacy types is set in alignment with business activities.
and effectiveness of key internal controls, governance and the risk
RBS Group policies directly support the qualitative aspects of risk
management in place to monitor, manage and mitigate the key
appetite. They ensure that appropriate controls are set and monitored.
risks to RBS Group and its subsidiary companies achieving their
objectives. Risk identification and measurement
 The third line of defence executes its duties freely and objectively Risk identification and measurement within the risk management
process comprise:
in accordance with the Institute of Internal Auditor’s Code of Ethics
& Standards.  Regular assessment of the overall risk profile, incorporating market
developments and trends, as well as external and internal factors.
Risk appetite  Monitoring of the risks associated with lending and credit
Risk appetite defines the level and types of risk RBS Group is willing to exposures.
accept, within risk capacity, in order to achieve strategic objectives and  Assessment of trading and non-trading portfolios.
business plans. It links the goals and priorities to risk management in a
 Review of potential risks in new business activities and processes.
way that guides and empowers staff to serve customers well and
achieve financial targets.  Analysis of potential risks in any complex and unusual business
transactions.
Strategic risks are those that threaten the safety and soundness of
RBS Group and its ability to achieve strategic objectives. For certain
The financial and non-financial risks that RBS Group faces each day
strategic risks, risk capacity defines the maximum level of risk RBS
are detailed in the Risk Directory. This provides a common risk
Group can assume before breaching constraints determined by
language to ensure consistent terminology is used across RBS Group.
regulatory capital and liquidity needs, the operational environment, and
The Risk Directory is subject to annual review. This ensures that it
from a conduct perspective. Articulating risk capacity helps determine
continues to provide a comprehensive and meaningful list of the
where risk appetite should be set, ensuring there is a buffer between
inherent risks within the businesses.
internal risk appetite and RBS Group’s ultimate capacity to absorb
losses.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 13
Capital and risk management
Credit risk Risk controls
Definition (audited) Credit policy standards are in place for both the Wholesale and
Credit risk is the risk that customers and counterparties fail to meet Personal portfolios. They are expressed as a set of mandatory
their contractual obligation to settle outstanding amounts. controls.
The disclosures in this section are audited where indicated. Risk identification and measurement (audited)
∆ Credit stewardship
Risks are identified through relationship management and/or credit
Sources of risk (audited)
stewardship of portfolios or customers. Credit risk stewardship takes
The principal sources of credit risk are lending and related undrawn
place throughout the customer relationship, beginning with the initial
commitments. Derivatives and securities financing and debt securities
approval. It includes the application of credit assessment standards,
are also a source of credit risk, primarily related to Treasury activities
credit risk mitigation and collateral, ensuring that credit documentation
for NWB Group. NWB Group is also exposed to settlement risk
is complete and appropriate, carrying out regular portfolio or customer
through foreign exchange and payments activities.
reviews and problem debt identification and management.
∆
Risk governance (audited) A key aspect of credit risk stewardship is monitoring signs of customer
NWH Group operates a Credit Risk function, which provides oversight stress, and when identified, applying appropriate debt management
of frontline credit risk management activities. actions.
∆
Governance activities include:
Risk models
 Defining credit risk appetite for the management of concentration Credit risk models is the collective term used to describe all models,
risk and credit policy to establish the key causes of risk in the frameworks and methodologies used to calculate probability of default
process of providing credit and the controls that must be in place to (PD), exposure at default (EAD), loss given default (LGD), maturity
mitigate them. and the production of credit grades.
 Approving and monitoring credit limits.
Credit risk models are designed to provide:
 Oversight of the first line of defence to ensure that credit risk
 An assessment of customer and transaction characteristics.
remains within the appetite set by RBS Group Board and that
controls are being operated adequately and effectively.  A meaningful differentiation of credit risk.
∆  Accurate internal default, loss and exposure at default estimates
that are used in the capital calculation or wider risk management
Risk appetite
purposes.
NWH Group’s approach to Wholesale credit is governed by a
comprehensive credit risk appetite framework. The framework is Asset quality
monitored and actions are taken to adapt lending criteria as All credit grades map to an asset quality scale, used for financial
appropriate. Credit risk appetite aligns to the strategic risk appetite set reporting. For Wholesale customers, a master grading scale is used
by the RBS Group Board. The framework has been designed to reflect for internal management reporting across portfolios. Measures of risk
factors that influence the ability to operate within risk appetite. Tools exposure may be aggregated and reported at differing levels of detail
such as stress testing and economic capital are used to measure depending on stakeholder or business requirements. Performing loans
credit risk volatility and develop links between the framework and risk are defined as AQ1-AQ9 (where the PD is less than 100%) and non-
appetite limits. The framework is supported by a suite of transaction performing loans as AQ10 or Stage 3 under IFRS 9 (where the PD is
acceptance standards that set out the risk parameters within which 100%).
businesses should operate.
Counterparty credit risk
The Personal credit risk appetite framework sets limits that measure
Counterparty credit risk arises from the obligations of customers under
and control the quality and concentration of both existing and new
derivative and securities financing transactions.
business for each relevant business segment. The actual performance
of each portfolio is tracked relative to these limits and management
The NWB Group mitigates counterparty credit risk through
action is taken where necessary. The limits apply to a range of credit
collateralisation and netting agreements, which allow amounts owed
risk-related measures including expected loss at both portfolio and
by the NWB Group to a counterparty to be netted against amounts the
product level, projected credit default rates across products and the
counterparty owes the NWB Group.
loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of the Personal mortgage portfolios.
For the Wholesale credit risk appetite framework, the four formal
frameworks used – and their basis for classification – are detailed in
the following table.
Framework Basis for classification
Measure Other
Risk – based on loss
Single name
given default for a given
concentration
probability of default
Risk – based on
Sector economic capital and
other qualitative factors
Exposure
Risk – based on
sovereign default risk,
Country
political stability and
macroeconomic factors
Risk – based on
Product and
heightened risk
asset class
characteristics
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 23
Capital and risk management
Credit risk – Banking activities continued
Portfolio summary – sector analysis (audited)
Key points
 Geography – The vast majority of exposures in both the Personal  ECL provision by stage and coverage – The majority of ECL by
and Wholesale portfolios were in the UK. Other exposures in value was in Stage 3 impaired, with similar seen in both Personal
Europe and the rest of the world were Wholesale in nature. and Wholesale. Provision coverage was progressively higher by
Mortgages accounted for significantly more than half of the total stage reflecting the lifetime nature of losses in both Stage 2 and
exposure. Stage 3. In the Personal portfolio, provision coverage was
 Asset quality – Measured against RBS Group’s asset quality scale, materially lower in mortgages relative to credit cards and other
51% of lending exposure was rated in the AQ1-AQ4 bands at 31 Personal, reflecting the secured nature of the facilities. In the
December 2019 (2018 – 54%). This equated to an indicative Personal portfolios, provision coverage increased slightly, driven by
investment rating of BBB- or above. Specifically, 56% of Personal Stage 3. For Wholesale exposures, security and enterprise value
(2018 – 63%) and 44% of Wholesale lending exposure (2018 – mitigated against losses in Stage 3. At a total Wholesale level, the
38%) were in the AQ1-AQ4 category respectively. The movement Stage 3 provision coverage slightly increased for both individual
in Personal was primarily driven by mortgages, with a movement in and collectively assessed exposures.
assets from AQ4-AQ5, which was reflective of a slight increase in  The ECL impairment charge for the year was £572 million up from
the portfolio default rate from a low level that included the effect of the previous year; primarily this reflected the transitioning from a
the natural seasoning of strong business growth in prior years very benign period towards a more normalised external credit
 Loans by stage – The percentage of exposures in Stage 2, environment as well as the impact of a small number of large
significantly credit deteriorated, increased slightly to 8.2% (2018 – individual commercial charges. The cost of risk at 24 basis points
7.9%). Stage 3 assets, which align to AQ10, represented 1.2% of remained below NWB Group’s view of a normalised blended long-
total exposures, down from 1.5% from the prior year. Similar to term loss rate of 30 to 40 basis points.
2018, the Personal portfolio had a higher proportion of unsecured  Other financial assets by asset quality – Consisting almost entirely
lending assets in Stage 2 than the mortgage portfolio. In the of cash and balances at central banks and debt securities, these
Wholesale portfolio, the proportion of assets in Stage 2 and Stage assets were mainly within the AQ1-AQ4 category.
3 was slightly higher than in Personal overall.  Off-balance sheet exposures by asset quality – For Personal
 Loans – Past due analysis – Stage 2 – The vast majority of assets exposures, undrawn exposures were reflective of available credit
overall were not past due, with the Stage 2 classification driven lines in credit cards and current accounts. Additionally, the
primarily by changes in lifetime PD. (For further detail, refer to the mortgage portfolio had undrawn exposure, where a formal offer
Significant increase in credit risk section). In other Personal, the had been made to a customer but had not yet been drawn down.
relatively high rate of exposures past due by more than 90 days The asset quality distribution in mortgages remained heavily
reflected the fact that impaired assets can be held on balance weighted to the highest quality bands AQ1-AQ4, with credit card
sheet with commensurate ECL provision for up to six years after concentrated in the risk bands AQ5-AQ8. In Wholesale, 62% of
default. Similarly, in the Wholesale portfolio, impaired assets can undrawn exposure, relating mainly to loan commitments, was in the
be held on the balance sheet for a significant period of time while AQ1-AQ4 category.
restructuring and recovery processes are concluded.  Forbearance – Completed forbearance flow in 2019 was £1.8
 Weighted average 12 months PDs – In Wholesale, Basel PDs, billion (2018 – £1.4 billion). Forbearance granted in the transport
which are based on a through-the-cycle approach, tend to be sector increased to £326 million (2018 – £68 million), driven by
higher than point-in-time best estimate IFRS 9 PDs, reflecting the individually significant exposures. Retail and leisure forbearance
current state in the economic cycle, and also an element of flow increased to £432 million (2018 – £337 million). Of the
conservatism in the regulatory capital framework. In Personal, the forbearance that completed during the year, £1.0 billion (2018 –
Basel PDs, which are point-in-time estimates, tend to be higher, £0.7 billion) related to payment concessions and £0.8 billion (2018
also reflecting conservatism, higher in mortgages than other – £0.6 billion) related to non-payment concessions. Forbearance
products, and an element of default rate under-prediction in the stock increased by £0.4 billion, from £1.8 billion to £2.2 billion,
IFRS 9 PD models. This has been mitigated by ECL overlays (refer primarily due to an increase in forborne exposure in the transport,
to the Governance and post model adjustments section). The IFRS retail and leisure and natural resources sectors.
9 PD for credit cards was higher than the Basel equivalent and  Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss – Exposure
reflected the relative sensitivity of the IFRS 9 model to forward- increased to £3.6 billion (2018 – £2.4 billion). Exposure in the
looking economic drivers. PDs overall remained broadly stable. property sector increased to £0.6 billion (2018 – £0.2 billion) driven
The rise in other personal was reflective of slight increases in by individually significant exposures as was the case in the
default rates addressed by risk appetite tightening. Overall transport sector which increased by a similar amount. Individual
Wholesale PDs were broadly in line with the prior year with case numbers across the Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit
reductions in the property sector offset by increases in the Loss portfolio in its entirety were marginally higher at 31 December
corporate sector. 2019.
Wholesale forbearance
The table below shows Wholesale forbearance, Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss by sector. Personal forbearance is disclosed on
page 44.
FI Property Other corporate Total
2019 £m £m £m £m
Forbearance (flow) 5 184 1,577 1,766
Forbearance (stock) 5 257 1,961 2,223
Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss 60 606 2,898 3,564
2018
Forbearance (flow) 13 144 1,216 1,373
Forbearance (stock) 13 236 1,600 1,849
Heightened Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss 7 222 2,208 2,437
∆
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 42
Capital and risk management
Pension risk Risk monitoring and measurement
Definition Pension risk is monitored by the Group Board Risk Committee by way
Pension risk is the risk to NWB Group caused by its contractual or of the quarterly Risk Management Report.
other liabilities to, or with respect to, a pension scheme (whether
established for its employees or those of a related company or RBS Group also undertakes stress tests on its material defined benefit
otherwise). It is also the risk that NWB Group will make payments or pension schemes each year. These tests are also used to satisfy the
other contributions to, or with respect to, a pension scheme because of requests of regulatory bodies such as the Bank of England.
a moral obligation or because RBS Group considers that it needs to do
so for some other reason. The stress testing framework includes pension risk capital calculations
for the purposes of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
Sources of risk as well as additional stress tests for a number of internal management
NWB Group has exposure to pension risk through its defined benefit purposes.
schemes worldwide. The Main section of The Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Pension Fund (the Main section) is the largest source of The results of the stress tests and their consequential impact on NWB
pension risk as NatWest Bank Plc is the principal employer to the Main Group’s balance sheet, income statement and capital position are
section with £46.5 billion of assets and £39.7 billion of liabilities at 31 incorporated into NWB Group’s and overall RBS Group stress test
December 2019 (2018 – £43.8 billion of assets and £35.5 billion of results.
liabilities). Further detail on NWB Group’s pension obligations can be
found in Note 5 on the accounts. NatWest Bank Plc is the principal employer of the Main section, and
could be required to fund any deficit that arises.
Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest rates
and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the longevity of Risk mitigation
scheme members and legislation. Pension scheme assets vary with Following risk mitigation measures taken by the Trustee in recent
changes in interest rates, inflation expectations, credit spreads, years, the Main section is now well protected against interest rate and
exchange rates, and equity and property prices. NWB Group is inflation risks and is being run on a low risk basis with relatively small
exposed to the risk that the schemes’ assets, together with future equity risk exposure. The Main section also uses derivatives to
returns and additional future contributions, are estimated to be manage the allocation of the portfolio to different asset classes and to
insufficient to meet liabilities as they fall due. In such circumstances, manage risk within asset classes.
NWB Group could be obliged (or might choose) to make additional
contributions to the schemes, or be required to hold additional capital The potential impact of climate change is one of the factors considered
to mitigate this risk. in managing the assets of the Main section. The Trustee monitors the
risk to its investments from changes in the global environment and
Key developments in 2019 invests, where return justifies the risk, in sectors that reduce the
 During 2019, the Scheme Actuary’s annual funding update, world’s reliance on fossil fuels, or that may otherwise promote
undertaken as at 31 December 2018, showed that the Main section environmental benefits. Further details regarding the Main section
was fully funded on the basis used for formal triennial funding Trustee’s approach to managing climate change risk can be found in
valuations. This funding position was reached following the £2 its Responsible Ownership Policy.
billion sponsor contribution made in 2018 while the Trustee
reduced the investment risk in the Main section and added further Compliance & conduct risk
protection against the potential impact of interest rate and inflation Definition
movements on the Main section’s liabilities, as agreed through the Compliance risk is the risk that the behaviour of RBS Group towards
Memorandum of Understanding in 2018. customers fails to comply with laws, regulations, rules, standards and
codes of conduct. Such a failure may lead to breaches of regulatory
Risk governance requirements, organisational standards or customer expectations and
The RBS Group Pension Committee is chaired by the RBS Group could result in legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or
Chief Financial Officer. During 2019 it received its authority from the reputational damage.
RBS Group Executive Committee and formulated RBS Group’s view of
pension risk. The RBS Group Pension Committee is a key component Conduct risk is the risk that the conduct of RBS Group and its
of RBS Group’s approach to managing pension risk and it reviews and subsidiaries and its staff towards customers – or in the markets in
monitors risk management, asset and liability strategy and financing which it operates – leads to unfair or inappropriate customer outcomes
issues on behalf of RBS Group. It also considers investment strategy and results in reputational damage, financial loss or both.
proposals from the Trustee of the Main section. For further information
on Risk governance, refer to page 11. Sources of risk
Compliance and conduct risks exist across all stages of RBS Group’s
Risk appetite relationships with its customers and arise from a variety of activities
RBS Group maintains an independent view of the risk inherent in its including product design, marketing and sales, complaint handling,
pension funds. NWB Group has an annually reviewed pension risk staff training, and handling of confidential insider information. As set
appetite statement relating to the Main section, for which it is the out in Note 28 on the accounts, RBS Group and certain members of
principal sponsoring employer, incorporating defined metrics against staff are party to legal proceedings and are subject to investigation and
which risk is measured. RBS Group undertakes regular pension risk other regulatory action in the UK, the US and other jurisdictions.
monitoring and reporting to the RBS Group Board, the RBS Group
Board Risk Committee and the RBS Group Pension Committee on the Key developments in 2019
material pension schemes that RBS Group has an obligation to  Policies were simplified and enhanced to reflect regulatory changes
support. and technical training delivered across the lines of defence.
 Ongoing investment in regulatory technology.
Risk controls
 Planning for LIBOR transition continued including an extended
A pension risk management framework is in place to provide formal
SONIA pilot and further industry engagement.
controls for pension risk reporting, modelling, governance and stress
testing. A pension risk policy which sits within the RBS Group policy  Preparations continued for a number of Brexit outcomes.
framework is also in place and is subject to associated framework  Enhanced operational capabilities to cope with unprecedented
controls. volumes of PPI mis-selling claims.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 60
Capital and risk management
Compliance & conduct risk continued
Risk governance Risk governance
RBS Group defines appropriate standards of compliance and conduct The Financial Crime Risk Executive Committee, which is chaired by
and ensures adherence to those standards through its risk the Group Chief Financial Crime Risk Officer, is the principal financial
management framework. Relevant compliance and conduct matters crime risk management forum. The committee reviews and, where
are escalated through Executive Risk Committee and Board Risk appropriate, escalates material financial crime risks and issues across
Committee. RBS Group to the Executive Risk Committee and the Board Risk
Committee.
Risk appetite
Risk appetite for compliance and conduct risks is set at Board level. Risk appetite
Risk appetite statements articulate the levels of risk that legal entities, There is no appetite to operate in an environment where systems and
businesses and functions work within when pursuing their strategic controls do not enable the identification, assessment, monitoring,
objectives and business plans. management and mitigation of financial crime risk. NWB Group’s
systems and controls must be comprehensive and proportionate to the
Risk controls nature, scale and complexity of its businesses. There is no tolerance
A range of controls is operated to ensure business delivers good to systematically or repeatedly breach relevant financial crime
customer outcomes and is conducted in accordance with legal and regulations and laws.
regulatory requirements. A suite of policies addressing compliance and
conduct risks set appropriate standards across RBS Group. Examples Risk controls
of these include the Complaints Management Policy, Client Assets & NWB Group operates a framework of preventative and detective
Money Policy, and Product Lifecycle Policy as well as policies relating controls designed to ensure NWB Group mitigates the risk that it could
to customers in vulnerable situations, cross-border activities and facilitate financial crime. These controls are supported by a suite of
market abuse. Continuous monitoring and targeted assurance is policies, procedures and detailed instructions to ensure they operate
carried out as appropriate. effectively.
Risk monitoring and measurement Risk monitoring and measurement
Compliance and conduct risks are measured and managed through Financial crime risks are identified and reported through continuous
continuous assessment and reporting to RBS Group’s senior risk risk management and regular monthly reporting to NWB Group’s
committees and at Board level. The compliance and conduct risk senior risk committees and the Board. Quantitative and qualitative data
framework facilitates the consistent monitoring and measurement of is reviewed and assessed to measure whether financial crime risk is
compliance with laws and regulations and the delivery of consistently within NWB Group’s risk appetite.
good customer outcomes. The first line of defence is responsible for
effective risk identification, reporting and monitoring, with oversight, Risk mitigation
challenge and review by the second line. Compliance and conduct risk Through the financial crime framework, NWB Group employs relevant
management is also integrated into the RBS Group’s strategic policies, systems, processes and controls to mitigate financial crime
planning cycle. risk. This would include the use of dedicated screening and monitoring
controls to identify people, organisations, transactions and behaviours
Risk mitigation which might require further investigation or other actions. NWB Group
Activity to mitigate the most-material compliance and conduct risks is ensures that centralised expertise is available to detect and disrupt
carried out across RBS Group with specific areas of focus in the threats to NWB Group and its customers. Intelligence is shared with
customer-facing businesses and legal entities. Examples of mitigation law enforcement, regulators and government bodies to strengthen
include consideration of customer needs in business and product national and international defences against those who would misuse
planning, targeted training, complaints management, as well as the financial system for criminal motives.
independent monitoring activity. Internal policies help support a strong
customer focus across RBS Group. Independent assessments of Climate-related financial risk
compliance with applicable regulations are also carried out at a legal Definition
entity level. Climate-related financial risk is the threat of financial loss associated
with the impact of climate change and the political, economic and
Financial crime risk environmental responses to it.
Definition
Financial crime risk is the risk presented by criminal activity in the form Sources of risk
of money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption, Physical risks can arise from climate and weather-related events such
sanctions and tax evasion. It does not include fraud risk management. as heatwaves, droughts, floods, storms and sea level rises. They can
potentially result in financial losses, impairing asset values and the
Sources of risk creditworthiness of borrowers. NWB Group could be exposed to
physical risks directly by the impacts on its property portfolio and,
Financial crime risk may be presented if NWB Group’s employees,
indirectly, by the impacts on the wider economy as well as impacts on
customers or third parties undertake or facilitate financial crime, or if
the property and business interests of its customers.
NWB Group’s products or services are used to facilitate such crime.
Financial crime risk is an inherent risk across all of NWB Group’s lines
Transition risks can arise from the process of adjustment towards a
of business.
low-carbon economy. Changes in policy, technology and sentiment
could prompt reassessment of customers’ financial risk and may lead
Key developments in 2019 to falls in the value of a large range of assets. NWB Group could be
 Enhanced financial crime risk assessment processes were exposed to transition risks directly through the costs of adaptation
implemented to enable improved identification and mitigation of within economic sectors and markets as well as supply chain
financial crime risks disruption leading to financial impacts on NWB Group and its
customers. Potential indirect effects include the erosion of NWB
 Improvements were made to transaction monitoring alert processes, Group’s competitiveness, profitability, or potential reputation damage.
including the use of risk-based artificial intelligence to facilitate
focus on activity of higher concern.
 Financial crime policies were refreshed and updated to reflect
changes to the regulatory environment and industry best practice.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 61
Capital and risk management
Climate-related financial risk continued Operational risk
Key developments in 2019 Definition
 Climate-related financial risk was classified as a top risk. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed
internal processes, people and systems, or external events. It arises
 A strategy has been developed to embed the financial risks arising
from day-to-day operations and is relevant to every aspect of the
from climate change in NWB Group’s risk management framework.
business.
 RBS Group developed a multi-phase, multi-year plan to build out
capabilities across governance, risk management, scenario Sources of risk
analysis & stress testing, and disclosures. Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage operations,
 In Q4 2019, a pilot project was launched with a consortium of systems, transactions and assets appropriately. This can take the form
partners to assess physical risk to elements of NWB Group’s retail of human error, an inability to deliver change adequately or on time,
and commercial portfolios. the non-availability of technology services, or the loss of customer
data. Fraud and theft – as well as the increasing threat of cyber
Risk governance attacks – are sources of operational risk, as is the impact of natural
The RBS Group Board is responsible for addressing and overseeing and man-made disasters. Operational risk can also arise from a failure
the financial risks from climate change within NWB Group’s overall to account for changes in law or regulations or to take appropriate
business strategy and risk appetite. The potential impact, likelihood measures to protect assets.
and preparedness of climate-related financial risk is reported quarterly
to the Board and Board Risk Committee. Key developments in 2019
 There was an improvement in the operational risk profile, indicated
The RBS Group Chief Risk Officer is accountable for ensuring the
financial risks from climate change are captured in RBS Group’s risk by an improved control environment, with residual elements under
management framework and for ensuring RBS Group can measure, close management.
monitor, manage and report those risks.  A focus remained on maintaining operational resilience and
ensuring preparedness for external threats and challenges such as
In H2 2019, RBS Group’s climate change working group was cyber attacks and Brexit.
formalised into an RBS Group-wide Climate Change Programme
 The threat landscape continued to evolve during 2019 and NWB
(GCCP), with an executive steering group co-chaired by the RBS
Group Chief Risk Officer. The GCCP steering group, which includes Group invested in control enhancements to keep pace. This
cross-franchise and functional representation from RBS Group’s included new anti-malware controls and improved security testing
subsidiary entities, provides executive-level support, advice and to quickly detect and remediate vulnerabilities.
resource direction on climate change strategy, including both risk  Progress was made in embedding an innovation framework to help
management and climate-related business opportunities.
deliver innovative solutions to customers safely and at pace.
The management of climate-related threats requires a strategic  Following the introduction of ring-fencing and Operational
Continuity in Resolution requirements, a consistent approach was
approach that considers how decisions today affect future financial
introduced to identify and capture the risk associated with service
risks. A Board-approved plan has been developed to integrate the
provision of service between its legal entities.
management of climate-related risks within the risk management
framework.  There was an increased focus on ensuring the security and
business strategies were aligned. Security is considered at the
outset of new business projects to ensure they are delivered in a
Risk appetite
safe and secure manner. The number of critical customer-
As part of NWB Group’s strategy for managing climate-related
financial risk, it will be incorporated in the setting of appetite for all impacting incidents continued to reduce year-on-year.
relevant risk disciplines. If it is deemed to have a material impact on a  Internal training programmes ensure all employees are aware of
particular risk discipline then changes to relevant policies and the threats facing NWB Group and remain vigilant to unauthorised
procedures will be made accordingly. Availability of data and the attempts to access systems and data.
robustness of risk measurement methodologies will influence the
timing of any proposed changes. Risk governance
A strong operational risk management function is vital to support NWB
Risk monitoring and measurement Group’s ambitions to serve its customers better. Improved
Plans have been developed to ensure climate-related financial risks management of operational risk against defined appetite directly
are considered in the tools made available to risk disciplines for risk
supports the strategic risk objective of improving stakeholder
monitoring and measurement purposes.
confidence and is vital for stability and reputational integrity.
A process is underway to identify where climate risk requires the use The Operational Risk function, which is the second line of defence,
of new key data elements, new risk metrics and enhancement of risk
delivers a robust operational risk management framework and culture
methodologies. The outputs of the Bank of England’s 2021 biennial
across NWB Group.
exploratory scenario will be used to further enhance NWB Group’s
capabilities for the measurement of climate-related risks.
The Operational Risk function is responsible for the execution and
continuous improvement of the operational risk management
RBS Group continues to participate in several industry-wide initiatives
framework, reporting and escalating key concerns to Executive Risk
to develop consistent risk measurement methodologies. RBS Group is
Committee and Board Risk Committee.
a founding signatory of the United Nations Environment Programme
Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles for Responsible Banking, Risk appetite
which aims to promote sustainable finance around the globe. Through Operational risk appetite supports effective management of material
UNEP-FI, RBS Group is participating in three thematic modules operational risks. It expresses the level and types of operational risk
NWB Group is willing to accept to achieve its strategic objectives and
exploring how climate change will affect real estate, agriculture and
business plans.
land use. It is also represented on the Climate Financial Risk Forum,
established by the PRA and FCA to shape the financial service
industry’s response to the challenges posed by climate risk.
For further detail, please see the RBS Group Strategic Report pages
37 to 41.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 62
Capital and risk management
Operational risk continued
The RBS Group-wide operational risk appetite statement Operational resilience
encompasses the full range of operational risks faced by its legal NWB Group manages and monitors operational resilience through its
entities, businesses and functions. A subset of the most material risk risk and control assessments methodology. This is underpinned by
appetite measures are defined as board risk measures, which are setting and monitoring risk indicators and performance metrics for key
those that align to strategy and should the limit be breached, would business services. Progress continues on the response to regulator
impact on the ability to achieve business plans and threaten expectations on operational resilience, with involvement in a number of
stakeholder confidence.
industry wide operational resilience forums. This enables a more
holistic view of NWB Group’s operational resilience risk profile and the
Risk controls and mitigation
pace of ongoing innovation and change, internally and externally.
The Control Environment Certification (CEC) process is a half yearly
self-assessment by the CEOs of NWB Group’s principal businesses,
Progress also continues on the response to the EBA Guidelines on
functions and legal entities, providing a consistent and comparable
Outsourcing Arrangements which were issued on 25 February 2019.
view on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control
This ensures that increases in outsourcing (as seen across the
environment.
industry), to increase efficiency and further embrace new technologies,
is managed safely.
CEC covers material risks and the underlying key controls, including
financial, operational and compliance controls, as well as supporting
Event and loss data management
risk management frameworks. The CEC outcomes, including forward-
The operational risk event and loss data management process
looking assessments for the next two half-yearly cycles and progress
ensures NWB Group captures and records operational risk financial
on control environment improvements, are reported to the Group Audit
and non-financial events that meet defined criteria. Loss data is used
Committee and Board Risk Committee. They are also shared with
for regulatory and industry reporting and is included in capital
external auditors.
modelling when calculating economic capital for operational risk. The
The CEC process helps to ensure compliance with the RBS Group most serious events are escalated in a simple, standardised process
Policy Framework, Sarbanes-Oxley 404 requirements concerning to all senior management, by way of a Group Notifiable Event Process.
internal control over financial reporting (as referenced in the
Compliance report on page 106 in the RBS Group Annual Report and All financial impacts associated with an operational risk event are
Accounts), and certain requirements of the UK Corporate Governance reported against the date they were recorded in NWB Group’s financial
Code. accounts. A single event can result in multiple losses (or recoveries)
that may take time to crystallise. Losses and recoveries with a financial
Risks are mitigated by applying key preventative and detective accounting date in 2019 may relate to events that occurred, or were
controls, an integral step in the risk assessment methodology which identified in, prior years. NWB Group purchases insurance against
determines residual risk exposure. Control owners are accountable for specific losses and to comply with statutory or contractual
the design, execution, performance and maintenance of key controls. requirements.
Key controls are regularly assessed for adequacy and tested for
effectiveness. The results are monitored and, where a material change Model risk
in performance is identified, the associated risk is re-evaluated. Definition
Model risk is the risk that a model is specified incorrectly (not
Risk monitoring and measurement achieving the objective for which it is designed), implemented
Risk and control assessments are used across all business areas and incorrectly (an error in translating the model specification into the
support functions to identify and assess material operational and version actually used), or being used incorrectly (correctly specified
conduct risks and key controls. All risks and controls are mapped to but applied inappropriately).
RBS Group’s Risk Directory. Risk assessments are refreshed at least
annually to ensure they remain relevant and capture any emerging Sources of risk
risks and also ensure risks are reassessed. NWB Group uses a variety of models as part of its risk management
process and activities. Key examples include the use of model outputs
The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively managed to support risk assessments in the credit approval process, ongoing
in line with risk appetite. Controls are tested at the appropriate credit risk management, monitoring and reporting, as well as the
frequency to verify that they remain fit-for-purpose and operate calculation of risk-weighted assets and bad debt provisions. Other
effectively to reduce identified risks. examples include the use of models to measure market risk exposures
and calculate associated capital requirements, as well as for the
NWB Group uses the standardised approach to calculate its Pillar 1 valuation of positions. The models used for stress-testing purposes
operational risk capital requirement. This is based on multiplying three also play a key role in ensuring NWB Group holds sufficient capital,
years’ average historical gross income by coefficients set by the even in stressed market scenarios.
regulator based on business line. As part of the wider Internal Capital
Adequacy Assessment Process an operational risk economic capital Governance
model is used to assess Pillar 2A, which is a risk-sensitive add-on to A governance framework is in place to ensure policies and processes
Pillar 1. The model uses historical loss data (internal and external) and relating to models are appropriate and effective. Issues are escalated
forward-looking scenario analysis to provide a risk-sensitive view of to senior management, through the Model Risk Forum, and the
NWB Group’s P2A capital requirement. relevant business and function risk committees. The committees also
consider whether a model can be approved for use. Models used for
Scenario analysis is used to assess how extreme but plausible regulatory reporting may additionally require regulatory approval
operational risks will affect NWB Group. It provides a forward-looking before implementation.
basis for evaluating and managing operational risk exposures.
Risk appetite
Refer to the Capital, liquidity and funding risk section for operational Model risk appetite is defined in the model risk appetite statement and
risk capital requirement figures. approved by the Board. Model owners and model users are
responsible for monitoring performance against appetite, reporting on
the model population and carrying out any necessary remediation for
positions outside appetite.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 63
Capital and risk management
Model risk continued Key developments in 2019
Risk controls  Updated existing environmental, social and ethical risk acceptance
Validation for material models is conducted by an independent risk criteria to reflect changes in the wider external environment.
function. Validation also ensures models are developed and
 Enhanced existing escalation processes for businesses and
implemented appropriately and that their operational environment is fit
improved reputational risk management in functions.
for purpose. Reviews of relevant models are carried out for new
models or amendments to existing models and as part of an ongoing  Consideration of climate change issues within the reputational risk
programme to assess model performance. Reviews may test and framework.
challenge the logic and conceptual soundness of the methodology or
Risk governance
the assumptions underlying a model. Reviews may also test whether
A reputational risk policy supports reputational risk management
or not all appropriate risks have been sufficiently captured as well as
across NWB Group. Reputational risk committees review relevant
checking the accuracy and robustness of calculations.
issues at an individual business or entity level, while the RBS Group
Reputational Risk Committee – which has delegated authority from the
Risk monitoring and measurement
Executive Risk Committee – opines on cases, issues, sectors and
The appropriateness of approved risk models is reassessed on a
themes that represent a material reputational risk to RBS Group. The
periodic basis. Each periodic review begins with an initial assessment.
Board Risk Committee oversees the identification and reporting of
Based on the initial assessment, an internal model governance
reputational risk. The RBS Group Sustainable Banking Committee has
committee will decide to re-ratify a model or to carry out additional
a specific focus on environmental, social and ethical issues.
work. The initial assessment considers factors such as a change in the
size or composition of the portfolio, market changes, the performance
Risk appetite
of – or any amendments to – the model and the status of any
NWB Group manages and articulates its appetite for reputational risk
outstanding issues or scheduled activities carried over from previous
through a qualitative reputational risk appetite statement and
reviews.
quantitative measures. NWB Group seeks continuous improvement in
the identification, assessment and management of customers,
Risk mitigation
transactions, products and issues that present a material reputational
Model risk is mitigated by ensuring adherence to policies and
risk.
procedures relating to the approval, validation and ongoing monitoring
of material models.
Risk controls
Standards of conduct are in place across NWB Group requiring strict
Reputational risk
adherence to policies, procedures and ways of working to ensure
Definition
business is transacted in a way that meets – or exceeds – stakeholder
Reputational risk is the threat to NWB Group’s public image from a
expectations.
failure to meet stakeholders’ expectations in relation to performance,
conduct or business profile. Stakeholders include customers,
Risk monitoring and measurement
investors, employees, suppliers, government, regulators, special
Primary reputational risk measures are in place to assess internal
interest and consumer groups, media and the general public.
activity relating to the management of reputational risk, including
training. A number of secondary risk measures – including measures
Sources of risk
also used in the management of operational, conduct and financial
Reputational risk can arise from the conduct of employees; customer
risks – are used to assess relevant external factors. Quarterly reports
activities and the sectors and countries in which they operate;
on performance against these measures are provided to the Executive
provision of products and transactions; as well as operations and
Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee.
infrastructure. Unexpected external events can also pose a
reputational risk to NWB Group.
Risk mitigation
Reputational risk is mitigated through the policy and governance
framework, with ongoing staff training to ensure early identification,
assessment and escalation of material issues. External, unexpected,
events that could cause reputational damage are generally mitigated
through RBS Group’s Top and Emerging Risks process.
The most material threats to NWB Group’s reputation continued to
originate from historical and more recent conduct issues. As a result,
RBS Group has been the subject of investigations and reviews by a
number of regulators and governmental authorities, some of which
have resulted in fines, settlements and public censure. Refer to the
Litigation, investigations and reviews section of Note 28 on the
accounts.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 64
Report of the directors
The directors present their report together NWB plc employs the majority of NWB Group Our Values, which guide the way RBS Group
with the audited accounts for the year ended UK customer-facing staff, with costs identifies the right people to serve customers
31 December 2019. recharged. NWB plc also provides the well, and how to manage, engage and reward
majority of shared services (including colleagues, are at the heart of Our Code (the
Other information incorporated into this report technology) and operational processes under RBS Group-wide Code of Conduct).
by reference can be found at: Intra-Group Agreements.
Page/Note 2. Board composition
Stakeholder engagement and 3 Corporate Governance statement The Board has fifteen directors comprising the
s.172(1) statement The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Chairman, two executive directors and twelve
Board of directors and secretary 5 Regulations 2018 introduced new statutory independent non-executive directors, one of
Financial review 7
reporting requirements for financial years whom is the Senior Independent Director.
Segmental analysis Note 4
beginning on or after 1 January 2019. As a
Share capital and reserves Note 23
result of these new requirements, the The names of the current directors and
Post balance sheet events Note 36
directors of NWB Plc are required to provide a secretary are shown on page 5.
Risk factors 150
statement in the Report of the directors stating
NWB Group structure which corporate governance code, if any, The Board considers that the Chairman was
National Westminster Bank Plc (‘NWB Plc’) is NWB Plc followed during the year, how it independent on appointment and that all the
a wholly-owned subsidiary of NatWest applied the code and any part of the code it non-executive directors are independent.
Holdings Limited (‘NWH Ltd’ or ‘the did not follow. For the financial year ended 31 Non-executive director independence and
intermediate holding company’). NatWest December 2019, NWB Plc has chosen to individual directors’ continuing contribution to
Bank Group (‘NWB Group’) comprises NWB report against the Wates Corporate NWB Plc are considered at least annually,
Plc and its subsidiary and associated Governance Principles for Large Private and all directors of NWB Plc are required to
undertakings. The Royal Bank of Scotland Companies, published by the Financial stand for election or re-election at the Annual
Group plc (‘RBSG plc’) is ‘the ultimate holding Reporting Council (FRC) in December 2018 General Meeting.
company’. The term ‘RBS Group’ comprises and available on the FRC website (the Wates
RBSG plc and its subsidiary and associated Principles). The disclosures below explain The Board operates a Boardroom Inclusion
undertakings. RBSG plc is incorporated in the how NWB Plc has applied the Wates Policy which reflects the most recent industry
United Kingdom and has its registered office Principles in the context of its corporate targets and is aligned to the RBS Inclusion
at 36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 governance arrangements. Policy and Principles applying to the wider
2YB. RBS Group. This policy provides a framework
1. Purpose and leadership to ensure that the Board attracts, motivates
Details of NWB Plc’s principal subsidiary RBS Group’s Purpose is established by the and retains the best talent and avoids limiting
undertakings and their activities are shown in RBSG plc Board, promoted across RBS potential caused by bias, prejudice or
Note 14 on the accounts. A full list of NWB Group and cascaded to subsidiaries including discrimination. The policy currently applies to
Plc’s related undertakings is shown in Note 37 NWB Plc. Further information on RBS Group’s the Boards of RBSG plc, NWH Ltd, RBS plc,
on the accounts. Purpose can be found in the 2019 Annual NWB Plc and Ulster Bank Limited (UBL). A
Report and Accounts of RBSG plc. copy of the Boardroom Inclusion Policy is
The financial statements of RBSG plc can be available on rbs.com.
obtained from Legal, Governance & RBS Group’s strategy is set and approved by
Regulatory Affairs, RBS Gogarburn, the RBSG plc Board. The Boardroom Inclusion Policy contains a
Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ, the Registrar of number of measurable objectives, targets and
Companies or through RBS Group’s website The board of directors of NWB Plc (the Board) ambitions reflecting the ongoing commitment
rbs.com. monitors and maintains the consistency of of the Board to inclusion progress. The Board
NWB Plc’s activities within the strategic aims to meet the highest industry standards
Activities direction of RBS Group and, as appropriate, and recommendations wherever possible.
NWB Group is engaged principally in the strategies approved by NWH Ltd for each That includes, but is not limited to, aspiring to
providing a wide range of banking and other of the businesses within the NWH Group meet the targets set by the Hampton-
financial services. (which comprises NWH Ltd and its subsidiary Alexander Report: FTSE100 Women Leaders
and associated undertakings, including NWB (33% female representation on the boards)
Results and dividends Plc). and the Parker Report: Beyond 1 by ’21 (at
The profit attributable to the ordinary least one director from an ethnic minority
shareholders of NWB Plc for the year ended The RBSG plc Board is supported in background on the boards) by 2020/2021.
31 December 2019 was £714 million monitoring culture across RBS Group by the The policy supports the RBS Group-wide
compared with a profit of £2,649 million for the RBS Group Sustainable Banking Committee ambition to aim for a 50/50 gender balance
year ended 31 December 2018, as set out in and the RBS Group Board Risk Committee. across all levels of the organisation by 2030.
the consolidated income statement on page RBS Group is on a journey towards a
82. generative risk culture whereby “risk is simply The Board currently meets the Parker target
part of the way people work and think”. There and exceeds the Hampton-Alexander target
NWB Plc paid an ordinary dividend to NWH is regular reporting to the Board on risk with a female representation of 47%.
Ltd in 2019 totalling £700 million. In 2018 it culture which allows the Board to have
distributed NatWest Group Holdings Corp to appropriate oversight of risk culture matters The role of the Chairman is to lead the Board
NatWest Markets Plc by dividend in specie - that are relevant for NWB Plc. and ensure its overall effectiveness. This is
£292 million. distinct and separate from that of the Chief
The Board also considered the overall Executive Officer (CEO) who manages the
Employees alignment of purpose and strategy with culture business day-to-day.
As at 31 December 2019, NWB Group and values.
employed 52,600 people (full-time equivalent All directors receive accurate, timely and clear
basis, including temporary workers). Details of Building a healthy culture that embodies Our information on relevant matters and have
related costs are included in Note 3 on the Values is a core priority for RBS Group. access to the advice and services of the
consolidated accounts. Company Secretary. In addition, all directors
are able, if necessary, to obtain independent
professional advice at NWB Plc’s expense.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 65
Report of the directors
The Senior Independent Director acts as a There is an induction programme for all new  Although the Board’s size had reduced
sounding board for the Chairman and as an directors which is tailored to their specific following the departure of Brendan Nelson,
intermediary for other directors when experience and knowledge. In 2019, Katie most directors still felt the Board was too
necessary. Murray and Alison Rose undertook induction large, although not necessarily unwieldy or
programmes following their appointments as unworkable.
An integral part of RBS Group’s governance Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Deputy
 The balance of skills, knowledge and
arrangements is the appointment of four CEO respectively. These programmes
experience on the Board was considered
Double Independent Non-Executive Directors focused on building existing knowledge of
appropriate, however there was scope for
(DINEDs) to the boards of NWH Ltd, NWB NWB Plc; meetings with relevant internal and
additional technology experience, to
Plc, RBS plc, and UBL (the NWH Sub Group). external stakeholders and personal
support future strategy.
The DINEDs are independent in two respects: development. Alison Rose’s induction
(i) independent of management as non- programme continues following her  Focus was needed to continue promoting
executives; and (ii) independent of the rest of appointment as CEO. good working relationships between the
RBS Group by virtue of their NWH Group only Board and executive management.
directorships. The Board is supported in its succession  Enhancing the quality of management
planning activities, including the recruitment of information would enable the Board to
The DINEDs play a critical role in RBS non-executive directors, by the Nominations focus less on the details and spend more
Group’s ring-fencing governance structure, Committee, which is responsible for time on key strategic issues.
and are responsible for exercising appropriate considering and making recommendations to  There was clear appetite amongst Board
oversight of the independence and the Board in respect of Board appointments. members to have more visibility of top
effectiveness of the NWH Sub Group’s The Nominations Committee reviews the executive talent.
governance arrangements, including the structure, size and composition of the Board,
ability of each board to take decisions and makes recommendations to the Board in Actions
independently. The DINEDs also have an relation to any necessary changes, having Following Board discussion of the evaluation
enhanced role in managing any conflicts regard to the overall balance of skills, report, a number of actions were agreed for
which may arise between the interests of knowledge, experience and diversity on the 2020:
NWB Plc and other members of RBS Group. Board, the length of service of the Board as a
 Agree a focused set of Board objectives
whole; and the requirement to keep
for 2020.
All NWB Plc directors who are not DINEDs membership regularly refreshed. The
are directors of RBSG plc. All DINEDs attend Nominations Committee considers Board  Maintain focus on Board composition and
RBSG plc Board meetings in an observer composition and succession planning at least succession planning, balancing the desire
capacity. annually. The RBSG plc Group Nominations to reduce overall Board size with the
and Governance Committee also approves all requirement to ensure an appropriate
The Board is structured to ensure that the appointments to the Board, reflecting NWB balance of skills, knowledge and
directors provide NWB Plc with the Plc’s position as a subsidiary within RBS experience, and the need to improve
appropriate balance of skills, experience and Group. diversity.
knowledge as well as independence. Given  Consider further ways to improve Board
the nature of NWB Plc’s businesses, A review of the effectiveness of the Board, dynamics.
experience of banking and financial services including the Chairman, individual directors  Consider improvements to future
is clearly of benefit. A number of directors and Board committees, is conducted at least
management reporting to the Board.
have substantial experience in that area, annually.
 Develop a structured programme for the
including retail and commercial banking. In
Board to meet key executive talent.
addition, the directors have relevant 2019 Performance evaluation
experience in customer service; government The 2019 evaluation of the NWH Sub Group
Implementation of the 2019 Board evaluation
and regulatory matters; mergers & Boards was facilitated by the Chief
actions will be overseen by the Nominations
acquisitions; corporate restructuring; Governance Officer and Company Secretary,
Committee during 2020.
stakeholder management; technology, digital Jan Cargill, during Q4 2019, alongside the
and innovation; finance and accountancy; risk; evaluation of the RBSG plc Board. The
The Chairman met each director individually
and change management. conclusion of the 2019 Board evaluation was
to discuss their own performance and
that the Board operated effectively throughout
continuing professional development and
Board committees also comprise directors the year and fulfilled its remit as set out in its
establish whether each director continues to
with a variety of skills and experience so that terms of reference. Directors engaged fully
contribute effectively to NWB Plc’s long-term
no undue reliance is placed on any one with the evaluation exercise and commented
sustainable success. The Chairman also
individual. positively in relation to many aspects of the
shared peer feedback provided to the
Board’s operations.
Company Secretary as part of the individual
The independent non-executive directors
evaluation process.
combine broad business and commercial Key findings and recommendations were closely
experience with independent and objective aligned with the RBSG plc findings and
Separately, the Senior Independent Director
judgement and provide independent challenge included the following:
sought feedback on the Chairman’s
to the executive directors and the leadership  Agenda focus had improved following
performance from the non-executive directors,
team. The balance between independent non- introduction of the Board objectives,
executive directors and other key internal and
executive and executive directors enables the particularly in relation to stakeholder voice.
external stakeholders and discussed it with
Board to provide clear and effective
 Ring-fencing governance arrangements the Chairman.
leadership across NWB Plc’s business
had embedded well. The DINED role was
activities.
clearly understood and functioning
effectively, and a recovery fire drill had
The Board monitors the commitment of the
provided a useful opportunity to test the
Chairman and directors and is satisfied that
conflicts of interest process.
they are able to allocate sufficient time to
enable them to discharge their duties and  Directors had responded positively to the
responsibilities effectively. Any additional new reporting style for Board and
external appointments require prior Board committee papers, which had driven better
approval. quality presentations and shorter packs.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 66
Report of the directors
Non-executive directors discuss professional receive reports from the Chairman, Board Board in the formal selection and appointment
development annually with the Chairman and Committee Chairmen, CEO, CFO, and other of directors. It reviews the structure, size and
they participate in scheduled Board training members of the executive management team, composition of the Board, and membership
sessions and other external sessions, as as appropriate. Other senior executives and chairmanship of Board committees.
appropriate. Training topics during 2019 attended Board meetings throughout the year
included financial crime; political and to present reports to the Board. This provides The Executive Committee comprises NWB
economic outlook, directors’ duties (including the Board with an opportunity to engage Plc’s most senior executives and supports the
the new statutory reporting requirements), directly with management on key issues and CEO in managing NWB Plc’s businesses. It
suppliers’ spotlight, climate risk, data teach-in, supports succession planning. considers strategic, financial, capital, risk and
enterprise wide risk management (including operational issues.
the risk appetite framework), and inside The Board held eight scheduled meetings
information. Directors may also request during the year. The Board’s key areas of 4. Opportunity and risk
individual in-depth briefings from time to time focus for 2019 included CEO appointment; The role of the Board is to promote the long-
on areas of particular interest. capital distributions; pensions derivatives term sustainable success of NWB Plc.
transfer; approval of an intra group indemnity;
3. Director responsibilities risk appetite framework; a review of payments The Board reviews and approves risk appetite
All directors receive guidance on their strategy; and Brexit planning and for strategic and material risks in accordance
statutory duties under the Companies Act and preparedness. with the RBS Group risk appetite framework;
are supported in the discharge of their duties monitors performance against risk appetite for
by the Company Secretary, as further In order to provide effective oversight and NWB Plc; and considers any material risks
described on page 3. leadership, the Board has established a and approves, as appropriate, recommended
number of Board committees with particular actions escalated by the Board Risk
Each director has a role profile which clearly responsibilities. The Audit, Performance & Committee.
articulates their responsibilities and Remuneration, and Nominations Committees
accountabilities and any additional regulatory of NWH Ltd operate as committees of each of NWB Plc‘s risk strategy is informed and
responsibilities and accountabilities are set NWH Ltd, NWB Plc, RBS plc and UBL, with shaped by an understanding of the risk
out in their Statement of Responsibilities. meetings running concurrently. During 2019, landscape including a range of significant
the Executive Committee operated as a risks and uncertainties in the external
RBS Group also produces and maintains a Committee of the Board. economic, political and regulatory
document called “Our Governance” which environments.
sets out the governance, systems and The Audit Committee comprises at least three
controls applicable to RBSG plc and the NWH independent non-executive directors, two of NWB Plc complies with RBS Group’s risk
Sub Group. Our Governance is made whom are DINEDs. The Committee assists appetite framework, which is approved
available to all directors and is reviewed and the Board in discharging its responsibilities for annually by the RBSG plc Board, in line with
approved by the Board at least annually. monitoring the integrity of the financial RBS Group’s risk appetite statements,
statements. It reviews the accounting policies, frameworks and policies. RBS Group risk
The Directors’ Conflicts of Interest policy sets financial reporting and regulatory compliance appetite is set in line with overall strategy.
out procedures to ensure that the Board’s practices of NWB Plc, NWB Plc’s system and
management of conflicts of interest and its standards of internal controls, and monitors RBS Group operates an integrated risk
powers for authorising certain conflicts are NWB Plc’s processes for internal audit and management framework, which is centred
operating effectively. This includes the external audit. around the embedding of a strong risk culture.
management of conflicts that may arise during The framework ensures the tools and
Board decisions where the interests of NWB The Board Risk Committee comprises at least capability are in place to facilitate sound risk
Plc conflict with the interests of other four independent non-executive directors, one management and decision-making across the
members of RBS Group. NWB Plc maintains of whom is the Chairman of the Audit organisation.
a register of directors’ interests and Committee and two of whom are DINEDs. It
appointments, which is reviewed annually by provides oversight and advice to the Board in During 2019, a number of enhancements to
the Board, and there is discussion of directors’ relation to current and potential future risk the risk management framework were
conflicts in Board meetings, as required. exposures and future risk profile, including developed. The increasing significance of
determination of risk appetite; and the climate risk was considered as part of these
The Board is the main decision-making forum effectiveness of the risk management developments and will be fully integrated as
for NWB Plc. The Board is collectively framework within NWB plc and (in conjunction part of the implementation of the enhanced
responsible for the long-term success of NWB with the Audit Committee) internal controls framework in 2020.
Plc and the delivery of sustainable value to its required to manage risk. It reviews
shareholders. The Board’s role is to provide compliance with the RBS Group Policy NWB Plc also complies with the RBS Group
leadership of NWB Plc. It monitors and Framework within NWB Plc and reviews the Policy Framework, the purpose of which is to
maintains the consistency of NWB Plc’s performance of NWB Plc relative to risk ensure that RBS Group establishes and
activities within the strategic direction of RBS appetite. maintains RBS Group-wide policies that
Group; it reviews and approves risk appetite adequately address the material inherent risks
for strategic and material risks in accordance The Performance and Remuneration it faces in its business activities.
with the RBS Group Risk Appetite Framework Committee (RemCo) comprises at least four
and it monitors performance against risk independent non-executive directors and Further information on the NWB Plc risk
appetite for NWB Plc. It approves NWB Plc’s assists the RBSG plc Group Performance and management framework including risk culture,
key financial objectives and keeps the capital Remuneration Committee with the oversight risk governance, risk appetite, risk controls
and liquidity positions of NWB Plc under and implementation of RBS Group’s and limits, and risk identification and
review. The Board’s terms of reference remuneration policy. It also considers and measurement can be found in the capital and
include a formal schedule of matters makes recommendations on remuneration risk management section of this report on
specifically reserved for the Board’s decision arrangements for senior executives of NWB pages 10 to 16.
and are reviewed at least annually. Plc.
The Chairman, CEO and Company Secretary The Nominations Committee comprises the
are responsible for the quality and integrity of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and at
information provided to directors. At each least three further independent non-executive
scheduled Board meeting the directors directors. It is responsible for assisting the
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 67
Report of the directors
5. Remuneration 6. Stakeholder relationships and Going concern
The RBS Group remuneration policy provides engagement NWB Group’s business activities and financial
a consistent policy across all companies in In developing its annual objectives, the Board position, the factors likely to affect its future
RBS Group and ensures compliance with identified a number of key stakeholders, and development and performance and its
regulatory requirements. The remuneration the Board’s agenda and engagement plans objectives and policies in managing the
policy is aligned with the business strategy, were structured to enhance the Board’s financial risks to which it is exposed, and its
objectives, values and long-term interests of understanding of these key stakeholders’ capital are discussed in the Business review.
NWB Plc. The policy supports a culture where views and interests. This in turn has The risk factors which could materially affect
individuals are rewarded for delivering supported more informed Board discussions NWB Group’s future results are set out on
sustained performance in line with risk and decision-making. Of particular note is the pages 150 to 162. NWB Group’s regulatory
appetite and for demonstrating the right developing role of the Colleague Advisory capital resources and significant
conduct and behaviours. Panel, which was established in 2018 in developments in 2019, and anticipated future
response to the requirements of the 2018 UK developments are detailed in the Capital,
RemCo reviews remuneration for executives Corporate Governance Code. liquidity and funding section on pages 17 to
of NWB Plc and considers reports on the 22. This section also describes NWB Group’s
wider workforce including annual pay Engagement with Employees, Suppliers, funding and liquidity profile, including changes
outcomes and diversity information. The Customers and Others in key metrics and the build up of liquidity
RemCo helps to ensure that the remuneration For further details on the Board’s engagement reserves.
policies, procedures and practices being with employees, customers, suppliers and
applied are appropriate at NWB Plc level. others, and how these stakeholders’ interests Having reviewed NWB Plc’s forecasts,
Executive remuneration structures incentivise have influenced Board discussions and projections and other relevant evidence, the
individuals to deliver sustainable performance principal decisions, see pages 3 and 4 of the directors have a reasonable expectation that
based on strategic objectives for RBS Group Strategic Report, which includes a NWB Plc will continue in operational existence
and the relevant business area. Performance section.172(1) statement. for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the
is assessed against a balanced scorecard of financial statements of NWB Plc have been
financial and non-financial measures and Internal control over financial reporting prepared on a going concern basis.
variable pay is subject to deferral as well as The internal controls over financial reporting
malus and clawback provisions to ensure for NWB Group are consistent with those at Political donations
rewards are justified in the long-term. RBS Group level. NWB Group has designed During 2019, no political donations were
and assessed the effectiveness of its internal made in the UK or EU, nor any political
The approach to performance management control over financial reporting as of 31 expenditure incurred in the UK or EU.
provides clarity for employees about how their December 2019 based on the criteria set forth
contribution links to RBS Group’s ambition by the Committee of Sponsoring Directors’ disclosure to auditors
and all employees have goals set across a Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Each of the directors at the date of approval of
balanced scorecard of measures. RBS Group the 2013 publication of ‘Internal Control – this report confirms that:
continues to ensure employees are paid fairly Integrated Framework’. Any deficiencies (a) so far as the director is aware, there is no
for the work they do and are supported by identified are reported to NWB Plc Audit relevant audit information of which NWB Plc’s
simple and transparent pay structures in line Committee along with management’s auditors are unaware; and
with industry best practices. This clarity and remediation plans. (b) the director has taken all the steps that
certainty on how pay is delivered is also he/she ought to have taken as a director to
helping to improve employees’ financial RBS Group's auditors have audited the make himself/herself aware of any relevant
wellbeing, which is a priority. Employees are effectiveness of RBS Group's internal control audit information and to establish that NWB
provided with flexibility in terms of how they over financial reporting and have given an Plc’s auditors are aware of that information.
wish to receive pay to suit their unqualified opinion.
circumstances. Pay is compared against the This confirmation is given and should be
external market so that pay and benefits are Directors’ interests interpreted in accordance with the provisions
competitive. RBS Group is a fully accredited Where directors of NWB Plc are also directors of section 418 of the Companies Act.
Living Wage Employer in the UK with rates of of RBSG plc, their interests in the shares of
pay that continue to exceed the Living Wage the ultimate holding company at 31 December Auditors
Foundation Benchmarks. 2019 are shown in the Corporate governance, Ernst & Young LLP (EY LLP) are the auditors
Annual report on remuneration section of the and have indicated their willingness to
RBS Group ensures colleagues have a 2019 Annual Report and Accounts of RBSG continue in office. A resolution to re-appoint
common awareness of the financial and plc. None of the directors held an interest in EY LLP as NWB Plc’s auditors will be
economic factors affecting its performance the loan capital of the ultimate holding proposed at the forthcoming Annual General
through quarterly “Results Explained” company or in the shares or loan capital of Meeting.
communications and Workplace Live events NWB Plc or any of its subsidiaries, during the
with the Group CEO and CFO. period from 1 January 2019 to 13 February By order of the Board
2020.
Further information on the remuneration policy
can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Directors' indemnities
Report (DRR) of the 2019 RBSG plc Report In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act
and Accounts along with the steps being 2006 (the “Companies Act”), Qualifying Third
taken to build an inclusive and engaged Party Indemnity Provisions have been issued
workforce and employee share plans. The by the ultimate holding company to its
DRR also contains details of pay ratios for directors, members of NWB Plc’s Executive Jan Cargill
RBS Group. Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap Committee, individuals authorised by the Company Secretary
information can be found in the Strategic PRA/FCA and certain directors and/or officers 13 February 2020
Report section of the 2019 Annual Report and of RBS Group’s subsidiaries and all trustees
Accounts of RBSG plc. of RBS Group’s pension scheme. National Westminster Bank Plc
Is registered in England No. 929027
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 68
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
This statement should be read in conjunction with the responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on pages 71 to 81.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts. The directors are required by Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation (European Commission Regulation No 1606/2002) to prepare Group accounts, and as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 have
elected to prepare company accounts, for each financial year in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the
European Union. They are responsible for preparing accounts that present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of
NWB Group and NWB Plc. In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of NWB Group and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of NWB Plc and NWB Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Bank and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 the Strategic report and Directors’ report (incorporating the Financial review) includes a fair review of the development and performance of
the business and the position of the Bank and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Howard Davies Alison Rose-Slade Katie Murray
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
13 February 2020
Board of directors
Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors
Howard Davies Alison Rose Francesca Barnes
Katie Murray Graham Beale
Ian Cormack
Alison Davis
Patrick Flynn
Morten Friis
Robert Gillespie
Yasmin Jetha
Baroness Noakes
Mike Rogers
Mark Seligman
Lena Wilson
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 69
Independent auditor’s report to the members of National Westminster Bank Plc
An overview of the scope of our audit
Tailoring the scope
Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each
component of the Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements. We take into account the size and risk
profile of the component and its activities, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business
environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component. The
scoping below is consistent with the prior year.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of
significant accounts in the financial statements, of the six reporting components of the Group, we selected five components covering entities
within three countries, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Component Scope Key locations
UK Personal Banking Full United Kingdom
Commercial Banking Full United Kingdom
Private Banking Specific United Kingdom
Central items and other (including Services, and Full United Kingdom, India
Treasury)
Central items and other (other areas) Specific United Kingdom
The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams, the coverage includes the full scope components
presented in disposal groups as noted above. We considered total assets, total equity and total income to verify we had appropriate overall
coverage on the income statement.
Full scope (1) Specific scope (2) Other procedures (3) Total
Total assets 95% 4% 1% 100%
Total equity 100% — — 100%
Absolute value of the income statement 93% 6% 1% 100%
Notes:
(1) Full scope: audit procedures on all significant accounts.
(2) Specific scope: audit procedures on selected accounts.
(3) Other procedures: considered in analytical procedures and specified procedures, as appropriate.
The audit scope of the specific scope component may not have included testing of all significant accounts within the component. However, the
testing will have contributed to the total coverage of significant accounts tested for the overall Group.
Involvement with component teams
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken in each of the
components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors in the United Kingdom or from other EY global network
firms operating under our instruction.
The primary audit engagement team interacted regularly with the component audit teams where appropriate throughout the course of the audit,
which included holding planning meetings, maintaining regular communications on the status of the audits, reviewing key working papers and
taking responsibility for the scope and direction of the audit process. The primary audit engagement team also participated in meetings with key
management personnel in the components and, for certain overseas locations, implemented a programme of planned visits. These visits
involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local
management. This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the
Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in
forming our audit opinion.
Materiality
The magnitude of omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group and Bank to be £105 million (2018 materiality: £175 million), which is 5% of adjusted profit before
tax of the Group, which removes the disproportionate effect of certain matters, and 0.6% of equity of the Bank. This measure is consistent
with the basis from the prior year and is consistent with the wider industry and is the standard for listed and regulated entities and we
believe it reflects the most useful measure for users of the financial statements. The materiality of the Bank is based on equity as we
consider this to be the most appropriate factor to the users of the financial statements.
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability
that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed materiality.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 79
Independent auditor’s report to the members of National Westminster Bank Plc
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that
performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely £52 million (2018: £88 million). We have set performance materiality at this
percentage (which is at the lowest end of the range of our audit methodology) based on various considerations including the past history of
misstatements, the effectiveness of the control environment and other factors affecting the entity and its financial reporting.
Audit work of component teams for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based
on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component team is based on the relative scale and
risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, the range
of performance materiality allocated by the primary audit engagement team to components was between £25 million and £50 million.
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the NWH Group Audit Committee that we would report to them all corrected and uncorrected audit misstatements in excess of
£5 million (2018: £8 million), which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as misstatements below that threshold that, in our view,
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant
qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and Accounts, including the Strategic report, Report of the
directors, Statement of directors’ responsibilities, Risk Factors, and Forward-looking statements, other than the financial statements and our
auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether
there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration disclosure to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 the information given in the Strategic report and the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
 the Strategic report and the Report of the directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Bank and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not
identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Report of the directors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our
opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Group, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches
not visited by us; or
 the Bank financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit
Responsibilities of directors
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for the implementation of such internal control as the directors determine is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern,
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to
liquidate the Group or the Bank or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 80
Notes on the accounts
9 Derivatives continued Exchange rate risk also arises in NWB Group where payments are
NWB Group applies hedge accounting to manage the following risks; denominated in different currencies than the functional currency.
interest rate, foreign exchange and net investment in foreign Residual risk positions are hedged with forward foreign exchange
operations. contracts. Exposure to the variability in future payments due to the
movement of foreign exchange rates is hedged, fixing the exchange
NWB Group’s interest rate hedging relate to the management of NWB
rate the payments will be settled in. The derivatives are documented
Group’s non-trading structural interest rate risk, caused by the
as cash flow hedges.
mismatch between fixed interest rates and floating interest rates. NWB
Group manages this risk within approved limits. Residual risk positions For all cash flow hedging and fair value hedge relationships NWB
are hedged with derivatives principally interest rate swaps. Suitable Group determines that there is an adequate level of offsetting between
larger financial instruments are fair value hedged; the remaining the hedged item and hedging instrument via assessing the initial and
exposure, where possible, is hedged by derivatives documented as ongoing effectiveness by comparing movements in the fair value of the
cash flow hedges. expected highly probable forecast interest cash flows/ fair value of the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk with movements in the fair
Cash flow hedges of interest rate risk relate to exposures to the
value of the expected changes in cash flows from the hedging interest
variability in future interest payments and receipts due to the
rate swap. Hedge effectiveness is measured on a cumulative basis
movement of benchmark interest rates on forecast transactions and on
over a time period management determines to be appropriate. NWB
recognised financial assets and financial liabilities. This variability in
Group uses either the actual ratio between the hedged item and
cash flows is hedged by interest rate swaps, fixing the hedged cash
hedging instrument(s) or one that minimises hedge ineffectiveness to
flows. For these cash flow hedge relationships, the hedged items are
establish the hedge ratio for hedge accounting.
actual and forecast variable interest rate cash flows arising from
financial assets and financial liabilities with interest rates linked to the A number of the current cash flow and fair value hedges of interest
relevant benchmark rate LIBOR, EURIBOR, SONIA or the Bank of rate risk will be directly affected by interest rate benchmark reform;
England Official Bank Rate. The variability in cash flows due to RBS Group currently considers all of these relationships that mature
movements in the relevant benchmark rate is hedged; this risk post 31 December 2021 to be directly affected. As at 31 December
component is identified using the risk management systems of NWB 2019 the exact transition dates of affected hedge accounting
Group. This risk component comprises the majority of cash flow relationships is not known. The disclosures are prepared on these
variability risk. assumptions where the amendments made to IAS39 paragraphs
102D-102N and 108G are applied. The disclosures made for the
Fair value hedges of interest rate risk involve interest rate swaps
notional of hedging instruments and risk exposures affected by interest
transforming the fixed interest rate risk in recognised financial assets
rate benchmark reform contain information for both the hedging
and financial liabilities to floating. The hedged risk is the risk of
instrument and hedged risks even if only one of these will be directly
changes in the hedged items fair value attributable to changes in the
impacted by the reform.
benchmark interest rate embedded in the hedged item. The significant
embedded benchmark are LIBOR, EURIBOR and SONIA. This risk NWB Group is managing the process to transition to alternative
component is identified using the risk management systems of NWB benchmark rates in the following ways:
Group. This risk component comprises the majority of the hedged  reviewed or is in the process of reviewing the fall-back language for
items fair value risk.
IBOR linked instruments
NWB Group hedges the exchange rate risk of its net investment in  continues to liaise with regulators, standard setters, industry groups
foreign currency denominated operations with currency borrowings and customers on other relevant matters as the transition to risk
free rates progresses
and forward foreign exchange contracts. NWB Group reviews the
 is in the process of adjusting its products, processes and
value of the investments net assets, executing hedges where
information systems to deal with the expected effects of the
appropriate to reduce the sensitivity of capital ratios to foreign
discontinuation of IBOR most notably the transition and calculation
exchange rate movement. Hedge accounting relationships will be
rules.
designated where required.
Included in the tables above are derivatives held for hedging purposes as follows:
NWB Group
2019 2018
Change in fair Change in fair
value used for value used for
hedge hedge
Notional Assets Liabilities ineffectiveness (1) Notional Assets Liabilities ineffectiveness (1)
£bn £m £m £m £bn £m £m £m
Fair value hedging - Interest rate contracts 36.6 456 1,401 (1,219) 35.9 587 776 (588)
Cash flow hedging - Interest rate contracts 19.7 58 23 56 — — — —
Cash flow hedging - Exchange rate contracts 2.1 — 22 22 — — — —
Net investment hedging - Exchange rate contracts 0.1 — 3 5 — — — —
58.5 514 1,449 (1,136) 35.9 587 776 (588)
IFRS netting (501) (1,387) (587) (763)
13 62 (1,136) — 13 (588)
NWB Plc
2019 2018
Change in fair Change in fair
value used for value used for
hedge hedge
Notional Assets Liabilities ineffectiveness (1) Notional Assets Liabilities ineffectiveness (1)
£bn £m £m £m £bn £m £m £m
Fair value hedging - Interest rate contracts 36.6 456 1,381 (1,218) 35.8 587 765 (588)
Cash flow hedging - Interest rate contracts 19.7 58 23 56 — — — —
Cash flow hedging - Exchange rate contracts 2.1 — 22 22 — — — —
58.4 514 1,426 (1,140) 35.8 587 765 (588)
IFRS netting (501) (1,387) (587) (698)
13 39 (1,140) — 67 (588)
Note:
(1) The change in fair value used for hedge ineffectiveness includes instruments that were derecognised in the year.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 107
Risk factors
Principal Risks and Uncertainties focusing the NWM franchise of the RBS governance and controls frameworks, in
Set out below are certain risk factors that Group (‘NWM Franchise’). particular with respect to any strategic
could adversely affect the NWB Group’s partnerships and acquisitions, and further
future results, its financial condition and As part of its new Purpose-led Strategy, the consolidation of IT systems and there is no
prospects and cause them to be materially RBS Group has set a number of financial, guarantee that the NWB Group will be
different from what is forecast or expected capital and operational targets and successful in doing so. The implementation of
and directly or indirectly impact the value of its expectations, both for the short term and the Purpose-led Strategy could result in
securities in issue. throughout the implementation period which materially higher costs than currently
could, in turn, affect the NWB Group. Over the contemplated, (including due to material
These risk factors are broadly categorised medium to long term, the RBS Group intends uncertainties and factors outside of the NWB
and should be read in conjunction with other to achieve a 9-11% return on tangible equity, Group’s control) or could be phased in a
sections of this annual report, including the and a CET1 ratio of 13-14%, with a sustained manner other than currently expected. These
forward looking statements section, the pay-out ratio of around 40% of attributable risks will be present throughout the period of
strategic report and the capital and risk profit. In addition to making significant implementation which is expected to last
management section, and should not be reductions in RWAs, achieving these targets during the medium term, and in some cases,
regarded as a complete and comprehensive will require further significant reductions to the materially beyond.
statement of all potential risks and RBS Group’s cost base, with c. £250 million of
uncertainties facing the NWB Group. reductions targeted in 2020. Realising these Changes in the economic, political and
cost reductions will result in material strategic regulatory environment in which the NWB
Strategic risk costs, which may be more than currently Group operates or regulatory uncertainty and
The NWB Group’s parent company has expected. The continued focus on meeting changes, strong market competition and
announced a new Purpose-led strategy cost reduction targets may also mean limited industry disruption or economic volatility,
which will entail a period of transformation investment in other areas which could affect including as a result of the continued
and require an internal cultural shift the NWB Group’s long-term prospects, uncertainty surrounding the terms of the UK’s
across the NWB Group. It carries product offering or competitive position and its exit from the EU, or changes in the scale and
significant execution and operational risks ability to meet its other targets, including timing of policy responses on climate change,
and it may not achieve its stated aims and those related to customer satisfaction. Any of may require the RBS Group (including the
targeted outcomes. the above could jeopardise the NWB Group’s NWB Group) to adjust aspects of the
On 14 February 2020, the RBS Group, the ability to achieve its associated financial Purpose-led Strategy or the timeframe for its
NWB’s Group parent company announced a targets and generate sustainable returns. implementation. In particular because some
new strategy, focused on becoming a initiatives depend on achieving growth in new
Purpose-led business, designed to champion The implementation of the new Purpose-led ventures and markets for the NWB Group, the
potential and to help individuals, families and Strategy is highly complex, will take many Purpose-led Strategy is vulnerable to an
businesses to thrive. This strategy is intended years to fully embed including within the NWB economic downturn. Furthermore, any new
to reflect the rapidly shifting environment and Group. The NWB Group may not be able to strategy requires ongoing confidence from
backdrop of unprecedented disruption in successfully implement all aspects of this customers and the wider market, without
society driven by technology and changing strategy or reach any or all of the related which customer activity and related income
customer expectations. The strategy has targets or expectations in the time frames levels may fall or the NWB Group’s reputation
three areas of focus – climate change, contemplated or at all. In addition, the NWB may be adversely affected.
enterprise and learning – where the RBS Group’s ability to serve its target customers,
Group believes it can have the greatest scale certain ventures, deliver growth in new Each of these risks, and others identified in
positive impact. Together, these strategic markets may be impacted or lower than these Risk Factors, individually or collectively
initiatives are referred to as the RBS Group’s expected and previously anticipated revenue, could jeopardise the implementation and
‘Purpose-led Strategy’. As a Purpose-led profitability and cost reduction levels may not delivery of the Purpose-led Strategy, result in
Strategy, it is intended to balance the interests be achieved in the timescale envisaged or at higher than expected restructuring costs,
and changing needs of all stakeholders of the any time. In particular, the Purpose-led impact the NWB Group’s products and
RBS Group (including those of the NWB Strategy entails a strategic cultural shift services offering, reputation with customers or
Group) and to focus on building relationships across the RBS Group including the NWB business model and adversely impact the
that create mutual value across customers’ Group which involves a large number of NWB Group’s ability to deliver the Purpose-
lives. It will require an internal cultural shift the concurrent and interdependent actions and led Strategy and meet its targets and
NWB Group as to how performance is initiatives, including re-focussing of the NWM guidance, each of which could in turn have a
perceived and how the NWB Group conduct Franchise, any of which could fail to be material adverse impact on the NWB Group’s
its business. The changes required are implemented in the manner and to the extent results of operations, financial condition and
substantial and will take many years to fully currently contemplated, due to operational, prospects.
embed and may not result in the expected legal, execution or other issues. In addition,
outcome within the timeline and in the manner the successful implementation of the Purpose- The RBS Group’s new Purpose-led
currently contemplated. led Strategy in part depends on initiatives and Strategy includes one area of focus on
growth in ventures that are new to the RBS climate change which entails significant
To deliver against this purpose and deliver Group and the NWB Group, or to the market execution risk and is likely to require
sustainable returns, the RBS Group intends and therefore there is a risk that some or all material changes to the business model of
to: focus on the lifecycles of its customers such initiatives will not succeed, or may be the NWB Group over the next ten years.
using insights about customers to evolve limited in scope or scale, including due to its The RBS Group’s new strategy on climate
product and service offerings; re-engineer and current ownership structure. change, together with its commitments under
simplify the RBS Group by updating the UN Principles on Responsible Banking to
operational and technological capabilities and The scale and scope of the intended changes align its strategy to the 2015 Paris Agreement,
strengthening governance and control present material business, operational, IT will require the NWB Group to dedicate
frameworks to reduce costs and improve system, internal culture, conduct and people resource to the RBS Group’s efforts to
customer journeys; focus on innovation and risks to the NWB Group, as the planning and develop the capacity and methodology to
partnership to drive change and achieve implementation of the transformation understand, and measure the climate impact
growth in new product areas and customer programme are resource-intensive and of the emissions from its financing activity.
segments; and have a sharper focus on disruptive, and will divert management The RBS Group must identify its approach to
capital allocation and deploying it more resources. In addition, changes being this on a short time scale to meet its target of
effectively for customers, in particular by re- concurrently implemented will require the setting and publishing sector-specific targets
implementation and application of robust by 2021 and its goal of setting comprehensive
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 150
Risk factors
climate impact scenario-based reduction organisational and technological safeguards
targets and plans for alignment with the 2015 Hostile attempts are made by third parties to against unauthorised or unlawful access to
Paris Agreement by 2022, and be able to gain access to and introduce malware the data of the NWB Group, its customers and
adequately define and benchmark its current (including ransomware) into the NWB Group’s its employees. In order to meet this
climate impact to demonstrate its progress IT systems, and to exploit vulnerabilities. The requirement, the NWB Group relies on the
against its ambition to reduce this by half over NWB Group has information and cyber effectiveness of its internal policies, controls
the next 10 years. Any delay to establishing security controls in place, which are subject to and procedures to protect the confidentiality,
such targets and developing its plan for review on a continuing basis, but given the integrity and availability of information held on
alignment with the 2015 Paris Agreement may nature of the threat, there can be no its IT systems, networks and devices as well
entail reputational and market risk, and assurance that such measures will prevent all as with third parties with whom the NWB
increase the risks the RBS Group (including attacks in the future. See also, ‘The NWB Group interacts. A failure to monitor and
NWB Group) faces as a result of climate Group’s operations are highly dependent on manage data in accordance with the GDPR
change. its complex IT systems, and any IT failure requirements of the applicable legislation may
could adversely affect the NWB Group’. result in financial losses, regulatory fines and
It is expected that the targets and measures investigations and associated reputational
that the NWB Group will need to adopt in line Any failure in the NWB Group’s cybersecurity damage. In addition, whilst the NWB Group
with the RBS Group’s Purpose-led Strategy policies, procedures or controls, may result in takes measures to prevent, detect and
on climate change will require significant significant financial losses, major business minimise attacks, the NWB Group’s systems,
reductions to the NWB Group’s financed disruption, inability to deliver customer and those of third party providers, are subject
emissions to be realised which, together with services, or loss of data or other sensitive to frequent cyberattacks.
the impact of embedding climate into its risk information (including as a result of an
framework and other regulatory, policy and outage) and may cause associated The NWB Group operations and strategy
market changes, is likely to necessitate far reputational damage. Any of these factors are highly dependent on the effective use
reaching changes to the NWB Group’s could increase costs (including costs relating and accuracy of data.
business model and existing exposures, and to notification of, or compensation for The NWB Group relies on the effective use of
potentially on timescales outside of risk customers, credit monitoring or card accurate data to support and improve its
appetite. Whilst the risks presented by climate reissuance), result in regulatory investigations operations and deliver its strategy. Failure to
change are unprecedented in magnitude and or sanctions being imposed, or may affect the produce underlying high quality data and/or
scale, how the NWB Group implements RBS NWB Group’s ability to retain and attract the ineffective use of such data could result in
Group’s Purpose-led Strategy to respond to customers. Regulators in the UK, US and a failure to satisfy its customers’ expectations
climate change may also have a material Europe continue to recognise cybersecurity as including by delivering innovative products
adverse effect on the NWB Group’s business an increasing systemic risk to the financial and services. This could place NWB Group at
growth, its competitiveness, and profitability sector and have highlighted the need for a competitive disadvantage, inhibit its efforts
over the short, medium and long term. Once financial institutions to improve their to reduce costs and improve its systems,
established, there is no certainty that the monitoring and control of, and resilience controls and processes, and result in a failure
NWB Group will be able to meet its climate (particularly of critical services) to to deliver the NWB Group’s strategy. The use
change targets and ambitions or that seeking cyberattacks, and to provide timely notification of unethical or inappropriate data and/or non-
to do so will not have an adverse impact on of them, as appropriate. compliance with customer data and privacy
the NWB Group, including its competition protection could give rise to conduct and
position. See also, ‘The NWB Group expects Additionally, third parties may also litigation risks and could also increase the risk
to face significant risks in connection with fraudulently attempt to induce employees, of an operational event or losses or other
climate change and the transition to a low customers, third party providers or other users adverse consequences due to inappropriate
carbon economy, which may adversely impact who have access to the NWB Group’s models, systems, processes, decisions or
the NWB Group.’ systems to disclose sensitive information in other actions.
order to gain access to the NWB Group’s data
Operational and IT resilience risk or that of the NWB Group’s customers or Operational risks are inherent in the NWB
The NWB Group is subject to increasingly employees. Cybersecurity and information Group’s businesses.
sophisticated and frequent cyberattacks. security events can derive from groups or Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting
The NWB Group is experiencing an increase factors such as: internal or external threat from inadequate or failed internal processes,
in cyberattacks across both the entire NWB actors, human error, fraud or malice on the procedures, people or systems, or from
Group and against the NWB Group’s supply part of the NWB Group’s employees or third external events, including legal risks. As at 31
chain, reinforcing the importance of due parties, including third party providers, or may December 2019, the NWB Group offered a
diligence and close working with the third result from accidental technological failure. diverse range of products and services
parties on which the NWB Group relies. The supported by 53,600 employees; it therefore
NWB Group is reliant on technology, against The NWB Group expects greater regulatory has complex and diverse operations. As a
which there is a constantly evolving series of engagement, supervision and enforcement in result, operational risks or losses can arise
attacks that are increasing in terms of relation to its overall resilience to withstand IT from a number of internal or external factors.
frequency, sophistication, impact and severity. systems and related disruption, either through These risks are also present when the NWB
As cyberattacks evolve and become more a cyberattack or some other disruptive event. Group relies on third-party suppliers or
sophisticated, the NWB Group is required to Such increased regulatory engagement, vendors to provide services to it or its
continue to invest in additional capability supervision and enforcement is uncertain in customers, as is increasingly the case as the
designed to defend against the emerging relation to scope, consequence and pace of NWB Group outsources certain functions,
threats. In 2019, the NWB Group was change, which could negatively impact the including with respect to the implementation of
subjected to a small number of Distributed NWM Group. Due to the NWB Group’s new technologies, innovation and responding
Denial of Service (‘DDOS’) attacks, which are reliance on technology and the increasing to regulatory and market changes.
a pervasive and significant threat to the global sophistication, frequency and impact of
financial services industry. The focus is to cyberattacks, it is likely that such attacks Operational risks continue to be heightened
mitigate the impact of the attacks and sustain could have a material adverse impact on the as a result of the implementation of the RBS
availability of services for NWB Group’s NWB Group. Group’s Purpose-led Strategy, the RBS
customers. The NWB Group continues to Group’s current cost-reduction measures and
invest significant resources in the In accordance with the EU General Data conditions affecting the financial services
development and evolution of cyber security Protection Regulation (‘GDPR’), the NWB industry generally (including Brexit and other
controls that are designed to minimise the Group is required to ensure it implements geo-political developments) as well as the
potential effect of such attacks. timely, appropriate and effective legal and regulatory uncertainty resulting
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 151
Risk factors
financial harm and may result in the inability to Following the EU Referendum in June 2016, or be exacerbated by, periodic financial
achieve its strategic objectives for their and pursuant to the exit process triggered volatility and slower economic growth, in the
customers, employees and wider under Article 50 of the Treaty on European UK in particular, but also in the ROI, the rest
stakeholders. Union in March 2017 and the ratification of the of Europe and potentially the global economy.
withdrawal agreement by the UK government
The NWB Group’s operations are subject and the EU (through the Council of Ministers), Significant uncertainty exists as to the
to inherent reputational risk. the UK ceased to be a member of the EU and respective legal and regulatory arrangements
Reputational risk relates to stakeholder and the European Economic Area (‘EEA’) on 31 under which the NWB Group and its
public perceptions of the NWB Group arising January 2020 (‘Brexit’) and entered a subsidiaries will operate once the transition
from an actual or perceived failure to meet transition period, currently due to expire on 31 period has ended. The legal and political
stakeholder expectations, including with December 2020. During this transition period, uncertainty and any actions taken as a result
respect to the RBS Group’s Purpose-led the UK retains the benefits of membership of of this uncertainty, as well as new or amended
Strategy and related targets, due to any the EU’s internal market and the customs rules, could have a significant impact on the
events, behaviour, action or inaction by the union, but loses its representation in the EU’s NWB Group’s non-UK operations and/or legal
NWB Group, its employees or those with institutions and its role in EU decision-making. entity structure, including attendant
whom the NWB Group is associated. This restructuring costs, level of impairments,
includes brand damage, which may be The UK and EU are currently seeking to capital requirements, regulatory environment
detrimental to the NWB Group’s business, determine the terms of their future relationship and tax implications and as a result may
including its ability to build or sustain business by the end of the transition period, and the adversely impact the NWB Group’s
relationships with customers, and may cause resulting economic, trading and legal profitability, competitive position, business
low employee morale, regulatory censure or relationships with both the EU and other model and product offering.
reduced access to, or an increase in the cost counterparties currently remain unclear and
of, funding. Reputational risk may arise subject to significant uncertainty. If the UK The RBS Group has obtained the requisite
whenever there is a material lapse in and EU do not agree a new comprehensive regulatory permissions (including third country
standards of integrity, compliance, customer trade agreement by the end of the transition licence branch approvals and access to
or operating efficiency and may adversely period and the transition period is not TARGET2 clearing and settlement
affect the NWB Group’s ability to attract and extended, then, subject to separate mechanisms) it currently considers are
retain customers. In particular, the NWB agreements being made with third countries, required for continuity of business as a result
Group’s ability to attract and retain customers the UK would be expected to operate on basic of the UK’s departure from the EU. These are
(and, in particular, corporate and retail World Trade Organization terms, the outcome required in order to maintain the ability to
depositors) may be adversely affected by, of which for RBS Group would be similar in clear euro payments and to serve non-UK
amongst others: negative public opinion certain respects to a ‘no-deal’ Brexit, and EEA customers if there is a loss of access to
resulting from the actual or perceived manner which may result in, amongst others, loss of the European Single Market. These changes
in which the NWB Group or any other member access to the EU single market for goods and to the NWB Group’s operating model have
of the RBS Group conducts or modifies its services, the imposition of import duties and been costly and may require further changes
business activities and operations, media controls on trade between the UK and the EU to its business operations, product offering
coverage (whether accurate or otherwise), and related trade disruption. and customer engagement. The regulatory
employee misconduct, the NWB Group’s permissions from the Dutch and German
financial performance, IT systems failures or The direct and indirect effects of the UK’s exit authorities are conditional in nature and will
cyberattacks, data breaches, the level of from the EU and the EEA are expected to require on-going compliance with certain
direct and indirect government support, or the affect many aspects of the NWB Group’s conditions, including maintaining minimum
actual or perceived practices in the banking business and operating environment, capital level and deposit balances as well as a
and financial industry in general, or a wide including as described elsewhere in these risk defined local physical presence going forward;
variety of other factors. See also, ‘The NWB factors, and may be material and/or cause a such conditions may be subject to change in
Group’s parent company has announced a near-term impact on impairments. See also, the future. Maintaining these permissions and
new Purpose-led strategy which will entail a ‘The NWB Group faces increased political and the RBS Group’s access to the euro payment
period of transformation and require an economic risks and uncertainty in the UK and infrastructure will be fundamental to its
internal cultural shift across the NWB Group. global markets’. As a result of such business going forward and further changes
It carries significant execution and operational anticipated effects, the RBS Group has to NWB Group’s business operations may be
risks and it may not achieve its stated aims engaged in significant and costly Brexit required.
and targeted outcomes’. planning and contingency planning and
expects to continue to do so. The direct and The NWB Group faces increased political
Modern technologies, in particular online indirect effects of the UK’s exit from the EU and economic risks and uncertainty in the
social networks and other broadcast tools and the EEA may also impede the RBS UK and global markets.
which facilitate communication with large Group’s ability to deliver its Purpose-led In the UK, significant economic and political
audiences in short time frames and with Strategy. See also, ‘The NWB Group’s parent uncertainty continues to surround the terms of
minimal costs, may also significantly increase company has announced a new Purpose-led Brexit and now also the future relationship
and accelerate the impact of damaging strategy which will entail a period of between the UK and the EU and may
information and allegations. transformation and require an internal cultural adversely affect the NWB Group. See also,
shift across the NWB Group. It carries ‘Prevailing uncertainty regarding the terms of
Although the NWB Group has implemented a significant execution and operational risks and the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union
Reputational Risk Policy to improve the it may not achieve its stated aims and has adversely affected and will continue to
identification, assessment and management targeted outcomes’. affect the NWB Group’.
of customers, transactions, products and
issues which represent a reputational risk, the The longer term effects of Brexit on the NWB The NWB Group faces additional political
NWB Group cannot be certain that it will be Group’s operating environment depend uncertainty as to how the Scottish
successful in avoiding damage to its business significantly on the terms of the ongoing parliamentary process (including, as a result
from reputational risk. relationship between the UK and EU. They of any further Scottish independence
are difficult to predict, and are subject to wider referendum or the next Scottish Parliament
Economic and political risk global macro-economic trends and events, but elections in May 2021) may impact the NWB
Prevailing uncertainty regarding the terms may significantly impact the NWB Group and Group. RBSG plc and a number of other RBS
of the UK’s withdrawal from the European its customers and counterparties who are Group entities are headquartered and/or
Union has adversely affected and will themselves dependent on trading with the EU incorporated in Scotland. Any changes to
continue to affect the NWB Group. or personnel from the EU. They may result in, Scotland’s relationship with the UK or the EU
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 153
Risk factors
(as an indirect result of Brexit or other Changes in interest rates have UK prudential regulator, have indicated it is a
developments) would impact the environment significantly affected and will continue to priority issue. The impact of such regulatory,
in which the RBS Group and its subsidiaries affect the NWB Group’s business and policy, commercial and technological changes
operate, and may require further changes to results. is expected to be highly significant and may
the RBS Group’s (including the NWB Group’s) Interest rate risk is significant for the NWB be disruptive, especially if such changes do
structure, independently or in conjunction with Group, as monetary policy has been not occur in an orderly or timely manner or are
other mandatory or strategic structural and accommodative in recent years, including as a not effective in reducing emissions sufficiently.
organisational changes which could adversely result of certain policies implemented by the
impact the NWB Group. Bank of England and HM Treasury such as Furthermore, the nature and timing of the
the Term Funding Scheme, which have manifestation of the physical risks of climate
Actual or perceived difficult global economic helped to support demand at a time of change (which include more extreme specific
conditions can create challenging economic pronounced fiscal tightening and balance weather events such as flooding and heat
and market conditions and a difficult operating sheet repair. However, there remains waves and longer term shifts in climate) are
environment for the NWB Group’s businesses considerable uncertainty as to the direction of also uncertain, and their impact on the
and its customers and counterparties, thereby interest rates and pace of change (as set by economy is predicted to be more acute if
affecting its financial performance. the Bank of England) as well as the general carbon emissions are not reduced on a timely
UK political climate. Further decreases in basis or to the requisite extent. Recent data
The outlook for the global economy over the interest rates and/or continued sustained low indicates that global carbon emissions are
medium-term remains uncertain due to a or negative interest rates could put pressure continuing to increase. The potential impact
number of factors including: trade barriers and on the NWB Group’s interest margins and on the economy includes, but is not limited to,
the increased possibility of trade wars, adversely affect the NWB Group’s profitability lower GDP growth, significant changes in
widespread political instability, an extended and prospects. In addition, a continued period asset prices and profitability of industries,
period of low inflation and low interest rates, of low interest rates and flat yield curves has higher unemployment and the prevailing level
and global regional variations in the impact affected and may continue to affect the NWB of interest rates.
and responses to these factors. Such Group’s interest rate margin realised between
conditions could be worsened by a number of lending and borrowing costs. See also, ‘The RBS Group’s new Purpose-led
factors including political uncertainty or Strategy includes one area of focus on climate
macro-economic deterioration in the Conversely, while increases in interest rates change which entails significant execution risk
Eurozone, China or the US, the conflicts or may support NWB Group income, sharp and is likely to require material changes to the
tensions in the Middle East or Asia, increased increases in interest rates could lead to business model of the NWB Group over the
instability in the global financial system and generally weaker than expected growth, or next ten years’, ’The NWB Group’s
concerns relating to further financial shocks or even contracting GDP, reduced business businesses are subject to substantial
contagion (for example, due to economic confidence, higher levels of unemployment or regulation and oversight, which are constantly
concerns in emerging markets), market underemployment, adverse changes to levels evolving and may adversely affect the NWB
volatility or fluctuations in the value of the of inflation, and falling property prices in the Group’ and ‘Any reduction in the credit rating
pound sterling, new or extended economic markets in which the NWB Group operates. assigned to RBSG plc, any of its subsidiaries
sanctions, volatility in commodity prices or (including NWB Plc or other NWB Group
concerns regarding sovereign debt. This may The NWB Group expects to face significant subsidiaries) or any of their respective debt
be compounded by the ageing demographics risks in connection with climate change securities could adversely affect the
of the populations in the markets that the and the transition to a low carbon availability of funding for the NWB Group,
NWB Group serves, or rapid change to the economy, which may adversely impact the reduce its liquidity position and increase the
economic environment due to the adoption of NWB Group. cost of funding’.
technology and artificial intelligence. Any of The risks associated with climate change are
the above developments could adversely subject to rapidly increasing prudential and If the NWB Group does not adequately embed
impact the NWB Group directly (for example, regulatory, political and societal focus, both in climate risk into its risk framework to
as a result of credit losses) or indirectly (for the UK and internationally. Embedding climate appropriately measure, manage and disclose
example, by impacting global economic risk into the NWB Group’s risk framework, and the various financial, transition and physical
growth and financial markets and the NWB adapting the NWB Group’s operations and risks it faces associated with climate change,
Group’s customers and their banking needs). business strategy to address the physical or if the RBS Group or the NWB Group fail to
risks of climate change and the risk implement the RBS Group’s new strategy on
In addition, the NWB Group is exposed to associated with a transition to a low carbon climate change and adapt its business model
risks arising out of geopolitical events or economy in line with the RBS Group’s to the changing regulatory requirements and
political developments, such as trade barriers, Purpose-led Strategy and ambition to reduce market expectations on a timely basis, it may
exchange controls, sanctions and other the climate impact of its financing activities have a material and adverse impact on the
measures taken by sovereign governments and evolving regulatory requirements and NWB Group’s level of business growth, its
that may hinder economic or financial activity market expectations is expected to have a competitiveness, profitability, prudential
levels. Furthermore, unfavourable political, significant impact on the NWB Group. capital requirements, ESG ratings, credit
military or diplomatic events, including ratings, cost of funding, reputation, results of
secession movements or the exit of other Multilateral agreements, in particular the 2015 operation and financial condition.
member states from the EU, armed conflict, Paris Agreement, and subsequent UK and
pandemics and widespread public health Scottish Government commitments to Changes in foreign currency exchange
crises (including the recent coronavirus achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2050 rates may affect the NWB Group’s results
outbreak, the impact of which will depend on and 2045, respectively, will require and financial position.
future developments, which are highly widespread levels of adjustment across all The NWB Group’s foreign exchange exposure
uncertain and cannot be predicted), state and sectors of the UK economy and markets in arises from structural foreign exchange risk,
privately sponsored cyber and terrorist acts or which the NWB Group operates. Some including capital deployed in the NWB
threats, and the responses to them by sectors such as property, energy, Group’s foreign subsidiaries, branches and
governments and markets, could negatively infrastructure (including transport) and joint arrangements, and non-trading foreign
affect the business and performance of the agriculture are expected to be particularly exchange risk, including customer
NWB Group, including as a result of the impacted. The nature and timing of the far- transactions and profits and losses that are in
indirect effect on regional or global trade reaching commercial, technological, policy a currency other than the functional currency
and/or the NWB Group’s customers. and regulatory changes that this transition will of the transaction entity. The NWB Group
entail remain uncertain. The UK Government issues instruments in foreign currencies that
and UK regulators, including the PRA, NWB’s assist in meeting the NWB Group’s minimum
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 154
Risk factors
requirements for own funds and eligible Group’s board of directors, corporate policies perceived changes in credit quality and the
liabilities (‘MREL’). The NWB Group maintains and strategic direction. The interests of RBSG recoverability of monies due from borrowers
policies and procedures designed to manage plc as an equity holder and as the NWB and other counterparties are inherent in a
the impact of exposures to fluctuations in Group’s parent may differ from the interests of wide range of the NWB Group’s businesses.
currency rates. Nevertheless, changes in the NWB Group or of potential investors in the The NWB Group is exposed to credit risk if a
currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US NWB Group’s securities. customer, borrower or counterparty defaults,
dollar and euro-sterling exchange rates, can or under IFRS 9, suffers a sufficiently
adversely affect the value of assets, liabilities Financial resilience risk significant deterioration of credit quality such
(including the total amount of regulatory The NWB Group may not meet targets or that, under SICR (‘significant increases in
capital and MREL eligible instruments), generate sustainable returns. credit risk’) rules, it moves to Stage 2 for
income, RWAs, capital base and expenses As part of the RBS Group’s strategy, the NWB impairment calculation purposes. The NWB
and the reported earnings of NWB Plc’s UK Group has principally become a UK-focussed Group’s lending strategy and associated
and non-UK subsidiaries and may affect the domestic banking group and is included in a processes may fail to identify or anticipate
NWB Group’s reported consolidated financial number of financial, capital and operational weaknesses or risks in a particular sector,
condition. targets for the RBS Group as part of its market or borrower, or fail to adequately value
Purpose-led Strategy including in respect of: physical or financial collateral. This may
Decisions of major central banks (including by leverage ratio targets, funding plans and result in increased default rates or a higher
the Bank of England, the European Central requirements, reductions in RWAs and the loss given default for loans, which may, in
Bank and the US Federal Reserve) and timing thereof, employee engagement, turn, impact the NWB Group’s profitability.
political or market events (including Brexit and diversity and inclusion as well as See ‘Capital and risk management — Credit
the general UK political climate), which are environmental, social and customer Risk’.
outside of the NWB Group’s control, may lead satisfaction targets. See also, ‘The NWB
to sharp and sudden variations in foreign Group’s parent company has announced a The credit quality of the NWB Group’s
exchange rates. new Purpose-led strategy which will entail a borrowers and other counterparties is
period of transformation and require an impacted by prevailing economic and market
HM Treasury (or UKGI on its behalf) could internal cultural shift across the NWB Group. conditions and by the legal and regulatory
exercise a significant degree of influence It carries significant execution and operational landscape in the UK and any deterioration in
over the RBS Group and the NWB Group is risks and it may not achieve its stated aims such conditions or changes to legal or
controlled by the RBS Group. and targeted outcomes’. regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower
In its November 2018 Autumn Budget, the UK and counterparty credit quality and
Government announced its intention to The NWB Group’s ability to meet the RBS consequently impact the NWB Group’s ability
continue the process of privatisation of RBSG Group and the NWB Group’s respective to enforce contractual security rights. See
plc and to carry out a programme of sales of targets and to successfully meet its strategy also, ‘The NWB Group faces increased
RBSG plc ordinary shares with the objective are subject to various internal and external political and economic risks and uncertainty in
of selling all of its remaining shares in RBSG factors and risks. These include, but are not the UK and global markets’. In particular,
plc by 2023-2024. On 6 February 2019, limited to, market, regulatory, economic and developments relating to Brexit or the
RBSG plc obtained shareholder approval to political factors, developments relating to consequences thereof, may adversely impact
participate in certain directed share buyback litigation, governmental actions, investigations credit quality in the UK and the resulting
activities. As at 31 December 2019, the UK and regulatory matters, and operational risks negative economic outlook could drive an
Government held 62.1% of the issued and risks relating to the NWB Group’s increased level of credit impairments
ordinary share capital of RBSG plc. There can business model and strategy (including risks reflecting the more forward-looking nature of
be no certainty as to the continuation of the associated with environmental, social and IFRS 9. See also ‘Prevailing uncertainty
sell-down process or the timing or extent of governance issues). A number of factors may regarding the terms of the UK’s withdrawal
such sell-downs. impact the Bank’s ability to maintain its from the European Union has adversely
current CET1 ratio, including impairments, affected and will continue to affect the NWB
UK Government Investments Limited (‘UKGI’) limited organic capital generation or Group’.
manages HM Treasury’s shareholder unanticipated increases in RWAs. In addition,
relationship with RBSG plc and, although HM the run-down of RWAs may be accompanied Within the UK, the level of household
Treasury has indicated that it intends to by the recognition of disposal losses which indebtedness remains high although the pace
respect the commercial decisions of the RBS may be higher than anticipated. of consumer credit growth has slowed during
Group and that the RBS Group entities 2019. The ability of such households to
(including the NWB Group) will continue to The NWB Group’s ability to meet its planned service their debts could be challenged by a
have their own independent board of directors reductions in its annual underlying costs may period of high unemployment or increased
and management team determining their own vary considerably from year to year. interest rates. In particular, the NWB Group
strategy, its position as a majority shareholder Furthermore, the focus on meeting balance may be affected by volatility in property prices
(and UKGI’s position as manager of this sheet and cost reduction targets may result in (including as a result of Brexit and the general
shareholding) means that HM Treasury or limited investment in other areas which could UK political climate) given that the NWB
UKGI could exercise a significant degree of affect the NWB Group’s long-term product Group’s mortgage loan and wholesale
influence over, among other things, the offering or competitive position and its ability property portfolio as at 31 December 2019,
election of directors and appointment of senior to meet its other targets, including those amounted to £124.1 billion, representing
management, the RBS Group’s (including the related to customer satisfaction. 58.7% of the NWB Group’s customer loan
NWB Group’s) capital strategy, dividend exposure. If property prices were to weaken
policy, remuneration policy or the conduct of There is no certainty that the RBS Group’s this could lead to higher impairment charges,
the RBS Group’s (including the NWB Group’s) Purpose-led Strategy will be successfully particularly if default rates also increase. In
operations, and HM Treasury or UKGI’s executed, that the NWB Group will meet its addition, the NWB Group’s credit risk may be
approach depends on government policy, targets and expectations, or that the NWB exacerbated if the collateral that it holds
which could change, including as a result of a Group will be a viable, competitive or cannot be realised as a result of market
general election. The exertion of such profitable banking business. conditions or regulatory intervention or if it is
influence over RBS Group could in turn have liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover
an adverse effect on the governance or The NWB Group has significant exposure the full amount of the loan or derivative
business strategy of the NWB Group. to counterparty and borrower risk. exposure that is due to the NWB Group. This
The NWB Group has exposure to many is most likely to occur during periods of
In addition, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of different industries, customers and illiquidity or depressed asset valuations.
RBSG plc, RBSG plc controls the NWB counterparties, and risks arising from actual or
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 155
Risk factors
assessment of the NWB Group’s strategy and possible that the bank will need to take action from those estimates. Estimates, judgments,
management’s capability; its financial to strengthen its capital position. assumptions and models take into account
condition including in respect of profitability, historical experience and other factors,
asset quality, capital, funding and liquidity; the Failure by the RBS Group to meet the including market practice and expectations of
level of political support for the industries in quantitative and qualitative requirements of future events that are believed to be
which the NWB Group operates; the the stress tests as set forth by its UK regulator reasonable under the circumstances.
implementation of structural reform; the legal or those elsewhere may result in: the RBS
and regulatory frameworks applicable to the Group’s regulators requiring the RBS Group The accounting policies deemed critical to the
NWB Group’s legal structure; business to generate additional capital, reputational NWB Group’s results and financial position,
activities and the rights of its creditors; damage, increased supervision and/or based upon materiality and significant
changes in rating methodologies; changes in regulatory sanctions, restrictions on capital judgments and estimates, which include loan
the relative size of the loss-absorbing buffers distributions and loss of investor confidence. impairment provisions, are set out in ‘Critical
protecting bondholders and depositors; the This may, in turn, negatively affect the NWB accounting policies and key sources of
competitive environment, political and Group. estimation uncertainty’ on page 91. New
economic conditions in the NWB Group’s key accounting standards and interpretations that
markets (including the impact of Brexit and The NWB Group could incur losses or be have been issued by the International
any further Scottish independence required to maintain higher levels of Accounting Standards Board but which have
referendum); any reduction of the UK’s capital as a result of limitations or failure not yet been adopted by the NWB Group are
sovereign credit rating and market of various models. discussed in ‘Accounting developments’ on
uncertainty. See also, ‘The NWB Group’s Given the complexity of the NWB Group’s page 91.
parent company has announced a new business, strategy and capital requirements,
Purpose-led strategy which will entail a period the NWB Group relies on analytical models for Changes in accounting standards may
of transformation and require an internal a wide range of purposes, including to materially impact the NWB Group’s
cultural shift across the NWB Group. It carries manage its business, assess the value of its financial results.
significant execution and operational risks and assets and its risk exposure, as well as to Changes in accounting standards or guidance
it may not achieve its stated aims and anticipate capital and funding requirements by accounting bodies or in the timing of their
targeted outcomes’. (including to facilitate the RBS Group’s implementation, whether immediate or
mandated stress testing). In addition, the foreseeable, could result in the NWB Group
In addition, credit ratings agencies are NWB Group utilises models for valuation, having to recognise additional liabilities on its
increasingly taking into account credit approvals, calculation of loan balance sheet, or in further write-downs or
environmental, social and governance impairment charges on an IFRS 9 basis, impairments to its assets and could also
(“ESG”) factors, including climate risk, as part financial reporting and for financial crime and significantly impact the financial results,
of the credit ratings analysis, as are investors fraud risk management. The NWB Group’s condition and prospects of the NWB Group.
in their investment decisions. models, and the parameters and assumptions
on which they are based, are periodically The valuation of financial instruments,
Any reductions in the credit ratings of RBSG reviewed and updated to maximise their including derivatives, measured at fair value
plc, NWB Plc or of certain other RBS Group accuracy. can be subjective, in particular where models
entities, including, in particular, downgrades are used which include unobservable inputs.
below investment grade, or a deterioration in Such models are inherently designed to be Generally, to establish the fair value of these
the capital markets’ perception of the NWB predictive in nature. Failure of these models, instruments, the NWB Group relies on quoted
Group’s financial resilience could significantly including due to errors in model design or market prices or, where the market for a
affect the NWB Group’s access to money inputs, to accurately reflect changes in the financial instrument is not sufficiently credible,
markets, reduce the size of its deposit base micro and macroeconomic environment in internal valuation models that utilise
and trigger additional collateral or other which the NWB Group operates, to capture observable market data. In certain
requirements in derivatives contracts and risks and exposures at the subsidiary level, to circumstances, the data for individual financial
other secured funding arrangements or the be updated in line with the RBS Group’s or instruments or classes of financial instruments
need to amend such arrangements, which the NWB Group’s current business model or utilised by such valuation models may not be
could adversely affect the NWB Group’s (and, operations, or findings of deficiencies by the available or may become unavailable due to
in particular, NWB Plc’s) cost of funding and RBS Group’s (and in particular, the NWB prevailing market conditions. In such
its access to capital markets and could limit Group’s) regulators (including as part of the circumstances, the NWB Group’s internal
the range of counterparties willing to enter into RBS Group’s mandated stress testing) may valuation models require the NWB Group to
transactions with the NWB Group (and, in result in increased capital requirements or make assumptions, judgments and estimates
particular, NWB Plc). This could in turn require management action. The NWB Group to establish fair value, which are complex and
adversely impact its competitive position and may also face adverse consequences as a often relate to matters that are inherently
threaten the prospects of the NWB Group in result of actions based on models that are uncertain.
the short to medium-term. poorly developed, implemented or used,
models that are based on inaccurate or With effect from 1 January 2019, the NWB
The NWB Group may be adversely affected compromised data or as a result of the Group adopted IFRS 16 Leases, as disclosed
if the RBS Group fails to meet the modelled outcome being misunderstood, or by in the Accounting policies. This increased
requirements of regulatory stress tests. such information being used for purposes for Other assets by £1.0 billion and Other
The RBS Group is subject to annual stress which it was not designed. liabilities by £1.4 billion. While adoption of this
tests by its regulator in the UK and is also standard has no effect on the NWB Group’s
subject to stress tests by European regulators The NWB Group’s financial statements are cash flows, it has impacted financial ratios,
with respect to RBSG plc, NWM NV and sensitive to the underlying accounting which may influence investors’ perception of
Ulster Bank Ireland DAC. Stress tests are policies, judgments, estimates and the financial condition of the NWB Group.
designed to assess the resilience of banks to assumptions.
potential adverse economic or financial The preparation of financial statements The RBS Group (including the NWB Group)
developments and ensure that they have requires management to make judgments, may become subject to the application of
robust, forward-looking capital planning estimates and assumptions that affect the UK statutory stabilisation or resolution
processes that account for the risks reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, powers which may result in, among other
associated with their business profile. If the expenses, exposures and RWAs. Due to the actions, the write-down or conversion of
stress tests reveal that a bank’s existing inherent uncertainty in making estimates the NWB Group’s Eligible Liabilities.
regulatory capital buffers are not sufficient to (particularly those involving the use of The Banking Act 2009, as amended (‘Banking
absorb the impact of the stress, then it is complex models), future results may differ Act’), implemented the BRRD in the UK and
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 158
Risk factors
leverage requirements, either on a solo, of increased compliance obligations or Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in
consolidated or subgroup level; obligations which may lead to restrictions their interpretation or enforcement, or the
 changes to the design and implementation on business growth, product offerings, or implementation of new laws, rules or
of national or supranational mandated pricing. regulations, including contradictory or
recovery, resolution or insolvency regimes conflicting laws, rules or regulations by key
or the implementation of additional or To support the UK’s goal of Net Zero by 2050, regulators or policymakers in different
conflicting loss-absorption requirements, the UK and Scottish governments and UK and jurisdictions, or failure by the NWB Group to
including those mandated under UK rules, international regulators, such as the PRA and comply with such laws, rules and regulations,
the BRRD or MREL; European Commission, are actively seeking may adversely affect the NWB Group’s
to develop new and existing regulations business, financial condition and results. In
 additional rules and regulatory initiatives
directly and indirectly focussed on climate addition, uncertainty and insufficient
and review relating to customer protection
change and the associated financial risks. international regulatory coordination as
and resolution of disputes and complaints,
Regulatory and policy developments, such as enhanced supervisory standards are
including increased focus by regulators
the minimum energy efficient requirements for developed and implemented may adversely
(including the Financial Ombudsman
residential and commercial real estate, may affect the NWB Group’s ability to engage in
Service) on how institutions conduct
have a significant impact on the markets in effective business, capital and risk
business, particularly with regard to the
which the NWB Group operates, especially management planning.
delivery of fair outcomes for customers
mortgage lending, and its associated credit,
and orderly/transparent markets;
market and financial risk profile. The NWB Group is subject to a number of
 rules and regulations relating to, and legal and regulatory actions and
enforcement of, anti-corruption, anti- In a Joint Declaration on Climate Change investigations including conduct-related
bribery, anti-money laundering, anti- published in July 2019, the PRA, FCA, reviews, anti-money laundering and
terrorism, sanctions, anti-tax evasion or Financial Reporting Council and The redress projects, the outcomes of which
other similar regimes; Pensions Regulator set out their commitment are inherently difficult to predict, and
 the imposition of additional restrictions on to working collaboratively to address the risks which could have an adverse effect on the
the NWB Group’s ability to compensate its of climate change. In October 2019, the RBS NWB Group.
senior management and other employees Group submitted its initial plan to meet the The NWB Group’s operations are diverse and
and increased responsibility and liability PRA’s supervisory expectations in its complex and it operates in legal and
rules applicable to senior and key supervisory statement (SS 3/19) which sets regulatory environments that expose it to
employees; forth an expectation that regulated entities potentially significant legal proceedings, and
 rules relating to foreign ownership, adopt a Board-level strategic approach to civil and criminal regulatory and governmental
expropriation, nationalisation and managing and mitigating the financial risks of actions. The NWB Group has settled a
confiscation of assets; climate change and embed the management number of legal and regulatory actions over
of them into their governance frameworks, the past several years but continues to be,
 changes to corporate governance practice
subject to existing prudential regulatory and may in the future be, involved in such
and disclosure requirements, senior
supervisory tools (including stress testing and actions in the UK, the US and other
manager responsibility, corporate
individual and systemic capital requirements). jurisdictions.
structures and conduct of business rules;
In addition, The Bank of England announced
 financial market infrastructure reforms in December 2019 that it will use the 2021 The legal and regulatory actions specifically
establishing new rules applying to biennial exploratory scenario (BES) to stress referred to below are, in the NWB Group’s
investment services, short selling, market banks on certain climate scenarios to test the view, the most significant legal and regulatory
abuse, derivatives markets and investment resilience of the current business models of actions to which the NWB Group is currently
funds; the largest banks, insurers and the financial exposed. However, the NWB Group is also
 increased attention to the protection and system to the physical and transition risks subject to a number of ongoing reviews,
resilience of, and competition and from climate change. The prudential investigations and litigation proceedings
innovation in, UK payment systems and regulation of climate risk will be an important relating to, among other matters, the setting of
retail banking developments relating to the driver in how the RBS Group otherwise benchmark rates such as LIBOR and related
UK initiative on Open Banking, Open decides how it allocates capital and further derivatives trading, product mis-selling,
Finance and the European directive on develop its risk appetite for financing certain customer mistreatment, anti-money
payment services; types of activity or engaging with laundering, antitrust and various other
 new or increased regulations relating to counterparties that do not align to a transition compliance issues. Legal and regulatory
to a net zero economy. actions are subject to many uncertainties, and
customer data and privacy protection as
their outcomes, including the timing, amount
well as IT controls and resilience, including
The FCA have also announced that climate of fines or settlements or the form of any
the GDPR;
change and green finance will be priorities settlements, which may be material and in
 the introduction of, and changes to, taxes,
with a focus on disclosure, integrating climate excess of any related provisions, are often
levies or fees applicable to the NWB
change into decision-making and consumers’ difficult to predict, particularly in the early
Group’s operations, such as the imposition
access to green financial services. The NWB stages of a case or investigation, and the
of a financial transaction tax, changes in
Group also recognises various legislative NWB Group’s expectations for resolution may
tax rates, changes in the scope and
actions and proposals by, among others, the change.
administration of the Bank Levy, increases
European Commission’s Action Plan on
in the bank corporation tax surcharge in
Sustainable Finance which include a In particular, the NWB Group has for a
the UK, restrictions on the tax deductibility
taxonomy on sustainable finance. Many of number of years been involved in conduct-
of interest payments or further restrictions
these legislative and regulatory initiatives, and related reviews and redress projects,
imposed on the treatment of carry-forward
especially the EU taxonomy, are focused on including a review of certain historical
tax losses that reduce the value of
developing standardised definitions for the customer connections in its former Global
deferred tax assets and require increased
green and sustainable criteria of assets and Restructuring Group (GRG) and management
payments of tax;
liabilities, which could change over time and of claims arising from historical sales of
 laws and regulations in respect of climate impact the NWB Group’s recognition of its payment protection insurance. In relation to
change and sustainable finance (including climate financing activity and lead to the GRG review, the NWB Group established
ESG) considerations; and reputational and conduct risk on its own a complaints process in November 2016,
 other requirements or policies affecting the sustainable financing activity. overseen by an independent third party. The
NWB Group and its profitability or product complaints process is now closed to new
offering, including through the imposition complaints, although the NWB Group
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 160
Risk factors
continues to handle certain complaints that financial products and instruments, the NWB retail banking sector. The CMA’s Retail
were made before the deadline for new Group has identified the following risks: legal Banking Market Order 2017 imposes
complaints passed. In addition, the NWB risks (as changes will be required to remedies primarily intended to make it easier
Group continues to handle claims in relation documentation for new and the majority of for consumers and businesses to compare
to historical sales of payment protection existing transactions); financial risks (which personal current account (‘PCA’) and SME
insurance and took an additional provision of may arise from any changes in valuation of bank products, increase the transparency of
£604 million in third quarter of 2019, reflecting financial instruments linked to benchmarks price comparison between banks and amend
greater than predicted complaints volumes in rates and may impact the NWB Group’s cost PCA overdraft charging. These remedies
the lead up to the 29 August 2019 deadline for of funds and its risk management related impose additional compliance requirements
making new complaints. See ‘Litigation, financial models); pricing risks (such as on the RBS Group and the NWB Group and
investigations and reviews’ of Note 28 on the changes to benchmark rates could impact could, in aggregate, adversely impact the
consolidated accounts for details of these pricing mechanisms on certain instruments); NWB Group’s competitive position, product
matters. The NWB Group has dedicated operational risks (due to the requirement to offering and revenues.
resources in place to manage claims and adapt IT systems, trade reporting
complaints relating to the above and other infrastructure and operational processes); and Adverse findings resulting from current or
conduct-related matters. Provisions taken in conduct risks (which include communication future competition investigations may result in
respect of such matters include the costs regarding the potential impact on customers, the imposition of reforms or remedies which
involved in administering the various and engagement with customers during the may impact the competitive landscape in
complaints processes. Any failure to transition period). which the NWB Group operates or result in
administer such processes adequately, or to restrictions on mergers and consolidations
handle individual complaints fairly or It is therefore currently difficult to determine to within the financial sector.
appropriately, could result in further claims as what extent the changes will affect the NWB
well as the imposition of additional measures Group, or the costs of implementing any The cost of implementing the Alternative
or limitations on the NWB Group’s operations, relevant remedial action. Uncertainty as to the Remedies Package could be more onerous
additional supervision by the NWB Group’s nature and extent of such potential changes, than anticipated.
regulators, and loss of investor confidence. alternative reference rates or other reforms In connection with the implementation of the
including the potential continuation of the Alternative Remedies Package (regarding the
Adverse outcomes or resolution of current or publication of LIBOR may adversely affect business previously described as Williams &
future legal or regulatory actions, including financial instruments using LIBOR as Glyn), an independent body (‘Independent
conduct-related reviews or redress projects, benchmarks. The implementation of any Body’) has been established to administer the
could result in restrictions or limitations on the alternative RFRs may be impossible or Alternative Remedies Package. The
NWB Group’s operations, and could adversely impracticable under the existing terms of implementation of the Alternative Remedies
impact the NWB Group’s capital position or its certain financial instruments and could have Package has involved costs for the NWB
ability to meet regulatory capital adequacy an adverse effect on the value of, return on Group, including but not limited to the funding
requirements. Failure to comply with and trading market for such financial commitments of £425 million for the Capability
undertakings made by the NWB Group to its instruments and on the NWB Group’s and Innovation Fund and £350 million for the
regulators may result in additional measures profitability. There is also the risk of an incentivised switching scheme, both being
or penalties being taken against the NWB adverse effect to reported performance arising administered by the Independent Body.
Group. from the transition rules established by Implementation of the Alternative Remedies
accounting bodies, as certain rules (as Package may involve additional costs for the
The NWB Group may not effectively proposed by the IASB) are still to be finalised. NWB Group and may also divert resources
manage the transition of LIBOR and other from the NWB Group’s operations and
IBOR rates to alternative risk free rates. The NWB Group operates in markets that jeopardise the delivery and implementation of
UK and international regulators are driving a are subject to intense scrutiny by the other significant plans and initiatives. In
transition from the use of interbank offer rates competition authorities. addition, under the terms of the Alternative
(IBORs), including LIBOR, to alternative risk There is significant oversight by competition Remedies Package, the Independent Body
free rates (RFRs). In the UK, the FCA has authorities of the markets which the NWB may require the NWB Group to modify certain
asserted that they will not compel LIBOR Group operates in. The competitive landscape aspects of the NWB Group’s execution of the
submissions beyond 2021, thereby for banks and other financial institutions in the incentivised switching scheme, which could
jeopardising its continued availability, and UK and the rest of Europe is rapidly changing. increase the cost of implementation.
have strongly urged market participants to Recent regulatory and legal changes have Furthermore, should the uptake within the
transition to RFRs, as the CFTC and other and may continue to result in new market incentivised switching scheme not be
regulators in the US. The NWB Group has a participants and changed competitive sufficient, the Independent Body has the
significant exposure to IBORs, and continues dynamics in certain key areas, such as in ability to extend the duration of the scheme by
to reference it in certain products, primarily its retail and SME banking in the UK where the up to twelve months, impose penalties of up
commercial lending and legacy securities. introduction of new entrants is being actively to £50 million, and can compel the RBS
Although the NWB Group is actively engaged encouraged by the UK Government. Group to extend the customer base to which
with customers and industry working groups the scheme applies which may result in
to manage the risks relating to such exposure, The UK retail banking sector has been prolonged periods of disruption to a wider
and is exploring ways to utilise RFRs to the subjected to intense scrutiny by the UK portion of the NWB Group’s business.
extent possible, the legal mechanisms to competition authorities and by other bodies,
effect transition cannot be confirmed, and the including the FCA and the Financial As a direct consequence of the incentivised
impact cannot be determined nor any Ombudsman Service, in recent years, switching scheme (which comprises part of
associated costs accounted for, until such including with a number of reviews/inquiries the Alternative Remedies Package), the NWB
time that RFRs are utilised exclusively, and being carried out, including market reviews Group will lose existing customers and
there is market acceptance on the form of conducted by the CMA and its predecessor deposits, which in turn will have adverse
alternative RFRs for different products, and the Office of Fair Trading regarding SME impacts on the NWB Group’s business and
certain IBOR obligations may not be able to banking and personal banking products and associated revenues and margins.
be changed. The transition and uncertainties services, the Independent Commission on Furthermore, the capability and innovation
around the timing and manner of transition to Banking and the Parliamentary Commission fund (which also comprises part of the
RFRs represent a number of risks for the on Banking Standards. Alternative Remedies Package) is intended to
NWB Group, its customers and the financial benefit eligible competitors and negatively
services industry more widely. Following an These reviews raised significant concerns impact the NWB Group’s competitive position.
analysis of the NWB Group’s IBOR-linked about the effectiveness of competition in the To support the incentivised switching initiative,
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 161
Forward-looking statements
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements accuracy of forward-looking statements we describe in this document including
Certain sections in this document contain ‘forward-looking statements’ as that in the risk factors and other uncertainties set out in the NWB Group’s 2019
term is defined in the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of Annual Report and other risk factors and uncertainties discussed in this
1995, such as statements that include the words ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘project’, document. These include the significant risks presented by: strategic risk
‘anticipate’, ‘commit’, ‘believe’, ‘should’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘could’, ‘probability’, ‘risk’, (including in respect of: the implementation and execution of the RBS Group’s
‘Value-at-Risk (VaR)’, ‘target’, ‘goal’, ‘objective’, ‘may’, ‘endeavour’, ‘outlook’, Purpose-led Strategy, including as it relates to RBS Group’s climate ambition
‘optimistic’, ‘prospects’ and similar expressions or variations on these and the risk that the RBS Group and/or the NWB Group may not achieve its
expressions. targets); operational and IT resilience risk (including in respect of: the NWB
Group being subject to cyberattacks; operational risks inherent in the NWB
In particular, this document includes forward-looking statements relating, but not Group’s business; the NWB Group’s operations being highly dependent on its IT
limited to: future profitability and performance, including financial performance systems; the NWB Group relying on attracting, retaining and developing senior
targets such as return on tangible equity; cost savings and targets; management and skilled personnel and maintaining good employee relations;
implementation of the RBS Group and NWB Group’s strategy; litigation and the NWB Group’s risk management framework; and reputational risk), economic
government and regulatory investigations, including the timing and financial and and political risk (including in respect of: uncertainties surrounding the terms of
other impacts thereof; the implementation of the Alternative Remedies Package; the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union; increased political and economic
the continuation of the NWB Group’s balance sheet reduction programme, risks and uncertainty in the UK and global markets; changes in interest rates;
including the reduction of risk-weighted assets (RWAs) and the timing thereof; climate change and the transition to a low carbon economy; changes in foreign
capital and strategic plans and targets; capital, liquidity and leverage ratios and currency exchange rates; and HM Treasury’s ownership of RBSG plc and the
requirements, including CET1 Ratio, RWA equivalents (RWAe), Pillar 2 and possibility that it may exert a significant degree of influence over the RBS
other regulatory buffer requirements, minimum requirement for own funds and Group), financial resilience risk (including in respect of: the NWB Group’s ability
eligible liabilities, and other funding plans; funding and credit risk profile; to meet targets and generate sustainable returns; deteriorations in borrower and
capitalisation; portfolios; net interest margin; customer loan and income growth; counterparty credit quality; the highly competitive markets in which the NWB
the level and extent of future impairments and write-downs, including with Group operates; the ability of the NWB Group to meet prudential regulatory
respect to restructuring and remediation costs and charges; and the NWB requirements for capital or manage its capital effectively; the ability of the NWB
Group’s exposure to political risk, economic risk, climate change risk, operational Group to access adequate sources of liquidity and funding; the NWB Group’s
risk, conduct risk, cyber and IT risk and credit rating risk and to various types of reliance on RBS Group for capital and funding support; changes in the credit
market risks, including interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and ratings of RBSG plc, any of its subsidiaries or any of its respective debt
commodity and equity price risk; customer experience including our Net securities; the RBS Group’s ability to meet requirements of regulatory stress
Promotor Score (NPS); employee engagement and gender balance in leadership tests; possible losses or the requirement to maintain higher levels of capital as a
positions. result of limitations or failure of various models; sensitivity of the NWB Group’s
financial statements to underlying accounting policies, judgments, assumptions
Limitations inherent to forward-looking statements and estimates; changes in applicable accounting policies or rules; and the
These statements are based on current plans, estimates, targets and application of UK statutory stabilisation or resolution powers) and legal,
projections, and are subject to significant inherent risks, uncertainties and other regulatory and conduct risk (including in respect of: the NWB Group’s
factors, both external and relating to the NWB Group’s strategy or operations, businesses being subject to substantial regulation and oversight; legal,
which may result in the NWB Group being unable to achieve the current targets, regulatory and governmental actions and investigations; the transition of LIBOR
predictions, expectations and other anticipated outcomes expressed or implied and IBOR rates to alternative risk free rates; heightened regulatory and
by such forward-looking statements. In addition, certain of these disclosures are governmental scrutiny (including by competition authorities); implementation of
dependent on choices relying on key model characteristics and assumptions and the Alternative Remedies Package and the costs related thereto; and changes in
are subject to various limitations, including assumptions and estimates made by tax legislation).
management. By their nature, certain of these disclosures are only estimates
and, as a result, actual future gains and losses could differ materially from those The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as at the
that have been estimated. Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on date hereof, and the NWB Group does not assume or undertake any obligation
these statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date we or responsibility to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or
make them and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated
publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained events.
herein to reflect any change in the NWB Group’s expectations with regard
thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such The information, statements and opinions contained in this document do not
statement is based. constitute a public offer under any applicable legislation or an offer to sell or
solicit of any offer to buy any securities or financial instruments or any advice or
Important factors that could affect the actual outcome of the forward- recommendation with respect to such securities or other financial instruments.
looking statements
We caution you that a large number of important factors could adversely affect
our results or our ability to implement our strategy, cause us to fail to meet our
targets, predictions, expectations and other anticipated outcomes or affect the
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2019 163