Championing
potential
A relationship
bank for a
digital world
NatWest Group plc
2022 Environmental, Social and Governance
Disclosures Report
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Our 2022 reporting suite brings together key reports including NatWest Inside this report
Group’s Annual Report and Accounts, Climate-related Disclosures Report
Introduction
which includes the initial iteration of our Climate transition plan and
Guided by our purpose 4
Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report. The reports
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
are intended to provide useful information to our stakeholders and are Officer review 5
available at natwestgroup.com Strategy
Our strategy 8
ESG at a glance 9
Company announcement and
Financial supplement How we engage stakeholders 10
Our latest company information Key ESG topics for our stakeholders 11
including our financial performance How we create value 12
for the year with a focus on key Collective action 13
metrics and measurement.
Climate 14
Enterprise 20
Learning 25
Responsible banking 33
Climate-related Disclosures Report
Supporting our customers 34
Our latest progress against our
climate ambitions including the initial Engaging our suppliers 43
iteration of our Climate transition plan. Supporting our colleagues 44
The report covers climate-related
Supporting our communities 48
governance, strategy, risk
management (including scenario Governance
analysis) and metrics and targets. Responsible governance 51
Tax payments and responsibilities 55
Respecting human rights 57
NatWest Group Annual Report ESG Frameworks Appendix
and Accounts Our progress with reference to Risk Management
Our 2022 Strategic report, industry-wide sustainability standards:
How we do business 59
Governance and remuneration UN Principles of Responsible Banking,
report, including the Annual report Global Reporting Initiative, WEF IBC ESE risk management 62
on remuneration, risk and capital Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and ESE risk framework 63
management disclosures and Sustainability Accounting Standards
financial statement and Board (SASB) Standards. Metrics and Targets
related notes. Climate, enterprise, learning and DE&I metrics 65
Measuring our performance 66
Also included in our reporting suite: Our ESG rating performance 67
Non-financial information datasheet 2022 Basis of Reporting Important Information 68
which summarises our selected non-financial which comprises our approach, scope, and controls
information data on our key ESG metrics. for the sustainability metrics included in the reporting
suite and within the scope of EY assurance.
www.natwestgroup.com
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 1
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Championing
potential
A relationship bank
for a digital world
We are driven by our purpose and enabled by our strategy.
We remove barriers to create strong enterprises. We turn ambition
into action to help tackle climate change. And we build financial
capability through learning.
By supporting our customers at every stage of their lives, we
can build long-term value, invest for growth, make a positive
contribution to society and drive sustainable returns
for shareholders.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 2
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Introduction
4 Guided by our purpose
5 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer review
Caution about the information in this ESG This approach to materiality means that this report,
Disclosures Report and many of our voluntary ESG disclosures, including
Note on materiality with respect to climate and sustainability-related risks
and opportunities, include certain information that we
The below should be considered when assessing and
have not included in our LSE and SEC filings for which
referencing materiality in the context of this report.
we use a different approach to materiality.
Our public disclosures, including our voluntary
Our approach to materiality in this report also means
environmental, social and governance (ESG) disclosures
that statements made in this report and in our other
in this report, include a range of topics that we believe
voluntary ESG disclosures use a greater number and
are relevant to our businesses and that are of interest
level of assumptions and estimates than many of our
to investors and other stakeholders. For the purposes
LSE and SEC filings. These assumptions and estimates
of complying with our annual, periodic and interim
are subject to change over time, and, when coupled
disclosure obligations in the United Kingdom and the
with the longer time frames used in these disclosures,
United States we apply a materiality standard based
make any assessment of materiality inherently
on the applicable rules and regulations governing public
uncertain.
reporting in the United Kingdom and the United States.
However, in our voluntary ESG disclosures, we have The information in this report includes non-financial
adapted our approach to materiality based on both metrics, estimates or other information that are subject
the subject matter and purpose of the disclosures. to significant uncertainties, which may include the
In particular, when we believe that doing so may allow methodology, collection and verification of data, various
us to better address sustainability-related matters of estimates and assumptions, and/or underlying data that
interest to our key stakeholders, our approach to these is obtained from third parties, some of which cannot be
disclosures may sometimes have regard to broader independently verified.
understandings of materiality based on certain external As a result, we expect that certain disclosures made in
frameworks and reporting guidelines that take into this report may be amended, updated, recalculated and
consideration a wider range of factors relevant to ESG restated in the future as the quality and completeness
disclosures, including the views of our key stakeholders. of our data and methodologies continue to improve.
To accommodate this approach to materiality, we may
occasionally have regard to new frameworks and
Caution about SDGs
standards when we believe that doing so may allow
us to better understand and address The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a
sustainability matters. collection of 17 non-legally binding interlinked global
goals set forth by the UN for countries and
Certain parts of this report – such as the climate-
governments. These are included only as indicative
related disclosures – may use longer time frames
guidance for NatWest Group’s ambition to align to its
to assess potential impacts than those time frames
strategy to the UN Sustainable Development Goal and
customarily used in certain of our other disclosures,
NatWest Group makes no representation, warranty, or
including our annual, periodic and interim financial
assurance of any kind, express or implied, or takes no
reports filed with the London Stock Exchange (‘LSE’)
responsibility or liability as to whether NatWest Group’s
in the United Kingdom and the Securities and Exchange
strategy furthers the objective or achieves the purpose
Commission (‘SEC’) in the United States.
of the indicated SDG.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 3
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Guided by our purpose
A relationship bank for a digital world
We are guided NatWest Group champions potential, helping Our purpose
by our purpose people, families and businesses to thrive.
NatWest Group champions potential, helping people, It enables us to build long-term value, to invest for
families and businesses to thrive. Because when they growth, to make a positive contribution to society
Read more on Because when they thrive, so do we. thrive, so do we. Our purpose guides and underpins and to drive sustainable returns for shareholders.
pages 5 to 6 everything we do.
We are informed Delivering long-term sustainable value and Our stakeholders
by the needs of attractive returns, now and for the next generation: We aim to balance the different interests of our Our robust balance sheet, strong capital position
our stakeholders stakeholders – customers, investors, regulators, and capital-generative businesses mean we are well
colleagues, communities and suppliers, in all our placed to support our customers and invest for
Customers Investors Regulators decision-making, especially when there are difficult growth, as well as driving sustainable returns to
Read more on page 10 choices to be made. We also recognise the need for shareholders and creating long-term value for
transparency and openness, regularly engaging and our stakeholders.
seeking the views of our stakeholders.
Colleagues Communities Suppliers
Focused on growth, underpinned by our Our strategy Our values
We have four
values and an intelligent approach to risk:
strategic priorities… We are a relationship bank for a digital world. Our values are at the heart of how we deliver
Our strategy for growth delivers on our purpose our purpose-led strategy. In 2022, having engaged
Supporting customers at
Simple to deal with and drives sustainable returns to shareholders with colleagues, customers, community stakeholders
Read more on pages 8 to 9 every stage of their lives through four strategic priorities: we will support and suppliers, we launched our refreshed values of
our customers at every stage of their lives; we will being inclusive, curious, robust, sustainable and
be powered by innovation and partnerships as we ambitious. These refreshed values now form an
Powered by innovation Sharpened capital accelerate our digital transformation; we will be integral part of our cultural identity.
and partnerships allocation simple to deal with; and we will allocate our capital in
a way that delivers for customers and shareholders.
…creating a positive
impact through our
Climate Our positive impact Better Business
areas of focus
We have made addressing the climate challenge and supporting our We recognise the huge responsibilities that our role We continue to partner with the Blueprint for Better
customers in their transition to net zero a key strategic priority. brings, from supporting the day-to-day financial Business, whose framework informs our purpose-led
Read more on pages 14 to 32 Read more on pages 14 to 19. needs of our customers to the positive impacts we decision-making and helps us to create and protect
can have on the environment and wider society. value for customers, suppliers, colleagues,
communities, future generations and our
Enterprise We have identified three focus areas where we can shareholders.
make a meaningful contribution and build long-term
Our ambition is to remove barriers to enterprise and value in our business: Climate, Enterprise and
to provide businesses in the UK the support they need to grow. Learning.
Read more on pages 20 to 24.
Learning
We are helping people to take control of their finances, to make the
most of their money, safely and securely, now and in the future.
Read more on pages 25 to 32.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 4
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer review
A relationship bank
every step of the way
‘We believe our focus on ESG is a crucial component that allows
us to create sustainable long-term value, to invest for growth,
to make a positive contribution to society.’
Alison Rose DBE
Group Chief Executive Officer
Why is understanding Monitoring and managing ESG outcomes and checks during 2022 and reached out to our retail permanent increase in base pay for our lowest-paid
environmental, social and understanding the impacts of our business are customers to offer support and information on this colleagues, globally. This brought total investments in
therefore an integral part of NatWest Group’s pressing issue. This was in addition to £4 million in pay of around £115 million per annum in 2022, an
governance factors central to
operating model. We believe our focus on ESG is a donations in collaboration with organisation including increase of 85% on 2021.
NatWest Group fulfilling its crucial component that allows us to create sustainable Citizens Advice, The Trussell Trust StepChange and
purpose? long-term value, to invest for growth, and to make a PayPlan to provide support and grants. I was also immensely proud of the announcement of
our new partner leave policy(1), which supports all
positive contribution to society.
The importance of companies earning their We also took a range of actions on charges, including eligible colleagues with significantly more time away
AR social licence to operate has never been waiving fees on some products where appropriate. from work to help their partner look after their new
greater. Businesses need to be accountable to How has NatWest Group delivered For our commercial customers, we were able to child, whether the child has arrived through birth,
all their stakeholders, including wider society and the positive and fair outcomes for its provide tailored support to the most impacted sectors, adoption or surrogacy.
environment. And this, in my view, is essential not just including a £1.25 billion lending package for our
for the wellbeing of people, families and the planet but stakeholders in 2022? c.40,000 agriculture customers, as well as freezing NatWest Group places an exceptionally high level of
also for businesses themselves. Undoubtedly, one of the biggest impacts on standard published tariffs on Business Current importance on achieving good customer outcomes.
AR many of our stakeholders, from customers and Accounts for 12 months to help SMEs. Taking action to align with the Financial Conduct
When I first took up my role as Chief Executive, we communities to colleagues and suppliers, has Authority’s (FCA) new Consumer Duty is a key priority
committed to a purpose that guides all of our been the rapid increases in the cost of living. We Supporting our colleagues during this period has for the bank. Products and services in scope of the
decision-making – we champion potential, helping responded quickly and meaningfully, by establishing an continued to be a key focus. In addition to the pay Duty are being managed under the banner of a single
people, families and businesses to thrive. Being led by online cost of living hub to share resources and tools, review in April 2022 and following consultation with implementation programme which aims to meet both
this purpose acknowledges that we have a reciprocal informing customers of the support that is available to our recognised employee representatives in the letter and spirit of the regulation and that this is
relationship with all our stakeholders – knowing that them. We carried out c.0.7 million financial health September 2022, we put in place targeted action to reflected not just in our policies and procedures, but
when they succeed, so do we. provide long-term support for colleagues through a culturally across the bank as well.
(1) Our partner leave policies will replace existing paternity leave policies from 1 January 2023 across our operations in the UK, Offshore, Republic of Ireland, US, Poland and India.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 5
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer review continued
Learning is a key focus area for the business. We We welcome the work by the ISSB to develop global In 2022 NatWest Group was proud to be awarded the
continue to deliver our MoneySense and CareerSense sustainability disclosure standards and we believe the Sustainable Markets Initiative’s Terra Carta Seal. The
programmes, helping young people with financial proposed global sustainability standards will help Terra Carta Seal recognises organisations that are
advice and employability, to help break down the create a common reporting baseline at scale, and help demonstrating their commitment to, and momentum
barriers for people to succeed and thrive. In 2022, weave sustainability-related topics into the strategy towards, the creation of sustainable markets. As one
we collaborated with footballer and campaigner and operating model of the bank. In this report, of the UK’s biggest banks for retail customers, and a
Marcus Rashford MBE and the National Youth Agency we have embraced the spirit of the proposed ISSB leading lender to business, we have a clear role to
to provide NatWest Thrive, a unique programme for standards structure and continued to present fair play in supporting our customers’ transition.
young people to build their confidence with money. and balanced information about our key ESG topics
under the headings of Strategy, Governance, Risk
Three years on from the publication of the inaugural What do you see as the future
Management and Metrics and Targets. In 2023,
Alison Rose Review of Female Entrepreneurship, we look forward to seeing the final standards from topics of engagement with NatWest
across the UK, entrepreneurs have benefited from
the ISSB to continue shaping our future Group’s stakeholders?
funding, advice and mentoring schemes and students
sustainability reporting.
have received enterprise training, leading to significant We are progressing through our journey to
year-on-year growth in female-led start-ups. We also AR better understand environmental risks and
‘We believe the proposed regularly track and disclose our progress against all How has NatWest Group continued opportunities, and will continue to review
sustainability standards will the ambitions of the 2020 Banking on Racial Equality to integrate ESG in its operating external frameworks and guidance like the Taskforce
report to identify the areas where we need to take for Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD)
model in 2022?
create a common reporting further action to deliver the long-term value. framework. However, measuring the environmental
Our ambition is to embed purpose in every part impacts of financing is an evolving and complex area.
baseline and help weave There is a fundamental need to assess and measure KM of NatWest Group. To ensure this happens, our It requires collaborative approaches with partners,
impacts for the relationship between our business purpose is embedded within our existing stakeholders and peers to help identify, assess and
sustainability-related topics activities and key ESG topics. We recognise that corporate governance framework and processes and mitigate the negative impacts of human activities on
into the strategy and progress is significantly constrained by an availability these support appropriate levels of oversight and the environment and nature.
of data that is reliable, timely, verifiable, comparable, integration of ESG topics across the entire bank.
operating model of the and sufficiently granular. Nevertheless, although this New and emerging social, commercial and economic
is an industry-wide issue, we are committed to For instance, work continued during 2022 to further trends are shaping our customers’ financial lives and
bank.’ improving the analysis, consistency and transparency integrate climate risk into the enterprise-wide risk there are important opportunities to transform our
of data to inform and improve our purpose-led management framework, including the enhancement relevance and value to customers, building on their
Katie Murray decision-making processes. of climate risk appetite measures. Climate trust. We will do this by delivering personalised
Chief Financial Officer considerations are also incorporated into transaction solutions throughout customers’ lifecycles; embedding
acceptance standards as part of NatWest Group’s our services in our customers’ digital lives; and
How is NatWest Group developing wholesale credit risk management approach. supporting customers’ sustainability transitions.
the way it measures the impact of
We recognise that the activities of our customers have Our ambition is to collaborate with our stakeholders to
its business?
the potential to pose Environmental, Social and Ethical identify, measure and track our performance through
We have been exploring new ways of (ESE) risks. To help us manage these risks, we insightful metrics that build a fair, balanced and
KM measuring our impact in our key focus areas continued to enhance our policies and processes understandable view of our activities. For us, the
What are the key ESG challenges of financial capability and enterprise. We are to give us better insight into certain customer insight derived from building these stakeholder
our stakeholders have been facing currently in a period of change in the way companies relationships, transactions, and projects in higher risk relationships is key to ensuring sustainable, long-term
report on ESG. A key development expected in 2023 sectors and activities. This will give us better insight returns for our business.
and how are we responding?
is that the new International Sustainability Standards into our customers’ activities and enable us to address
The current economic conditions have the Board (ISSB) will aim to bring about a convergence of issues of concern.
AR potential to exacerbate significant hardships for financial and ESG reporting. Alison Rose DBE
the most vulnerable in society. In addition to We also want to support our customers to develop Group Chief Executive Officer
our immediate response to the situation, our ambition This will require companies to report on their most more sustainable practices by integrating ESG across
is to deliver purpose-led programmes, which we material ESG risks and impacts in much greater depth, all of our services and operations. Notably, we have Katie Murray
believe can drive positive change for our stakeholders. increasing transparency on the sustainability of their now provided £32.6 billion* of climate and sustainable Chief Financial Officer
operations. funding and financing, against our target to provide
£100 billion between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025.
* Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 6
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Strategy
We champion potential, helping people, families and
businesses to thrive.
8 Our strategy and ESG at a glance
10 How we engage with stakeholders
11 Key ESG topics for our stakeholders
12 How we create value
13 Collective action
14 Climate
20 Enterprise
25 Learning
33 Responsible banking
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 7
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
A strategy to deliver
our purpose, driving
sustainable returns
Our execution is centred around our purpose, driving sustainable growth through our strategic
priorities. We are a relationship bank for a digital world, building ever-deeper and closer
connections with our customers throughout their financial lives, enabling people, families
and businesses to thrive.
Supporting customers at
Simple to deal with
every stage of their lives
Powered by innovation Sharpened capital
and partnerships allocation
We are here for the people, families and businesses customers’ lifecycles; embedding our services in our
we serve. By standing strong and standing together, customers’ digital lives; and through supporting
we can provide the support and security our customers’ sustainability transitions.
customers, colleagues, economy and society need
At the centre of our approach is the belief that we
while generating sustainable returns.
must have a reciprocal relationship with society, the
Our purpose-led strategy aims to deliver sustainable, environment and the communities where we operate.
long-term business performance by creating greater For a number of years, we have chosen to partner
value for our stakeholders. As a relationship bank for a with ‘Blueprint for Better Business’, an independent
digital world, we champion our customers’ potential by charity which aims to enable a better society through
supporting them at every stage of their lives. With this better business. Its principles allow us to think more
approach, our purpose will create longer-term and widely about our purpose and what’s needed to bring
deeper relationships with our customers, helping them, it to life across our organisation. Implicit within the
our communities and the economy to thrive. Blueprint for Better Business framework and
embedded through all our activities is a commitment
We are evolving to power our customers’ financial
to understanding the key ESG issues for our business
lives of tomorrow and be there through the challenges
and where we can have the most meaningful impact
of today, building diversification and resilience for the
– with a focus on three areas: Climate, refer to pages
future. As we understand more about our customers’
14 to 19, Enterprise, refer to pages 20 to 24 and
future financial lives, we see important opportunities to
Learning refer to pages 25 to 32.
build and explore new forms of long-term value for
our customers. These themes for further sustainable Crucially, understanding the impact of our business is
growth are led by, and reinforce, our purpose, vital for realising how we, as a company, live our
creating new ways to empower our customers, enable purpose. The outcomes we report in this document
enterprise, and build financial confidence to help our are designed to illustrate how we have advanced over
stakeholders make most of their money. We will do the past year, as well as the areas where we are
this by delivering personalised solutions throughout our committed to making further progress.
We have identified three key growth areas where we can amplify our strategy:
Delivering personalised solutions throughout our customers’ lifecycles – every customer is an individual.
Embedding our services in our customers’ digital lives – being where our customers are.
Supporting our customers’ sustainability transitions.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 8
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
ESG at a glance
A selection of our 2022 ESG highlights seen through the Blueprint for Better Business lens
Honest and fair with customers and suppliers A good citizen
Launched c.0.7m NatWest Group won the We have delivered Direct community investment in 2022
benefits Fast Payer amounted to £13.6 million(*)
financial health checks(1) carried 5.1 million(*)
calculator Award compared with £7.3 million
out in 2022, helping customers to
organise their finances. for the second year financial capability interactions in FY 2022 in 2021.
as part of the Cost of Living
Hub and increased the interest running, placing us in the against the 2023 This includes the funding we make
paid on our Digital Regular top 7 companies in 2022. target(2) available to support colleague giving
Saver to 5%. FY20, FY21 & and the direct costs of delivering our
FY22: 14.07m community programmes.
In 2022, we supported Over £12 million 76k hours
53,000(*) individuals and was donated by our colleagues were volunteered by our colleagues to local
businesses through and customers in 2022 to three communities and good causes received over
DEC appeals supporting the
269,000(*) interventions NatWest Group’s humanitarian relief efforts in £3.8 million
to start, run or grow a business(3). purpose aims to deliver Afghanistan, Ukraine and through their giving and fundraising.
Pakistan.
long-term sustainable
performance and
A responsible and responsive employer create the greatest A guardian for future generations
value for our
We hired 1,135 interns, Launched the Peppy Health app, a digital stakeholders We have supported 16k We launched NatWest Thrive,
graduates and apprentices product providing colleagues and their young people this year a collaboration between
in 2022, including 171 partners with online support on the through our CareerSense NatWest, the National Youth
apprentices recruited through menopause as well as access to Programme (over 24,000 Agency and Marcus Rashford
our social mobility programmes. specialist clinicians. since launch in June 2021). MBE, aimed at helping young
people feel financially secure
and able to fulfil their potential.
Announced the launch of our new partner Our View colleague £32.6 billion(*) NatWest Thrive has been rolled out to
leave policy which went live in January survey 15 youth clubs, reaching over 800 young
2023. The policy supports all eligible Colleague sentiment on cumulative contribution towards £100 billion climate people across the UK.
colleagues with significantly more time inclusivity remained strong in and sustainable funding and financing target(4)
away from work to help their partner look 2022, maintaining a score of (2021: £8.1bn (between
after their new child, whether the new child 93%, 9% above the Global 1 July - 31 Dec 2021)).
has arrived through birth, adoption or Financial Services Norm and We developed the initial iteration of our Climate
surrogacy. 8% above the Global High transition plan which outlines the steps we aim
to take to at least halve the climate impact of our
Performance Norm.
financing activity by 2030 and achieve our net
zero climate ambition by 2050.
(1) Inclusive of Digital Financial health checks. (3) Represents approximate number of interventions delivered by and individuals supported through enterprise programmes during 2022, which
(2) Includes additional initiatives approved during 2021 and 2022 which met the criteria for inclusion in the financial capability target is based upon data provided by third parties delivering these interventions without further independent verification by NatWest Group.
(4) Between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 9
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
How we engage with stakeholders
We have a reciprocal relationship with all our stakeholders, knowing that when they succeed, so do we. The insights we gain by listening and engaging
with them enable us to improve outcomes for customers, society and the environment. Below we provide some examples of how we collaborate with our
key stakeholders to create value.
How we engaged
The people and businesses we serve • With 1,300 entrepreneurs through the NatWest Group Accelerator programme in 2022, of which 50% were female-led businesses.
Read more about our customers • With our retail customers through face-to-face branch interactions, video banking, data analysis and surveys including Net Promoter Scores. We discussed
on pages 29 to 35, 42 to 44 of the their journeys, our products, usage of their data and reducing fuel costs and carbon footprint.
Customers 2022 Annual Report and Accounts, • With the Carbon Planner tool, which helps users to identify potential cost and carbon savings.
and pages 14 to 29, 34 to 42 of this • Our Board met with customers during a regional visit to Bristol to hear about challenges and opportunities facing these customers and how the bank could best
ESG Disclosures Report support them.
Providers of our capital and funding • With our investors at meetings with our senior management, presentations at industry conferences and investor round tables, where progress on delivery of our
strategy and future priorities, updates on the financial performance of our business, our funding requirements and deep-dives on our franchises were all provided.
Read more about our investors
on page 45 of the 2022 Annual Report • The NatWest Group Chairman, CEO and CFO took part in quarterly results presentations and 169 meetings with our largest investors, discussing progress against
Investors and Accounts s m tr a a c t r e o g e ic c o p n r o io m rit ic ie e s, n f v in ir a o n n c m ia e l n p t e . rformance, interest rate sensitivity, capital returns policy, environmental, social and governance topics, regulation and the
Whose rules and expectations we seek to • With regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority, on managing the financial risks from climate change, including submissions regarding compliance
comply with approach taken to regulatory standards and the Bank of England Climate Biennial Exploratory Scenario.
Read more about our regulators • With Financial Conduct Authority on our implementation of the new Consumer Duty.
Regulators on page 52 of the 2022 Annual Report • Non-executive directors engaged with regulators through continuous assessment and proactive engagement meetings, discussing strategy, financial
and Accounts performance, capital distributions, Board and Committee priorities, Board effectiveness, governance, the risk and control environment, financial crime, ring-fenced bank
independence, Consumer Duty and the cost of living.
The people who deliver our purpose • With our colleagues through our Colleague Experience Squad, employee-led networks, over 1,400 Wellbeing Champions and also through our colleague opinion survey,
Our View, to discuss key issues such as the NatWest Group purpose, wellbeing, inclusion, leadership and reward.
Read more about our colleagues on
pages 46 to 49 of the 2022 Annual Report • With our frontline colleagues through meetings, where we featured climate change awareness, focusing on reducing household energy bills and carbon emissions, as
Colleagues and Accounts, and pages 30 to 32 and 44 well as developing colleagues’ capability to have conversations on climate.
to 47 of this ESG Disclosures Report • The Board proactively engaged with colleagues through the Colleague Advisory Panel on topics including remuneration, our values, customers in vulnerable situations
and future skills.
The places where we can have an impact • With our charity relationships, customer giving channels and colleagues on facilitating customer donations and enabling employee volunteering and fundraising.
For example, together the bank, our customers and colleagues have raised over £12 million for the three DEC appeals in Afghanistan, Ukraine and Pakistan.
Read more about our communities
on pages 50 and 51 of the 2022 Annual • With young people to help them develop money skills and climate change awareness through MoneySense, Island Saver, and our new programme NatWest Thrive.
Communities Report and Accounts, and page 48 • With NGOs, academia and think tanks to discuss progress against NatWest Group’s climate-related ambitions.
and of this ESG Disclosures Report • During meetings with community groups in the southwest of England, the Board gained an insight into our work with these groups and reiterated the Board’s support
and the bank’s commitment to such projects.
Where we source our goods and services • With our key suppliers through regular review meetings with a standing agenda point to discuss the Supplier Charter, which includes elements such as modern slavery
and human rights issues.
Read more about our suppliers
on page 52 of the 2022 Annual Report • By launching a new inherent risk questionnaire to simplify how we interact with our suppliers and stakeholders.
Suppliers and Accounts, and page 43 of this ESG • The Board received training on embedding our purpose in our supply chain and increasing diversity and inclusion with existing and new suppliers.
Disclosures Report
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 10
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Key ESG topics for our stakeholders
Being purpose-led means we strive to create value by Our key ESG topics seen through the Blueprint for Better Business lens.
balancing the different needs of our stakeholders. To
do so we need to understand the issues that matter Key ESG topics In this Other disclosures
most to them. Based on our 2021 in-depth materiality report
assessment, involving a large programme of
Honest and fair with customers and suppliers
stakeholder engagement supported by a third-party
expert, our 2022 approach has been to re-evaluate Financial wellbeing, customers in vulnerable situations and accessibility 25-29, 35-37 Annual Report and Accounts: pages 30-31, 42-43
our key ESG topics and refresh where appropriate to
ensure our list continues to be comprehensive, Financial crime, cyber-security and data protection 39-40, 61 Annual Report and Accounts: pages 64-67, 69; Financial Crime statement
relevant and reflective of our stakeholder
Consumer protection, fair products and marketing 37-39 Annual Report and Accounts: page 52
groups’ perspectives.
Responsible supply chain 43 Annual Report and Accounts: page 52; Supplier Charter
For this assessment, we’ve taken into consideration
the evolving landscape and engaged with a number of A good citizen
internal and external stakeholders. This exercise has
resulted in a more focused list. The findings guide our Enterprise 20-24, 54 Annual Report and Accounts: pages 14-15, 26-27, 34
reporting and decision-making, ensuring we remain
Diversity, equity and inclusion 45, 52 Annual Report and Accounts: pages 48-49, 102-103
focused on the right issues.
Human rights 57 Annual Report and Accounts: page 52; Human Rights Position Statement
Climate, enterprise and learning continue to be the
three focus areas of our purpose, where we can make A responsible and responsive employer
a meaningful contribution and build long-term value in
Colleague learning, fair reward and wellbeing 30-32, 44-47 Annual Report and Accounts: pages 46-47
our business. This year’s review once again confirmed
that, as a responsible business, our approach to a A guardian for future generations
broader range of ESG topics is also of great
significance to our stakeholders. Climate action 14-17, 54 Climate-related Disclosures Report
We’ll continue to re-evaluate annually, by engaging Nature and biodiversity 18-19 Nature and Biodiversity Statement
and working closely with our stakeholders to deepen
Innovation and digitisation 35 Annual Report and Accounts: pages 22, 42-43, 134-137
our understanding of the ESG issues that matter most
to them and their changing expectations of how we Social impacts of financing and lending 41-42 Annual Report and Accounts: page 35
address them.
The progress we’ve made against each of the key ESG topics identified varies and we know we have more to do to strengthen our approach. Topics aligned to
Refer to page 3 for a brief note about some important
our focus areas (or areas which we’ve concentrated on as a responsible business) such as climate action, enterprise, colleague learning, fair reward and
differences in our approach to materiality between
wellbeing and responsible supply chain are well established, and we’ll continue to develop our understanding, monitoring and actions within each.
our regulatory disclosures and our voluntary
ESG disclosures. Other topics such as nature and biodiversity, human rights and the social impacts of financing and lending are less progressed and will continue to require
attention as we further develop our ability to measure and respond to these topics. Details of our actions and how we’ve delivered against all of our topics are
described throughout this document.
Informing strategic decision-making
Identifying the key ESG topics for our stakeholders
Our starting point for key ESG topics for 2022 was based on the findings from our For our review in 2022 We engaged in a number of A dedicated cross-function
2021 full refresh which included extensive desk research, a quantitative survey of we considered societal internal and external stakeholder working group completed
approximately 2,500 consumers (including NatWest Group customers) and qualitative megatrends, sustainability listening exercises to understand analysis of the findings to ensure
interviews with representatives across all our stakeholder groups, as well as frameworks, industry how the current environment we all stakeholder groups have been
members of the executive team. For 2022, the 2021 findings were re-evaluated to developments and operate in is impacting stakeholders considered and the bank-wide
ensure our key ESG topics continue to be comprehensive, relevant and reflective of NatWest Group’s top expectations of NatWest Group’s perspective is reflected in our
our stakeholders’ perspectives given the fast-changing environment we operate in. and emerging risks. approach to key ESG topics. key ESG topics for 2022.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 11
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
How we create value
Guided by our purpose and informed by the needs of our stakeholders, we aim to create value that has a positive impact on our environment and wider society.
Our key relationships Human Financial Infrastructure
and resources • Strong and deep customer relationships • Strong balance sheet • Property and technology infrastructure
• Capable and diverse talent pipeline • Focused capital allocation • Partnerships and collaborations to enable
• Healthy inclusive culture • Sustainability as a driver for a diverse and sustainable supply chain
• Creative and innovative partnerships value creation
• Positive contribution to communities • Intelligent approach to risk
Our approach to running a safe and secure bank Value created for stakeholders and society during the year
79% Over £10 million Over 72k 76k hours
Customer relationships of our lending exposure, as at 31 December raised to support relief efforts for the Disasters trees planted by our UK volunteered by our colleagues
2019, covered by 2030 sector targets validated Emergency Committee (DEC) Ukraine Appeal colleagues in partnership to help local communities.
We support our customers with financial
as science-based by the Science Based Targets by NatWest Group, and through with The Conservation
services that meet their needs, and which £3.8 million raised for good causes
initiative (SBTi) customer and colleague donations Volunteers
include keeping their funds safe and by colleague giving and fundraising
secure, improving financial capability and
supporting enterprise.
Products Over 167 NatWest Group’s systems enabled
and services Robust governance Revenues and £80 million colleagues re-skilled over 19,500
returns
W c o o f e m b a p p n r r o k e v i h n id e g e n f s i a n iv a e n r c a ia n l ge a W pp e r o f h r a a a c v h e m t a o e n g w i o n v t o e e g r rn r k a a t n e c d e , cha W rg e e f e r d o a o m rn n i i n l n e t c n e o d r m e in s g e t o i t n h f e e C q U o u u K it t y t E s n g ’ t r c e o li r w e p n t r t h is s e ’ f u c F n a u d p n i i n t d a g l f m or o b S i M lis E e s d in a p s ro p g a r r a t m o m f a e formal n m of e o w 4 r 7 t g c % a u s g fr t e o o m m on e 2 li r n 0 s e 2 t , 1 o a a n p in p c ly r e fo a r s e a
services to personal, ensuring purpose is
to our customers
business and embedded within our
and fees from
commercial corporate governance
transactions and
customers via our framework.
other services.
businesses. MoneySense has helped 46% 0.5 million(*) £2.9 billion(*)
11.5 million
reduction in emissions in our direct additional customers helped to Retail Banking Green Mortgage completions
young people learn about money own operations(1) (2021: 44%)(5) start saving during FY 2022 since launch(4) (2021: £0.7 billion)
Partners and networks
since it launched in 1994 against the 2023 target(2)
We are powered by innovation and FY20, FY21 & FY22:
partnerships, working with a diverse range of 1.7m(3)
partners to help shape our business strategy
and deliver positive outcomes for
customers and society.
Strategic priorities
Supporting customers at Simple to Powered by innovation Sharpened capital
every stage of their lives deal with and partnerships allocation
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70. (3) Includes additional 144k customers for 2021 and 2020. The customers helped start to save criteria was revised in April 2022 to reflect
(1) Against a 2019 baseline. Direct own operations is defined as Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (paper, water, waste, business travel, products aligned to the ambition.
commuting and work from home) emissions. It excludes upstream and downstream emissions from our value chain. (4) Since launch in Q4 2020. Retail Banking Green Mortgage products only. Green mortgages are available to all intermediaries for all
(2) Includes instances where customers had savings with other banks and transferred them to their NatWest Group account. residential and Buy to Let properties with an energy performance rating of A or B and specific new build developer properties. Available
for purchase, porting and re-mortgage applications.
(5) Historic values are updated from values reported in 2021. This is due to updated bills, data provision and extrapolations.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 12
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Collective action
We take collective action through our signatory status and memberships to move forward as a responsible business. In collaboration with our various
partners, we have progressed a number of key initiatives throughout 2022.
UN Principles for Responsible UN Global During 2022 we continued our participation in the UN Global Compact, publishing our annual
Banking Compact Communication on Progress. We continued our participation in the Making Global Goals Local Working
Group and the Modern Slavery Working Group, and we supported the webinar series on social mobility
We were founding signatories of the
with funding and speakers.
UN Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB)
in 2019 and our ambition is to align our
strategy with the 2015 Paris Agreement and UN Sustainable Financial Markets We chaired the FMSB ESG Ratings Working Group, to produce a White Paper examining ESG rating
Development Goals (SDGs). Standards Board methodologies and data collection processes that has fed into International Organisation of Securities
(FMSB) Commissions (IOSCO), European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and Financial Conduct
In 2022, we joined the PRB Framework Review Taskforce. Authority (FCA) working groups on the matter.
The Review Taskforce updated the PRB self-assessment report
template and the new version launched in September 2022.
Transition Plan The Transition Plan Taskforce (TPT) was launched by HM Treasury in April 2022 to develop the gold
We have adopted this new template and, in line with requirements
Taskforce (TPT) standard for private sector climate transition plans. Our CEO sits on the steering group, enabling
for our third self-assessment, elements of our PRB reporting
NatWest Group to support the development and implementation of the UK’s Sustainability Disclosure
are subject to limited assurance.
Requirements.
Full details of our third self-assessment can be found
in the ESG Frameworks Appendix Sustainable NatWest Group is proud to be a founding partner of the Sustainable Markets Initiative (SMI). Alison Rose
Markets Initiative DBE, was invited to speak at the SMI’s CEO Summit held as part of New York Climate Week and we
(SMI) jointly ran a collaborative event at COP27 to drive collective action to transition the agricultural
UN Sustainable Development Goals ecosystem. NatWest Group was awarded the SMI’s Terra Carta Seal in 2022.
Our Climate, Learning and Enterprise ambitions are aligned
to seven UN SDGs where we believe we can make Business in the We were a partner of Business in the Community’s (BITC) 40th anniversary celebrations during 2022
a positive contribution. Community (BITC) and remain signatories to the Mental Health at Work Commitment and the Race at Work Charter.
We support BITC Regional Leadership Boards across the UK and funded a pilot in Coventry
The SDGs are included as indicative guidance of each green and Bradford to support 202 small businesses, which included 127 women entrepreneurs
asset definition in our Green, Social and Sustainability Financing and 140 business owners from ethnic minority background.
Framework and are illustrated against each criterion category of
our climate and sustainable funding and financing inclusion criteria.
Chartered Institute We are the first financial services organisation to become a CIPD People Development Partner (PDP).
Our policies, including our Human Rights Position Statement, our of Personnel and NatWest is strongly aligned with the CIPD Profession Map, which is principles-led, evidence-based and
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement and our Development outcomes-driven. We have delivered sessions to help colleagues understand the map and where their
Supplier Charter, reinforce our ambition to support SDGs. (CIPD) roles sit within it. Our human resources team also participated in a ‘data boot camp’ as part of our
ambition to develop future skills.
In addition to highlighting activity related to the SDGs aligned to
our focus areas, case studies included throughout this document B Corporation In July 2021, Coutts became the first UK-headquartered private bank to become B Corp certified. Since
reference positive impacts mapped against other SDGs. (B Corp) the certification, Coutts has engaged with more than 75 clients and 12 suppliers about achieving B Corp
status and also worked with NatWest Group’s purpose-led Accelerator to support 130 entrepreneurs
Read more on the embedding of SDGs into our strategy Coutts only and business leaders by providing a deep dive into the B Corp certification journey and encouraging
them to take the B Impact Assessment (BIA) as a strategic exercise for their businesses.
Read more on our external commitments and reporting NatWest Group is not a Certified B Corp. Coutts is currently the only Certified B Corp business in the NatWest Group
standards
Read more on our external awards and recognition Science Based Targets initiative During 2022 we published 2030 sector-specific targets validated by the SBTi as science based. NatWest
(SBTi) Group’s initial iteration of our Climate transition plan focuses on the delivery of our 2030 decarbonisation
ambitions and our SBTi targets.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 13
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Strategy Climate
Climate
We have an ambition to be a leading bank in the UK
helping address the climate challenge.
Throughout 2022 we continued to enhance our
assessment and measurement of climate-related risks
and opportunities. This work has guided the development
of the initial iteration of our Climate transition plan.
The plan outlines the steps we aim to take to at least halve
the climate impact of our financing activity by 2030 and
achieve our net zero climate ambition by 2050.
Read more in our 2022 Climate-related
Disclosures Report
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 14
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Our climate strategy
Our purpose is to champion potential. Helping people, families and businesses to thrive.
Our climate ambition is to be a leading bank in the UK, helping address the climate challenge.
We have an ambition to be net zero by 2050 across our financed emissions, assets under management (AuM) and our operational value chain
Our 2030 climate ambitions
We have an ambition to at least halve the climate We plan to reduce carbon intensity of our in-scope AuM We plan to reduce emissions for
impact of our financing activity by 2030, against a 2019 by 50% by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, and to move our operational value chain by
baseline, and align with the 2015 Paris Agreement. 70% of in-scope AuM to a net-zero trajectory.(1) 50%, against a 2019 baseline.
How we are helping to address the climate challenge
Supporting customer Helping to end Powerful Getting our own
transition to net zero the most harmful partnerships house in order
activities and collaborations
We have a target to provide £100 billion climate We plan to phase-out of coal for UK and We plan to collaborate cross industry Each year, we plan to include targets for executive
and sustainable funding and financing between non-UK customers who have UK coal and create products and services to remuneration that reflect our latest climate ambitions.
1 July 2021 and the end of 2025. As part of this production, coal fired generation and coal enable customers to track their
We plan to continue the integration of the financial and
we aim to provide at least £10 billion in lending related infrastructure by 1 October 2024, carbon impact.
non-financial risks arising from climate change into our
for EPC A and B rated residential properties with a full global phase-out by
enterprise-wide risk management framework (EWRMF).
between 1 January 2023 and the end of 2025. 1 January 2030.
We have a target to reduce our direct own operations
We have an ambition to support our UK
emissions by 50% by 2025, against a 2019 baseline.
mortgage customers to increase their residential
energy efficiency and incentivise purchasing of We plan to use only renewable electricity in our direct own
the most energy efficient homes, with an global operations by 2025 (RE100) and improve our energy
ambition that 50% of our mortgage portfolio has productivity 40% by 2025 against a 2015 baseline (EP100).
an EPC rating of C or above by 2030.
We plan to install electric vehicle charging infrastructure in 15%
of spaces across our UK portfolio by 2030 and upgrade our
fleet of around 100 vehicles to electric by 2025 (EV100).
Achievement of our Climate ambitions is dependent on timely, appropriate government policy, technology developments, as well as on our customers and society to respond. At the same time, as a purpose-led organisation, we aim to engage and support our
customers’ transition to a net-zero economy. Refer to section 3.4 of the 2022 NatWest Group plc Climate-related Disclosures Report for further details. For further detail on our climate ambitions and SBTi targets refer to sections 1.3 and 3.3 of the 2022
NatWest Group plc Climate-related Disclosures Report.
(1) Refer to pages 38 to 39 of the Net Zero Asset Managers Initiative’s Initial Target Disclosure Report (May 2022).
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 15
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Climate progress highlights
We want to deliver a more sustainable economy and future for the customers and communities we serve. Helping to address the climate challenge – one of the biggest issues of our time – lies at the core of
our purpose.
Our ambition(1) 2022 progress highlights
Net Zero 79% £32.6bn(*)
by 2050 across our financed emissions, assets under of our lending exposure, as at 31 December 2019, covered by cumulative contribution towards £100bn climate
management and operational value chain. 2030 sector targets validated by the Science Based Targets and sustainable funding and financing target(2)
initiative (SBTi) (£24.5bn(*) in 2022).
2021: £8.1bn (1 July - 31 December)
-50% 50% 41.5%(*) £2.9bn(*)
at least halve the climate impact of our of our UK mortgage customers’ homes of our UK mortgage customers’ homes rated as EPC C Retail Banking Green Mortgage completions
financing activity by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, at or above EPC C rating by 2030 or above, as percentage of homes for which EPCs are since launch(3)
and align with the 2015 Paris Agreement available (£138.8bn or 68% of Retail Banking portfolio)
2021: £0.7bn since launch
2021: 38.3%(8)
£100bn 50% 46% £0.3bn(*)
climate and sustainable funding and financing reduction in emissions from our direct own operations reduction in emissions from our direct own operations Exposure to in-scope coal customers(5).
provided between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025. by 2025, against a 2019 baseline(4) since 2019(4) £0.9bn(*) exposure to oil and gas majors(5)
As part of this we aim to provide at least £10 billion in
2021: 44%(8) 2021: £0.6bn (coal) and £0.8bn (oil and gas majors)
lending for EPC A and B rated residential properties
between 1 January 2023 and the end of 2025.
50% Full phase out of coal by 330,000+ Climate transition plan
1 January 2030
Developed the initial iteration of our Climate transition
plan, reflecting our 2022 Say on Climate resolution,
reduction in emissions from our operational value Customers accessed our carbon tracking tools,
which received 92.58% of votes cast in favour.
chain by 2030, against a 2019 baseline developed in collaboration with Cogo and available
through our Retail Banking mobile app(6)
(1) Refer to section 1.2, 1.3 and 3.3 of the 2022 Climate-related Disclosures Report for further detail on our climate (5) As defined in the Credible Transition Plan (CTP) assessment. Refer to pages 30 – 31 of the
ambitions and SBTi targets. NatWest Group plc 2021 Climate-related Disclosures Report for further details on the assessment
(2) Between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025. of CTPs for oil and gas majors and in-scope coal customers. Increases in oil and gas exposure
in 2022 are largely attributable to foreign exchange movement.
(3) Since launch in Q4 2020. Retail Banking Green Mortgage products only. Green mortgages are available to all
intermediaries for all residential and Buy to Let properties with an energy performance rating of A or B and (6) Retail Banking RBS, NatWest and Ulster Bank Northern Ireland mobile apps.
(SDG 7.1, 7.2, 13.1, specific new build developer properties. Available for Purchase, Porting and Re-mortgage applications. (7) For further details of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), see Strategy section, page 13.
13.3, 13.3, 17.7)(7) (4) Direct own operations is defined as Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (paper, water, waste, business travel, (8) Historic values are updated from values reported in 2021. This is due to updated bills, data provision and
commuting and work from home) emissions. It excludes upstream and downstream emissions from our value extrapolations.
chain. (*) Within scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 16
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Funding the
drive to
clean transport
Championing sustainability £241 million, which will enable it to service and finance We believe this financing
ambitions up to 430 new e-buses in the UK and Republic of
will have a real-world
Ireland.
NatWest Group has set out a Having worked with NatWest Group on an innovative impact for accelerating
clear ambition to be a leading
financing facility in 2021, turned to our team
bank in the UK helping to address the UK’s drive to electrify
again to advise on a multi-source debt structure to
the climate challenge. A key part
help accelerate the expansion of the EV fleet sector. its public road transport
of this is providing financing structures for businesses
that are developing sustainable energy. Our One Bank team, comprising colleagues from system.
Private Placements, Specialist Asset Financing,
One such business is electric vehicle fleet and battery
Risk Solutions, ESG Advisory and Climate & ESG
storage specialist . Established in 2017, Capital Markets, collectively delivered a bespoke installation, financing and operation of electrical
currently works with the majority of major bus funding package. This incorporated green loans and charging infrastructure and buses in the depot.
operators in the UK, as well as local authority-owned
private placements that adhered to the Loan Market
bus companies, to electrify their fleets and minimise This is a clear example of our purpose in action:
Association’s Green Loan Principles, attracting
the lifetime costs of their electric vehicles (EV) and building relationships with businesses such as
institutional investors and bank lenders.
charging infrastructure. The company also provides , championing its potential and empowering
battery storage solutions to grid operators, We believe this financing will have a real-world impact it to deliver on its sustainability ambitions.
accelerating the uptake of renewables. for accelerating the UK’s drive to electrify its public Watch the
story online
road transport system.
By 2025, aims to have a fleet of at least
3,000 EV buses, and 1GW of battery storage. Combined with ’s technical expertise, the
financing enables the company to offer end-to-end The QR code above directs to a case study video on our 2022
To support this ambition, the company has established services to the bus operators including the design, Annual Report webpage. None of the information on that webpage
a funding platform with an initial volume of (including the case study video) is, or should be read as being,
incorporated by reference into this report.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 17
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Nature, biodiversity and climate change
At NatWest Group we view climate change, natural resource scarcity, biodiversity loss, and their
associated impacts, as significant dangers to the livelihoods of our customers and society at large,
both now and in the years to come.
In 2022, NatWest Group was proud to be awarded The Sustainable Markets
Initiative’s 2022 Terra Carta Seal(1), recognising our work on, and momentum
towards, the creation of sustainable markets. As we continue to increase our
understanding of nature-related risks and opportunities, we recognise that
collaboration with expert partners can deliver insight both for NatWest Group
and the wider community.
Key activities during 2022 include:
Supporting • Our climate and sustainable funding and financing inclusion criteria include lending to
customer activities that protect and restore biodiversity, such as regenerative farming practices. The
transition to criteria define the activities that contribute to our target of providing £100 billion climate
net zero and sustainable funding and financing between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025.
• We advocated ambitious policy incentives, including environmental land management Understanding nature-related
schemes, to reward sustainable farming practices towards net-zero targets and improve
agricultural resilience to climate change(2). We were also pleased to continue our financial risks
collaboration with the Global Farm Metric to help measure the sustainability of farming.
Helping to • Continuing our long-standing management of soft commodities that are associated with a In April 2022 NatWest Group collaborated with the fertiliser costs increase nearly three-fold in 2022
end the most higher risk of deforestation, in December 2022 we updated our ESE risk acceptance University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability compared to 2021. While results showed that such
harmful criteria to clarify we intend to stop lending and loan underwriting to producers of soft Leadership and Banking Environment Initiative to a rise in prices would be largely mitigated by a
activities commodities (such as palm oil, soy and cocoa) operating in tropical regions who have not publish a nature-related financial risk use case commensurate increase in food prices, the second
obtained sustainable certification of their direct soft commodities activities and supply chain focused on land degradation and UK farmers. As scenario highlighted benefits of positive land
by 31 December 2024. one of the UK’s largest lenders to the agricultural management practices.
sector, we wanted to understand the potential
• NatWest Group continues to voluntarily report against the soft commodities that have high While further research is required, future
financial risks to arable farming producers.
deforestation-related risks for the UK, including rubber, cocoa, pulp and paper, leather and exploration can be integrated into the development
beef, palm oil, soy and timber. The use case indicated that some arable of NatWest Group’s Global Farm Metric. This
businesses on highly degraded land could suffer as common framework of sustainability metrics and
Building • We are working with Palladium to support Revere, a collaboration with UK National Parks much as a 40% reduction in crop yields following an accompanying assessment tool will, once
powerful that aims to increase investment in natural capital and help secure a sustainable future for extreme weather event such as a heatwave, while developed, enable farmers to measure their
partnerships the UK’s best-loved protected landscapes. Restoration projects generate nature-related average declines would be approximately 5%. A environmental and social impact.
and income through the valuation and sale of ecosystem services. second scenario examined the vulnerability of
degraded land to a spike in fertiliser prices – a Read more on financial risks
collaborations • We collaborate with University of Exeter’s ‘Renewing biodiversity through a people-in-
timely analysis given that UK farmers have seen and land degradation
nature approach’ (RENEW) project will work with landowners, businesses, and communities
to restore woodlands, wetlands and farmland across England, Northern Ireland, Scotland
and Wales – focusing on the role of business and financial decision-makers.
Getting our • We purchased 120,000 tCOe in carbon credits to mitigate our direct own operational
2 Learn more about our approach to responsible lending and financing
own house in emissions. These credits are assured under the Verified Carbon Standard
order and Triple Gold certified to the Climate, Community & Biodiversity Alliance Standards. Nature and Biodiversity Statement Soft Commodities Compact Reporting
Forestry, Fisheries and Agribusiness Risk Climate and Sustainable Funding
Acceptance Criteria and Financing Inclusion Criteria
(1) For further details on the Terra Carta Seal, see https://www.sustainable-markets.org/terra-carta-seal/intro
(2) Refer to ‘Financing nature-positive transition in the agriculture sector’
https://www.natwest.com/content/dam/natwest/business-insights/documents/nw-sustainable-agriculture-pdf.pdf
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 18
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Preparing for nature-related financial disclosures
The United Nations Biodiversity Conference (COP15) was chaired by China and hosted by Canada
in December 2022. COP15 concluded with the adoption of the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity
Framework (GBF), which aims to address biodiversity loss, restore ecosystems and protect
indigenous rights. The GBF also includes 23 targets to achieve before 2030, including mobilising
public and private funding and requiring companies and financial institutions to monitor, assess,
and transparently disclose their risks, dependencies and impacts on biodiversity. As a purpose-led
organisation, we know we need to play our part.
Governance Risk and impact management
The NatWest Group Plc Board is responsible for Since 2021, we classify “biodiversity and nature loss”
promoting the long-term sustainable success of as a formal emerging risk for NatWest Group. The
NatWest Group and is supported by the Group activities of our customers can also pose ESE risks –
Sustainable Banking Committee in doing this. In 2022 including polluting activities, destruction of habitats
we updated the responsibilities of our Sustainable and the potential for human rights infringements.
Banking Committee to include oversight of progress
Our ESE framework forms part of NatWest Group’s
on broader environmental themes such as biodiversity,
overall reputational risk policy requiring enhanced
forests and water. Our Climate Change Executive
due diligence to be performed for certain lending
Steering Committee has also received updates and
and loan underwriting customer relationships,
discussed emerging environmental issues and nature
transactions, activities and projects in higher risk
focused projects like the Global Farm Metric during
sectors and activities.
the course of 2022.
Our policies reflect applicable national and international
Strategy laws and confirm that we expect our customers
We understand that nature can play an important role to adhere to local and international environmental,
in addressing the adverse impacts of climate change social and human rights standards. The policies
through its capacity to store carbon, mitigate physical also incorporate voluntary standards including the Framework developments
risks and support resilient communities. Equator Principles and the UN Global Compact.
We seek to reduce the most harmful impacts arising Read more about our approach to ESE
from our lending activity through our environmental, and reputation risk management.
social and ethical (ESE) sector-based lending policies, NatWest Group is contributing to collective action • further developing our understanding
In 2022, NatWest Markets N.V. piloted an
which are further explained under Risk and impact on environmental issues through exploratory of our environmental impacts, dependencies,
initial, limited, environmental risk materiality
management. collaborative groups, including the TNFD Forum. risks and opportunities, and linkage to other
assessment, with the aim to understand how
In support of this group’s objectives, we continue sustainability issues;
Our climate and sustainable funding and financing environmental risks could potentially impact
inclusion criteria (CSFFI) include the creation, NatWest Markets N.V.’s lending book. to explore the emerging TNFD guidance, share • developing our ability to measure environmental
protection, management and restoration of learnings with other organisations, and provide impacts, dependencies, risks and opportunities;
feedback to the taskforce.
biodiversity, habitat, and ecosystems; activities that Metrics and targets • exploring how we can develop our existing
improve water and soil quality; regenerative farming NatWest Group recognises the importance for Specifically, we expect these activities to contribute governance, strategy and risk management
practices; and activities that maximise environmental investors and other stakeholders to understand how towards: capabilities in relation to managing our
net gains by promoting biodiversity and nature-based we measure and monitor our environmental impacts, environmental impacts, dependencies,
solutions. These inclusion criteria define the activities dependencies, risks and opportunities. risks and opportunities;
that contribute to our ambition to provide £100 billion • collaborating with partners to build insights
of climate and sustainable funding and financing During 2023, we will continue to explore existing and and data assets; and
between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025. emerging frameworks like the Taskforce for Nature-
related Disclosures (TNFD) beta framework, other • identifying any capability or knowledge gaps
measurement methodologies and available data- for NatWest Group.
sources to identify the most meaningful, comparable
and robust metrics to measure our environmental
impacts, dependencies, risks and opportunities.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 19
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Strategy Enterprise
Enterprise
As a purpose-led bank, our ambition is to help
businesses to thrive, remove the barriers to enterprise
and champion anyone starting or growing a business.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 20
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Enterprise progress highlights
Our ambition 2022 progress highlights
250,000 269,000(*)
interventions delivered to start, interventions delivered to start,
run or grow a business in 2022 (1) run or grow a business (1)
(SDG 8.3) 2021: c.200,000
35,000 30,000 53,000(*) 48,000(*)
individuals and businesses supported through youth interventions supported through enterprise individuals and businesses supported through youth interventions supported through
enterprise programmes in 2022 (1) and entrepreneurship activity (3) (SDG 8.3) enterprise programmes (1) enterprise and entrepreneurship activity (3)
(SDG 8.3)
2021: c.55,000
75% 60% 90%(*) 59%(*)
of support based in regions outside London and the of support provided to women (2) of support based in region outside London and the of support provided to women (2)
South East England2) (SDG 8.3, 5.5) South East England (2)
(SDG 8.3, 10.2)
2021: c.75%
2021: c.60%
20% 20% 34%(*) 32%(*)
of support provided to individuals from ethnic of support provided to those with a purpose-led of support provided to individuals from ethnic minority of support provided to those with a purpose-led
minority backgrounds(2) business or business idea (2) backgrounds. (2) business or business idea (2)
(SDG 8.3, 10.2) (SDG 8.3, 10.2)
2021: c.26% 2021: c.52%
(1) Represents approximate number of interventions delivered and individuals supported through enterprise
programmes during 2022, which is based upon data provided by third parties delivering these interventions
without further independent verification by NatWest Group.
(2) Demographics cover uniquely supported individuals and youth interventions supported.
(3) Youth interventions supported through enterprise and entrepreneurship activity is a new metric introduced in
2022.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 21
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Removing barriers to enterprise
Enterprise is the cornerstone of success and the lifeblood stimulating economic growth of the wider UK economy. As a purpose-led bank, we want to remove barriers to enterprise and champion anyone
starting or growing a business. However, we know that, for many, this remains harder than it should be.
As a purpose-led bank, our ambition is to help 100 Female Entrepreneurs to Watch Supporting businesses and entrepreneurs
businesses to thrive and to become the biggest In collaboration with The Telegraph and the Rose from ethnic minority backgrounds
supporter of start-ups in the UK. In 2022, Review board, we launched the 100 Female This is an opportune moment for NatWest Group
we supported 53,000(*) individuals and businesses Entrepreneurs to Watch list which celebrates women to champion enterprise and entrepreneurial activities
through 269,000(*) interventions to start, run in business who are at the beginning of their journeys in the UK’s diverse communities. We are forming
or grow a business. We engaged 48,000(*) young with high potential to grow their businesses. an entrepreneur forum made up of EMB owners
adults in enterprise and entrepreneurship activity.
which will give us first hand insight into how
#SheMeansBusiness we can better serve our EMB communities.
Advancing female entrepreneurship
We collaborated with the social technology company We are also creating an internal working group
Rose Review Meta on the ‘She Means Business’ campaign to offer made up of representatives from taskforces
female business owners financial-readiness and digital and different business areas to address feedback
In February 2022, Alison Rose DBE, the Chief
skills training, alongside business support including provided by the entrepreneur forum where possible.
Executive Officer of NatWest Group, and Paul Scully
opportunities to grow business connections
MP, then Minister for Small Business, published the and networks. As well as collaborating with CREME and Aston Enterprise Hubs
third Rose Review Progress Report. University on Time to Change, our SME
The collaboration builds on our strong relationship Transformation Taskforce is working with key
The 2022 progress report demonstrated the and NatWest
with Meta and leverages our joint scale and expertise stakeholders to break down barriers to finance
exceptional resilience of female entrepreneurs
to support more women from across the UK to start for EMBs. We are also a member of the all-party
throughout the pandemic. The initial Rose Review, Group Accelerator
up and succeed in business. parliamentary groups that support EMBs.
published in 2019, highlighted that if women in the UK
started and scaled businesses at the same rate as We are working to build trust with and maintain Programme
Time to Change
men, it would have the potential to add £250 billion to a presence in EMB communities through our
the UK economy. The 2022 report showed that since To accelerate the push for a more inclusive economy, collaboration with organisations such as Black Seed, In 2022, we supported 1,300 entrepreneurs
2019 more women than ever are starting new in May 2022 NatWest Group and the Centre for as well as our regional partners. We acknowledge through the NatWest Group Accelerator
companies, outstripping growth in male-led firms for Research in Ethnic Minority Entrepreneurship (CREME) building trust-based relationships will require our programme, of which 50% were female-led
the first time. at Aston University published Time to Change, a colleagues to expand their knowledge and skills, so we businesses. We expanded our footprint to 13
report exploring the challenges faced by Ethnic
In June 2022, the second Investing in Women Code Minority Business (EMB) communities in the UK. are exploring developing tools that will further enable Enterprise Hubs across the UK to further
report was published. There are now over 160 positive interactions between our colleagues and EMB enhance local and regional ecosystems and
signatories to the code which demonstrates financial The report highlights key challenges faced by EMBs in customers and communities. networks, and provide modern co-working space
services firms’ commitment to improve female the UK and presents 10 evidence-based for entrepreneurs. During 2022, we continued to
entrepreneurs’ access to tools, resources and finance, recommendations inviting policymakers, corporations Regional Board partners deliver our Accelerator Programme through
a 50% increase compared to 2021. and entrepreneurs to come together in a strategic Our Regional Boards work with local support in-person and virtual coaching sessions,
collaboration to build trust in EMB communities and organisations and partners to deliver grants to support workshops, thought-leadership, and events. By
Also in 2022, as part of the Women Angel Investment provide ethnic minority-owned businesses more inclusive entrepreneurship and focus on helping offering access to expertise and a network of
Taskforce, we established Women Backing Women bespoke and impactful support. women and individuals from disadvantaged or like-minded peers, the programme removes
– an angel investor campaign to support women to under-represented groups overcome the hurdles to multiple barriers to enterprise, empowering UK
become business angels and give female founders The report’s innovative and solutions-based approach starting a business. In 2022, our Regional Boards entrepreneurs to scale their businesses to the
across the UK access to early-stage investment. provides a blueprint for advancing the growth delivered 17,000 interventions and supported over next level. In addition, we continued our specialist
potential of EMBs in the UK. If implemented, its
3,000 women in business, including 1,300 from an Accelerators to bring network support to
As a bank, we have over 1,000 independently recommendations could increase EMB’s contribution
ethnic minority background. Of the businesses high-growth businesses in specific sectors across
accredited Women in Business specialists. These to the UK economy from £25 billion to £100 billion
supported, over 500 were purpose-led and 89% of our the UK. This included working with leading
specialists recognise that women often benefit from Gross Value Added (GVA).
support was to individuals based outside London and growth sector and industry partners to deliver
a different approach to banking and building
the southeast of England. programmes on topics such as clean transport,
relationships, and can provide tailored support,
circular economy, and interactive entertainment.
expertise and access to finance for female
entrepreneurs facing barriers to starting
or growing a business.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 22
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Championing diverse entrepreneurship
Support for purpose-led businesses This collaboration drives our ambition to support the Supporting access to expertise Cost of living support for SMEs
future of entrepreneurship across the UK to life and In 2022 we launched the Business Cost of Living Hub,
Big Society Capital Business Builder
demonstrates the impact of an entrepreneurial providing universal access to a range of content and
NatWest Group continued to support Big Society education on the outcomes for young people in the Business Builder is our online tool providing learning tools for all UK SMEs. Our dedicated hub contains
Capital as a shareholder and one of the founding workplace. resources to support businesses at all stages of their helpful resources, such as: a free cashflow tool, energy
members. In 2022, we celebrated their 10th lifecycle. It provides users with a wide range of
calculator, supply chain navigator, sector support, and
anniversary and supported their new strategy to SME Transformation taskforce resources in one place and forms part of our wider Workplace wellbeing resources. To support and
better meet the needs of purpose-driven businesses. phased journey to personalise and simplify support
Taskforce boards that meet on regularly across key provide certainty to our SME customers in these
We also provided support to the Big Society Capital for businesses.
regions and discuss the challenges impacting UK challenging times, we have frozen all Business Current
board through a bank representative board member.
SMEs, including COVID-19 and Cost of Living. We have developed new modules aligned to the needs Account fees and tariffs, committing to not making
The boards work in collaboration with both public of businesses and focused on issues like the cost of any increases to these published fees for a minimum
Social and Community Capital
and private organisations, not only to share trading, financial resilience and action tools to support of 12 months. We also launched our Green Loans and
NatWest Social & Community Capital, a charity funded knowledge but also to help us to find effective energy and cost saving. Green Asset Finance propositions for qualifying SMEs,
and supported by NatWest Group, was shortlisted solutions and support available for UK SMEs. with no arrangement fee, and reduced the lower
in the Social Investment Deal of the Year category Digital Boost threshold on our Green Asset Finance offering from
at the 2022 Social Enterprise UK awards for the Supporting high-growth businesses £50,000 to £25,001, ensuring that more businesses
We built on our relationship with Digital Boost to
funding deal they were able to offer social-led business In April 2022, we launched our high growth support SME recovery and drive inclusive economic can access funding to help transition to more
Northumbria Youth Action. This gave the business proposition. Open to all UK businesses, this focuses on growth. During 2022, Digital Boost supported over sustainable practices, in turn reducing costs
access to support and funding to continue trading three key stages of business growth: early growth, 4,000 individuals through its mentoring sessions and in the long term.
and develop young people’s skills to help them
sustained growth and scaling up. By answering three the collaboration has evolved to deliver bespoke
enter employment.
short online questions about investments, turnover programmes, including the Small Business Bootcamp
and annual growth rate, businesses can tell us where offered as part of the Go Beyond competition run by
Support for young enterprise
they are on their growth journey, allowing us to direct NatWest Group and Meta, and through our Access
The Prince’s Trust them to the most relevant support, and products to Business Experts initiative.
tailored to the customer to take their business to the
Through our long-standing relationship of over 40
next stage.
years with The Prince’s Trust, we support young
people from harder-to-reach communities. Together,
UK Enterprise Fund
we provided entrepreneurs aged 18 to 30 access to
grant funding and offered tailored support to maintain In collaboration with BGF, Coutts has continued to
their core business operations throughout the support UK SMEs with the UK Enterprise Fund (UKEF),
COVID-19 pandemic. which provides a unique opportunity for clients to
invest in a diversified portfolio of UK-based growth
During 2022, 520 young adults were supported stage private companies. Inspired by the Rose Review
through the NatWest Group’s funded enterprise of Female Entrepreneurship, the Fund looks to address
programme, including 63% women, 27 % individuals the funding gap for entrepreneurs across the UK,
from ethnic minority backgrounds and 78% people while offering clients a scalable approach to investing
based outside London. Since we launched the fund in in commercially established businesses. Over
2021, £366,170 has been distributed in grants to 840 £80 million of Coutts client capital has been mobilised
young people to help them test their business ideas. across UKEF 1 and 2, with UKEF 3 due to launch in
later in 2023. £34 million has been invested across the
Dream Bigger two funds so far (with the UKEF 2 portfolio still being
NatWest Dream Bigger aims to inspire young people built), with BGF co-investing over £340 million
across the UK through entrepreneurship education, alongside this into 55 businesses. 21% of the
raising their confidence and improving employability investment has gone towards female-led businesses
outcomes for 16 to 18-year-olds in preparation for the and 22% of companies are addressing climate change.
future world of work. We were proud to sponsor the The Fund is also supported by wider BGF and
National Careers Challenge for a third year running NatWest Group initiatives which include support
in 2022. female-led businesses, such as assistance to help get
investment ready.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 23
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Image TBU
Championing
potential
of diverse
enterprises
Championing the potential of We were first able to support Rosie through the To date, 134 young people have been supported
UK businesses is about more NatWest Group Accelerator programme by providing through the programme. It’s a fantastic achievement
than just providing financial one-to-one coaching, access to mentors and industry that not only speaks to Rosie’s vision, but also to the
backing. experts, and networking with a community of opportunities created when businesses get the support
like-minded entrepreneurs, as well as hot-desking to thrive.
For us, it’s about helping to space at our commercial offices in Birmingham.
remove the barriers to enterprise. Through the Accelerator programme, Rosie received
We know we can play a key role in inspiring future support to expand her company and open multiple Through the Accelerator,
generations to develop their skills, experience and retail outlets across the Midlands. Rosie received support to
business ideas, and ultimately to achieve their goals. The company has gone from strength to strength,
expand her company and
A great example of this is our support for Birmingham- expanding its operations from individual customer
based social enterprise Miss Macaroon. Founded by orders to catering for wholesale businesses. With the open multiple retail outlets
Rosie Ginday MBE in 2011, the company combines a development of a unique colour-matching service,
passion for producing premium-quality food and a Miss Macaroon has also attracted major corporate across the Midlands.
desire to help young people gain the skills and clients such as John Lewis.
confidence to change their lives. Importantly, Miss Macaroon’s commercial success has Watch the
Starting life with a small kitchen space and just £500 enabled its social purpose, helping to deliver the story online
in capital, Miss Macaroon has now produced over MacsMAD programme which provides young people
three million macaroons for global brands, royalty and who often have multiple and complex needs the The QR code above directs to a case study video on the 2022
a host of celebrities, as well as becoming one of the opportunity to gain work experience, better their A (in n c n lu u d a i l n R g e t s h u e lt s c a w s e e b s p t a u g d e y . v N id o e n o e ) o is f , t o h r e s i h n o fo u r ld m a b t e io r n e a o d n a th s e b e w in e g b , p age
region’s leading employability programmes. career prospects and positively change their lives. incorporated by reference into this report.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 24
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Strategy Learning
Learning
We champion the potential of people and families
at every stage of their lives. By working to create
a society which is financially confident and resilient,
we want to empower people to take control of their
finances and their futures, and to make the most
of their money.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 25
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Learning progress highlights
Our ambition 2022 progress highlights
15m 50% 5.1m(*) 35%
financial capability interactions delivered between colleague elective learning focused on future financial capability interactions delivered in FY colleague elective learning focused on future
1 January 2020 and 31 Dec 2023(1) skills by end of 2023(4) 2022 against the 2023 target(1) skills at end 2022(4)
(SDG 4.4, 4.6 and 10.2) FY20, FY21 & FY22: 14.07m
2m 1,100 0.5m(*) 1,135
additional customers helped to start saving between graduates, interns and apprentices hired in 2022, additional customers helped to start graduates, interns and apprentices hired in 2022,
1 January 2020 and 31 Dec 2023(2) including our social mobility programme saving during FY 2022 against the 2023 target(2) including our social mobility programme
(SDG 10.2) FY20, FY21 & FY22: 1.7m(3)
(1) Includes additional initiatives approved during 2021 and 2022 which met the criteria for inclusion in the financial capability target
(2) Includes instances where customers had savings with other banks and transferred them to their NatWest Group account.
(3) Includes additional 144k customers for 2021 and 2020. The customers helped to start to save criteria were revised in April 2022 to
reflect products aligned to the ambition.
(4) Starting from May 2022.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 26
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Building financial confidence and resilience
Our ambition is to support the financial capability of our customers and communities. We aim to champion the potential of people and families at every stage of their lives. By working to create a society
which is financially confident and resilient, we want to empower people to take control of their finances and their futures, and to make the most of their money.
Target 1: Building strong financial foundations
15 million financial capability
Scaling our financial capability education offering.
interactions by 2023.
Our Financial Foundations pilot programme aims Jennie Kerr, A.S. Watson Group’s head of
Our ambition is to help our customers and to help develop good money practices and Payroll, Shared Services & Reward, said
communities develop the knowledge, skills and financial resilience for adults. Initially, the ‘With the increase in energy prices and the
confidence to manage their money in ways that give Financial Foundations programme centred general cost of living, it was important for us to
them control and peace of mind. During 2022, we around a series of free, interactive workshops focus on our financial wellbeing strategy in 2022
delivered 5.1m(*)interactions, with a cumulative total of facilitated by trained bank colleagues for small and to give our colleagues hints and tips to
14.07m interactions against the strategic target of groups of young adults, job seekers and improve their long-term financial health. After a
15 million by 2023. survivors of domestic abuse. survey revealed the majority of our employees
were self-taught when it came to money
However, the financial challenges of 2022 meant
management, we decided some formal financial
there was a much wider interest in the
education could be a good place to start.
programme from new audiences. As well as
local authorities, social housing groups and ‘We’re passionate about bringing the very best
Target 2:
higher education teaching staff, we received information to our colleagues so we were
enquiries from large corporate and commercial delighted to partner with NatWest to provide
Help two million additional clients. these sessions. The feedback we received from
customers start saving by 2023. colleagues who attended the live sessions was
A.S. Watson Group is one such example. It
really positive, prompting lots of reflection on
operates over 1,300 retail stores across the UK
money management, personal spending habits
and Ireland, including the Savers and Superdrug
Our priority is to support customers who have no, or and other important topics for our colleagues in
brands, which employ around 20,000 people
very limited, savings with us to develop good savings this climate.
across these locations.
habits. Our success measures are based on the
Following from the success of these workshops
number of customers that have managed to save We delivered the Financial Foundations
and to meet the growing number of requests,
£100 or more since January 2020 – and comparing workshops as a webinar to a range of their
the Sustainable Banking team are now
that with the number of customers who had less than colleagues, covering topics such as budgeting,
developing a variety of delivery methods to
£100 in savings the previous year. During 2022, we planning for the unexpected and managing debt.
helped an additional 0.5m(*) customers start to save, allow us to reach these new audiences at scale.’
with a cumulative total of 1.7m(1) customers to date The response to the sessions was positive, with
against the strategic target of 2 million by 2023. some participants committing to take new
actions to improve their financial situation. ‘We’re passionate about bringing the very best information to
our colleagues so we were delighted to partner with
NatWest to provide these sessions.’
Jennie Kerr
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70 A.S. Watson Group Head of Payroll, Shared Services & Reward
(1) Includes additional 144k customers for 2021 and 2020. The
customers helped to start to save criteria were revised in April
2022 to reflect products aligned to the ambition.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 27
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Building financial confidence & resilience continued
The rising cost of living has left millions of people with new money worries, particularly households with lower incomes, those who spend a higher percentage of their income on energy, or those who are
experiencing rising mortgage rates and rent increases.
Supporting our customers Know My Credit Score Launched as NatWest Rooster Money in May 2022 it
This year we have stepped up our support for those Understanding a credit score and how it is calculated is simple for parents, carers and children to learn
seeking to know more about how to manage their is an important part of developing good money together through easy-to-use educational content
money, start a savings pot or deal with the management skills. Building a good credit score can and ools to build important life skills. Over 136,000
unexpected. The focus of our financial capability affect a person’s ability to borrow money or access UK families are moving through the milestones of
initiatives is to support customers to build resilience products such as credit cards or loans. The Know My learning about money. Features in the app include
and skills, so they can better deal with price increases Credit Score feature in the banking app provides a a virtual pocket money tracker and savings pots.
and know where to go for help and information. free score and recommends things to do to improve it. Young people can also learn about earning through
chores, and there are family-friendly controls and
Tips and tools to navigate the cost of living 3.8m customers have used the feature 30 million times educational tools, helping young people grow their
this year, up 58% on 2021, helping them grow their money confidence.
A dedicated cost of living section on our websites has
financial capability.
information, hints, tips and tools providing easy-to-
Funding for charities and partners
access help and guidance for customers. Money- Supporting our communities
saving tips, budget planning and a tool for reviewing Following consultation with our partner organisations,
benefit support complement the Spending Tracker app In 2022 we continued to develop our range of free, NatWest Group launched a package of support for
tool where customers can view real time activity in easy-to-access initiatives for both customers and customers, colleagues and communities to help with
their account, supporting financial knowledge. non-customers to develop good money habits. the rising cost of living. This included £4 million in
donations delivered in collaboration with organisations
Financial Health Checks MoneySense including Citizens Advice, The Trussell Trust, Step
Recognising the fast-changing world of money and the Change and PayPlan, to provide support and grants.
Our trained Senior Personal Bankers provided reviews
need to break the cultural taboos surrounding it, this Dame Clare Moriarty, Chief Executive of Citizens
of personal finances during the year, helping
year MoneySense focused on offering tangible support Advice, said:
customers to chat through their goals and focus on
The power of to our different audiences. For parents, new content
their future. ‘We are very grateful for the donation NatWest has
has explored how to talk to children about the rising
made towards our Help through Hardship helpline,
savings cost of living, dealing with pester power and
Inbest benefit calculator that we deliver in collaboration with The Trussell Trust
cryptocurrencies. For young adults, our In Focus series
An early pilot programme helping households identify and MIND.’
has tackled key cost of living themes, such as inflation,
benefits they may be entitled to has shown strong
With the cost of living on the rise, it’s never been results. The most common reason why people miss investing and finding support for their future. Talk
more important to support our customers to their benefits is that they are unaware of welfare Money Week in November saw us launch a dedicated ‘The helpline has been
start to save and build up a resilience pot. In benefits they are allowed or assume they are not Talk Money hub and a series of vox pop videos across
early 2022, we introduced Round Ups – making eligible. By offering access to the Inbest Benefit social media channels, which explored the topics of in huge demand. NatWest’s
i h t a e b a it s y b y fo s r a c v u in s g to l m itt e le r s a n to d g o e ft t e in n t . o R o th u e n d sa U v p in s g a s re C an a o lc n u y la m t o o u r s v ly ia id o e u n r t w ify e b u s n it c e la , i c m u e s d to b m e e n r e s f it c s a n a n s d im m p a ly x a im n i d s e c fe r e e l d . i I t n , d sc e h b o t, o a ls n w d e h o la w u n ta c l h k e in d g a a g b u o i u d t e m fo o r n t e e y a c m h a e k r e s s t o u s donation will help us to
available in our mobile app and allow customers their income. Early data indicates that 82% of users introduce talking about money in the classroom, and provide vital support to
to round up to the nearest pound when making who completed the calculator are eligible for how it can impact young people’s lives. Through the
purchases, with the spare change directed to previously unclaimed benefits, averaging £662 MoneySense schools programme we’ve reached over people facing hardship, sadly
their savings pot. per month. 1 million young people during 2022. needed now more than ever
With the option to double round ups, the small NatWest Rooster Money
amounts soon add up for our customers. So far Making saving easier NatWest Rooster Money is a prepaid debit card and as the cost of living crisis
c.1.2m customers have switched on the feature, Developing a savings habit is an essential element of pocket money app that gets young people confident continues to unfold.’
and over 96m round up transfers have taken building financial resilience, and this year we with money and helps develop positive money habits.
place, meaning customers have collectively introduced Round Ups to our suite of savings and
saved a massive £138m to date. investment products. Dame Clare Moriarty
Chief Executive of Citizens Advice
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 28
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Our vision is now to scale the programme to
improve the financial confidence of many more
young people.
As part of our commitment to the next
generation, we have partnered with the National
Helping young Youth Agency, and plan to transfer £3 million of
our apprenticeship levy to train youth workers
to help address the shortfall of qualified staff
over next years.
people to Thrive
We also plan to train NatWest colleagues to
deliver the Thrive programme in their local
youth club using their volunteering hours.
NatWest Group collaborates NatWest Thrive is a unique collaboration between
with footballer and NatWest Group, the National Youth Agency (the
campaigner Marcus Rashford national body for youth work) and footballer and
campaigner Marcus Rashford MBE.
We believe all young people
It’s built around three pillars: the redemptive power of
deserve to feel financially secure
(forging a new) identity; delivery by trusted adults and
and fulfil their potential.
role models; and connection to the young people’s Results from the summer programme are hugely
Yet 81% of young people today say they are interests and passions. encouraging: 98% say their money confidence has
uncertain about their financial future(1). And 56% of improved after four sessions and 83% say it has
NatWest Thrive is about people, relationships,
12-17-year-olds don’t feel confident about managing improved their mental wellbeing(3).
mentoring and contact with role models to create
their money(2).
community and connection. It’s why the programme is
We want this to change. primarily delivered face-to-face, in relevant, safe
places for young people and with trusted adults.
But we know that, for this to happen, we must think
beyond money management and practical financial In April 2022, we launched the programme’s pilot
education. We know we must also help young people scheme to 135 young people in three youth clubs in
overcome the emotional and psychological obstacles London, Manchester and Sunderland.
Watch the
blocking their success.
Following that, over the summer, we rolled out a story online
That’s why we have created a programme for 8- to 12-week NatWest Thrive programme to 12 more
18-year-olds that aims to help them develop their youth clubs, reaching more than 800 young people The QR code above directs to a case study video on the 2022
self-belief as well as their money confidence. across the UK during 2022. Annual Results webpage. None of the information on the webpage
(including the case study video) is, or should be read as being,
incorporated by reference into this report.
(1) London Institute of Banking and Finance. (3) NatWest Thrive Impact report – our summer impact 2022.
(2) Money Advice Service.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 29
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Championing our colleagues’ potential
Delivering long-term, sustainable performance means recognising that the skills our people need to succeed in the future will be different from those of today. Whether in relation to a current role or a
future career – inside or outside NatWest Group – we are passionate about providing our colleagues with the capabilities they require to fulfil their potential to thrive.
Our ambition is that skills will drive learning, talent, We worked with the UK’s Financial Services Skills Colleagues can post opportunities to support a If colleagues record their skills and interests on their
recruitment and mobility, supporting the bank’s Commission to develop an industry-wide skills short-term piece of work: allowing them to bring new career profile alongside the workforce data we
longer-term strategic workforce planning by framework to identify 10 future skills all our colleagues skills into a team and allowing colleagues to develop already hold on Workday, we can offer a more
anticipating current and future hiring and the will need. These are reflected in our refreshed Critical new skills at pace. personalised experience, and 25% of colleagues have
resources the business needs to transform the People Capabilities (CPCs) skills and behaviour done this so far.
During 2022, 237 gigs were raised providing over 660
organisation. We are upskilling colleagues in future- framework as priority themes for all colleagues.
opportunities for colleagues to develop different skills This use of technology was one of the factors in
focused skills, investing over 2.5 million hours in
To allow colleagues to create and prioritise time to through a short-term gig opportunity. achieving a bronze award for Best Digital Learning
training in future skills, and hiring 5,000 engineers to
focus on development, and to ensure this is embedded Transformation Programme at the 2022 Learning
support our customers in a digital world by the end of
across NatWest Group, we have: Personalised learning recommendations Technologies Awards.
2026. This approach is a key contributor to the bank’s
transformation plans and is fully embedded in our • given all colleagues two days per year dedicated In June 2022, we launched Career Hub, a new
people proposition. It also aligns to our values, culture to developing our priority future skills, which is part functionality in Workday, to provide colleagues with
plans, and Critical People Capabilities skills and of our 2.5 million hours investment; personalised recommendations, based on their skills
behaviour framework. and skills interests, for learning, jobs, mentors and gigs.
• launched our Learning for the Future programme
– designed to be a kit-bag of learning to help
NatWest Group Academy
colleagues start their journey; and
We provide all colleagues, regardless of their role,
• leveraged new technologies, including artificial
level, working pattern or location, opportunities to
intelligence, to develop a more personalised learner Talent Academy and Ivy House
build future skills through the NatWest Group
experience with smart recommendations to help
Academy, which brings together learning opportunities
colleagues better understand what skills they need
and curated content in a single place.
and how to build them.
In addition to mandatory training for all colleagues Our global Talent Academy was launched in 2021 Meanwhile, 58 members of the Talent Academy
(see page 60) and job specific training, we also offer We also refreshed our CPC Checker – a self- to identify, develop and support our highest were selected in 2022 to participate in the Ivy
a range of learning opportunities. assessment tool for the CPCs which helps colleagues potential colleagues, and create credible and House programme, an external leadership
to map their strengths and development areas against diverse talent pipelines enabling NatWest Group programme for junior colleagues. In addition:
96% of colleagues have accessed the Academy since the CPC skills and behaviours, including our 10 future to thrive now and in the future. In 2022, the
its launch in 2020, and the rate of completed elective skills. Over 13,500 colleagues have completed the programme won the Excellence in Inclusive • 36 members were given the opportunity
learning has increased by 39% across NatWest Group CPC Checker in 2022. These improvements are Assessment category at the UK’s Association of to apply for a formal reskilling programme
compared to 2020. Our ambition is to increase enabling colleagues to better develop the skills the Business Psychology Awards. to retrain as User Experience Designers,
colleagues’ elective learning by 50% by the end organisation needs and enhance their potential. Software Engineers or Data Engineers;
of 2023. The Talent Academy continues to support and • over 500 members took part in a data-
By the end of 2022, a monthly average of 35% of develop over 3,300 members through a quarterly immersive experience, an engaging and
The Academy is also available to customers and colleagues’ elective learning completions were focused programme of challenging and purposeful interactive experiential workshop to help build
communities, through Learning with NatWest. on future skills learning. And, in the 2022 learning and opportunities. In 2022, 111 development events understanding of data and making informed
More information is available on page 32. careers pulse survey, 72% of colleagues agreed they were delivered, including 57 live events, a Group data driven decisions; and
knew the skills they need to develop for their career Executive Committee speaker series and
Building critical skills for the future at NatWest Group. collaborations with external partners including • at a more senior level, 52 members signed up
for Step on Board: a concierge service which
We’re focused on ensuring our colleagues undertake Decoded and Trustees Unlimited. 77% of the
the right learning, and have an ambition that by the Cross-skilling, reskilling and upskilling opportunities on offer were exclusive to Talent offers support in securing a role on the board of
a charity.
end of 2023 half of colleagues’ elective learning In Q4 2021, we launched a ‘gigs’ functionality Academy, including career coaching and exclusive
completions at NatWest Group will focus on building on our Human Resources system Workday, to better access to development pathways, such as the The current Talent Academy cohort will finish
critical skills for the future. enable cross-skilling, reskilling and upskilling for Junior Management Team (JMT), the Power MBA their development journey in the summer of 2023,
our colleagues. Future Leader Programme and the cross- and planning is underway for future talent
In March 2022, we updated our behavioural
organisational mentoring scheme Mission Include. development initiatives.
framework to reflect our new values and include
future-focused skills.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 30
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Championing our colleagues’ potential continued
Junior Management Team
The second bank-wide Junior Management Team
(JMT) was selected in December 2021. The JMT Reskilling for the future
mirrors the NatWest Group Executive Committee and
brings a fresh perspective and voice to that team.
Members also deliver key strategic projects to
broaden their experience, exposure and connections
Our formal reskill programmes continued and Andy learned about the reskill programmes after
across NatWest Group. Some of the projects they
broadened in scope throughout 2022, taking in Talent registering with the Mobility Hub when his role was
have been involved in are lunch and learn seminars,
Academy colleagues, alongside those at risk of at risk of redundancy. He applied to join a 12-week
embedding our values, the bank strategy refresh, and
redundancy. Opportunities focused on key future roles, coding bootcamp to reskill as a Full Stack Software
supporting leadership team events. They have also
including software engineers, data engineers and Engineer, where he learned the fundamentals of
attended Group Executive Committee and Board
human-centred design roles. software engineering.
sessions during 2022.
Our Mobility Hub is a key enabler in supporting After the initial course, Andy had the chance to put his
Recruitment for the next JMT commenced in
colleagues impacted by change programmes and drives learning into action and work on a real-world
November 2022 and the team will be in place by the
internal mobility and reskilling across NatWest Group. application. For 24 weeks, Andy and other reskillers
end of Q1 2023.
worked with a customer to build an application that
The goal of the Mobility Hub is to help colleagues find
would help take their business online and scale up
Supporting our leaders’ development alternative opportunities, as well as to upskill and reskill
their operations.
As we help our customers to grow and thrive, we into future-needed roles. This includes at-risk
want to champion the potential of our leaders to employees, those returning from long-term leave and Following his successful completion of the reskill
grow and thrive too. In 2022, the NatWest Group those at transitional stages of their careers. The hub programme, Andy joined the Bankline team as a
Leadership and Coaching faculty continued to provide offers career-focused services including job matching, software engineer and was part of a small scrum team
team and group coaching, one-to-one coaching and career coaching and guidance, as well as the bank’s supported by senior engineers to work on
leadership development for our most senior leaders reskill programmes, delivered in collaboration with our improvements to an internal Bankline engineering site.
and their teams. Learning and Development team. This activity was part of a training roadmap to support
the new scrum team to upskill on various topics like
In October 2022 we launched our new Thrive Andy Lee, a member of the Bankline team in NatWest agile skills, front and backend unit testing, bug fixing,
Leadership experience, which gives leaders Commercial & Institutional, was one of the colleagues micro front ends, code reviews and dev ops enabling
opportunities to learn, experiment and grow their supported to find a new role through a reskill them to transition into Bankline feature teams in
knowledge and skills to successfully lead themselves, programme. early 2023.
their people and customers. It’s a new, ambitious and
In 2022, Andy took part in a pilot reskill
challenging learning experience – building on our core In 2022, over 980 colleagues registered with the
programme focused on software engineering. For most
leadership language and practices – that introduces Mobility Hub, 453 colleagues received job matching
of his 16-year career with NatWest Group, Andy had
colleagues to thought-provoking concepts, support and 182 were successfully redeployed within
been in customer-facing roles, most recently working
perspectives and methods. This helps our leaders to the bank, with support continuing for others into 2023.
in Business Banking to support migrant and refugee
develop a deeper level of personal thinking, while 167 colleagues have taken the opportunity to reskill for
entrepreneurs.
building their impact and connection to our purpose a targeted role or are actively participating in
and strategy. a programme.
Thrive Leadership focuses on five new externally-
benchmarked purpose and leadership-driven themes:
‘There were lots of pros and cons to undertaking such a dramatic career
• help empower people;
• re-imagine the future; shift, but the reskill programme really helped me manage the transition.
• inspire shared success; Overall, it’s been a positive experience and I’m still learning a lot in my
• connect the dots; and
new role. Reskilling has definitely changed my life.’
• adapt and learn.
Each theme is closely aligned to our Critical People Andy Lee
Capabilities and refreshed values, to help colleagues
Bankline team, NatWest Commercial & Institutional
build skills that they can continuously apply and adapt.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 31
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Championing our colleagues’ potential continued
Succession planning Between June and August 2022, NatWest Group Early career programme
Our succession planning processes enhance our carried out a bank-wide succession planning exercise True to our purpose of championing potential,
framework to develop and mobilise a diverse pool of for these value-creating and specialist roles. Alongside we are investing in building future talent
our highest potential talent. Potential successors are this, our ExCo talent ‘deep dives’ provide the capability through our early career programme.
assessed and developed against the behaviours, traits opportunity for ExCo members to profile talented In 2022, we hired 1,135 graduates, interns and
and drivers associated with success in a purpose-led members of their teams in order to raise visibility of apprentices, including 171 apprentices from a
role and organisation. Our Succession Council gives aspiration and potential next jobs, and to identify lower-income socio-economic background and
potential successors to the Group Executive development and actions to support high-potential 10 interns from underprivileged communities External learning
Committee (ExCo) the opportunity to engage directly colleagues. in ndia.
with the Group CEO and other ExCo members to initiatives
determine whether they have the potential and Inclusive recruitment We received a total of 84,029 applications
globally for our early career programmes for
aspiration to reach ExCo level. This is supported by We launched a revised and improved Recruitment
2022, of which 43% were female and 61% of UK
robust development plans focused on accelerating YES Check to ensure diversity, equity and inclusion
applicants were from ethnic minority backgrounds.
succession readiness. Sixteen potential successors are front of mind at every stage of the recruitment
We have climbed a further two places in the UK
attended in 2022. Our most talented senior leaders process. As part of this, we introduced Inclusive
Times 100 employers’ table and are now ranked
are also given exposure through Board and Talent Interview Ambassadors who are trained in inclusion We supported 16,136 young people in 2022 through
the 35th Top Graduate Employer. We were also
Connectivity sessions to discuss topics shaping the and identifying bias, to help bring diversity, challenge our CareerSense programme (over 24,000 since
ranked 25th in the RateMyPlacement.co.uk Best
direction of NatWest Group. To date, 37 colleagues and an objective lens to the decision-making process. launch in June 2021). This included providing schools
100 Student Employers 2022-2023, and 28th in
have had this opportunity. In 2022, we increased our team of Ambassadors to with workshops and lesson plans which have
the RateMyApprenticeship.co.uk Best 100
over 800 and introduced them in India. supported 14,746 young people (13-to-18-year-olds).
Succession is reviewed by the Group Executive Apprenticeship Employers 2022-2023.
Committee twice a year, with many high-potential At the end of 2022, we also started a returners As part of this work, we launched CareerSense
In India, in 2022 we worked with Navgurukul, a
colleagues moving roles as a result of this focus. initiative to focus on hiring more senior female talent, Dream Bigger during National Careers Week in March
not-for-profit organisation, as part of our social
where we will be building our pipeline of senior female 2022, of which we were also the headline sponsor.
In 2022, we have enhanced our strategic approach mobility collaboration agenda and supported
candidates. To do this, we partnered with the Return
through an initiative called Talent to Value, which puts Hub, a specialist search firm whose focus is on nine students from underprivileged communities We continued to support 16- to 24-year-olds not
a different lens on talent and has opened up a wider candidates who reached a senior level in their career with a six-month technology internship. in education, employment or training through
population which might fill succession gaps. In addition and then took a career break. This group are a source Successful candidates were offered software CareerSense Find Your Path. The programme
to our succession planning at CEO-1 and CEO-2 of untapped potential for senior leadership roles and engineer roles in our Technology India team at a includes co-created skills workshops delivered in local
levels, we have identified the top c.200 value-creating we hope the collaboration will help expand the highly competitive salary. We also ran an insight communities with youth partners, mentoring with a
and specialist jobs in NatWest Group with a view to diversity of our talent pool. week for over 100 university students. bank colleague, and a paid placement. To date we
proactively matching talent with the potential, have enrolled 72 young people in the programme.
NatWest Group was also delighted to win Best
aspirations and skills required to thrive in these jobs. In 2022, we also focused on proactive sourcing of
This sharpens our collective focus, as the hiring, in-demand technology roles, including for Java and Virtual Internship Programme at the UK’s National We also sponsor 16- to 18-year-olds with purpose-led
retention, performance management, and succession automated testing. We interviewed more than 700 Undergraduate Employability Awards for our leadership development through the Ivy House Award,
planning for these critical jobs all merit the Board and candidates and selected 269 new colleagues, working summer intern programme. We also received a and in 2022 we enrolled 1,168 students to work
ExCo’s oversight and attention in the context of a with hiring managers to match candidates to Gold award at the Employer Brand Management towards the award. We also continued our social
competitive market for skills. open roles. Awards for our Represent campaign, in which mobility collaboration, supporting 120 16–18-year-old
we ran seven live online sessions specifically students through either an insight week or paid work
aimed at encouraging applications from students experience. As part of Entrepreneurship Week in
from diverse backgrounds. November 2022, we piloted our “Idea Accelerator”
scheme for 16- to 18-year-olds, further developing
In 2022, we also launched our new Financial
entrepreneurial skills with 30 young people in London.
Crime graduate and intern programme with the
first graduate intake scheduled for September In November 2021, we launched Learning with
2023. We plan to increase our graduate, intern NatWest, our external learning academy which
and apprentice intake for 2023. supports communities, families and businesses
(both customers and non-customers) and focuses
on five key capabilities: climate, employability,
entrepreneurship, future skills and financial capability.
During 2022, there were over 56,000 visitors to the
website and we also launched our Learning with
NatWest podcast series.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 32
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Strategy Responsible Banking
Responsible
Banking
Our purpose-led business strives to put the needs of
people and planet at the heart of everything we do.
To do this, we are building a bank that is safe, simple
and smart. Our ambition is to help all our customers,
colleagues, communities, shareholders and suppliers
to thrive.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 33
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting
our customers
e
s
g
A o s e a
a e d s
u
t
n
x
u d
n r
t
r i
s
e
t r a
d a v
N t e
c
p
i t
a c r
n c e
a
u
t u i p
a g
n
g
t
t
s t r W
i p
a
i
o
o
t i
s c
s
i
o b
n u t
e e e
a
m
p
l
s
s e , v
i l r t
t
s i
e c o
a i s
p
o
G r o
c e
l
i
r v
r
s
n e
r r a
i
i
o
p
a t
o
n
n t c
i n
o o
b
u
e t
g t
r
r
l
i p
s
d
n e
c
e
a m
.
e e
e d
w t
g
e s a v
w r a
, e s e r
o r
k h l
o
a a
w
o
o
e e
p
n r p
u
t l
t
e
p
p d
h n
e m
o
i
d
s n x c
t r
u o
h
g o
t
p
o
p
u
r
r
m e
u
e i p
o n
n c
r
m o
u i
t d
t p
r a
g i
i u
e
t v
u
t
h
i n
s
i n i
r
o d
.
i
o p
g t n u
O u
i
o
e s a
r s u
s l
e
s
r ,
, L e a r n
c s u
i
t s
n
a t g o
g
e m o e S f r s u th p a e p t i o r e r v li t v e in e r g y s
Gr e e n m ort g a
g
C ar b o n f o ot pri nt tr a c ki
n
R etr o fitti n g s u p p ort
F
C
i
o
n
st
a
o
n
f L
c
i v C i
i
n
a
l g i m
F l
h a u
i w n
b te
a e
c
n l
h
l c b
a
i
n
a e
g
F l i
e
n e r
h
g d a
E u R
u
b V
u a c d
s
n a
e o
d t
l
a
u
i
t
o
t
n r
a
n
io
e d
n
s
r i s e
R i s
l
li
s
c e e
o
n a s
u
c p m
rc
e o
e
s n s
s
a u s p w ib p a l o e r r e t i n n e v s e s sting P r i v a
r
i
s
e
d
S
e
im
al
p
w
le
i t
t
h
o E
a
S
n
G
d
p
s
r
e
o
rv
d
i
u
c
c
e
t
s
s Personalised climate
change support t e
p
ESG-linked fund financing
r across our
e
t n E P b o a y w n i e C n d r n l e p o i d a m v r a t t n a i e o t r n s e hips S a h l a lo r c b p c a a e u p t n i i t o s e a n d i l ne G re e n a s se t fi n a n s c e a n d tra se G re e n s lo a n E s a n n d t b e o n r
d
p r H is ig e h H g B r u o E w u b t s s h S i & p n G r o A e p c s o - s c s l it e i io n l B e n r u k a i t e l o d r d e P r r f o a o g n r r a d e m B i S m g u E e o n s S i n c e e G i x a ss c l I h r n a C e s a n a ig n g r d h C g b u t s e o s l o n a u a E s t P m n o t l S d a a r n i G T y d m n n e h a e a r m r b o e i n v l u e a a r d g t c r fi i h v k r n i e a t e a a s t l t n l e i i n n c a & g i g d n s I g e a n r s s s s u s h t p i i i s t p p u ta o t i r n o t n c a e l
d
e
s
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 34
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our customers
Innovation and digitisation Debit Card PIN Reveal We’re also using sophisticated analytics, based The ‘log in with bank API’ enables customers to log in
Through our investment in data, technology, and In Q4 2022, we launched PIN reveal through our app on AI and machine learning, to help understand our to FreeAgent accounting software, Rapid Cash and
digitisation we’re able to deliver a better service to our for debit and credit card customers, which will reduce customers’ specific situations so we can support them Rooster Money using their online or mobile banking
customers, offering more relevant products, more the number of paper-based PINs we issue. better. For example, we use Natural Language credentials, removing the requirement to remember
Processing to quickly categorise customer calls additional usernames and passwords.
quickly and at the right time.
Product innovation for our commercial customers relating to bereavements so we are better able to
The Home Buying and Ownership API reduces the
respond quickly and efficiently. This is part of our
Embedding our services in our customers’ With a strong track record on innovation, backed by a processing time for customers making lump sum
Customer Conversational Intelligence lab, which
digital lives large and mature ecosystem, and through payments to their mortgage accounts.
analyses tens of thousands of customer conversations
collaborations with experienced and innovative
Our retail mobile app enables our customers to bank companies, we have driven significant benefits for our daily, so we know which customer journeys we need The Mobile Banking Reference Data API protects
whenever, wherever, with 8.9m(*) of our customers customers. For example, Tyl allows merchants to take to do more work on. We’re also using a machine customers against abusive payment references.
mobile users. We have 3.8m(*) customers using the learning model to prioritise help for customers who
payments anytime, anywhere with next day
online banking platform and 10.1m(*) digitally active need us the most, for example due to the impact of Open Banking payments now use Multi-Factor
settlements as standard – improving the customer’s
retail and business banking customers. the cost of living crisis. In Q1 2022, we launched Authentication so customers can authenticate
funding position - and through the integration of Tyl
Project Leapfrog with an objective to continue transactions using face biometrics.
This year we continued to evolve to find more ways to with other innovations like Payit and Mettle, we will
developing and deploying advanced analytics based
make it easier for customers to manage their money. offer a One Bank SME and payments proposition.
on artificial intelligence in order to improve our service Supporting with financial wellbeing
• We have 63%(*) of our active current customers offering, while retaining customer trust. To support
Carbon Tracking Tooling & Functionality Retail customer insights
exclusively banking with us using digital channels, this, we developed a control framework for advanced
In Q3 2022, we launched the NatWest Group Carbon We now have over 80 different insight messages
through mobile and online. analytics which we are in the process of embedding
Planner, a free-to-use digital platform designed to help which we share with customers to help them save
• We have completed 10.4m(*) Cora conversations UK businesses identify potential cost and carbon across the bank. This will enable us to respond to time and money, and give them financial peace of
throughout 2022, with 48%(*) that required no savings. Carbon Planner surfaces personalised emerging regulatory expectations and manage the mind. Customers are sent spending analysis insights,
model risks that could arise from the use of advanced
human input. recommendations from more than 40 actions, across such as their most frequent spending category and
analytics, and to continue to comply with the UK’s
• We had 0.3m(*) video banking kept appointments nine areas, which UK businesses can take to reduce merchant, to better understand how they’re spending
data protection and privacy rules.
during 2022. their carbon footprint and potentially operating costs. their money.
Actions include improving insulation, introducing a We are implementing new tools to support our
• We introduced new app-based solutions including We’re also prompting customers on the anniversary
packaging return programme, electric vehicle adoption colleagues when they develop, deploy and monitor
Round Ups, Split Bill and Rooster Money. of utility, broadband, phone and car insurance bills
and generating energy from waste. advanced analytics. These tools allow them not only to
to remind them their deal may be coming to an end.
track the accuracy of models but to detect and
We also released a number of enhancements One of the personalised messages we send
prevent unfair bias arising in decision-making based
to our carbon tracking tool for personal customers, to customers is to remind them about their media
on those models. In addition, various forms of Data
developed in collaboration with Cogo, to allow subscriptions and on average customers saved £132
Ethics training were rolled out during Q4 across the
customers to see a rolling monthly view of their by either switching or stopping their subscription.
bank, including specialist training for those directly
carbon footprint and commit to quantifiable actions
involved in data and models management.
which give them personalised carbon savings. Know My Credit Score
As at 31 December 2022, more than 330,000 Open banking and APIs Over 3.8 million customers used this free feature in
customers had accessed carbon tracking features 2022, helping them to improve and protect their
Our API platform is recognised by external parties and
on the Retail app. financial wellbeing. Customers can now see how
the CMA as being in a leading position on
future changes, such as applying for a new product
performance, uptime and consumption. To date, over
Our use of artificial intelligence or changing an existing product, could impact their
3.2 million customers have used our APIs to access
Our artificial intelligence (AI) virtual assistant Cora credit score.
their account information and 1.8 million customers
continues to learn and evolve, using intelligent
have used our APIs to make a payment – initiating
automation to provide support to our customers 24/7.
transactions worth over £7.8 billion.
Cora has been integrated with our telephony system,
and can now help customers to change their address, Payit™ accepted its first live Variable Recurring Payment
update their phone number or email, understand (VRP), a new alternative digital payment option, making
pending transactions and find out how to open a new NatWest the first UK bank to successfully make a VRP
account. In 2022, Cora handled 10.4(*) million retail using a bank-owned payment proposition.
banking conversations.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 35
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our customers continued
Accessible banking Supporting customers in
vulnerable situations
We recognise that our customers’ individual needs are
different. We aim to make banking as accessible as At any time, a customer may find themselves either in
possible for everyone, offering our customers the a vulnerable situation or caring for a vulnerable loved
ability to choose from a variety of digital, face-to-face, one. In 2022, the impacts on cost of living have meant
and remote options. During 2022, we had 8.9million(*) that for many of our customers this has been a reality.
customers actively use our mobile app and 3.8million(*) To support with this, we set up a Customers in
use our online banking platform. Vulnerable Situations Centre of Excellence.
We continued to work with organisations such as
Digital accessibility
GamCare and Citizens Advice to improve the support
In May 2022, for Global Accessibility Awareness Day, available to customers in vulnerable situations,
Oliver Holbourn (CEO of RBS International and connecting them to expert advice where appropriate.
executive sponsor for Enable, our disability employee- We continued to run digital lessons and fraud and
led network) and the Group ExCo agreed to an scam awareness events remotely via virtual delivery.
aspiration to embed accessibility practices across
our franchises and functions by the end of 2023. We also have dedicated teams available to support
This aspiration was supported by forming a new customers in Financial Difficulty. Dedicated Customer
central team to help drive our plans to practice digital Protection Teams engage with customers at risk of
accessibility as a fundamental part of how we deliver harm and support them, leveraging external
digital customer interactions. We continue to learn partnerships where there is a need for more specialist
in this space - as role modelled by our executives to help. We also continued to work with Her Majesty’s
learn and act on International Day of Persons with Prison and Probation Service and the Scottish Prisons
a Disability (IDPD). Service during 2022.
Our digital channels are continually updating to help us Read more about Customers in vulnerable
become more disability inclusive and we continue to situations here
strive to design and build with reference to the latest
version of the World Wide Consortium (W3C’s) Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG). For example, ‘As a relationship bank for a
by writing simply and taking particular care with the
use of colour and our tone of voice. We also consider digital world, our vision is
the experience of those using screen readers and the
to create an accessible
speed of messages received through our chat
bot, Cora. bank by design.’
We delivered a ‘tap to call’ feature in our mobile
app which allows our customers to go through
pre-identified to our telephony colleagues to discuss Oliver Holbourn
their current or business account, removing the CEO of RBS International and executive sponsor for
barrier of remembering their banking details. Enable, our disability employee-led network
Payment limits give customers more control over
their banking, which we know has been useful to
those prone to impulsive spending. We also offer dark
mode on our mobile app, improving accessibility for
neurodiverse customers and those with low vision
by reducing eyestrain. This feature has been widened
into journeys connected to the mobile app.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 36
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our customers continued
Banking my way BT’s Relay UK service also supports customers with
Every customer is different and we continue to hearing impairments through a type-to-talk service,
develop ‘Banking My Way’, letting our customers tell while accessible card readers, rubber signature
us more about themselves and the support they need. stamps, braille card wallets and our talking ATM
Whether there is a requirement for a sign language service are other key accessibility features.
interpreter, braille documentation or simply for a
To support our customers’ needs, our property team
colleague to speak slower, there’s an array of
are piloting individual sensory room settings with the
adjustments we can provide to adapt to our
‘Dynamic Environments’ room setup in Milton Keynes,
customers’ needs. Customers can alert us to such
to explore the benefits of various lighting, colour
adjustments on mobile, online, in our branches or via
intensity, scent and audio visual settings to personalise
our telephony teams. So far, over 136,000 people
the environment to suit our customers. Further work
have registered for Banking My Way.
to widen the pilot to another location is in progress,
Whatever a customer’s needs, Banking My Way which will include soft seating, biophilia, tactile fidget
means all of our front-line colleagues are aware of items and other items to support ‘Calming’, ‘Focused’
them every single time they contact the bank – and ‘Concentrating’ mood settings.
allowing us to provide the right support from
the outset. Financial inclusion
We know that access to a bank account is the first
Choice of channel crucial step towards financial inclusion.
We aim to make banking as accessible as possible,
It’s why we provide a personal basic current account
offering our customers the ability to choose from a
to anyone who does not have one already. The
variety of digital, remote and face-to-face options. We
account has no monthly fee and provides a debit card,
have over 700 branches and other physical points of
access to digital banking services and everyday
presence, including our ATM network and our support such as text alerts to help customers manage Consumer protection This might suggest a fraudster is coaching the
relationship with the Post Office. We have dedicated their money. We currently have over 890,000 basic customer through the security questions.
teams available on the phone to support customers bank account customers with this number increasing. Criminals are using the circumstances of the ongoing Through cross-industry data sharing we’re able
with product applications and we retain our dedicated cost of living crisis to exploit more UK customers to deploy enhanced fraud prevention strategies
over 60s customer care line, which was set up during Understanding the customer experience through fraud and scams. Keeping our customers safe to help protect our customers.
the pandemic to support people. We continue to offer and secure is of paramount importance to us. Key
mobile branches, allowing customers to do all their using feedback highlights of activity during 2022 were: Fraud and scams education
usual everyday banking, like making deposits, We recognise feedback from customers facing a
withdrawing cash and paying bills. variety of access needs, vulnerabilities and disabilities Your Security Checklist We continue to invest in education and are reaching
and review how to align our services to meet their This new feature in the mobile app shows customers tens of millions of customers with our awareness
We have hearing loops in all our branches, which requirements. To support this we have set up an how to keep themselves safe when using the app, material. Our Money Mule campaign was covered in
provide support for customers using hearing aids, Inclusive Design Panel to help us design services. as well as sharing fraud and scam advice. both local and national media as well as on Instagram
by making speech clearer and more understandable. The panel consists of external individuals, charities and TikTok channels, reaching even more customers.
Also, thanks to our partnership with SignVideo, and subject matter experts with lived experience Targeting customers at high risk We also teamed up with actor Simon Callow to create
we now have a service that lets colleagues and of different support needs – inclusive of people The Scammer House of Horrors – a series of tales of
customers communicate easily in-branch or via with disabilities. Through the mobile app we can send messages to cons and frauds rooted in real-life scams, to help
Zoom using sign language interpreter. customers identified as being at high risk of scams. people learn to protect themselves against scammers.
We also use an inclusive design approach to service
Our video banking service supports customers and design for the varying needs and disabilities Reporting Fraud Mortgage roll-off window
when they want the reassurance of a face-to-face of customers within our product and journey Customers can now report a suspected fraudulent To help customers secure a lower interest rate, we
conversation with our highly trained colleagues. development. As an example, we have been on-site debit card transaction using the mobile app. extended our mortgage roll-off window to six months.
We offer customers who require additional support with disabled people this year learning more about Customers can choose a product at any time during
a range of accessibility services, such as accessible how they access bank services digitally and LineBusy detection the window and still change to an alternative product
statements in braille, translation services, large print conducting ‘empathy’ sessions utilising VR (virtual We can see in real time if a customer’s mobile if their circumstances change during the window.
and audio CD. Reality) and other simulators to help change phone line is also being used while they make an Customers who choose our tracker rate mortgage
colleagues’ perspectives. online payment. product can also switch to a fixed rate at a later date
without paying an early payment charge.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 37
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our customers continued
Fair products and responsible 1. Product and service development
marketing We aim to ensure that the proposals are designed to
deliver good customer outcomes by ensuring that the
Product governance target market is identified to a sufficiently granular
Creating and distributing products to our customers to level and aligned to a specific product strategy; the
meet their needs is at the heart of what we do. Our proposal meets the needs and financial objectives of
end-to-end product-lifecycle process is designed to customers in the target market while avoiding financial
keep our customers and NatWest Group safe while harm; the distribution strategy works for the identified
delivering a financial return. We use various tools to target market; the proposal is designed to benefit the
guide this: including the YES check (page 59); ‘Our customer and deliver fair value; customers in the
Code’ (page 59); the ‘Critical People Capabilities’ target market will be able to understand the product
(pages 30 and 59); and our internal ‘Policies’ and ‘Risk or service and its features and be appropriately
Standards’. Our Risk Standards and Policy documents supported throughout its lifecycle; and that
focus on risks associated with the design, consideration is given to the voice of the customer.
management and sale of our products and services,
as well as our complaint management process, and 2. Product and service distribution
how we support customers in vulnerable situations. All We have a complementary process that reviews the
of our product governance-related risk standards and existing portfolio of products and services, which seeks
policies are designed to drive delivery of safe and to ensure that customers are treated fairly after the
sustainable products and services as well as enabling point of sale; and that any barrier to switching
growth, customer retention and customer satisfaction. products and services (where the barrier is not in the
Using the various tools mentioned above, each of our best interests of the customer and/or it impacts the
business areas has established product governance delivery of fair customer outcomes) is removed.
procedures that will ensure our customers receive
products that are appropriate for their immediate and 3. Ongoing management
future financial goals. We aim to identify all activity that constitutes a
financial promotion and to ensure that all financial
How we manage compliance promotions comply with the relevant regulations set
Our product governance Risk Standards and out in our Financial Promotions Guides. All financial
Operational Policies are applicable to all legal entities, promotions are approved by the Financial Promotions
franchises and functions. All colleagues involved in the Approval team, with separate teams providing
design, management and distribution of our products oversight and assurance as part of our three lines of
and services are required to undergo training to defence model. Financial promotions are reviewed at
ensure they are aware of the relevant Standards and least annually.
Policies and understand their responsibilities. Our
remuneration plans for staff promote and encourage In addition, controls are in place to ensure that any
fair customer outcomes throughout the direct marketing and the use of cookies complies with
product lifecycle. our data protection obligations. We also ensure that
the sale of products and services and the provision of
NatWest Group must also meet the needs of advice is undertaken fairly and meets the standards of
customers (new and existing) who are in (or are at suitability and appropriateness. Throughout the sales
risk of being in) a vulnerable situation and must be journey we inform and educate our customers about
able to evidence how we comply with the Customers all aspects of a product in a clear, fair and not
in Vulnerable Situations Operational Policy. We must misleading way. We also operate a training and
also comply with all local legal and regulatory competence framework to monitor the competence
requirements where these go further than the and capability of our sales staff.
minimum standards we set out in our policies. There
are three key phases to the Product Lifecycle
as follows:
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 38
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our customers continued
Addressing complaints Through strong control frameworks, we continue to
Dealing with customer complaints ensures fair maintain focus on our operational resilience capability,
customer outcomes and makes sure we meet our with customer service a priority. In support of this, we
regulatory requirements as set out by the FCA. have policies, standards and mature processes in place
Where the issue is more complex, one of our to minimise the potential for any technology or IT
complaint handling experts will become involved. system disruptions. These include recovery procedures
A key priority for the business is to reduce complaints and incident response plans, all of which we test on a
by addressing the underlying causes. In 2022, regular basis to reduce risk. We have experienced no
we received 198,663 reportable complaints compared material breaches in the last three years. The Board
to 239,108 in 2021.We run a centralised training and and executive management are engaged in our
competence programme regularly for customer-facing security strategy and review process. The accountable
employees which helps us effectively manage any executive for information and cybersecurity is the
negative customer experiences. Group’s Chief Information Officer who provides regular
reports to the Executive Committee and Board. The
Read more on our complaints data Group’s Chief Information Security Officer presents an
information and cybersecurity update to the Executive
Read more about customers in vulnerable
Risk Committee and Group Board Risk Committee
situations on page 36
annually as a minimum. Our Security owned policies
Limitations of the product lifecycle process and procedures are based on the Information Security
Forum: Standard of Good Practice (ISF: SOGP)
The risks and limitations associated with Product
standard, which is aligned to a number of international
Lifecycle governance are such that we operate from
and industry standards including ISO 27001 and the
one set of minimum standards that are then applied
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
across multiple franchises within the Group. As such
Cyber Security Framework. An external audit is
we may see variation in the interpretation and
completed on an annual basis as part of NatWest
application of our policies and procedures, which in
Group’s wider financial audit requirements. Information
turn could deliver different outcomes for customers
and cybersecurity risks are part of our internal learning
depending on the customer type. In order to help
modules which every colleague and contractor must
mitigate this risk, we carry out regular assurance and
complete annually and are supported by bite-sized
testing against adherence to policy across the group,
emails and information on our intranet. Colleagues also
and seek attestation from each of our business areas
receive job-specific training; for example, our Security
to gather evidence around how they comply with our
team attend courses with the Centre for the Protection
policies on an ongoing basis.
of National Infrastructure and the National Cyber
Security Centre, as well as having opportunities to gain
Information security and system
professional qualifications. We operate a Group-wide
availability
security response and recovery hotline for information
NatWest Group has a comprehensive set of layered security events and colleagues can use this service to
security defences against new and emerging threats. escalate suspicions.NatWest Group also has a
The Group Data Protection Officer oversees level and to the Group Board Risk Committee.
These are regularly tested by both our in-house Group-wide ‘Alertline’ service so suspicions of physical
awareness, training and reporting to the UK Updates and reminders are also provided through
security testing team and experts in the cybersecurity security threats can be reported.
Information Commissioner’s Office, supported internal communications to ensure privacy is at the
industry. To ensure we continue to defend against
by additional country data protection officers. Our forefront of all of our colleagues’ minds.
new and emerging threats, we have a series of Protecting privacy and customer
Privacy and Client Confidentiality Policy includes both
programmes that develop and improve the deployed confidentiality
data protection and client confidentiality. Transparency
defences. In 2022, we had consistently high We see privacy as a vital component to achieving The policy has a defined escalation process for privacy NatWest Group has adopted a layered and accessible
performance and stability of our most critical systems, our purpose and it is therefore embedded across all and client confidentiality issues. It also clearly sets out approach to providing privacy information, as
which were available 99.97% of the time. The same parts of our business. A central privacy team oversees how we manage privacy, client confidentiality and recommended by the UK Information Commissioner.
timeframe has seen two Criticality 1 incidents privacy compliance and all business areas have personal data breaches and specifies that anyone We present an overview of our approach to data
compared with nine for 2021.1,2 These numbers an accountable executive responsible for privacy breaching the policy can be subject to disciplinary protection and privacy on our website and these
include all events which had an impact on our compliance, supported by a local privacy team. action. All our customers, colleagues and third parties pages are constantly reviewed so they are up to date
operations, not just system issues.
can therefore be confident that we treat protection and accessible to users across all digital platforms.
(1) By way of illustration, a Criticality 1 incident could be a loss of key IT systems resulting in an impact to more than 15% of the bank’s of their data with the utmost seriousness. NatWest We also aim to have marketing preferences that
customers or an incident that leads to a financial loss of over £10M. Group provides updates to senior management on adequately reflect customer wishes.
(2) Availability of our key systems is currently calculated against what we call our ‘Tier 1 systems’ – those defined as the most critical. privacy and client confidentiality, including at Board
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 39
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our customers continued
Artificial intelligence Consumer Duty at NatWest Group
‘Info SAFE’ is used to support our AI and machine Recognising its close alignment to our purpose-led
learning strategy via ‘fairness assessments’ of models, strategy, NatWest Group views delivering good
in addition to the checklist questions below which are customer outcomes as an objective shared with all of
relevant for all colleagues across NatWest Group our stakeholders including our regulators. Taking
when they deal with customers’ or colleagues’ data. action to identify any existing gaps in the new
The Info SAFE checklist asks the following questions: Consumer Duty continues to be a top priority for the
organisation. We place importance on achieving good
Secure: Are you confident that NatWest Group
customer outcomes and are supportive of moving
and its suppliers are meeting the required policies
from prescriptive consumer conduct rules to
and standards for protecting our customers’ and
principles-based outcomes which rightly place the
colleagues’ information?
onus on firms to ensure their customers are making
Accountable: Am I confident that I understand my financial decisions best suited to their needs.
responsibilities when using customers’ and colleagues’
To implement this, we have committed significant
information to make decisions?
investment to ensure that any action taken is
Fair: Are decisions made using customers’ and managed holistically across NatWest Group and with
colleagues’ information, accurate, just and reasonable, the different customer journeys considered. As such
including those decisions made using AI? each of the bank’s businesses that have products and
services in scope of the Duty are being managed
Ethical: Are decisions made using customers’ and under the banner of a single implementation
colleagues’ information reflective of our core values, Programme. Our approach to implementation in this
inclusion and pro-diversity? way is helping to make sure we meet both the letter
and spirit of the regulation and that this is reflected
Privacy by design and default not just in our policies and procedures, but culturally
New data-driven innovation and data access tools across the organisation as well.
such as APIs bring opportunities to build and develop
Our Programme team continues to meet regularly
systems using fundamental privacy principles such as
with our regulators to collaborate on approach as well
‘privacy by design’ and ‘default’. The privacy teams
as ensuring they are fully apprised of our
work closely together to ensure fundamental privacy
implementation progress. Going forward, Consumer
concepts are implemented and to ensure consistency
Duty will continue to feature regularly as an agenda
Data transfers and collaboration Training topics include: across the bank. Privacy impact assessments are also
item on NatWest Group’s most senior committees to
We’re continually refining our systems to comply with carried out to ensure that privacy risks are identified
• What the bank’s privacy and client confidentiality ensure a retained focus on challenging our approach
the UK General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and minimised as early as possible.
obligations are. and delivering good customer outcomes.
the UK Data Protection Act and other local legislation.
We factored in the impact of Brexit and UK & • Privacy considerations for new projects, Regulator communications and data
European case law on our privacy obligations and systems and so on. subject rights
cross-border data flows. In addition to this, we have • How colleagues should recognise and respond NatWest Group has specialist teams who respond
a close relationship with regulators and industry bodies to requests from individuals to exercise their to queries relating to data-subject rights. Data-subject
as appropriate. Our privacy teams are in regular data rights. access requests have remained relatively steady
contact with other internal teams to assist with • What to do in the event of a breach. following the UK GDPR rules that came into force
initiatives such as supporting victims of financial crime. in May 2018, with a low volume of requests
The privacy and client confidentiality training module concerning other data-subject rights.
Privacy and client confidentiality training is updated annually, with new topics and learnings
All colleagues and contractors are required to from the previous year. Job-specific training is
undertake annual mandatory privacy and client provided as necessary for colleagues based upon
confidentiality training. Each year, we also engage their job roles, for example job-specific training on
with our suppliers to understand the privacy redactions for the Subject Access Team. The bank
governance arrangements they have in place uses internal checklists intended to guide the best
(including policy, mandatory procedures and training decision-making, and the safe use, storage and
and awareness) and review the responses to ensure sharing of information, which include the YES
that satisfactory controls exist. Check and Info SAFE checklists.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 40
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
ESG products and services across businesses
NatWest Group through its Corporates and Institutional franchise takes an integrated, multi-product approach to ESG, assisting clients across key aspects including ESG ratings, reporting, investor
engagement, and structuring related financing products. We provide ESG and sustainable finance advisory to our corporate and institutional customers.
Corporates and Institutional Note: Each NWM GSS/S transaction is mapped to
the specific SDGs aligned in the issuers framework.
NatWest Markets has continued to play a leading
The ‘per SDG’ issuance amount is calculated by
role in the evolution of the corporate, public sector,
dividing the NWM issuance portion by the number
financial institutions and the sovereigns, supranationals
of SDGs present in an issuer’s framework.
and agencies (SSA) sustainable finance markets.
A selection of our 2022 mandates is shown below:
Climate and Sustainable Funding and
Financing (CSFF)
Triton
As part of our support for customer transition to net
NWM led a €950 million net asset value (NAV) facility
zero, we are championing climate solutions including
acting as Lead Arranger, Facility Agent, Security
climate and sustainable funding and financing.
Agent and ESG Coordinator for Triton Fund V. The
NatWest Group uses its CSFFI criteria(1) to determine
transaction is one of the first ESG linked NAV Lines
the assets, activities and companies that are eligible
in the European market, with margin adjustments
to be counted towards its climate and sustainable
occurring per KPI covenants in place.
funding and financing targets. Having exceeded
our previous £20 billion target ahead of schedule,
Compass Group inaugural sustainable transaction
in October 2021 NatWest Group announced a new
NatWest Markets acted as sole Sustainability
target to provide an additional £100 billion of CSFF
Coordinator for Compass Group, with a successful
between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025. In the
dual-tranche issuance, supported by key euro and
18 months since the £100 billion target began
sterling investors. This funding supports the next steps
NatWest Group has provided £32.6 billion(*) of
in Compass Group’s sustainability ambitions, to enable
climate and sustainable funding and financing,
positive environmental and social change in the food
including £24.5 billion(*) in 2022.
services sector.
SDG mapping
NatWest Markets (NWM) has supported its clients
in raising over £11bn of SDG-aligned green, social,
sustainability and sustainability-linked (GSS/S)
bond issuance in 2022. SDGs 13 (Climate Action),
11 (Sustainable Cities & Communities) and 7
(Affordable & Clean Energy) contributed over 50%
of the total issuance volume per SDG that NatWest
Markets supported its clients in raising in 2022.
Pressure continues to mount on issuers to increase
their focus on combating climate change. This is
reflected in the increasing proportion of issuance
directed to SDG 13 (14% in 2020, compared with
17% in 2022) where NatWest Markets lead
managed the GSS/S transactions.
(1) For the year ended 31 December 2022, the NatWest Group CSFFI criteria published in October 2021 was used to determine the assets,
activities and companies that are eligible to be counted. Revised CSFFI criteria were published in December 2022 will be used from
1 January 2023. Full details of the CSFFI criteria can be found at natwestgroup.com
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 41
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
ESG products and services across businesses continued
Private Banking We aim to prepare an allocation and impact report on
our GSS bond issuances which will be made available
Embedding ESG into asset management
on the NatWest Group website. We intend to make
In May 2022, we announced our interim strategy to available at least annually a single allocation and
achieve net zero emissions across our assets under impact report including all outstanding Green and
management (AuM). This includes setting out the Social financing allowing investors to find the required
percentage of our AuM that we consider within scope information in one single document. In September
for net zero alignment: 89% of AuM are in scope to be 2022, NatWest Group issued a €1 billion Green Bond,
managed in line with net zero. This includes all core the proceeds of which were intended to be allocated
managed funds and discretionary portfolios. It also towards financing and/or refinancing new or existing
includes short- and a medium-term targets to increase Eligible Green Loans in the Renewable and Green
the percentage of our in-scope AuM that we consider Buildings categories according to the Eligibility Criteria
to be on a net zero trajectory: 50% aligned to a net as described in the 2020 October NatWest Group GSS
zero trajectory by 2025, increasing to 70% by 2030. Bond Framework.
We embedded our net zero ambition into our core
GSS Framework
investment products. All customers invested in our
core managed funds and discretionary portfolios now NatWest Group updated its GSS Bond Framework in
have a minimum amount of their wealth invested in December 2022, under which it issues GSS bonds to
funds that are on a net zero trajectory. For customers institutional investors. The expanded framework
invested through Coutts Invest, NatWest Invest and includes a comprehensive range of eligible green and
Royal Bank Invest this is at least 50% of the assets by social assets that could be used in conjunction with a
value in our Personal Portfolio Funds (PPF) range. For GSS bond issuance.
customers invested in our Coutts Multi-Asset Funds
Read more on GSS bonds impact report and
(CMAF) range and discretionary portfolios this is at
GSS framework
least 20%.
Investing in GSS bonds in our liquidity portfolio
Read more on Coutts ESG exclusions policy
and Voting Policy Our Treasury portfolio consists of high-quality liquid
assets which support the bank-wide sustainable
Coutts is an active steward of the investments it
banking ambition by allocating a portion to green,
manages on behalf of clients, focusing on achieving
social and sustainability (GSS) bonds. As at Q4 22,
real world progress on ESG issues such as climate Treasury held c.14%(1) of its disclosed Liquidity bond
change, gender diversity and biodiversity. Coutts
portfolio in GSS assets. Based on issuer reporting,
embeds material environmental, social and
the proceeds of these bonds are allocated to areas
governance (ESG) factors into its investment process
such as renewable energy, energy efficiency, and
that lead to better-informed investment decisions.
sustainable development. Our ambition is to grow
this portfolio materially over time.
Read more on Coutts Responsible Investing
Policy
ESG in our pension funds
In July 2022, Coutts launched its inaugural
Together with its investment managers, the trustees
B Corp report.
of the Group’s pension plans take steps to actively
Read more on Coutts B Corp site monitor and take account of environmental, social
and governance issues when investing the assets.
Green, Social and Sustainable (GSS) Bonds
Read more on NatWest Group pension funds
issuances
NatWest Group has issued five GSS bonds and used
the proceeds from these to facilitate lending across a
number of eligible green and social assets, including
renewable energy, green mortgages, SME lending in
deprived areas and affordable housing.
(1) Based on third party classification of issuer documents.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 42
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Engaging our Suppliers
Our Supplier Charter Supporting our suppliers to Net Zero Working together The table below shows average days to pay invoices
Our Supplier Charter sets out our aims and Our ambition is to halve our wider value chain We continue to collaborate with our suppliers to for NatWest Group’s key legal entities for H2 2022
expectations in the areas of ethical business conduct, operational emissions including supply chain emissions encourage and enable a diverse supply chain that as submitted for statutory reporting purposes under
human rights, environmental sustainability, diversity by 2030, and have a minimum 90% reduction by 2050. is not only sustainable, but is also expected to have Payment Practices and Performance Reporting as
and inclusion, the Living Wage and prompt payment. There is a huge focus on how we start to work with a positive impact on the global community. required by the UK Government. Data is sourced
This is covered in our tender process and is a standing our suppliers and customers on understanding and This collaboration also supports the bank’s from internal reporting systems without any
agenda point of supplier review meetings conducted reporting their own emissions and build the capability ambition to get to Net Zero. manual intervention for statutory reporting.
as part of ongoing contract management. The to measure and report these together. Our suppliers’
Some examples include:
Charter details what we expect from our suppliers, data will enable us to measure and monitor our own
a a n fo d r e a m ls e o n o t u io t n lin e e d s k o e u y r a o r w ea n s a a m nd b it t i h o e n s o u in t c t o h m e es i t n h d e i r r e ig c h t t c l s im te a p t s e t i o m w p a a r c d t s w n h e i t c z h e w ro il . l enable us all to take • S in u te p r p n ly a l c ly h o a n in o m n a b n o a a g rd e i r n s g a a r n e d c o p n e t r i f n o u r a m ll a y n t c ra e ined Natwest Group da A ys v e to ra p g a e y n ( u H m 2 b 2 e 0 r 2 o 2 f )
we aim to achieve by working together. management of suppliers, as well as on key ESG NatWest Group plc 6
We are in the process of scoping out a multi-year
topics, such as climate, diversity and inclusion and National Westminster Bank Plc 6
We review the Charter annually to help us programme to work with our supply chain to reduce
become a more sustainable business, delivering carbon emissions. During Q4 2022, we have sustainable procurement to equip them with the The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 6
knowledge and skills to drive forward supplier
better outcomes for our customers, our colleagues, undertaken data analysis to understand the capability Natwest Markets Plc 7
discussions and activity.
our shareholders and the communities in which of our suppliers, where they are on the journey to net Lombard North Central plc 4
we operate. zero, and what help they might need to progress. • Embedding EcoVadis principles into performance
RBS Invoice Finance Limited 4
objectives of procurement and implementing
Aligned with the objectives of our supplier charter, Prompt payment and cost of living improvement plans for suppliers who fall below Coutts & Company 5
we have worked with EcoVadis since 2020, a leading We continue to pay our suppliers promptly for the the EcoVadis global benchmark.
organisation providing third-party evidence-based
services they provide to us. Our standard payment • During 2022, we worked with FLAIR to help us
assessments of the sustainability performance of
terms are 30 days; however, we have continued to measure our progress towards a racially equitable
businesses. The assessments help us to understand
maintain immediate payment on goods and services culture within our own supply chain services
and measure our own performance and that of our
on receipt, which supports our suppliers during the operations.
suppliers against core ESG pillars, enabling us to
identify social, environmental and ethical cost of living crisis. This goes significantly beyond our • We launched a new inherent risk questionnaire
improvements required. commitment undertaken as a signatory to the to simplify how we interact with our suppliers
Government’s Prompt Payment Code, which and stakeholders.
Since 2020, NatWest Group has made significant requires payment to be made in 60 days.
progress working with EcoVadis, with over 531 Further information on how we manage
Good Business Pays is a campaign to end late or slow
suppliers scoring an average of 55.4% against risk in our supply chain can be found
payments to suppliers. For the second year running,
the Global EcoVadis average of 44.8%. EcoVadis in the Suppliers section of our Statement
NatWest Group was recognised for fast payment
also conducted a sustainability assessment of NatWest on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking
throughout our organisation, winning the Fast Payer
Group, scoring 62% which is significantly higher than
Award, placing us in the top seven companies in 2022.
the global EcoVadis average of 49% for the financial
services sector. This ranks NatWest Group in the
86th percentile.
‘NatWest Group is one of the best examples of a
Fast Paying company. They have managed to build
a culture of fast and on time payment across all their
businesses and subsidiaries.’
Terry Corby
Chairman, Good Business Pays
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 43
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our colleagues
Our colleagues are the heart of our business. By supporting them in what they do, we can
champion their potential and collectively deliver our purpose. Following the refresh of our bank-
wide values, we now have one clear story about how our values and Critical People Capabilities
flow from our purpose and strategy.
We set out how we’ll help our colleagues to live our values and champion their belonging, ideas, judgement, impact
and future. We bring these to life through a set of pledges that give our colleagues practical ways to champion their
potential, including new wellbeing and learning initiatives.
Inclusive Curious Robust Sustainable Ambitious
We champion We champion We champion We champion We champion
your belonging your ideas your judgement your impact your future
Family-focused leave policies
Engaging with employee representatives In addition, we have a new CAP chair and a refreshed
Regular interactions with our employee panel of 28 colleagues who are self-nominated or part We support families and carers, ensuring they can This ultimately champions the potential of both
representatives such as trade unions, elected of an employee representative body. balance family and work responsibilities in a way parents and promotes gender equality in the
that supports their mental and physical wellbeing. workplace.
employee bodies and works councils are a vital means
We design our selection process to ensure To enable this, we offer a broad and competitive
of transparency and engagement for us. We membership is representative of the bank’s population range of family-focused leave policies which reflect In the UK and Offshore, employees can take up to
frequently use these sessions to discuss developments e.g. business area, organisation level, location, working not just our legal obligations and local jurisdictional 52 weeks (42 weeks in the Republic of Ireland) of
and updates on the progress of our strategic priorities. pattern and employee-led networks. Thereafter, the practices, but also our purpose. These policies leave with up to half of this time being on full pay.
We are committed to respecting our employees’ right representatives for each area are selected at random include maternity, adoption, partner, shared In India, total leave will be for 12 weeks on full pay,
of freedom of association across all our business and to ensure that everyone has a chance to participate parental, parental, carers, and dependants’ leave. in the US 16 weeks on full pay and in Poland 20
we share information about our employee and to minimise the risk of bias in the process. weeks on full pay. We continue to develop the
representative bodies with our colleagues on our To ensure continuous improvement across proposition in our other jurisdictions.
intranet. Approximately 73% of our employees are The CAP met with representatives from the Board our policy offering, we actively listen to
covered by a collective agreement and/or employee twice in 2022 to discuss issues such as: colleagues through our colleague experience As a purpose-led organisation, we also recognise
representative arrangements. feedback forums, our employee-led networks, we have an important role in supporting employees
• remuneration (including for executives and the with other types of caring responsibilities, which is
our employee representatives, and regular
In addition, through our group-wide Colleague wider workforce); why we updated our carers’ leave policy in 2022 to
industry benchmarking.
Advisory Panel (CAP) colleagues can engage directly • our values; make it easier to request carers’ leave – and it can
with senior management and the Board on topics As a result of this engagement, we have a new now be taken a day at a time instead of in
• future skills; and
which are important to them, strengthening the voice partner leave policy which is live from January one-week blocks.
of colleagues in the boardroom. In 2022, its approach • the work being done on supporting customers 2023 across our operations in the UK, Offshore,
was reviewed and refreshed to promote even richer in vulnerable situations. Republic of Ireland, US, Poland and India. The policy
engagement with the Board and to increase supports all eligible employees with significantly
opportunities to exchange views. more time away from work to help their partner
look after their new child, whether the new child
has arrived through birth, adoption or surrogacy.
The policies introduce significantly enhanced pay
and leave for eligible fathers and partners to share
the caring responsibilities. The policy is open to
both same-sex parents and heterosexual parents.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 44
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our colleagues continued
Creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace is integral to fulfilling our purpose. We want to give everyone who works here, and every customer who comes into contact with us, the chance to
succeed and the support to thrive.
Our progress and targets
Inclusive workplace Gender Ethnicity At 31 December 2022, we have 1.5% of colleagues
Colleague sentiment on inclusivity remained strong in We have a target to have full gender balance in Our ethnicity target is to have 14% of colleagues from who identify as Black in CEO-5 and above UK roles,
2022, maintaining a score of 93 percentage points. We our CEO-3 and above global roles by 2030. At ethnic minority backgrounds in our CEO-4 and above which remains consistent from 2021. Overall, of those
are nine percentage points above the Global Financial 31 December 2022, we had 40%(1)(*) women in our UK roles by 2025. At 31 December 2022, of 82% of who disclose their ethnicity, 2.8% of colleagues in the
Services Norm (GFSN) and eight percentage points CEO-3 and above global roles, an increase of 2% since colleagues who have disclosed their ethnicity, in UK identify as Black. We remain focused on
above the Global High Performance Norm (GHPN). 31 December 2021. This reflects a 11% increase since CEO-4 and above UK roles, we have 11%(*) of implementing our Racial Equality Taskforce
In June 2022, we also conducted a colleague pulse the targets were introduced in 2015. In 2022, FTSE colleagues from ethnic minority backgrounds, which commitments.
survey focused on championing belonging, in which 100 Women Leaders, previously the Hampton- remains consistent from 2021. This represents a 3%
For full details, refer to our Banking on Racial
95% of participants agreed that NatWest Group does Alexander Review, ranked us 26th (up from 49th in the increase since targets were introduced.
Equality Report, 2022 Annual Report and
a good job highlighting the importance of diversity, 2021 FTSE 100 ‘Women on Boards and Leadership’
We also have a target to have Black colleagues Accounts our Non-financial Information
equity and inclusion (DE&I). rankings).
occupying 3% of CEO-5 and above UK roles by 2025. Datasheet and natwestgroup.com.
Socio-economic diversity One Bank Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Champions Employer of the Year at the
Inclusion Action Committee National Diversity Awards
In 2022, we added socio-economic background In December 2022, we celebrated the first anniversary The role of an Inclusion Champion is to take action In September 2022, we won the Diverse
as a focus area, allowing for a more of our One Bank DE&I Action Committee. Chaired by to create a workplace where our colleagues and Company Award at the National Diversity
intersectional approach. our Chief People and Transformation Officer, Jen customers feel they’re treated fairly, with respect, Awards. The awards honour charities, role
Tippin, and Chief Marketing Officer Marg Jobling, the and have equal opportunities. We have over 1,000 models and community heroes who embrace
To help us progress we asked colleagues to
committee brings together senior leaders to drive registered Inclusion Champions across all business DE&I, to empower and inspire the wide breadth
share their socio-economic background for the
DE&I action consistently across the bank. areas. of diverse communities across the UK.
first time in our colleague survey, Our View. We
also participated in the City of London The committee has three workstreams focused on In August 2022, we refreshed our programme The award was given in recognition of our
Socio-Economic Diversity Taskforce Survey, leadership and retention, learning and development to include: work to create a more diverse and inclusive
contributing c.1,000 of the 9,000 total entries. and recruitment. For example, in recruitment, prompts workplace. This included the Women in
• a monthly email, detailing key priorities linked
were added to our HR system Workday, reminding Engineering career-switcher reskilling
Another step was to create the One Bank to our One Bank DE&I Action Committee’s focus
line managers to use the Recruitment YES Check, to programme, delivered in collaboration with
Socio-Economic Working Group in June 2022. areas and suggested learning;
complete an inclusive interview training module, and Code First Girls. The programme upskills
Matt Austen, Director of Strategy and to provide feedback to all internal candidates. • an updated intranet hub with resources women in the concepts and applications of
Corporate Development, was appointed as the and learning; software development and data science, and
Group’s first executive sponsor for socio- More broadly, the committee has driven DE&I
• roles and responsibilities; aims to ensure our colleagues have skills for the
economic diversity and provides oversight and e-learning enrolment rates, like the Choose to
future irrespective of their gender.
direction. Challenge e-learning, which saw over 36,000 • a more detailed Inclusion Champions list facilitating
colleagues bank-wide sign up in 2022, to learn how to a stronger network among colleagues. For full details of our awards,
We also looked at how we can support our
confront non-inclusive behaviours. In April 2022, recognition and external partners
existing socio-economic aligned programmes, We also delivered targeted learning sessions
members of the committee also discussed Global refer to natwestgroup.com
such as CareerSense and our apprenticeship on psychological safety by an external expert.
Accessibility Awareness Day and continued
scheme. This equipped Inclusion Champions with the skills to
conversations on making everything we do accessible
support a safe, inclusive workplace for all colleagues.
to both colleagues and customers.
(1) NatWest Group’s management structures were revised during 2022. For the purpose of remuneration reporting, the representation targets were set based on the management structures in place at the start of the FY 2022 with performance assessed at 31 December 2022. Based on
the management structures at the start of 2022, we had 41% women in our CEO-3 and above global roles as at 31 December 2022, an increase of 3% since 31 December 2021. This reflects a 12% increase since the targets were introduced in 2015.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 45
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our colleagues continued
Supporting
We recognise that being proactive to support positive mental health and wellbeing is a crucial part in achieving our purpose. colleagues’
financial wellbeing
Supporting colleagues’ positive
mental health
When colleagues first join us, it’s a great opportunity
Mental health is a key health focus for NatWest Group. The responses provided a great opportunity to identify Over 1,000 of our colleagues downloaded the to demonstrate our support for their wellbeing.
In 2022, we continued to focus on supporting where more support is needed, and highlighted the app within the first few weeks, exceeding our All our graduates and interns receive a financial
colleagues’ mental health, fully endorsing the Mental importance of continuing to talk about the support internal target, and giving them access to fully wellbeing induction to help them understand
Health at Work Commitment, an external framework available. personalised support. how their pay works, how to read their payslip
of standards that promotes mental health in the and the essentials of budgeting, debt management
workplace. Our Wellbeing Champions are there We continue to drive innovation with our wellbeing In addition to menopause and mental health and saving for life after work.
programmes and support. In October 2022, on World support, our Let’s Talk Health campaign for
to listen and be there for their colleagues in every
Mental Health Day, we announced our collaboration 2022 focused on reproductive health and cancer All our new starters are enrolled in our Retirement
business and location globally. We now have over
with JAAQ (Just Ask A Question), a new interactive support. During this time, we also launched a Savings Plan (RSP), with the minimum pension
1,400 colleagues acting as Champions, who continue
mental health and wellbeing social media platform that new cancer guide and support programme. contribution of 8% fully met by NatWest Group.
to be upskilled in various aspects of wellbeing with
provides information from trusted experts, academics We also encourage employees to put away more
monthly webinars and bespoke training. Drawing from and people with lived experiences, including from In 2022 we were delighted to once again be money through our award-winning ‘Save More
our experience to date, we were delighted to help our executive sponsor for wellbeing Jen Tippin, confirmed as one of the top 10 UK employers Tomorrow’ campaign. This lets members
the Gibraltar Samaritans launch their own Wellbeing our Group Chief People and Transformation Officer. for working families. We were assessed automatically increase their RSP contributions
Champion programme based on our successful model. In our Gogarburn office space in Edinburgh we have alongside a range of different organisations from in small but meaningful ways every April. RSP
Our colleagues value the support of our Employee a new ‘JAAQxNatWest’ room for colleagues the public, private and third sectors using the members can also access their pension account
Assistance Programme (EAP), and we increased the to experience this new mental health tool Working Families’ Benchmark, which measures on the go via a smartphone app. In 2022, we’ve
number of counselling sessions available from six to in a relaxed and safe space. flexible working, policies and benefits for carers increased participation in our flagship UK RSP to 86%
eight. To help those displaced by the Russian invasion and families in the workplace. And with the and have put steps in place to increase this to 100%.
We also provide inclusive and psychologically safe addition of our new family-friendly partner leave
of Ukraine, we extended our EAP support in Poland to
cover any refugee living in the same house as a environments for colleagues to connect with and offer policy going live in 2023, we are reaffirming our NatWest Group Benefits Hub
emotional support to others who have had similar ambition to help working families thrive.
colleague. In the UK, support is also available to the All our employees have access to benefits, and in
experiences. This is done in a drop-in ‘café’ format
volunteers in our Gogarburn welcome centre. Our September 2022 Our View survey noted 2022, to give an enhanced experience, we launched
that provides a supportive and relaxed environment
our internal wellbeing index at 81 percentage our new NatWest Group Benefits Hub in the UK,
Being resilient in the new hybrid way of working is an to cover subjects such as bereavement, caring
points, one percentage point above the Global Republic of Ireland, Jersey, Guernsey and Isle of Man.
area we focused on throughout 2022. To support this commitments, mental health and menopause.
High Performance Norm (GHPN) and four The hub is where employees can access our flexible
we launched a digital cognitive behavioural therapy
Menopause is an important topic and one we aim to percentage points above the Global Financial benefits programme, choosing from a range of
programme and a new resilience journey, with over
fully support our colleagues with. Working with Peppy Services Norm (GFSN). This survey also noted a pension, protection, healthcare and lifestyle options,
12,500 colleague interactions, to help build and
Health, we launched a brand-new digital product favourable score of 93 percentage points from including offers and discounts. Employees have access
maintain colleagues’ resilience.
globally providing colleagues and their partners with colleagues who felt their manager supported to a personalised account showing available options,
online support and access to specialist clinicians. and encouraged their wellbeing. helping them to make informed decisions tailored to
Driving innovation with our
their needs. We also have a financial wellbeing zone
wellbeing support For more details on colleague wellbeing available with tailored guides and support for all
Our bank-wide Wellbeing Implementation Committee please see natwestgroup.com colleagues and their families across a range of
helps us cascade information across our business, as financial wellbeing themes including budgeting,
well as taking feedback to help us form our wellbeing planning for the future or accessing expert assistance.
strategy. To inform our future wellbeing strategy, we
continued to build our data sources both internally and For details of our cost of living support for
with our partners, giving us the ability to focus on employees please see the 2022 Directors’
specific areas to deliver timely and relevant wellbeing remuneration report
interventions. For example, we worked with RBS
International to conduct a mental health risk analysis,
which helped us to truly understand the root causes of
stress and anxiety in the workplace.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 46
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our colleagues continued
Fair and transparent reward
We want our colleagues to perform at their best every day. In return, we promise to pay competitively and transparently.
For full details of our remuneration policies To support our colleagues’ development, we In the UK, our rates of pay continue We also hold a number of shareholder events each
and the support provided to employees for encourage open and constructive feedback. We have to exceed the Living Wage year, which allow retail shareholders and employee
the cost of living crisis, as well as the latest a number of tools to help with this, including anytime Foundation benchmarks. For our shareholders to engage with Board directors and
gender and ethnicity pay gap reporting, feedback from peers, self-assessments on our Critical major hubs outside the UK, we executives on issues of interest, including pay. The
read our 2022 Directors’ remuneration report People Capabilities (CPCs) skills and behaviours continue to pay above the minimum views of shareholders are taken into account by the
and natwestgroup.com framework, and 360-degree feedback which gives and living wage rates in the Republic of Ireland as well Group RemCo when reviewing the remuneration
insights from multiple stakeholders. All colleagues also as exceeding the minimum wage benchmarks in India policy and pay decisions for the year.
Continuous performance management have performance goals aligned to their job so they and Poland. When the new UK real living wage rates
The Chair or members of Group RemCo meet with
Aligned to our ambition of being a learning are clear on what they need to achieve and how to were announced in September 2022, we immediately
colleagues each year through the Colleague Advisory
organisation, and following our principle of paying achieve it, providing clarity on their contribution to our increased pay for our employees and relevant
Panel (CAP). In May 2022, there was a discussion at
for performance, is our approach to continuous overall purpose, and goals can be revised throughout suppliers ahead of the May 2023 deadline.
the CAP on our approach to executive pay, its link to
performance management. At the start of 2020, we the year.
For further details of our cost of living our ESG priorities and wider workforce remuneration
moved to this approach, using regular performance
To make development a priority, all colleagues have support for employees and our Fair Pay more generally. The cost of living crisis was,
and development conversations between line
a personal development plan, further building our Charter please see the 2022 Directors’ understandably, one of the main themes during the
managers and colleagues. These regular check-ins
colleagues’ current and future skills. At the end of the remuneration report and natwestgroup.com discussion. The CAP continues to be
follow a short template of questions focused on goals,
year, colleagues are allocated a rating that reflects
achievements, learnings and skills development. This their overall performance. Importantly, colleagues’ Aligning remuneration to delivery an effective way of establishing two-way dialogue
approach positions line managers as coaches and between colleagues and Board members.
achievements are evaluated on both what they have of ESG measures
encourages colleagues to own their own performance
and development, helping them to thrive and reach achieved, and how they have achieved it, through our Variable pay for executive directors (EDs) is based on Sharing in Success
their full potential. CPC skills and behaviours framework. performance against a range of measures and
We also announced a new colleague Sharing in
targets. These measures have increasingly been
Wider workforce remuneration aligned to NatWest Group’s purpose, with goals and Success scheme in February 2023. The scheme
aims to reward one bank behaviours and outcomes,
We are committed to paying our colleagues fairly, targets in the 2022 annual bonus scorecard for EDs
drive a one bank mindset, and align all colleagues
knowing this helps them feel valued, respected and related to climate, enterprise and financial capability.
across the Group to our purpose and strategy. The
recognised for the work they do. Our Fair Pay Charter Our ESG measures also include people targets, which
performance assessment will include consideration
sets out our commitment to pay all our colleagues have evolved beyond employee engagement to
of our purpose metrics, further aligning remuneration
competitively and transparently, and our reward policy incorporate purpose, culture and diversity targets. See
with ESG performance across the entire workforce.
is updated to reflect the current and future needs of page 54 for details of how executive remuneration
For further details refer to the Directors’ remuneration
the business. aligns with our ESG priorities and the five principles of
01. report in the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts.
Simplicity a purpose-led business, as set out in the Blueprint for
We know how difficult the last 12 months have
10. 02. Better Business framework.
been for our colleagues as well as the customers
Security Consistency
and communities we support, and have announced Details of our performance assessment
a range of support measures in response to the cost against the 2022 ED performance measures
09. 03. of living crisis. In September 2022, we provided a can be found in the 2022 Directors’
Competitive Flexibility permanent uplift in salary to our lower-paid remuneration report
Our Fair employees. This targeted action was complemented
Pay Charter by a one-off cash payment in January 2023 to How stakeholders shape our approach
08. 04. approximately 60,000 employees, worth £1,000 for A number of measures are in place to make sure we
Inclusive Transparency UK employees and an appropriate amount in our consider employee and shareholder views on our
other jurisdictions. There will also be further significant approach to pay and performance. The Group
investment in fixed pay from April 2023. Nearly 90% of Performance and Remuneration Committee (Group
07. 05. our junior employees covered by our negotiated pay RemCo) engages with institutional investors and
Reliability 06. Listening approach will receive a salary increase of at least 7%. regulators on our pay proposals.
Clarity The lowest starting salary in the UK will rise to
£22,000 on a full-time basis, an increase of 16%
since April 2022.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 47
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Supporting our Communities
A thriving economy depends on thriving communities. As a leading financial firm in the UK, we
believe we can make a real and positive difference to people’s lives.
We’re committed to supporting and giving back to the Disasters & Emergency Appeals
communities we operate in. Our direct community Across 2022, our colleagues and customers donated
investment in 2022 amounted to £13.6 million(*) to three appeals launched by the Disasters Emergency
compared with £7.3 million in 2021, as measured Committee (DEC). These appeals supported the
using the Business for Societal Impact benchmarking humanitarian relief efforts in Afghanistan, Ukraine and
standard. This includes the funding we make available Pakistan, and led to over £12 million being donated to
to support colleague giving and the direct costs of DEC, which includes £2.7 million donations from
delivering our community programmes. NatWest Group. DEC and NatWest Group were
shortlisted for two awards at the 2022 Corporate
Colleague charitable giving Engagement Awards, winning Most Effective One off
In 2022, we continued to promote our Do Good Feel Campaign for the DEC Ukraine Appeal and a Silver
Good campaign to give our colleagues opportunities to Award for Most Innovative Collaboration.
support the good causes they care about through
volunteering and fundraising. Our colleagues donated Customer charitable giving
and fundraised over £3.8 million for good causes and Through our customer giving channels, including our
volunteered over 76,000 worktime hours, providing mobile app, Reward account and online donations, we
their skills and expertise to support our communities. facilitated customer donations amounting to
Our popular challenge events in September 2022 £7.6 million. Our mobile app has proved to be a
offered colleagues across the UK free access to successful channel for generating additional income
fundraising events which included walking, running, for the charity sector. In 2022, over £4.6 million was
bungee and abseiling. In addition to this we matched raised through this platform. For Giving Tuesday, we
all colleague fundraising throughout the month of matched customer reward donations amounting to
September. Through this campaign, our colleagues £150,000. Tyl, our card payment provider for 15-year partnership anniversary with
raised over £580,000 for charitable causes. Our 2021 businesses, has donated over £270,000 to charity. For
Do Good Feel Good challenge events won Best every card payment, Tyl donates to charities and The Conservation Volunteers
Scheme to Encourage Staff Fundraising at The Better community projects around the country.
Society Awards in May 2022.
To celebrate Giving Tuesday, a global day of giving, NatWest Group independent charities In November we were delighted to celebrate while helping to improve natural environments and
we donated £200,000 to the charities our colleagues NatWest Group has three independent, 15 years of working in partnership with The enjoy the benefits of the outdoors and working
support through payroll giving, incentivising them to well-established charities, which continue Conservation Volunteers, enabling our colleagues together as a team.
sign up to the programme or increase their donation. to support specific activities in line with to give their time, energy and skills to undertake
In recognition of the cost of living crisis, we held three our purpose – The NatWest India Foundation(1), vital conservation projects across the UK. Together, In 2022, our colleagues planted approximately
auctions for rare and collectable banknotes, with the the Coutts Foundation(2) and NatWest we have created new forests, built new green 72,000 trees, with c.2,900 trees being planted in
proceeds donated to Trussell Trust whose service Social & Community Capital(3). parks, and restored derelict land to community use. our own headquarters at Gogarburn in Edinburgh.
This event was attended by our Coutts Scotland
demands for their foodbanks increased significantly The impact of this work will be felt for years
colleagues to celebrate Coutts’ collaboration with
across the UK. to come.
The Queen’s Green Canopy, an initiative inviting
In 2022, we continued to provide colleagues people and communities to plant a tree to mark the
opportunities to participate in our tree planting Platinum Jubilee of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II
programme, helping them to make a positive and to benefit the environment.
contribution to tackling climate change,
(1) The Foundation’s company registration number (CIN) is: U45200MH2007NPL167933.
(2) Charity Registration No: 802643.
(3) Charity Registration No: 1079626.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. Refer to page 70.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 48
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Support for
Ukraine
How NatWest Group
was able to help
Following the invasion of Ukraine, colleagues
from across the bank did what they could to help.
Donations from NatWest Group colleagues and
customers to the DEC Ukraine Humanitarian Appeal
exceeded £10 million. This included £2.5 million ‘The first trip was a natural, spontaneous reaction’, ‘What we saw there showed Ukraine. Here, CEB were able to fund eligible social
matching from the bank, over £2.3 million in Reward Anna recalls. ‘What we saw there showed how much projects (affordable housing, education and vocational
how much our help was
donations (including Gift Aid) and c.£284,000 (including our help was needed and was, in fact, essential.’ training, health and social care, and employment
Gift Aid) donated by colleagues through our ‘We made a collection available so people could needed and was, in fact, generation) within countries neighbouring Ukraine
SponsorMe page. which experienced a large influx of refugees as a
donate money for fuel and the purchase of necessary
essential.’ consequence of the crisis. Furthermore, CEB will
Gogarburn House, in the grounds of our head office items. After a week at the border, our stall was fully screen projects to ensure consistency with climate
in Edinburgh, was made available to the Scottish equipped including a grill to provide hot food.’ goals in line with the objectives of the Paris agreement
Government and Edinburgh City Council to use as Many of the refugees Anna helped were children. Social Inclusion Bond to Support alongside their extensive Environmental and Social
a welcome centre for people displaced from Ukraine, ‘There were many that crossed the border alone,’ Ukrainian Refugees Safeguard Standards (ESSS).
and greeted almost 10,000 people during the year
she says. ‘They were able to wait with us, being NatWest Markets led the USD 1 billion Social Inclusion
since opening in April 2022. By supporting the Council of Europe Development
warmed up with blankets in our cars, until family (Refugee) bond for Council of Europe Development
Bank’s response to the Ukraine crisis, through their
Many of our colleagues supported directly. Anna members were able to pick them up.’ Bank (CEB), its first public issuance in US dollars in exclusively social mandate, we demonstrated our
M tra a v jd e a lle k, d b t a o s t e h d e in b o o r u d r e W r w ar it s h a w Uk o ra ff i i n ce e i t n o P o o ff l e a r n d h , e r Elsewhere, our colleagues opened their homes to 2 to 0 2 u 2 p . s i D ze e m th a e n t d r a fo n r s a th c e ti o t n ra t n o s a U c S t D io n 1 a b ll i o lli w on e , d d t o h u e b C lin E g B i ts continued commitment to assist our customers.
support. Together with her husband and friends, families fleeing the conflict, helped Ukrainian refugees ‘traditional’ USD 500 million SIB print. The CEB was
she set up a stall offering clothes and food to those secure access to medical facilities and provided the first multilateral development bank to disburse
crossing into Poland, also transporting people to the language classes. grants to provide immediate aid to refugees from
registration centre four kilometres from the crossing.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 49
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Governance
Purpose is appropriately embedded in our robust
governance framework to ensure we oversee ESG issues
and monitor and manage significant sustainability-related
risks and opportunities
In this section
51 Responsible governance
55 Tax payments and responsibilities
57 Respecting human rights
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 50
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Responsible governance
How our corporate governance framework, roles and responsibilities support our purpose and ESG oversight
This chart is a simplified visual of the NatWest Group-level approach to ESG governance. We are committed to the We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these arrangements. The NatWest Group plc Board, subsidiaries,
highest standards of corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism in all our activities. We take an Board Committees, executive fora and cross-bank working groups all have a role to play in the delivery of this
integrated approach to governance, ensuring purpose is appropriately embedded within our existing corporate integrated governance approach.
governance framework and processes, and that these support appropriate levels of oversight of ESG issues.
Board level governance
NatWest Group plc Board – Responsible for promoting the long-term sustainable success of NatWest Group and the setting of strategic (including ESG) aims.
The Board establishes NatWest Group’s purpose, values and strategy and leads the development of NatWest Group culture. It oversees NatWest Group process and performance as a purpose-led organisation.
Group Audit Committee Group Sustainable Group Nominations and Group Board Risk Committee Group Performance and Technology and Innovation
Assists the Board in respect of internal Banking Committee Governance Committee Provides oversight and advice to the Remuneration Committee Committee
controls and financial reporting, Supports the Board in overseeing Monitors the governance arrangements Board in relation to current and Reviews and approves performance Assists the Board in overseeing and
considering financial and non-financial and challenging actions being taken of NatWest Group and oversees the potential future risk exposures, risk measures, including those relating to monitoring the execution of NatWest
disclosures, including those related by management to run NatWest Group review of Board skills and profile and determination of risk ESG and purpose activity, performance Group’s strategic direction in relation
to ESG matters. as a sustainable business, including succession planning activity. appetite, including climate risk. assessment and remuneration to technology and innovation.
challenging ESG progress and arrangements.
overseeing commitments to the UN
Principles for Responsible Banking.
Executive governance
Group CEO — Overall accountability for delivery of sustainable business performance. Joint Senior Manager Function (SMF)(1) accountability for identifying and managing financial risks
from climate change, together with the Group Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The Group CEO’s accountabilities are delegated to the executive team.
Executive Disclosure Committee (EDC) Executive Risk Committee Climate Change Executive Steering Group Group Reputational Risk Committee
Chaired by and supporting the Group CFO. Responsible for Chaired by and supporting the Group CEO. Responsible for Chaired by the CEO of RBSI(2), supporting the SMFs and their Chaired by and supporting the Group CRO.
disclosure controls and procedures. Reviews all significant considering material and/or enterprise-wide risks including delegates. Responsible for delivery and implementation Considers the reputational impact of significant ESG decisions,
disclosures and ensures these are accurate and complete, and reputational, strategic and climate risk. of NatWest Group’s strategic climate ambitions, as well as including risk appetite, policy and customer acceptance.
fairly represent business and financial conditions. overseeing broader environmental progress.
ESG Disclosure Steering Group Climate working groups
Operating under the Group CFO’s delegated authority and acting as a sub-committee of EDC, Core, cross-bank working groups support delivery, risk management and opportunities-based activity including the
the steering group reviews and approves ESG-related external disclosures. Climate Risk Oversight Forum, Measurement and Reporting Steering Group, and Climate Opportunities Group.
Cross-bank and business level working groups
Local, business-level arrangements and cross-bank working groups, such as the Emerging Environmental Issues Working Group and the Human Rights Steering Group,
promote cross-bank collaboration and support executive members and their teams to explore and deliver on the ESG agenda.
(1) Senior Manager Function holder (Group CEO and Group CRO) (2) Previous Director, Strategy and Ventures who continues to chair the forum
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 51
Skills and experience
Broad Financial Services
Risk Management
Transformation
Customer Experience
Environmental, Social and Governance (incl climate)
Government / Regulatory / Public Sector
CEO / Senior Executive Management
Financial Markets / Investment Banking
Digital and Innovation
Retail / Commercial / Private Banking
Technology (infrastructure, cyber)
CFO / Accountant
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
Number of Directors
Executive vs non-executive directors and
independence
Number of directors
2022 1 2 8
Chairman Executive directors
Independent non-executive directors
The Board considers all eight non-executive directors to be independent
and the Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
ecneirepxe
dna
sllikS
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Responsible governance continued
How our corporate governance framework, roles and responsibilities support our purpose and ESG oversight
Board monitoring and oversight of ESG risks and opportunities is
supported by clear roles and responsibilities across our governance
structure, as well as robust management reporting on our purpose,
strategy and progress against targets.
NatWest Group plc – Board composition at 31 December 2022
Gender Ethnicity
% Number of directors
2022 45% 55% 2022 1 10
Female Male Ethnic minority White
There are 11 directors on the Board, five female and six male. At the Throughout 2022 the Board met the Parker Review’s recommendation
end of 2022, 45% of the Board were female, which exceeded the FTSE with at least one director from an ethnic minority background.
Women Leaders Review recommendation of 40% female Board
representation by the end of 2025.
Age range Length of tenure
Number of directors Chairman and non-executive directors
2022 2 5 4 2022 1 4 4
45-55 56-65 66-75 0-3 years 3-6 years 6-9 years
The Board is structured to ensure that the directors provide
an appropriate combination of skills, experience and knowledge
as well as independence.
Board diversity and inclusion The bar chart above is an extract from our Board skills matrix,
which is reviewed by the Group Nominations and Governance
The boardroom inclusion policy aims to promote diversity
Committee and approved by the Board annually.
and inclusion in the composition of the Board of Directors
of Natwest Group plc, NatWest Holdings Limited, National The matrix reflects directors’ self-assessment of the skills and experience
Westminster Bank Plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc they bring to Board discussions, in line with pre-determined criteria
and in the nominations and appointments process. aligned to current and future strategic priorities.
This policy reflects NatWest Group’s values, its inclusion
guidelines and relevant legal or voluntary code requirements.
A copy of the boardroom inclusion policy
is available at natwestgroup.com
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 52
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Responsible governance continued
Purpose and ESG governance activity and focus areas in 2022
Board oversight in action engagement day, which provided an opportunity
During 2022 the Board has overseen progress to directly engage with a variety of stakeholders,
towards NatWest Group’s purpose-led ambitions and helping to promote their voices in the boardroom.
external sustainability commitments. It also received
Additional information on our approach to corporate
regular updates on progress against purpose targets
governance, including stakeholder engagement and
via the Board business insights packs.
purpose-led decision-making, can be found in the
Purpose remained a key component of Board 2022 Annual Report and Accounts (Section 172(1)
level strategic discussions during 2022 as directors Statement and Corporate Governance report).
collaborated with management towards a vision of
our strategy, including exploring the opportunities for Climate and broader environmental
sustainable growth. The Board confirmed its support governance
for a plan to amplify our strategy and will oversee In line with the wider NatWest Group purpose
progress in 2023. The Board or Board Committees (on and ESG governance model, climate governance
behalf of the Board) also received a range of updates is integrated in existing senior governance structures,
throughout the year covering ESG topics via reporting building on their areas of responsibility and expertise.
from the Group CEO and the executive management Further information on Board, Board Committee and
team. This included updates on climate, enterprise, management-level responsibilities and governance
financial capability, culture, learning and skills, values, activity on climate, including the Board’s decision to
colleague engagement, including the colleague opinion submit a ‘Say on Climate’ resolution to the 2022 AGM
survey, cost of living actions and information security. and oversight and approval of NatWest Group’s initial
The Board approves the climate risk appetite and iteration of our climate transition plan, are included in
receives regular updates on climate risk via the Risk more detail within the Governance chapter of the
report, which is presented at each Board and Board 2022 NatWest Climate-related Disclosures Report.
Risk Committee meeting.
The Group Sustainable Banking Committee (SBC)
For further detail on the operating rhythm and range received an update on broader environmental policy
of topics considered by the Board and its Committees and progress covering biodiversity and nature.
please see pages p86 to p135 of the Governance The Committee’s terms of reference were broadened
section of the 2022 Annual Report and Accounts. to incorporate environmental (including biodiversity,
forests and water) oversight to help promote this
Board training topic within the Board-level governance structure.
Our Board training programme prioritised key areas Our Climate Change Executive Steering Committee
of focus and included supply chain diversity, digital has also received updates and discussed emerging
currencies, financial crime and climate. The 2022 environmental issues and nature-focused projects
annual climate training session, led by NatWest Group’s during 2022.
climate education partner University of Edinburgh,
built on directors’ foundational climate knowledge Social governance
and included climate-related institutional change, During 2022, the SBC and the Board considered social
climate measurement and influencing strategy. matters via management reports on modern slavery,
human rights activity, and decarbonisation of the
How we listen to and engage supply chain. The Board approved NatWest Group’s
with stakeholders Human Rights Position Statement and Modern Slavery
The Board has engaged with key stakeholders, and Human Trafficking Statement published on
including investors, colleagues, suppliers, customers, natwestgroup.com.
community representatives, and thought leaders,
throughout the year on a range of topics including
ESG matters such as climate, enterprise and the
cost-of-living crisis. In September 2022, the Board
participated in a dedicated, face-to-face stakeholder
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 53
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Responsible governance continued
Aligning executive pay with ESG The ESG-related performance goals and measures
performance and our purpose-led strategy agreed for executive directors flow through to the
executive management team, adjusted as appropriate
In addition to considering financial measures, the
to reflect individual areas of responsibility. In a number
process to determine variable pay for executive
of areas our ESG ambitions stretch over several years.
directors continues to reflect progress against our ESG
However, we are clear on the specific measures and
priorities. The combined bonus scorecard for 2022
targets set for each year and publish these for
and the assessment of satisfactory performance under
our stakeholders.
the Restricted Share Plan (RSP) aligns with the five
principles of a purpose-led business, as set out in the The measures and targets are reviewed annually to
Blueprint for Better Business (BfBB) framework. align with our latest strategic focus areas. For the
wider workforce, the annual bonus pool is based on a
Details of the assessment against the 2022
balanced scorecard which includes climate, customer
performance measures for executive
and people measures, broadly aligning with the
directors can be found in the NatWest Group
position taken on ESG measures for our executive
Directors’ Remuneration Report
directors and the executive management team.
Five principles of a purpose-led business
A guardian for future generations Honest and fair with customers A good citizen A responsible and Has a purpose which delivers
and suppliers responsive employer long-term sustainable performance
Variable pay Tackling climate change is core to Putting customers at the heart We can only deliver on our purpose- We are determined to create A very high proportion of pay is
for 2022 our purpose. of what we do will help people, led strategy by continuing and a diverse workforce with an delivered in shares over many years.
Several climate measures are families and businesses to thrive. deepening our relationships with equitable and inclusive culture. This encourages executive directors
included in the bonus scorecard We target customer satisfaction all our stakeholders. This will also help us in serving our to think and act in the best long-term
for executive directors. and the likelihood that customers There are targets to encourage and diverse range of customers and interests of all our stakeholders.
The climate category accounts for will recommend our brands in grow businesses and to increase communities in the ways they need. Ten per cent of the 2022 annual
10% of annual bonus awards for annual bonus decisions. financial capability. There are targets to increase bonus award will be based on
2022. This includes three measures A weighted Net Promoter Score The Group Performance the percentage of females and maintaining efficient and safe levels
as follows: (NPS) will account for 10% of the and Remuneration Committee colleagues from ethnic minority of≈capital. If risk performance is not
1. Carbon emissions from own annual bonus awards for 2022. has discretion when making backgrounds in the top layers of at the required level, annual bonus
operations RSP awards will also be assessed decisions to ensure outcomes the organisation. awards can be adjusted. RSP
2. Funding and financing committed to ensure that performance has are fair and appropriate. Together the purpose, culture and a ri w sk a c rd o s n s a id ls e o r a ta ti k o e n s fi n in a t n o c a ia c l c a o n u d n t
to climate and sustainable finance been sustainable before the vesting Variable pay can also be recovered people targets account for 10% of prior to vesting.
takes place. from individuals if we believe the annual bonus awards for 2022.
3. Initial iteration of our Climate
payments are no longer justified.
transition plan
ESG alignment
E S G
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 54
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Tax payments and responsibilities
We are privileged to play a central role in the UK We have a responsibility to society to pay the right
economy. That brings with it a deep responsibility amount of tax in the jurisdictions in which we operate
to the communities we serve and to wider society. and follow the spirit as well as the letter of the law.
Our tax contributions are just one of the ways in These principles are central to our approach to tax
which we achieve this. and are underpinned by our tax strategy which has
been approved by the NatWest Group Board of
Our tax payments are used by governments to benefit
Directors and is reviewed and updated each year. 2022 total UK tax contribution
wider society, for example, through investment in
education, health services and infrastructure projects. We do not offer products to our customers that might £2.99bn
During 2022, we paid a total of £2.17 billion of tax in assist them in avoiding tax. We also comply with global
the UK (2021: £1.73 billion). We were ranked as the 3rd initiatives to improve tax transparency.
highest taxpayer in the PwC 2022 Total Tax
We have no tolerance for knowingly facilitating tax
Contribution survey of The 100 Group, which
evasion which is a financial crime. Further details on
referenced our tax payments made in 2021. The 100
our approach to detecting and preventing financial
Group represents members of the FTSE 100 along
with several large private companies in the UK. crime are available in the financial crime section of UK tax collected UK tax paid
this disclosure on page 61. £0.82bn £2.17bn
In addition to the taxes we pay, we also collect and
administer taxes and social security contributions Read more on our approach to tax and
on behalf of governments. During 2022, we collected management of tax risk in our Tax
a total of £0.82 billion of tax on behalf of the UK Strategy here
Government, primarily in relation to employee Investors £1,172m corporate tax
income tax and National Insurance contributions.
We have a low appetite for tax risk. However, as one
of the largest banks in the UK, we are exposed to tax £693m employee income tax Employees £276m employer payroll
risk as part of our day-to-day business. Through our and NIC taxes
internal risk management framework, we have put in
place policies and processes to reduce the level of tax
risk arising from our operations as far as reasonably £128m net VAT and other £180m bank levy and other
Customers
possible and to ensure that we fulfil our global taxes collected taxes paid
tax responsibilities.
Suppliers £543m
irrecoverable VAT
Tax authority
3rd We were ranked the 3rd highest taxpayer in terms of UK taxes paid in PwC’s
latest Total Tax Contribution survey of The 100 Group Public spending
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 55
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Tax payments and responsibilities continued
Global tax contribution and operations As noted in our tax strategy document, we do not All intra-group transactions are required We realise 95% of our total income
in low-tax jurisdictions use low-tax jurisdictions with the main aim of to be priced on an ‘arm’s length’ basis, in the UK and 91% of our total taxes
reducing tax liabilities. reflecting where value is created and in line
Over recent years we have substantially reduced our with internationally accepted transfer pricing are paid in the UK.
operations overseas and have increasingly focused on As a UK-headquartered bank, the UK-controlled
standards and local tax laws.
our banking activities in the UK. We have a presence foreign companies rules subject the profits of
in the Republic of Ireland via our regulated subsidiary subsidiaries in low-tax jurisdictions to UK tax where We support global initiatives aimed at making
Ulster Bank Ireland DAC. On 19 February 2021, they do not fall within the exemptions legislated the global tax system more effective, for
we announced that we would begin a phased by the UK Government. Details of our subsidiaries example the ‘Global Anti-Base Erosion Model
withdrawal from the Republic of Ireland and during and operations overseas are provided in our 2022 Rules (Pillar Two)’ published by the Organisation
2022 this phased withdrawal continued to progress. Annual Report and Accounts (refer to note 12 of the for Economic Co-operation and Development In 2022, for every £1 of UK
parent company accounts beginning on page 377). (OECD) in December 2021 and expected to be corporation tax paid, we also
We also have a commercial presence in Jersey,
legislated in the UK during 2023. paid an additional £0.85 in other
Guernsey, Isle of Man, Gibraltar and Luxembourg We are continuing our efforts to simplify the legal
via RBS International. RBS International is a well- entity structure and reduce the complexity of UK taxes.
established business, run through locally-regulated NatWest Group. This includes reducing our
subsidiaries and branches. RBS International offers presence in low-tax jurisdictions.
a wide range of banking activities and is a significant
local employer.
Over the last five years, we have
paid £7.9bn in UK taxes to the
UK Government.
£2.17 billion of tax was paid by £2.38 billion of tax was paid by Analysis of tax paid during
NatWest Group in the UK during 2022 NatWest Group globally during 2022 2022 by geographical region
We are a significant employer in
the UK and in 2022 paid £276m in
£ million £82 £ million £87 £ million £6 employer NIC and collected £693m
£46
£276 £331 £153 in employee PAYE and NIC.
£98 £100
£1,172 £1,223
£543 £635 In 2022, we contributed £2.99bn of
UK taxes through taxes paid and
£2,171 collected which will go towards
funding valuable public services.
Corporate income tax: £1,172 million Corporate income tax: £1,223 million UK: £2,171 million
Irrecoverable VAT/sales tax: £543 million Irrecoverable VAT/sales tax: £635 million EMEA: £153 million
Bank levy: £98 million Bank levy: £100 million Asia-Pacific: £46 million
Employer payroll taxes: £276 million Employer payroll taxes: £331 million Americas: £6 million
Business rates/other taxes: £82 million Business rates/other taxes: £87 million More detail on our global corporate income
tax payments and our country-by-country
reports can be found at natwestgroup.com
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 56
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Respecting human rights
At NatWest Group, we understand that businesses have an Tackling modern slavery and human trafficking
important role to play in promoting respect for human rights NatWest Group recognises its obligation to comply with all
and we continue to align our approach to internationally appropriate legislation, including the UK Modern Slavery Act. Working with
recognised human rights standards including the United We publish an annual statement which sets out the steps
Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights that we are taking to identify and address modern slavery TRIBE Freedom Foundation
(UNGPs). We have established a policy framework to respect and human trafficking within our own operation and
and promote human rights with our customers, our throughout our value chain.
colleagues and our suppliers. These are reflected in our
Human Rights Position Statement which was reviewed and We have put in place policies covering our customers, Since 2018, NatWest Group has been ‘Partnering with NatWest Group has really
updated in 2022. colleagues and suppliers, which seek to address modern working with TRIBE Freedom Foundation enabled us to amplify our impact and expand
slavery and monitor our financing and supply chain for to support survivors of modern slavery our reach across the financial industry.
We regularly engage with stakeholders around our this activity. and raise awareness of the issue amongst Fundraising by NatWest colleagues over
responsibilities to respect human rights and are members of colleagues. TRIBE Freedom Foundation is the last four years has provided invaluable
the Thun Group, which discusses how the financial services In 2022, NatWest Group continued to be a member of the a registered UK charity, established to fight multi-year funding, enabling us to sustainably
sector can incorporate and embed the UNGPs into their due UN Global Compact’s UK Modern Slavery Working Group modern slavery, end human trafficking and grow our projects and empower greater
diligence processes. Throughout 2022, we participated in and engaged with a range of stakeholders, including law empower the survivors. Over the past four numbers of survivors. NatWest colleagues
several indices and benchmarks which helped to inform our enforcement agencies, think-tanks, charities and non- years, we have collaborated with TRIBE from across the group have also contributed
activity and identify opportunities to continually improve and governmental organisations (NGOs), which helps us to Freedom Foundation on a range of initiatives to the development of the TRIBE Freedom
evolve our approach. grow our understanding and knowledge of the issue. including research, fundraising and Foundation Survivor Financial Empowerment
We also participated in and continue to adhere to reporting For further information and to read our awareness raising. Hub which will help create a life-changing
requirements under a range of initiatives, which include Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Key highlights include: impact for thousands of survivors across the
positions on respect for human rights, including the Equator Statement, visit natwestgroup.com UK. We are delighted to continue working
Principles and UN Global Compact. • gaining insight and guidance from TRIBE together to create change and rally the
Freedom Foundation’s financial industry financial sector in the fight against modern
Our Human Rights Steering Group continues to coordinate research, particularly around survivor slavery.’
our activities, and to make recommendations to the NatWest inclusion initiatives;
Group Executive Committee and Board to develop and Laragh O’Malley
strengthen our approach. • raising more than £90,000 to assist the Head of Impact and Partnerships
charity’s anti-slavery projects, enabling
TRIBE Freedom Foundation
The chair of the steering group has oversight of all of long-term support for survivors;
NatWest Group’s policies related to human rights and is • delivering numerous joint webinars to
responsible for facilitating progress in this space. NatWest Group colleagues, highlighting
the realities of modern slavery, the impact
Further information on respecting human rights
on victims and the role that financial
can be found in our 2022 Human Rights Position
services play in tackling modern slavery
Statement
and human trafficking; and
• working with other stakeholders including
Themis and the Independent Anti-Slavery
Commissioner to deliver and publish a
research report looking at the role the
financial service sector plays in preventing
modern slavery and human trafficking.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 57
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Risk management
How we manage risk across key ESG matters.
In this section
59 How we do business
62 ESE risk management
63 ESE risk framework
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 58
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
How we do business
Our purpose-led business strives to put the needs of Our critical people capability behaviours –
people and planet at the heart of everything we do. how we behave
To do this, we are building a bank that is safe, simple Our Critical People Capabilities are made up of skills The YES Check – how we make decisions
and smart. Our ambition is to help all our customers,
and behaviours and set clear expectations on what is
colleagues, communities, shareholders and suppliers consistently required from us all. They explain how we The ‘YES Check’ asks five simple questions to guide the thinking behind our
to thrive.
need to work every day and are aligned to our decisions and actions.
We have four key tools to guide the way we purpose, values and risk culture.
work together:
Our policies – how we do things
Our Code Our Code and the YES Check are supplemented by a The YES Check
Our Code lays out our purpose and the values and number of key policies and supporting guidance to
behaviours we expect from each other. It underpins all ensure legal and regulatory requirements are met.
our actions and interactions – within the bank and in They outline the expectations of NatWest Group,
Would others say I am acting with respect and
our external relationships – and defines the principles customers and regulators as well as the processes
for making responsible decisions, as well as the values and procedures that must be followed. The policies 1 integrity?
behind our purpose and culture. also seek to ensure risk is managed in a way that Consider: what would your family, friends, colleagues and community think?
protects our customers and enables business
We have worked with our colleagues as well as with continuity, even during challenging times. They include
our customers, suppliers and communities to create a policies relating to financial crime which cover the
new set of values that reflect the organisation we are topics of anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money Does what I am doing keep the bank, our customers,
today. These collaborative and evolved values were laundering, sanctions, fraud and anti-tax evasion as
and communities safe and secure?
launched in 2022 and will form an integral part of our well policies focused on inside information and 2
company’s cultural identity, matching the ambition, personal account dealing as well as complaints Consider: if you presented this decision to a group of savers or shareholders, would
optimism and energy our purpose has given us, and management, privacy and client confidentiality and you be seen as taking due care?
that we can all believe in. our records management.
The integrity of Our Code rests in the hands of Our Code, policies and the YES Check apply to all Am I acting fairly and being inclusive?
everyone in NatWest Group and is fully aligned to the NatWest Group and subsidiary employees, third-party
Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial Conduct workers and suppliers undertaking work for the bank. 3 Consider: what are you trying to achieve? Have you considered everyone affected
Authority (FCA) Rules. by this decision including the underserved or excluded?
Read more on how we support compliance
with Our Code
Have I sought out, listened to and taken different
perspectives into account?
4
Consider: what assumptions have you made? Have you been curious
and tested your thinking on people with different views and looked at different data?
Safe and healthy workforce which reflects more colleagues using our premises
In 2022 we saw a reduction in employee RIDDOR following the pandemic. In comparison to 2019 overall
incidents (which in 2021 included nine reports of accident data there were 31% fewer in 2022. Twenty Will this advance our purpose to champion potential
occupational diseases) decreasing from 20 in 2021 per cent of these were related to property defects for and help people, families and business thrive?
down to 12. We also saw a decrease of reportable which remediation is always recommended. NatWest 5
injuries to members of the public, from 5 in 2021 Group is significantly below the 2022 HSE benchmarks Consider: how? Try writing the press release – does it sound good for customers and
to 3 in 2022. for reportable employee injuries. communities? What is the impact on future generations?
In 2022, there was an increase in overall H&S related Read our health and safety performance in
incidents and accidents of 21.54% from 2021, detail here
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 59
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
How we do business continued
The importance of risk culture The framework – which is centred on the embedding NatWest Group classifies its principal risks as either Compliance
Risk culture is at the centre of both the risk of a strong risk culture – sets out a consistent financial risks – such as credit risk, market risk, climate NatWest Group has a number of systems and
management framework and risk management approach to managing risk across the organisation. risk, capital adequacy or liquidity and funding risk – or mechanisms in place to monitor and manage
practice. A strong risk culture that encompasses both While the NatWest Group Board reviews and approves non-financial risks, such as conduct risk, financial compliance with Our Code and policies:
prudential and conduct risk outcomes and prescribed the framework, it is designed and maintained by crime risk and operational risk. Work continued during
behaviours is the essential foundation for intelligent NatWest Group’s independent Risk function, which is 2022 to further integrate climate risk into the • Disciplinary actions in case of breach. Colleagues
risk-taking, which enables NatWest Group to fulfil its led by the Chief Risk Officer. Risk appetite is a key enterprise wide risk management framework – falling short of the expected standards would be
purpose and meet the needs and expectations of component of the framework. It defines the level and including the development of meaningful climate risk subject to internal disciplinary policies and
customers and other key stakeholders. Colleagues are type of risk NatWest Group is willing to take as part of appetite measures. Climate considerations are also procedures, which could result in dismissal and,
expected to take personal responsibility for its business activities. incorporated into transaction acceptance standards where relevant, notification to the relevant
understanding and proactively managing the risks as part of NatWest Group’s wholesale credit risk authority.
The industry-standard three lines of defence model is
associated with their roles. The target intelligent management approach. A principles-based climate • Employee performance appraisal and
used to articulate accountabilities and responsibilities
risk-taking behaviours are embedded in our Critical risk policy, approved by NatWest Group’s Board remuneration. NatWest Group’s remuneration
for managing risk.
People Capabilities. Risk Committee, is also in place, defining minimum policy supports the business strategy and is
For more details on the three lines of defence, requirements for managing and reporting climate designed to promote long-term success. Conduct
How we manage risk refer to the Risk and capital management risk across the organisation. and behaviour – as well as risk management – are
NatWest Group operates an enterprise-wide risk section of the NatWest Group 2022 Annual assessed as part of the appraisal process for all
management framework. Report and Accounts employees.
• If conduct falls short of the required standards,
the accountability review process is used to assess
Enterprise-wide risk management framework how this should be reflected in pay outcomes for
those individuals concerned. The remuneration
policy seeks to ensure that the remuneration
Three lines arrangements for all colleagues reflect the
Risk culture Risk governance Risk appetite
of defence principles and standards prescribed by the
PRA Regular mandatory training for all colleagues,
including part-time colleagues and contractors, on
the YES Check, Our Code, and conduct policies.
Common risk language, architecture and approach
A wide range of learning, both technical and
behavioural, is offered across the risk disciplines.
Risk directory and principal risks This training can be mandatory, role-specific or for
personal development, and enables colleagues to
develop the capabilities and confidence to manage
Financial risks Non-financial risks risk effectively.
• Testing and monitoring. Specific activities relating
to compliance and conduct, credit and financial
Credit risk Conduct risk
crime risk are subject to testing and monitoring by
the Risk function. This confirms to both internal
Non-traded market risk Financial crime risk and external stakeholders – including the Board,
senior management, the customer-facing
Capital adequacy Operational risk businesses, Internal Audit and NatWest Group’s
regulators – that risk policies and procedures are
Liquidity and funding Regulatory compliance risk being correctly implemented and that they are
operating adequately and effectively. Selected
key controls are also reviewed for adequacy
Earnings stability Model risk
and effectiveness. Thematic reviews and targeted
reviews are also carried out where appropriate to
Pension risk Reputational risk
ensure appropriate customer outcomes.
Traded market risk Externally, we welcome feedback from regulators
and industry bodies, including on our reporting.
Climate risk
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 60
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
How we do business continued
Oversight and monitoring Whistleblowing Of 366 concerns investigated during 2022, 42% Financial crime
The Board is responsible for receiving reports on and We want our colleagues, and all those we interact related to discrimination and harassment (including We understand that tackling financial crime is of
reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management with, to feel confident to raise concerns about sexual harassment, racial harassment, bullying, and fundamental importance to society. Our approach
and internal control systems of NatWest Group. wrongdoing or misconduct without fear of retaliation. managerial behaviour). Where cases were to detecting and preventing financial crime seeks to
‘Speak Up’ is NatWest Group’s formal whistleblowing substantiated, appropriate action was taken to rectify tackle the harm generated, to protect people, families
For more information about the relevant oversight framework, which enables colleagues to report the situation, following discussion with Human and businesses, and to support compliance with
roles and responsibilities of our Board and Board concerns in confidence (and anonymously if preferred) Resources and the respective business unit. relevant financial crime legislation and regulation in the
Committees, see the Responsible governance section
through a secure reporting system operated by an jurisdictions in which we operate.
on page 51. independent third party. Colleagues using Speak Up Anti-trust and anti-competitive practices
Our financial crime framework is built on the
are protected both through our internal policies and We are committed to competing fairly across all
Conflicts of interest by legislation, where applicable. sectors in which we operate. We take a very firm following pillars:
We have in place a conflicts of interest policy which approach to compliance with competition law. This • Policies and procedures: These ensure that our
sets out how we will identify, prevent or appropriately The Group Audit Committee monitors the means that all employees worldwide must understand business seeks to prevent, detect and address
manage actual and potential conflicts of interest that effectiveness of NatWest Group’s whistleblowing their competition law obligations, however junior or financial crime that may arise as a result of our
may arise through the normal course of business. process, with its chairman acting as whistleblowers’ senior they may be, and whatever the nature of operations, products, services, our customers and
Below is a description of our conflicts policy. We are champion. their role. suppliers.
r p e r q e u ve ir n e t d o t r o m ta a k n e a a g l e l a c p o p n r f o lic p t r s ia w te h e st r e e p : s to identify and to I w t h re is c t e le iv b e lo s w r i e n g g u r la e r p o u r p t d s a a t n es d o a n n y t h c e o m vo m lu o m n e t h o e f mes. U co n ll d e e a r g t u h e e s g m ro u u st p - c w om ide p le c t o e m a p n e n t u it a io l n c o p m oli p c e y t , it a io ll n law • R al e ig g n u l a a n r d r is c k o n a t s in se u s e s t m o e s n tr ts e : n T g h th e e s n e p en ro s c u e re d u t r h e a s t i w n e lin e
• the interests of one part of NatWest Group conflict All colleagues receive annual awareness training training to ensure they understand their obligations with our inherent risks.
directly with those of another part or a customer; on whistleblowing and how to raise concerns. More and further specialist advice and training are also • Independent Audit: This continuously assesses
detailed targeted training is also provided to specialist
• the interests of our employees conflict with those provided by our in-house competition lawyers on an the effectiveness of our controls.
teams involved in the management and investigation
of our customers; or of whistleblowing reports. There is no definitive list of ongoing basis. • Customers: We seek to know our customers
• the interests of two or more of our customers what can be reported through Speak Up – we want by undertaking due diligence and monitoring.
Lobbying and political involvement
compete with one another. to know of any concerns colleagues have about • Process and technology: We aim to have
O a w c u h t r i i c v c h it o ie c n s o f l n i a c s n t t s d it u p s t o e e l r i c v o y i r c e i m d s e a w n y t e i g f ie p iv s r e , o w v ri i s d it e e h , t r o t e h f c e e o r c n e i f r n l c ic c u t e m s t w o st h a th i n c e c h e s w G t b h e r r e o o r u n g e p g e p , d n o i o e r t t s r in e a c g d l u p o t s h u r to r b m o m li u c is e . g c r H h s o o , n S w e d p m u e e c a v p t e k l o r t U , y h e e a p e x t a s a a , r m f e s fe p h d c l a e o t r s s c e u N o h m f o a l w t e d W n e h t r e a e s s t d t o c i r a n n N m a or s a a g s t k o a W i c n n e i i g a s s a t t p io t o G io n li r n t t o i , o c u w a p p l e o d h l h o i a t a i n s c v a a a e t l i o l p r o n e a n s l r a g t a t i - e i s n o s t d n . a s A n w h d s i e p in a s h g f a a i p n v t o a e a l n i c n c n y o i a a o t l p io f s o e n n li r t a o i v c l t i a a c l e n s d h c p o i r g e n h s t - e r q o n u l t s e a a d lit c . y r o d s e s t e th ct e io b n a a n n k d t o p r m ev a e n n a t g io e n t h s e y s r t i e s m ks s and
involve a risk of damage to the interests of one or the Speak Up policy. local level with most of the established political parties, • Culture and colleagues: We aim to have a culture
more parts of NatWest Group or of our customers. It who are treated in the same way as other of financial crime detection and prevention among
also specifies the procedures and measures that we The Speak Up policy sets out our commitment to stakeholders. As a matter of good business practice, all our colleagues, with deep expertise in all
have put in place to prevent or manage such conflicts. protect anyone raising a genuine concern, even if we keep in close touch with government and ensure specialist roles. We undertake colleague and
the concern raised is considered to be unsubstantiated that whenever issues arise which may affect the customer training and awareness activity so that
To ensure that the conflicts policy is implemented
(not proven) after investigation. All whistleblowing operation of our business and the interests of our everyone understands the role that they play in
effectively we seek to continually and proactively
concerns are investigated, as appropriate. Where customers or shareholders we discuss these with the tackling financial crime. In addition, everyone in the
identify situations where potential conflicts may exist,
concerns are substantiated, recommendations are authorities concerned. Our employee conduct policy bank has a performance objective to prevent and
and govern those situations to ensure fair and proper
made for remedial action, which can include states that employees involved in local or national detect financial crime.
outcomes. We also employ a number of techniques to
manage and mitigate conflicts, including: using changes to processes and controls as well as politics should ensure that their political activities are • Partnership working: We recognise that we cannot
physical and electronic information barriers to control disciplinary action. kept entirely separate from their duties and that tackle financial crime in isolation. However, we
the flow of information between different parts of the Furthermore, the harassment, victimisation or NatWest Group funds and resources are not used for strive to be the industry leader, and we work with
Group; separate supervision of our employees who discrimination of anyone raising a genuine concern political purposes. partners including industry bodies, law
are involved in different business activities which will be viewed as a disciplinary matter. In 2022, 97% of We are a member of several trade associations, for enforcement, regulators and government to tackle
provide services to customers whose interests may those completing our colleague opinion survey agreed example UK Finance. Where appropriate, we financial crime.
conflict; a remuneration policy that avoids our that they know how to raise concerns about participate in government consultations and policy NatWest Group seeks to detect and prevent financial
employees being remunerated in a way that creates wrongdoing in their business. 90% of colleagues also discussions to share our industry expertise and crime and fraud to protect the bank, people, families,
conflicts; maintaining and reviewing a conflicts agreed it was safe to speak up in their business, and perspective. For instance, recent engagement has and businesses. The Group strives to avoid breaches
register; and provision of internal guidance and 89% believe that if they raise concerns they will be included input on the UK’s transition to net zero, the in financial crime and fraud legislation.
training to relevant employees to raise their handled appropriately. In 2022, 355 cases were raised setting of industry standards, the provision of shared
awareness of conflicts and how to deal with conflicts compared to 415 in 2021. services and the supply of training services. Read more on detecting and preventing
when they arise. financial crime and our Financial Crime
Statement
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 61
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Environmental, Social and Ethical (ESE) risk
management
Environmental, social and ethical All customers who fall into the ‘restricted’ ESE risk
risk management category are subject to enhanced due diligence.
We recognise that the activities of our customers can This includes ensuring that companies have relevant Customers assessed against the Customers assessed against the
policies and procedures to manage ESE risks and
have environmental, social and ethical (ESE) impacts ESE policy in 2022 by category ESE policy in 2022 by sector
the capacity to manage these risks through good
– including polluting activities and the potential for
governance and control. It also assesses the
human rights infringements. ESE risk forms part of
companies external ESE track record to ensure that it
NatWest Group’s overall Reputational Risk policy and
remains within our ESE Risk Acceptance Criteria. All
requires enhanced due diligence to be performed for
restricted customer relationships are approved by
certain customer relationships, transactions, activities,
an accountable executive and/or a franchise/legal
and projects.
entity Reputational Risk Committee. ESE Risk
To manage these risks, we have developed Risk Framework oversight and effectiveness is provided by
Acceptance Criteria (RAC) for nine sectors which the Risk Function and reported annually to the Group
present heightened ESE risk and define the level of Reputational Risk Committee, an overview of the ESE
ESE risk the bank is prepared to accept. The ESE RAC risk framework is provided on page 63.
are applicable to corporate customer on-boarding,
In early 2023, we announced we will not provide
lending and underwriting, and apply to all legal entities.
reserve based lending specifically for the purpose
Some of the activities which we prohibit include;
of financing oil and gas exploration, extraction and
sexual entertainment venues, the manufacture, sale,
trade, servicing or stockpiling of Highly Controversial production for new customers, and, after the High: 9 Adult entertainment: 16
31 December 2025 we will not renew, refinance or
Weapons, new coal relationships and customers using extend existing reserve based lending used specifically Normal: 486 Animal welfare: 19
harmful child labour, forced labour, modern slavery or
human trafficking. for the purpose of financing oil and gas exploration, Prohibited: 5 Defence: 160
extraction and production.
Sensitive: 35 Forestries, fisheries and agribusiness: 127
We also have an ESE risk concerns process which
In 2022, we undertook 535 customer ESE
seeks to ensure that ESE risk is identified and Generic: 8
assessments (2021: 305), and 126 trade-related
managed for customers and transactions in sectors
transactions involving defence equipment (2021: 108). Mining & metals: 65
which are not covered by Risk Acceptance Criteria.
The increase is representative of more cautious
Examples might include major or sustained Oil and gas: 51
approach to assessing customers against risk
environmental, human rights, modern slavery or social
acceptance criteria in 2022. Power generation: 73
issue-related campaigns against a company in sectors
such as agriculture/food, chemicals, tobacco, Read more on our ESE and reputational risk Private security companies: 4
pharmaceuticals and waste management, or management Gambling: 12
companies associated with controversial projects.
(1) Majority of assets defined as 51%.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 62
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
ESE risk framework
At NatWest Group, we have nine ESE sector risk Initial screening is completed by the relationship The specialist ESE assessments team perform an
acceptance criteria (RAC) for sectors that present managing team and an ESE risk rating is assigned. ESE risk assessment and confirm the ESE risk rating
heightened ESE risk. Customers or trade of the customer relationship or transaction. The risk
transactions that fall within a sector RAC, or any rating determines approval requirements and when
other customer where associated ESE risk concerns the next ESE assesment is required in the
have been identified, are subject to enhanced customer lifecycle.
due diligence.
Confirmed ESE risk rating:
Sectors presenting heightened ESE Normal
Normal
risk Customer relationship or transaction subject to due diligence.
Customers undertaking ‘normal’ ESE activities are assessed every
five years, or more frequently if an ESE risk concern specific to the
customer is identified.
Confirmed ESE risk rating:
Adult entertainment
Restricted
The customer relationship or transaction is approved by
Animal welfare an accountable executive and/or a franchise/legal entity Reputational
Restricted Risk Committee. The customer relationship is assessed every one or
Customers engaged in restricted activities undergo enhanced due two years, or more frequently if an ESE risk concern specific to the
Defence diligence by a specialist team. customer is identified.
Mining & metals
Confirmed ESE risk rating:
Oil & gas
Prohibited
Prohibited
We do not support individual transactions or customers with
activities which are prohibited by sector RAC.
Power generation
Gambling
A specialist risk team is responsible for developing and
maintaining our ESE risk framework and assisting the
business and support functions on its implementation and
Forestry, fisheries and agribusiness
oversight. Our suite of sector ESE RAC is reviewed and
Customer onboarding or transaction processing stopped
updated regularly to ensure it reflects the evolving risk
landscape.
Private security companies
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 63
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Metrics and
Targets
The metrics and targets used to assess, monitor and
manage ESG topics.
In this section
65 Climate, enterprise, learning and DE&I metrics
66 Measuring our performance
67 Our ESG rating performance
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 64
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Climate, enterprise, learning and
diversity equity and inclusion (DE&I) metrics
Climate -50% 50% 50% £100bn We plan to phase out of
coal for UK and non-UK
We have an ambition to we plan to reduce the reduction in emissions we have a target to provide £100 billion customers who have UK
at least halve the climate carbon intensity of our from our direct own climate and sustainable funding and coal production, coal fired
impact of our financing in-scope Assets under operations(2) by 2025, financing between 1 July and the end generation and coal related
activity by 2030, against Management by 50% by against a 2019 baseline of 2025. As part of this we aim to infrastructure by 1 October
a 2019 baseline, and 2030, against a 2019 provide at least £10 billion in lending 2024, with a full global
align with the 2015 Paris baseline(1) for EPC A and B rated residential phase out by 1 January
Agreement properties between 1 January 2023 2030
and the end of 2025
Enterprise 250,000 35,000 30,000 75% 60% 20% 20%
interventions delivered individuals and number of youth of those of supported of support of those
to start, run, and grow businesses interventions(4) supported will provided will be provided will be businesses
a business supported by be based in to women(3) from an ethnic supported will
enterprise regions outside minority be purpose-led(3)
programmes London & South background(3)
East England(3)
Learning 15m 2m
financial capability interactions delivered between 2021-2023. additional customers helped to start saving between 2021-2023.(5)
DE&I Gender balance 14%
in our CEO-3 and above global roles by 2030.(6) of colleagues from an ethnic minority background in our CEO-4 and above
UK roles by 2025.(6)
(3) Demographics cover uniquely supported individuals and young people supported.
(1) 89% of Assets under Management are considered to be in-scope to be managed in line with net zero. This includes all core managed
funds and discretionary portfolios. (4) Youth interventions supported through enterprise and entrepreneurship is a new metric for 2022.
(2) Direct own operations is defined as Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 (paper, water, waste, business travel, commuting and work from (5) Includes instances where customers had existing savings with other banks and transferred them into a NatWest Group account.
home) emissions. It excludes upstream and downstream emissions from our value chain. (6) To maintain integrity, we remove colleagues from our reporting that sit in CEO-3 and above that do not hold leadership or influential roles.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 65
Measuring our performance
Non-financial measures
Climate and Individuals Build up and Net
sustainable funding supporting strengthen a Promoter
and financing (£bn) enterprise’ healthy culture Score (NPS)
2022 2021
2022 Targets
Provide an additional £100 billion of climate and sustainable Support the removal of barriers to UK enterprise growth Achieve our Culture target of 83 points as measured through Increase the likelihood that customers will recommend our
financing and funding from 1 July 2021 to the end of 2025. through the provision of learning, networking, and the Our View colleague survey(1). brands and achieve NPS targets for our core customer-facing
funding interventions. businesses.
Why it is important
82 83 83
2022 2021 2020
A guardian for future generations. A good citizen. A responsible and responsive employer. Honest and fair with customers and suppliers.
To be a leading bank in the UK helping to address the Remove barriers to UK enterprise growth. Build up and strengthen a healthy culture. Build up and strengthen a healthy culture.
climate challenge.
Our performance
In 2022 we provided £24.5(*) billion of climate and sustainable In 2022 we have supported 48,000(*) young people and In 2022 we narrowly missed our target on Culture of 83 by NatWest Retail Main Bank NPS exceeded its target
funding and financing, towards our £100 billion target. 53,000(*) individuals and businesses through our enterprise one point. by 1 point. There was an additional improvement
programmes, with 269,000(*) customer interventions delivered. of 7 points driven by a methodological change(2).
This took our cumulative total since July 2021 to £32.6(*) billion In 2022 we changed our Culture measurement calculation
Of those supported:
towards our target to provide £100 billion climate and methodology from the Financial Services Culture Board (FSCB) Despite missing its NPS target in 2022, NatWest Business
sustainable funding and financing by the end of 2025. • 34%(*) were people from ethnic minority backgrounds. methodology to the Willis Towers Watson (WTW) methodology, Banking continues to rank 3rd compared with its high-street
Climate and sustainable finance and funding provided towards • 32%(*) businesses were purpose-led. as we no longer participate in the FSCB survey. competitors.
our £100 billion target. • 59%(*) support provided to women NatWest Commercial & Mid-Market met its 2022 target
by retaining 1st position versus its high street competitors.
• 90%(*) were in regions outside London and southeast England.
Alignment with our strategy and areas of focus
Climate Enterprise Learning Simple to deal with
How we measure our progress and our future sustainable long-term targets
Funding and financing provided to support climate and Support provided to individuals, businesses and young people Annual ‘Our View’ colleague sentiment survey. NatWest Retail Banking NPS 23 or be 3rd; NatWest Business
sustainable activities in line with our climate and sustainable through enterprise programmes and customer interactions, Banking NPS -6 or be 3rd; NatWest Commercial Banking NPS
funding and financing inclusion (CSFFI) criteria. to start, run or grow a business. 17 or 1st.
Read more in our Climate-related Read more on Enterprise on pages 21 to 24 Read more on Learning on pages 25 to 32. Read more on Supporting
Disclosures Report our customers pages 34 to 42.
(*) Within the scope of EY assurance. (2) During 2022, a methodological change was made to retail NPS measurement which resulted in an uplift in NPS scores for all brands
(1) All scores shown are for NatWest Group and include Ulster Bank RoI. To enable like-for-like year-on-year comparisons, all scores shown including NatWest. 2022 performance has been measured removing the impact of this positive change. 2023 goals have been set from a
are based on the WTW calculation methodology. new +22 baseline which takes into account the positive impact of the methodological change.
24.5
8.1
9.4
12.0
2020 2022 2021
c.53,000
c.55,000
c.60,700
2020 2022 2021 2020
+15
+22
-6
+16
13
-3
13
7
-3
19
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Retail Retail: 2022 new baseline
Business Commercial
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 66
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Our ESG rating performance
NatWest Group has continued to proactively respond to a number of key ESG surveys and sustainability assessments, achieving above industry average in several benchmarks (1).
Coutts | PRI Principles for Sustainalytics S&P CSA CDP Climate Workforce Disclosure
Responsible Investing (2) Risk Report (3) NatWest Group scored 61 (out of 100) in Change Disclosure Initiative (WDI)
Coutts has outperformed the median peer In December 2022, NatWest Group the 2022 S&P Global Corporate In the 2022 CDP Climate Change In 2022 we achieved a disclosure score
group score in the latest UN-supported received an ESG Risk Rating of 17.4 Sustainability Assessment. As of Disclosure we maintained our score of B, of 68%, compared with an industry
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) from Sustainalytics and was assessed to 31 December 2022, we performed in the against a Financial Services average of average of 67%. We have been
assessment. Our investment and stewardship be at Low Risk of experiencing material top quintile in the Banks Industry in the B-. We continue to work to further participating since WDI inception in 2017.
policy, which details our approach to financial impacts from ESG factors. S&P Global Corporate Sustainability integrate climate-related considerations
integrating ESG principles into our investment Assessment. within business processes and support
process, was given a score of 98% by the PRI. the transition to a net-zero economy.
ISS ESG Rating Tortoise(5) World Benchmarking MSCI Rating (6)
As of December 2022 we have improved We ranked 1st in the “Talk” Score which Alliance (WBA) In December 2022, NatWest Group
our ESG rating to C+ and retained Prime indicates the level of commitment to We ranked 10th out of 395 financial received a rating of AA (on a scale of
status with ISS ESG, scoring in the top measurable and time-bound targets and institutions assessed in the inaugural AAA-CCC) in the MSCI ESG Ratings
FTSE4Good Index Series(4) performing organisations in the industry. memberships and 3rd in the “Walk” score 2022 Financial System Benchmark with assessment.
In 2022 we achieved a score of 4.3 out of 5, which measures performance across a an overall score of 40/100.
wide range of areas from poverty and
placing us at 89th percentile among banks.
inequality to climate change and
biodiversity.
(1) ESG ratings on this page are: (i) unsolicited; (ii) not a sponsorship, endorsement, or promotion of NatWest Group by the relevant rating (4) FTSE Russell (the trading name of FTSE International Limited and Frank Russell Company) confirms that NatWest Group has been
provider, nor (iii) a warranty. Currently, ESG rating providers are not regulated like credit rating agencies. Some ESG ratings providers independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the
only rely on public information. So, their outputs may be subject to data gaps. ESG rating providers use different definitions, scope and FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the
methodologies leading to variation in ESG ratings for any given company. performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. The FTSE4Good indices are
(2) The Summary Scorecard is available at https://www.coutts.com/insight-articles/news/2022/Investments/coutts-has-outperformed-the-median- used by a wide variety of market participants to create and assess responsible investment funds and other products.
peer-group-score-in-the-latest-un-supported-principles-for-responsible-investment-assessment.html. Public Transparency Report can be accessed (5) Tortoise Responsibility100 Index.
at https://www.coutts.com/content/dam/rbs-coutts/coutts-com/Files/wealth-management/Coutts%20Institute/responsible-investing/ (6) The use by NatWest Group of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (`MSCI’) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service
pri-assessment-report-2021.pdf. marks or index names herein do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of NatWest Group by MSCI.
(3) Copyright ©2022 Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This section contains information developed by Sustainalytics www.sustainalytics. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided `as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI
com. Such information and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.
for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are
not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their use is subject to conditions available
at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 67
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Important
Information
In this section
69 Important information
70 Other important information, including our assurance approach
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 68
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Important information
Cautions about this report generally considerably less sophisticated than the Caution about references to websites. (ii) that after 31 December 2025 not to renew,
This report has been prepared by NatWest Group plc systems and internal controls for financial reporting Reference to websites and other reports is made for refinance or extend existing reserve based lending
(together with its subsidiaries the ‘NatWest Group’) for and it also includes manual processes. This may result information purposes only, and information found at specifically for the purpose of financing oil and gas
information and reference purposes only; it is intended in non-comparable information between organisations such websites or in such reports is not incorporated exploration, extraction and production; and (iii) not
to provide non-exhaustive, indicative and general and between reporting periods within organisations as by reference into this report. To the extent permitted to provide reserve based lending and borrower
information only and does not purport to be methodologies develop. by law, NatWest Group makes no representation, base financing to upstream Oil and Gas companies
comprehensive; and it does not provide any form of warranty or assurance of any kind, express or implied, specifically for the purpose of financing upstream
The further development of accounting and/or
legal, tax, investment, accounting, financial or other or takes no responsibility or liability as to the fairness, assets located in Arctic or Antarctic Waters;
reporting standards could materially impact the
advice. performance metrics, data points and targets accuracy, reliability, reasonableness, correctness or • NatWest Group’s ambition to remove barriers to
contained in this report and the reader may therefore completeness with respect to (i) the third-party enterprise and provide businesses in the UK with
Caution about the information this report not be able to compare performance metrics, data information found at any websites operated by third the support they need to grow; and
is based on. points or targets from one reporting period to another, parties; or (ii) the information provided in Strategy, • NatWest Group’s ambition to help people to take
Governance, Risk Management sections.
This report is prepared based on reviews and analysis on a direct like-for-like basis. NatWest Group plans to control of their finances, to make the most of their
of (i) our data derived from management systems that continue to review available data sources and money, safely and securely – now and in the
Caution about forward-looking statements in this
are not necessarily part of the internal controls and enhance its methodology and processes to improve future.
procedures over financial reporting used for the the robustness of its ESG reporting over time aligned report.
preparation of our IFRS financial statements; and (ii) with recognised industry developments. Certain sections in this report contain forward-looking Words or phrases such as ‘ambition’, ‘aim’,
financial, statistical and other information and data statements, such as aims, ambitions, estimates, ‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘budget’, ’continue’, ‘could’,
published by third parties. Caution about the lack of definitions or standards. forecasts, plans, projections and targets and other ‘effort’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘forecast’, ‘goal’,
There is currently no single globally recognised or metrics, including but not limited to, ‘guidance’, ‘intend’, ‘intention’, ‘may’, ‘objective’,
Caution about data, metrics and methodologies. accepted, consistent and comparable set of definitions • NatWest Group’s aim to at least halve the climate ‘ ‘ o se u e tl k o ’ o , k ‘s ’, h ‘ o p u la ld n ’ ’ , , ‘ ‘ t p a o rg te e n t’ t , i a ‘w l’, il ‘ l p ’, r ‘ e w d o ic u t l ’ d , ’ ‘ p o r r o s je im ct i i l o a n r ’,
The information in this report includes non-financial or standards (legal, regulatory or otherwise) of, nor impact of its financing activity by 2030 and align expressions that convey the prospective nature of
metrics, estimates or other information that are widespread cross-market consensus with the 2015 Paris Agreement; events or outcomes generally indicate other
subject to significant measurement uncertainties,
which may include the methodology, collection and i. as to what constitutes, a ‘green’, ‘social’ or • NatWest Group’ ambition to become net zero by forward-looking statements.
verification of data, various estimates and ‘sustainable’ or having equivalent-labelled activity, 2050 across its financed emissions, assets under There are many significant uncertainties, assumptions,
assumptions, and/or underlying data that is obtained product or asset; or management and operational value chain; judgements, opinions, estimates, forecasts and
from third parties, some of which cannot be ii. as to what precise attributes are required for a • NatWest Group’s target to provide £100 billion statements made of future expectations underlying
independently verified. particular activity, product or asset to be defined climate and sustainable funding and financing these forward-looking statements which could cause
as ‘green’, ‘social’ or ‘sustainable’ or such other between 1 July 2021 and the end of 2025; actual results, performance, outcomes or events to
The preparation of certain information in this report
requires the application of a number of key judgments, equivalent label; or • NatWest Group’s target to provide at least differ materially from those expressed or implied in
assumptions and estimates, including with respect to iii. as to climate and sustainable funding and financing £10 billion in lending for EPC A or B rating these forward-looking such statements.
the classification of climate and sustainable funding activities and their classification and reporting. residential properties between 1 January 2023 The most important of these uncertainties and factors
and financing activities. The reported measures in this Therefore, there is little certainty, and no assurance or and the end of 2025 as part of its wider target that could cause actual results and outcomes to differ
report reflect good faith estimates, assumptions and representation is given that such activities and / or to provide £100 billion of climate and sustainable materially from those expressed or implied in
judgments at the given point in time. There is a risk reporting of those activities will meet any present or funding and financing between 1 July 2021 forward-looking statements are summarised in the
that these judgments, estimates or assumptions may future expectations or requirements for describing or and the end of 2025; ‘Risk Factors’ included on pages 404 to 425 of the
subsequently prove to be incorrect and/or may need classifying funding and financing activities as ‘green’, • NatWest Group’s ambition that 50% of its NatWest Group 2022 Annual Report and Accounts
to be restated or changed. ‘social’ or ‘sustainable’ or attributing similar labels. We mortgage book will have an EPC rating of C (with special regard to the risk factors in relation to
ESG reporting in our industry is not yet subject to the expect policies, regulatory requirements, standards, or above by 2030; ‘Climate and sustainability related risks’ that describes
same globally recognised or accepted reporting or and definitions to be developed and continuously • NatWest Group’s sector level emissions reduction several particular uncertainties, climate and
accounting principles and rules as traditional financial evolve over time. targets validated as science based by SBTi, climate sustainability related risks to which NatWest Group is
r a e c p c o e r p t t in e g d . r A e c p c o o rt r i d n i g n g p ly ra , c th ti e c r e e s i f s o r a N la a c t k W o e f s c t o G m ro m u o p n t ly o T re o p s o u rt p in p g o r t t h t is ra d n a s t p a a a re n n d c m y e a a b s o u u r t e o s u , r N p a r t o W c e e s s t s G fo r r o up s e c s e ti n m a a r t io e s d a c n lim d a e t m e is p s r i o o j n e s c t i i n o t n e s n s a i n ty d p fo a r th ec w a a s y ts s ; , e tim xp e o ) s . ed and which may be amended from time to
follow or align to and ESG measures between developed a Basis of Reporting document for 2022, • NatWest Group’s plan (i) not to provide reserve
organisations in our industry may be non-comparable. which details our approach, scope, and controls for based lending specifically for the purpose of
In addition, the maturity of underlying data, systems selected ESG measures. It should be read together financing oil and gas exploration, extraction and
and controls that support non-financial reporting is with this report and is available at natwestgroup.com. production for new customers;
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 69
Introduction Strategy Governance Risk Management Metrics and Targets Important Information
Other important information, including our assurance approach
Other uncertainties and factors include, Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on Assurance
without limitation: these statements. NatWest Group plc appointed Ernst & Young LLP (EY)
to provide independent assurance over certain
i. the extent and pace of climate change, including Furthermore, changing national and international
sustainability metrics and elements of the UN
the timing and manifestation of physical and standards, industry and scientific practices, regulatory
Principles for Responsible Banking (‘UN PRB’)
transition risks, the macroeconomic environment; requirements and market expectations regarding
Template. These sustainability metrics are marked
ii. uncertainty around future climate-related policy, climate change, which remain under continuous with an asterisk (*) and the UN PRB Template is
including the timely implementation and development, are subject to different interpretations. presented within the ESG Frameworks Appendix
integration of adequate government policies; There can be no assurance that these standards, within this Report. The assurance engagement was
practices, requirements and expectations will not be
iii. the effectiveness of actions of governments, planned and performed in accordance with the
interpreted differently than what was NatWest
legislators, regulators, businesses, investors, International Standard on Assurance Engagements
Group’s understanding when defining its climate-
customers and other stakeholders to mitigate the (UK) 3000 (July 2020) Assurance Engagements Other
related ambitions and targets or change in a manner
impact of climate and sustainability-related risks; than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial
that substantially increases the cost or effort for
iv. changes in customer behaviour and demand, NatWest Group to achieve such ambitions and targets. Information (“ISAE (UK) 3000 (July 2020)”).
changes in the available technology for mitigation; An assurance report was issued and is available at
v. the roll-out of low carbon infrastructure; No duty to update. natwestgroup.com. This report includes further details
vi. the availability of accurate, verifiable, reliable, The forward – looking statements contained in this on the scope, respective responsibilities, work
consistent and comparable climate-related data; report only speak as of the date we make them. performed, limitations and conclusion.
Except to the extent legally required, we expressly
vii. lack of transparency and comparability of disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update or Read more: EY independent assurance
climate-related forward-looking methodologies; revise any forward-looking statements in this report, statement
viii. variation in approaches and outcomes – variations whether to reflect any change in our expectations
Name and address
in methodologies may lead to under or regarding those forward-looking statements, any
overestimates, and consequently present change in events, conditions or circumstances on ‘NWG’ and ‘NatWest Group’ mean the company and
exaggerated indication of climate-related risk; which any such statement is based, or otherwise. its subsidiary and associated undertakings.
ix. reliance on assumptions and future uncertainty Principal office
(calculations of forward-looking metrics are No offer of securities or investment. NatWest Group plc
complex and require many methodological The information, statements and opinions contained in PO Box 1000, Gogarburn
choices and assumptions); and this report do not constitute a public offer under any Edinburgh, EH12 1HQ
applicable legislation, an offer to sell or solicitation of
x. see also, Section 5.7 (‘Caution about climate-
any offer to buy any securities or financial instruments,
related metrics, data and methodology
or any advice or recommendation with respect to
challenges’) and the ‘Caution about climate-
such securities or other financial instruments.
related and other forward-looking statements and
metrics’ of the 2022 NatWest Group’s Climate- This report, the information, statements and disclosure
related Disclosures Report. included in this report are not formally part of any
offering documents and are not contractually binding.
This report is not intended to form part of any
communication of any offering issued under this report
and it is not intended to be an advertisement for the
purposes of the UK Prospectus Regulation and
investors should not make any investment decisions
based on the information included in this report.
NatWest Group plc | 2022 Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures Report 70
NatWest Group plc
2022 Environmental,
Social and Governance
Disclosures Report
February 2023