Stakeholder engagement and s.172(1) statement
Stakeholder engagement and s.172(1) statement
In February 2020 the Board approved its annual objectives and The CAP was set up in 2018 to help promote colleague voices in the
confirmed the Board’s key stakeholder groups, as set out in this boardroom.
statement.
Its membership includes representatives from a range of NatWest
During 2020 the Board undertook a variety of activities to engage with Group’s Employee Led Networks, unions, management teams and
stakeholders and bring their voice into the boardroom. Details are set regional locations, as well as volunteer members unconnected with
out below, together with additional information on related engagement existing groups. It continues to provide a valuable mechanism for
activities undertaken within NatWest Group which impacted NWB Plc. colleagues to gain a greater understanding of the Board’s role and
provide feedback to directors. Two-way communication is crucial for
This section of the Strategic Report describes how the directors have both colleagues and directors and embodies NatWest Group’s open
had regard to the matters set out in section 172(1) (a) to (f), and forms and inclusive culture.
the directors’ statement required under section 414CZA, of the
Companies Act 2006. The CAP met four times in 2020 and all meetings were virtual. In
addition to two scheduled sessions, there were two ad hoc sessions
NatWest Group’s purpose is established by the NatWest Group plc which supported additional listening and discussion with directors in
Board, promoted across NatWest Group and cascaded to subsidiaries light of the challenges related to COVID-19.
including NWB Plc. In February 2020, and following an extensive
period of stakeholder engagement, the NatWest Group plc Board Topics discussed in 2020 in addition to COVID-19 colleague and
approved a new purpose – “We champion potential, helping people, customer support included embedding purpose, diversity and
families and businesses to thrive.” inclusion, innovation, executive pay and sustainable banking.
Various steps were taken during the year to embed NatWest Group’s At Board meetings the CAP Chair provided an update on issues
purpose in Board discussions and decision-making, helping the Board discussed at the CAP and raised specific questions for Board
to ensure different stakeholder needs were considered. The roles and feedback. Afterwards, the CAP Chair shared the Board’s views and
responsibilities of the Board and its Committees were enhanced to feedback with CAP members. Further information on the CAP can be
ensure a strong focus on purpose was built into their respective Terms found in the NatWest Group plc 2020 Annual Report and Accounts.
of Reference. Board and Board Committee papers now include a
dedicated section which explains how the proposal or update aligns to Engaging colleagues
NatWest Group’s purpose, which is complemented by a section Every year colleagues are asked to share their thoughts on what it’s
detailing stakeholder impacts. These features, embedded within the like to work for NatWest Group via a colleague opinion survey. The
NatWest Group Board paper format, help to ensure that purpose and results from the 2020 survey, which were considered by the Board in
stakeholders remain firmly at the centre of Board discussions. During October 2020, showed a further improvement in colleague sentiment
the 2020 Board evaluation, directors commented positively on how and NatWest Group is now on or above the global financial services
NatWest Group’s purpose guided Board discussions and decision- and global high performing norms across all comparable survey
making during the pandemic. categories.
The majority of the Board’s planned direct engagement activity with NatWest Group has continued to listen to colleagues throughout
stakeholders was unfortunately cancelled in 2020, due to COVID-19 recent times, running COVID-19 pulse surveys and increasing
restrictions. Virtual alternatives were arranged where feasible, and dialogue with colleagues on equality and inclusion through a
directors were kept informed about stakeholder engagement activity ‘Supporting Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic’ colleague survey.
which was taking place at an operational level via regular and focused NatWest Group has also continued to take part in the Banking
management reporting. Details are set out below. Standards Board’s (BSB) annual assessment of culture in UK banking.
In the 2020 BSB survey NatWest Group results overall have improved
Customers slightly.
During the year, the Board received regular updates on customer
issues through reports from the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Employee consultation
business CEOs. Customer lifecycles were a key area of focus during Having ongoing discussion and engagement with a number of
Board and Executive Committee (ExCo) strategy discussions. employee representatives such as trade unions and work councils is
Directors also received targeted management information on progress vital and NatWest Group regularly discusses developments and
against customer service metrics including customer advocacy updates on the progress of strategic plans with these groups.
measures and complaints data. A dedicated Board session on
customer experience helped to enhance directors’ customer insights Speak Up
further. This session covered NatWest Group’s Net Promoter and One of the ways colleagues can report concerns relating to wrong
CMA (Competition and Markets Authority) scores and directors doing or misconduct is via Speak Up, NatWest Group’s whistleblowing
provided input and feedback on management’s plans to enhance service. When colleagues were asked if they feel safe to speak up
customer experience outcomes. The Board were also regularly 88% responded favourably, reflecting continued improvement in
updated on the nature and extent of COVID-19 support provided to results for this question. In 2020, 441 cases were raised compared to
customers. 458 in 2019.
The CEO and CFO met with customers throughout the year to Developing colleagues
enhance relationships and understand their views. Becoming a learning organisation is a strategic priority for NatWest
Group, which is committed to preparing colleagues for the future by
Colleagues supporting them develop their knowledge, skills and behaviours in
References to “colleagues” in this Report mean all members of the critical capability areas. In 2020 the NatWest Group Academy was
workforce (for example, contractors, agency workers). launched, providing colleagues with access to a wide range of learning
content to support them develop for their jobs today, and careers
Colleague voice tomorrow. More information can be found in the NatWest Group plc
The Board promotes colleague voice in the boardroom through a 2020 Annual Report and Accounts and on natwestgroup.com
variety of channels.
The Colleague Advisory Panel (CAP) provided an important two-way
communication channel between the Board and colleagues during the
pandemic.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 3
Stakeholder engagement and s.172(1) statement
Investing in colleagues
At the start of 2020, NatWest Group launched its People Pledge – a The Group Chief Administrative Officer provided regular updates to the
set of commitments made in response to what colleagues said meant Board, including on key external partnerships and supply chain
most to them; helping colleagues develop skills, supporting their resilience.
wellbeing and creating an inclusive workplace, helping customers
thrive, investing in teams and helping colleagues make a difference. The Board noted NatWest Group’s 2019 Modern Slavery Act
Statement, which sets out the steps that NatWest Group is taking to
Wellbeing tackle modern slavery and human trafficking within its business, supply
As a strong component of making NatWest Group a purpose-led chain and sphere of influence.
organisation, an established wellbeing strategy is key. NatWest
Group’s Wellbeing strategy is delivered against four pillars; Physical, More information on NatWest Group’s Modern Slavery Act Statement
Mental, Social and Financial. Further details can be found in the and Human Rights statement can be found in the NatWest Group plc
NatWest Group plc 2020 Annual Report and Accounts and on 2020 Annual Report and Accounts.
natwestgroup.com
Community and environment
Inclusion Directors enhanced their knowledge and understanding of climate
NatWest Group is proud to be building an inclusive bank which is a issues through a dedicated training session led by management which
great place for all colleagues to work. NatWest Group’s inclusion included a presentation by Lord Stern (NatWest Group’s independent
guidelines apply to all colleagues globally and focus on five key climate change adviser) on external developments as well as updates
priorities – LGBT Innovative, Gender Balanced, Disability Smart, on climate change risks and opportunities. In addition, the Board
Ethnically Diverse, all leading to Inclusive Culture. Detailed information received a foundational online learning module on the impact of
can be found in the NatWest Group plc 2020 Annual Report and climate change on financial services and directors have been offered
Accounts and on natwestgroup.com. further optional training from the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability
Leadership.
NatWest Group has been recognised for work on Equality, Diversity
and Inclusion in 2020 by retaining position in the Times Top 50 Management reporting on climate, strategy, ambition and risk
Employers for Women; being Exemplary Level in the Scottish Carer management activities features on both Board and Board Committee
Positive Campaign; being a Top Global Stonewall employer; being a agendas to support targeted monitoring and oversight. Further details
Top Ten Employer in the Investing in Ethnicity Maturity Matrix; and on NatWest Group’s response to climate change can be found within
rated as Gold in the Business Disability Forum benchmark. the NatWest Group plc 2020 Annual Report and Accounts.
Employment of people with disabilities The Board were regularly updated on NatWest Group’s wider
NatWest Group policy is that people with disabilities are given full and community engagement activities throughout the year, with particular
fair consideration for employment and subsequent training, career emphasis on the COVID-19 support provided to local communities.
development and promotion based on merit. If colleagues become
disabled, it is the policy of NatWest Group, wherever possible, to retain How stakeholder interests have influenced decision-making
them in their existing jobs or re-deploy them in suitable alternative NWB Plc recognises the importance of engaging with stakeholders
duties. and understanding their views, to help inform its strategy and Board
discussions and decision-making.
Regulators
The Board recognises the importance of open and continuous Relevant stakeholder interests, including those of colleagues,
dialogue with regulators. In 2020, the focus of regulatory engagement customers, suppliers and others are considered by the Board during its
was inevitably on NatWest Group’s COVID-19 response, and in discussions and when it takes decisions. NWB Plc defines principal
particular the support being offered to customers, with other topics decisions as those that are material, or of strategic importance to NWB
discussed by directors with regulators including strategy, operational Plc, and also those that are significant to any of its key stakeholder
resilience, board effectiveness and financial crime. groups.
Representatives from the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) In making its decisions, the Board considers the outcomes of relevant
attended the July 2020 Board meeting to present and discuss the stakeholder engagement, as well as the need to maintain a reputation
findings arising from its Periodic Summary Meeting for NatWest for high standards of business conduct, the need to act fairly between
Group. In September 2020, representatives from the Financial the members of the company and the long-term consequences of its
Conduct Authority (FCA) joined the Board meeting to present and decisions.
discuss its annual Firm Evaluation letter.
The following case study provides an example of stakeholder interests
The Chairman and executive directors have regular meetings with the and the factors set out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 have
PRA and FCA. In addition, individual non-executive directors engage been considered in Board discussions during 2020.
regularly with regulators through Continuous Assessment and
Proactive Engagement meetings. The Board also receives regular Case study – Supporting our Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
reports on regulatory matters from the Chief Legal Officer and General Commitments
Counsel.
In June 2020, in response to the Black Lives Matter movement, the
Suppliers CEO asked the global co-chairs of NatWest Group’s Multicultural
The Board is mindful of the role suppliers play in ensuring a reliable Network to set up a taskforce to listen, analyse and deliver a set of
service is delivered to customers, and of the importance of commitments to address the key barriers facing Black, Asian and
relationships with key suppliers, particularly in the current environment. Minority Ethnic colleagues, customers and communities (the
‘Taskforce’).
Although directors were unable to meet with supplier representatives
in person, as they have done previously, they were kept informed on
progress against relevant key performance indicators, including
payment practices, through management reporting.
In particular, the Board noted the actions taken to support suppliers’
cashflow during 2020 (which consisted of moving all UK and Republic
of Ireland supplier payments to immediate release).
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 4
Top and emerging risks
A continuous process is used to identify and manage NWB Group’s top and emerging risks. These are risks that could have a significant
negative impact on the ability to operate or meet strategic objectives.
External
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a material adverse impact on NWB Group and its customers. NWB Group
responded quickly to the elevated credit risks through active portfolio management including adjustment of risk
appetite, proactive customer contact strategies and scenario analysis. NWB Group has participated in
COVID-19 government initiatives to support customers during the crisis including the Bounce-Back Loan Scheme which
could increase conduct, reputational and fraud risks. High uncertainty remains on the future evolution of the virus
and the ultimate impact of the pandemic. While the strategy is being adapted in response, the COVID-19 crisis
could impede NWB Group’s ability to meet its targets and deliver its purpose-led strategy.
NWB Group is exposed to the economic and political risks facing the UK including a weaker than expected
economic recovery from Covid-19, the prospect of negative interest rate policy and the UK’s exit from the EU. A
range of complementary approaches is used to mitigate these risks including scenario planning and stress
testing. In 2020, NWB Group implemented plans to prepare for the UK’s withdrawal from the European Union and
Economic and Political
continues to monitor geopolitical risks alongside domestic political risk including developments in relation to a
Risks
Scottish independence referendum. In the longer term, demographic change, high levels of debt and inequality
could all have financial impacts. As a result, these risks are closely monitored with strategic plans adapted as
appropriate.
NWB Group expects to face significant risks in connection with climate change and the transition to a low carbon
economy. These risks are subject to rapidly increasing prudential and regulatory, political and societal focus, both
Climate Related Risks in the UK and internationally. Embedding climate risk into NWB Group’s risk framework and adapting NWB
Group’s operations and business strategy to address the risks is in line with the purpose-led strategy.
NWB Group experiences a constant threat from cyber-attacks both directly and to its supply chain, underlining
the importance of due diligence with the third parties on which NWB Group relies. NWB Group operates a multi-
Cyber Threats layered approach to its defences and continues to invest significant resources in the development of cyber
security controls and capability designed to minimise the potential effect of cyber-attacks.
NWB Group operates in markets that are highly competitive raising the threat of a loss of market share and
reduced revenue and profitability. The risks mainly relate to changes in regulation, developments in financial
Competitive technology (including digital currency), new entrants to the market and shifts in customer behaviour. NWB Group
Environment closely monitors the competitive environment and adapts strategy as appropriate to deliver innovative and
compelling propositions for customers.
NWB Group operates in a highly regulated market. Regulations are constantly evolving and could adversely
impact the Group including capital, liquidity and funding requirements, enhanced data privacy requirements and
the management of financial crime. This includes the possibility of dividend suspensions or restrictions. NWB
Regulatory, Legal & Group implements new regulatory requirements, where applicable, and incorporates the implications of related
Conduct Risks changes in its strategic and financial plans. This includes the transition from the use of interbank offer rates
(IBORs), including LIBOR, to alternative risk-free rates. While a programme to manage the transition is underway,
uncertainties around the transition represent a number of risks including elevated legal and conduct risks.
Internal
NWB Group continues to manage and implement change in line with its strategic plans while assessing
implementation risks and taking appropriate mitigating action. In addition, NWB Group continues to monitor and
Change Risk
strengthen its control environment through robust governance and controls frameworks.
Operational risks arise from NWB Group’s reliance on third party suppliers to provide a range of services
including IT. NWB Group is diligent in its screening of suppliers to mitigate these risks with strict contractual
Third Party Suppliers
obligations governing supplier relationships and activity.
NWB Group continues to invest in IT infrastructure to prevent customer service disruption, which could result in
reputational and regulatory damage. To mitigate these risks, a major investment programme has significantly
IT System Resilience
improved the resilience of the systems and further progress is expected.
NWB Group relies on the effective use of accurate data to support operations and deliver its strategy. Failure to
produce high-quality data and/or the ineffective use of such data could result in a failure to deliver NWB Group’s
Data Management strategy, including reducing costs and meeting customer expectations. NWB Group is focused on implementing a
long-term data strategy alongside control and policy framework enhancements governing data usage.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 7
Risk and capital management
Page Risk management framework
Presentation of information 11 Introduction
NWB Group operates under NatWest Group’s enterprise wide risk
Update on COVID-19 11
management framework, which is centred around the embedding of a
Risk management framework strong risk culture. The framework ensures the governance,
Introduction 11 capabilities and methods are in place to facilitate risk management
and decision-making across the organisation.
Culture 11
The framework ensures that NWB Group’s principal risks – which are
Governance 12
detailed in this section – are appropriately controlled and managed. In
Risk appetite 14 addition, there is a process to identify and manage top risks, which are
Identification and measurement 14 those which could have a significant negative impact on NWB Group’s
ability to meet its strategic objectives. A complementary process
Mitigation 15
operates to identify emerging risks. Both top and emerging risks are
Testing and monitoring 15 reported to the Board on a regular basis alongside reporting on the
Stress testing 15 principal risks.
Credit risk Risk appetite, supported by a robust set of principles, policies and
practices, defines the levels of tolerance for a variety of risks and
Definition and sources of risk 18
provides a structured approach to risk-taking within agreed
Governance and risk appetite 18 boundaries.
Identification and measurement 18 All NWB Group colleagues share ownership of the way risk is
Mitigation, assessment and monitoring 18 managed, working together to make sure business activities and
policies are consistent with risk appetite.
Problem debt management and forbearance 19
The methodology for setting, governing and embedding risk appetite is
Impact of COVID-19 20
being further enhanced with the aim of revising current risk appetite
Impairment, provisioning and write-offs 22 processes and increasing alignment with strategic planning and
Significant increase in credit risk 24 external threat assessments.
Asset lifetimes and Economic loss drivers 25 Culture
Culture is at the centre of both the risk management framework and
Measurement uncertainty and ECL sensitivity analysis 29
risk management practice. NatWest Group’s risk culture target is to
Banking activities 31 make risk part of the way employees work and think.
Capital, liquidity and funding risk
A focus on leaders as role models, and action to build clarity, develop
Definition and sources 56 capability and motivate employees to reach the required standards of
behaviour are key to achieving the risk culture target. Colleagues are
Capital, liquidity and funding risk management 56
expected to:
Key points 58
 Take personal responsibility for understanding and proactively
Minimum requirements 59 managing the risks associated with individual roles.
Measurements 59  Respect risk management and the part it plays in daily work.
Non-traded market risk 64  Understand the risks associated with individual roles.
Pension risk 68  Align decision-making to NatWest Group’s risk appetite.
Compliance & conduct risk 68  Consider risk in all actions and decisions.
Financial crime risk 69  Escalate risks and issues early; taking action to mitigate risks and
learning from mistakes and near-misses.
Climate-related risk 70
 Challenge others’ attitudes, ideas and actions.
Operational risk 71
 Report and communicate risks transparently.
Model risk 72
The target risk culture behaviours are embedded in Our Standards and
Reputational risk 72
are clearly aligned to the core values of “serving customers”, “working
together”, “doing the right thing” and “thinking long term”. These act as
Presentation of information an effective basis for a strong risk culture because Our Standards are
Where indicated by a bracket in the margins, certain information in the used for performance management, recruitment and development.
Risk and capital management section (pages 11 to 73) is within the
scope of the Independent auditor’s report. Risk and capital Training
management is generally conducted on an overall basis within A wide range of learning, both technical and behavioural, is offered
NatWest Group such that common policies, procedures, frameworks across the risk disciplines. This training can be mandatory, role-
and models apply across NatWest Group. Therefore, for the most part, specific or for personal development and enables colleagues to
discussion on these qualitative aspects reflects those in NatWest develop the capabilities and confidence to manage risk effectively.
G roup as relevant for the businesses and operations in NWB Group. Our Code
Update on COVID-19 NatWest Group’s conduct guidance, Our Code, provides direction on
The unprecedented challenge posed by the global pandemic – for expected behaviour and sets out the standards of conduct that support
families, businesses and governments around the world – also led to a the values. The code explains the effect of decisions that are taken
number of significant risk management challenges. NWB Group and describes the principles that must be followed.
remained committed to supporting its customers while operating safely These principles cover conduct-related issues as well as wider
and soundly in line with its strategic objectives. Most notably, the credit business activities. They focus on desired outcomes, with practical
risk profile was heightened due to deteriorating economic conditions. guidelines to align the values with commercial strategy and actions.
NWB Group provided a significant level of payment holidays during the The embedding of these principles facilitates sound decision-making
crisis, and facilitated a high volume of loans through the UK and a clear focus on good customer outcomes.
government CBILS, CLBILS and BBLS initiatives. This is detailed in
the Credit risk section. If conduct falls short of NatWest Group’s required standards, the
accountability review process is used to assess how this should be
In addition, NWB Group’s operational risk profile became heightened reflected in pay outcomes for those individuals concerned. The
due to the need to adapt working methods and practices to large-scale NatWest Group-wide remuneration policy ensures that the
working from home and the requirement to respond to the crisis – and remuneration arrangements for all employees reflect the principles and
provide customer support – at pace. standards prescribed by the PRA rulebook and the FCA handbook.
As a result of its strong balance sheet and prudent approach to risk Any employee falling short of the expected standards would also be
management, NWB Group remains well placed to withstand the subject to internal disciplinary policies and procedures. If appropriate,
impacts of the pandemic as well as providing support to customers the relevant authority would be notified.
when they need it most.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 11
Risk and capital management
Risk management framework continued
Three lines of defence Risk appetite framework
NatWest Group uses the industry-standard three lines of defence The risk appetite framework bolsters effective risk management by
model to articulate accountabilities and responsibilities for managing promoting sound risk-taking through a structured approach, within
risk. It supports the embedding of effective risk management agreed boundaries. It also ensures emerging risks and risk-taking
throughout the organisation. All roles below the CEO sit within one of activities that might be out of appetite are identified, assessed,
these three lines. The CEO ensures the efficient use of resources and escalated and addressed in a timely manner.
the effective management of risks as stipulated in the risk
To facilitate this, a detailed annual review of the framework is carried
management framework and is therefore considered to be outside the
out. The review includes:
three lines of defence principles.
 Assessing the adequacy of the framework when compared to
internal and external expectations.
First line of defence
The first line of defence incorporates most roles in NatWest Group,  Ensuring the framework remains effective and acts as a strong
including those in the customer-facing franchises, Technology and control environment for risk appetite.
Services as well as support functions such as Human Resources,  Assessing the level of embedding of risk appetite across the
Legal and Finance. organisation.
 The first line of defence is empowered to take risks within the
constraints of the risk management framework and policies as well The NatWest Group Board approves the risk appetite framework
as the risk appetite statements and measures set by the Board. annually.
 The first line of defence is responsible for managing its direct risks. Establishing risk appetite
With the support of specialist functions such as Legal, HR and In line with NatWest Group’s risk appetite framework, risk appetite is
Technology, it is also responsible for managing its consequential maintained across NWB Group through risk appetite statements. The
risks by identifying, assessing, mitigating, monitoring and reporting risk appetite statements provide clarity on the scale and type of
risks. activities that can be undertaken in a manner that is easily conveyed to
staff.
Second line of defence
The second line of defence comprises the Risk function and is Risk appetite statements consist of qualitative statements of appetite
independent of the first line. supported by risk limits and triggers that operate as a defence against
excessive risk-taking. They are established at NatWest Group-wide
 The second line of defence is empowered to design and maintain
level for all strategic risks and material risks, and at legal entity,
the risk management framework and its components. It undertakes
business, and function level for all other risks.
proactive risk oversight and continuous monitoring activities to
confirm that NatWest Group engages in permissible and The annual process of establishing risk appetite statements is
sustainable risk-taking activities. completed alongside the business and financial planning process. This
 The second line of defence advises on, monitors, challenges, ensures plans and risk appetite are appropriately aligned. The Board
sets risk appetite for the most material risks to help ensure NWB
approves, escalates and reports on the risk-taking activities of the
Group is well placed to meet its priorities and long-term targets even in
first line, ensuring that these are within the constraints of the risk
challenging economic environments. It is the basis on which NWB
management framework and policies as well as the risk appetite
Group remains safe and sound while implementing its strategic
statements and measures set by the Board.
business objectives.
Third line of defence NWB Group’s risk profile is frequently reviewed and monitored and
The third line of defence is the Internal Audit function and is management focus is concentrated on all strategic risks, material risks
independent of the first and second lines. and emerging risk issues. Risk profile relative to risk appetite is
 The third line of defence is responsible for providing independent reported regularly to the Board and senior management.
and objective assurance to the Board, its subsidiary legal entity
boards and executive management on the adequacy and Risk controls and their associated limits are an integral part of the risk
effectiveness of key internal controls, governance and the risk appetite approach and a key part of embedding risk appetite in day-to-
management in place to monitor, manage and mitigate the key day risk management decisions. A clear tolerance for material risk
risks to NatWest Group and its subsidiary companies achieving types is set in alignment with business activities.
their objectives. NatWest Group policies directly support the qualitative aspects of risk
 The third line of defence executes its duties freely and objectively appetite. They ensure that appropriate controls are set and monitored.
in accordance with the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Code of Ethics
Identification and measurement
& Standards.
Identification and measurement within the risk management process
comprise:
Risk appetite
Risk appetite defines the level and types of risk NWB Group is willing  Regular assessment of the overall risk profile, incorporating market
to accept, within risk capacity, in order to achieve strategic objectives developments and trends, as well as external and internal factors.
and business plans. It links the goals and priorities to risk management  Monitoring of the risks associated with lending and credit
in a way that guides and empowers staff to serve customers well and exposures.
achieve financial targets.  Assessment of trading and non-trading portfolios.
Strategic risks are those that threaten the safety and soundness of  Review of potential risks in new business activities and processes.
NWB Group or its ability to achieve strategic objectives. For certain  Analysis of potential risks in any complex and unusual business
strategic risks, risk capacity defines the maximum level of risk NWB
transactions.
Group can assume before breaching constraints determined by
regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, the operational
The financial and non-financial risks that NWB Group faces are
environment, and from a conduct perspective. Establishing risk
detailed in the Risk Directory. This provides a common risk language
capacity helps determine where risk appetite should be set, ensuring
to ensure consistent terminology is used across NWB Group. The Risk
there is a buffer between internal risk appetite and NWB Group’s
Directory is subject to annual review. This ensures that it continues to
ultimate capacity to absorb losses.
provide a comprehensive and meaningful list of the inherent risks
within NWB Group.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 14
Risk and capital management
Risk management framework continued Internal scenarios
Fire drill simulations of possible recovery events are used to test the During 2020, NatWest Group continuously refined and reviewed a
effectiveness of NatWest Group and individual legal entity recovery series of internal scenarios – benchmarked against the Bank of
plans. The fire drills are designed to replicate possible financial stress England’s illustrative scenario – as the impact of COVID-19 evolved,
conditions and allow senior management to rehearse the responses including actual and potential effects on economic fundamentals.
These scenarios included:
and decisions that may be required in an actual stress. The results and
lessons learnt from the fire drills are used to enhance NatWest  The impact of travel restrictions, social distancing policies, self-
Group’s approach to recovery planning. isolation and sickness on GDP, employment and consumer
spending.
Under the resolution assessment part of the PRA rulebook, NatWest  The impacts on business investment in critical sectors.
Group is required to carry out an assessment of its preparations for
 The effect on house prices, commercial real estate values and
resolution, submit a report of the assessment to the PRA and publish a
major project finance.
summary of this report.
 The effect of government interventions such as the Job Retention
Resolution would be implemented if NatWest Group was assessed by Scheme and the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme.
the UK authorities to have failed and the appropriate regulator put it
into resolution. The process of resolution is owned and implemented Applying the macro-scenarios to NatWest Group’s earnings, capital,
liquidity and funding positions did not result in a breach of any
by the Bank of England (as the UK resolution authority). A multi-year
regulatory thresholds.
programme is in place to further develop resolution capability in line
with regulatory requirements.
Regulatory stress testing
Stress testing – climate NatWest Group has participated in the regulatory stress tests
NatWest Group will be carrying out climate scenario and stress-testing conducted annually by the Bank of England and biennially by the
analysis as part of the Bank of England’s 2021 biennial exploratory European Banking Authority (EBA). The results of these regulatory
scenario. The exercise will explore three distinct climate scenarios stress tests are carefully assessed and form part of the wider risk
over a 30 year horizon to test the financial system’s resilience to management of NatWest Group. However, in 2020 due to the impacts
climate-related risks. of COVID-19, the Bank of England and the EBA suspended their
stress tests. Following the UK’s exit from the European Union on 31
NatWest Group is also participating in the United Nations Environment
December 2020, only relevant European subsidiaries of NatWest
Programme Finance Initiative focusing on analysis of how physical and
Group will take part in the EBA tests going forward. NatWest Group
transition risks could affect the agriculture and real estate sectors.
itself will not participate.
Stress testing – market risk
Non-traded market risk
Non-traded exposures are reported to the PRA on a quarterly basis as
part of the Stress Testing Data Framework. This provides the regulator
with an overview of NatWest Group’s banking book interest rate
exposure. The report includes detailed product information analysed
by interest rate driver and other characteristics, including accounting
classification, currency and counterparty type.
Scenario analysis based on hypothetical adverse scenarios is
performed on non-traded exposures as part of the Bank of England
and European Banking Authority stress exercises. NatWest Group
also produces an internal scenario analysis as part of its financial
planning cycles.
Non-traded exposures are capitalised through the ICAAP. This covers
gap risk, basis risk, credit spread risk, pipeline risk, structural foreign
exchange risk, prepayment risk, equity risk and accounting volatility
risk. The ICAAP is completed with a combination of value and
earnings measures. The total non-traded market risk capital
requirement is determined by adding the different charges for each
sub risk type. The ICAAP methodology captures at least ten years of
historical volatility, produced with a 99% confidence level.
Methodologies are reviewed by NatWest Group Model Risk and the
results are approved by the NatWest Group Technical Asset & Liability
Management Committee.
Non-traded market risk stress results are combined with those for
other risks into the capital plan presented to the Board. The cross-risk
capital planning process is conducted once a year, with a planning
horizon of five years. The scenario narratives cover both regulatory
scenarios and macroeconomic scenarios identified by NatWest Group.
Vulnerability-based stress testing begins with the analysis of a portfolio
and expresses its key vulnerabilities in terms of plausible, vulnerability
scenarios under which the portfolio would suffer material losses.
These scenarios can be historical, macroeconomic or forward-
looking/hypothetical. Vulnerability-based stress testing is used for
internal management information and is not subject to limits. The
results for relevant scenarios are reported to senior management.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 17
Risk and capital management
Credit risk
Definition Asset quality
Credit risk is the risk that customers and counterparties fail to meet All credit grades map to an asset quality (AQ) scale, used for financial
their contractual obligation to settle outstanding amounts. reporting. Performing loans are defined as AQ1-AQ9 (where the
probability of default (PD) is less than 100%) and defaulted non-
Sources of risk
performing loans as AQ10 or Stage 3 under IFRS 9 (where the PD is
The principal sources of credit risk for NWB Group are lending and
100%). Loans are defined as defaulted when the payment status
related undrawn commitments. Derivatives and securities financing
becomes 90 days past due, or earlier if there is clear evidence that the
and debt securities are also a source of credit risk, primarily related to
borrower is unlikely to repay, for example bankruptcy or insolvency.
Treasury activities for NWB Group. NWB Group is also exposed to
settlement risk through foreign exchange and payments activities.
Counterparty credit risk
Counterparty credit risk arises from the obligations of customers under
Governance derivative and securities financing transactions.
The Credit Risk function provides oversight of frontline credit risk
management activities. Governance activities include: NWB Group mitigates counterparty credit risk through collateralisation
and netting agreements, which allow amounts owed by NWB Group to
 Defining credit risk appetite for the management of concentration
a counterparty to be netted against amounts the counterparty owes
risk and credit policy to establish the key causes of risk in the
NWB Group.
process of providing credit and the controls that must be in place to
mitigate them.
Mitigation
 Approving and monitoring credit limits. Mitigation techniques, as set out in the appropriate credit policies and
 Oversight of the first line of defence to ensure that credit risk transactional acceptance standards, are used in the management of
remains within the appetite set by the Board and that controls are credit portfolios across NWB Group. These techniques mitigate credit
being operated adequately and effectively. concentrations in relation to an individual customer, a borrower group
 Assessing the adequacy of expected credit loss (ECL) provisions or a collection of related borrowers. Where possible, customer credit
including approving any necessary in-model and post model balances are netted against obligations. Mitigation tools can include
adjustments through the Provisions Committee. structuring a security interest in a physical or financial asset, the use of
credit derivatives including credit default swaps, credit-linked debt
instruments and securitisation structures, and the use of guarantees
Risk appetite and similar instruments (for example, credit insurance) from related
Credit risk appetite aligns to the strategic risk appetite set by the Board and third parties. Property is used to mitigate credit risk across a
and is set and monitored through risk appetite frameworks tailored to number of portfolios, in particular residential mortgage lending and
the Group’s Personal and Wholesale segments. commercial real estate (CRE).
Personal The valuation methodologies for collateral in the form of residential
The Personal credit risk appetite framework sets limits that measure mortgage property and CRE are detailed below.
and control the quality and concentration of both existing and new
business for each relevant business segment. The actual performance Residential mortgages – NWB Group takes collateral in the form of
of each portfolio is tracked relative to these limits and management residential property to mitigate the credit risk arising from mortgages.
action is taken where necessary. The limits apply to a range of credit
NWB Group values residential property during the loan underwriting
risk-related measures including expected loss at both portfolio and
process by either appraising properties individually or valuing them
product level, projected credit default rates across products and the
collectively using statistically valid models. NWB Group updates
loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of the mortgage portfolios.
residential property values quarterly using the Office for National
Statistics House Price Index.
Wholesale
For Wholesale credit, the framework has been designed to reflect The current indexed value of the property is a component of the ECL
factors that influence the ability to operate within risk appetite. Tools provisioning calculation.
such as stress testing and economic capital are used to measure
credit risk volatility and develop links between the framework and risk Commercial real estate valuations – NWB Group has a panel of
appetite limits. chartered surveying firms that cover the spectrum of geography and
property sectors in which NWB Group takes collateral. Suitable valuers
Four formal frameworks are used, classifying, measuring and for particular assets are contracted through a single service agreement
monitoring credit risk exposure across single name, sector and country to ensure consistency of quality and advice. Valuations are generally
concentrations and product and asset classes with heightened risk commissioned when an asset is taken as security; a material increase
characteristics. in a facility is requested; or a default event is anticipated or has
occurred. In the UK, an independent third-party market indexation is
The framework is supported by a suite of transactional acceptance applied to update external valuations once they are more than a year
standards that set out the risk parameters within which businesses old and every three years a formal independent valuation is
should operate. commissioned.
Assessment and monitoring
Credit policy standards are in place for both the Wholesale and
Practices for credit stewardship – including credit assessment,
Personal portfolios. They are expressed as a set of mandatory
approval and monitoring as well as the identification and management
controls.
of problem debts – differ between the Personal and Wholesale
Identification and measurement portfolios.
Credit stewardship
Personal
Risks are identified through relationship management and credit
Personal customers are served through a lending approach that
stewardship of customers and portfolios. Credit risk stewardship takes
entails offering a large number of small-value loans. To ensure that
place throughout the customer relationship, beginning with the initial
these lending decisions are made consistently, NWB Group analyses
approval. It includes the application of credit assessment standards,
internal credit information as well as external data supplied by credit
credit risk mitigation and collateral, ensuring that credit documentation
reference agencies (including historical debt servicing behaviour of
is complete and appropriate, carrying out regular portfolio or customer
customers with respect to both NWB Group and other lenders). NWB
reviews and problem debt identification and management. Additional
Group then sets its lending rules accordingly, developing different
stewardship measures were put in place in response to COVID-19.
rules for different products.
Refer to the Impact of COVID-19 section for further details.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 18
Risk and capital management
Credit risk continued
Personal customers experiencing financial difficulty are managed by
The process is then largely automated, with each customer receiving
the Collections team. If the Collections team is unable to provide
an individual credit score that reflects both internal and external
appropriate support after discussing suitable options with the
behaviours and this score is compared with the lending rules set. For
customer, management of that customer moves to the Recoveries
relatively high-value, complex personal loans, including some
team. If at any point in the collections and recoveries process, the
residential mortgage lending, specialist credit managers make the final
customer is identified as being potentially vulnerable, the customer will
lending decisions. These decisions are made within specified
be separated from the regular process and supported by a specialist
delegated authority limits that are issued dependent on the experience
team to ensure the customer receives appropriate support for their
of the individual.
circumstances.
Underwriting standards and portfolio performance are monitored on an
ongoing basis to ensure they remain adequate in the current market Collections
environment and are not weakened materially to sustain growth. When a customer exceeds an agreed limit or misses a regular monthly
payment the customer is contacted by NWB Group and requested to
Wholesale remedy the position. If the situation is not regularised then, where
Wholesale customers – including corporates, banks and other financial appropriate, the Collections team will become more fully involved and
institutions – are grouped by industry sectors and geography as well the customer will be supported by skilled debt management staff who
as by product/asset class and are managed on an individual basis. endeavour to provide customers with bespoke solutions. Solutions
Customers are aggregated as a single risk when sufficiently include short-term account restructuring, refinance loans and
interconnected. forbearance which can include interest suspension and ‘breathing
space’. In the event that an affordable/sustainable agreement with a
A credit assessment is carried out before credit facilities are made
customer cannot be reached, the debt will transition to the Recoveries
available to customers. The assessment process is dependent on the
team. For provisioning purposes, under IFRS 9, exposure to
complexity of the transaction. Credit approvals are subject to
customers managed by the Collections team is categorised as Stage 2
environmental, social and governance risk policies which restrict
and subject to a lifetime loss assessment, unless it is 90 days past due
exposure to certain highly carbon intensive industries as well as those
or has an interest non-accrual status, in which case it is categorised as
with potentially heightened reputational impacts.
Stage 3.
For lower risk transactions below specific thresholds, credit decisions
can be approved through self-sanctioning within the business. This Recoveries
process is facilitated through an auto-decision making system, which The Recoveries team will issue a notice of intention to default to the
utilises scorecards, strategies and policy rules. Such credit decisions customer and, if appropriate, a formal demand, while also registering
must be within the approval authority of the relevant business the account with credit reference agencies where appropriate.
sanctioner. Following this, the customer’s debt may then be placed with a third-
party debt collection agency, or alternatively a solicitor, in order to
For all other transactions credit is only granted to customers following
agree an affordable repayment plan with the customer. An option that
joint approval by an approver from the business and the credit risk
may also be considered, is the sale of unsecured debt. Exposures
function or by two credit officers. The joint business and credit
subject to formal debt recovery are defaulted and categorised as
approvers act within a delegated approval authority under the
Stage 3 impaired.
Wholesale Credit Authorities Framework Policy. The level of delegated
authority held by approvers is dependent on their experience and
Wholesale
expertise with only a small number of senior executives holding the
Early problem identification
highest approval authority. Both business and credit approvers are
Each segment and sector have defined early warning indicators to
accountable for the quality of each decision taken, although the credit
identify customers experiencing financial difficulty, and to increase
risk approver holds ultimate sanctioning authority.
monitoring if needed. Early warning indicators may be internal, such as
Transactional acceptance standards provide detailed transactional a customer’s bank account activity, or external, such as a publicly-
lending and risk acceptance metrics and structuring guidance. As listed customer’s share price. If early warning indicators show a
such, these standards provide a mechanism to manage risk appetite at customer is experiencing potential or actual difficulty, or if relationship
the customer/transaction level and are supplementary to the managers or credit officers identify other signs of financial difficulty,
established credit risk appetite. they may decide to classify the customer within the Risk of Credit Loss
framework.
Credit grades (PD) and loss given default (LGD) are reviewed and, if
appropriate, re-approved annually. The review process assesses Risk of Credit Loss framework
borrower performance, including reconfirmation or adjustment of risk The framework focuses on Wholesale customers whose credit profiles
parameter estimates; the adequacy of security; compliance with terms have deteriorated materially since origination. Expert judgement is
and conditions; and refinancing risk. applied by experienced credit risk officers to classify cases into
categories that reflect progressively deteriorating credit risk to NWB
Problem debt management
Group. There are two classifications which apply to non-defaulted
Personal
customers within the framework – Heightened Monitoring and Risk of
Early problem identification
Credit Loss. For the purposes of provisioning, all exposures subject to
Pre-emptive triggers are in place to help identify customers that may
the framework are categorised as Stage 2 and subject to a lifetime
be at risk of being in financial difficulty. These triggers are both
loss assessment. The framework also applies to those customers that
internal, using NWB Group’s data, and external using information from
have met NWB Group’s default criteria (AQ10 exposures). Defaulted
credit reference agencies. Proactive contact is then made with the
exposures are categorised as Stage 3 impaired for provisioning
customer to establish if they require help with managing their finances.
purposes.
By adopting this approach, the aim is to prevent a customer’s financial
position deteriorating which may then require intervention from the Heightened Monitoring customers are performing customers that have
Collections and Recoveries teams. met certain characteristics, which have led to significant credit
deterioration. Collectively, characteristics reflect circumstances that
may affect the customer’s ability to meet repayment obligations.
Characteristics include trading issues, covenant breaches, material PD
downgrades and past due facilities. Heightened Monitoring customers
require pre-emptive actions (outside the customer’s normal trading
patterns) to return or maintain their facilities within NWB Group’s
current risk appetite prior to maturity.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 19
Risk and capital management
Credit risk continued
Governance and post model adjustments
The IFRS 9 PD, EAD and LGD models are subject to NWB Group’s  Economic uncertainty – ECL adjustments primarily arising from
model risk policy that stipulates periodic model monitoring, periodic re- uncertainties associated with multiple economic scenarios (also for
validation and defines approval procedures and authorities according 2019) and credit outcomes as a result of the effect of COVID-19
to model materiality. Various post model adjustments (PMAs) were and the consequences of government interventions. In both cases,
applied where management judged they were necessary to ensure an management judged that additional ECL was required until further
adequate level of overall ECL provision. All PMAs were subject to credit performance data became available on the behavioural and
formal approval through provisioning governance, and were loss consequences of COVID-19.
categorised as follows (business level commentary is provided below):  Other adjustments – ECL adjustments where it was judged that
 Deferred model calibrations – ECL adjustments where PD model the modelled ECL required to be amended.
monitoring indicated that losses were being over predicted but
where it was judged that an implied ECL release was not
supportable. As a consequence, any potential ECL release was
deferred and retained on the balance sheet.
ECL post model adjustments Retail Commercial
Banking Banking Other Total
2020 £m £m £m £m
Deferred model calibrations 27 11 — 38
Economic uncertainty 126 388 9 523
Other adjustments 13 15 — 28
166 414 9 589
2019
Deferred model calibrations — — — —
Economic uncertainty 63 70 1 134
Other adjustments 31 4 — 35
94 74 1 169
Note:
(1) For 2019, the PMA for model calibrations of approximately £23 million was reported on a different basis. At that time, the value was based on the required ECL
uplift pending systematic updates to model parameters, although the adjustment value was included in the reported ECL. For 2020, the value of PD calibration
releases that were deemed not supportable and retained on the balance sheet is disclosed. Therefore, to be consistent in approach, the PMA value for 2019
has been reported as nil. For LGD, where model monitoring outcomes were less clear, and emerged over an extended period, monitoring focused on assessing
the adequacy of loss estimates, and was duly assured and governed at the year end.
Retail Banking – The PMA for deferred model calibrations of £27 Commercial Banking – The PMA for economic uncertainty included an
million (of which £19 million was in mortgages) reflected overlay of £301 million based on a judgemental thesis, reflecting
management’s judgement that the beneficial modelling impact, and concern that the unprecedented nature of COVID-19 could result in
implied ECL decrease, arising from underlying portfolio performance, longer debt recovery periods and lower values than history suggested,
that had been influenced by the various customer support and also the risk of idiosyncratic credit outcomes. It also included an
mechanisms, was not supportable. overlay of £33 million in respect of elevated concerns around
borrowers’ ability to refinance facilities at the end of the contractual
The PMA for economic uncertainty included an ECL uplift of £50 term. Additionally, it included overlays to address the effects of
million (of which £31 million was in mortgages) on a subset of customer support mechanisms.
customers who had accessed payment holiday support where their
risk profile was identified as relatively high risk. In addition, there was a There was also a PMA for deferred model calibrations on the business
holdback of a modelled ECL release of £56 million, again due to the banking portfolio reflecting management’s judgement that the
delayed default emergence reflective of the various customer support beneficial modelling impact, and implied ECL decrease, was not
mechanisms (£12 million related to mortgages and £44 million related supportable again whilst portfolio performance was being under-
to unsecured lending). The overlay as at 31 December 2019 was pinned by the various support mechanisms. Other adjustments
reflective of the uncertainty associated with Brexit, subsequently included an overlay of £15 million to mitigate the effect of operational
systematically incorporated within the multiple economic scenarios. timing delays in the identification and flagging of a SICR.
The 2020 overlay also included an ECL uplift on buy-to-let mortgages
of £12 million (2019 – £6 million) to mitigate the risk of a Other – The PMAs in the other businesses were for similar reasons as
disproportionate credit deterioration in challenging economic those described above.
circumstances.
Other judgmental overlays included £7 million (2019 – £8 million) in
respect of the repayment risk not captured in the models, that a
proportion of customers on interest-only mortgages would not be able
to repay the capital element of their loan at the end of term, as well as
a £6 million overlay for an identified weakness in the mortgage PD
model pending remediation.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 23
Risk and capital management
Pension risk Risk appetite
Definition NWB Group maintains an independent view of the risk inherent in its
Pension risk is the risk to NWB Group caused by its contractual or pension funds. NWB Group has an annually reviewed pension risk
other liabilities to, or with respect to, a pension scheme (whether appetite statement relating to the Main section, for which it is the
established for its employees or those of a related company or principal sponsoring employer, incorporating defined metrics against
otherwise). It is also the risk that NWB Group will make payments or which risk is measured.
other contributions to, or with respect to, a pension scheme because of
a moral obligation or because NatWest Group considers that it needs Policies and standards are in place to provide formal controls for
to do so for some other reason. pension risk reporting, modelling, governance and stress testing. A
pension risk policy, which sits within the NatWest Group policy
Sources of risk framework, is also in place and is subject to associated framework
NWB Group has exposure to pension risk through its defined benefit controls.
schemes worldwide. The Main section of The NatWest Group Pension
Fund (the Main section) is the largest source of pension risk as Monitoring and measurement
NatWest Bank Plc is the principal employer to the Main section with Pension risk is monitored by the NWH Group Executive Risk
£51.3 billion of assets and £43.9 billion of liabilities at 31 December Committee and the NatWest Group Board Risk Committee by way of
2020 (2019 – £46.6 billion of assets and £39.7 billion of liabilities). the monthly Risk Management Report.
Refer to Note 5 to the financial statements, for further details on NWB
Group’s pension obligations, including sensitivities to the main risk NatWest Group also undertakes stress tests on its material defined
factors. benefit pension schemes each year. These tests are also used to
satisfy the requests of regulatory bodies such as the Bank of England.
Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest rates
and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the longevity of The stress testing framework includes pension risk capital calculations
scheme members and legislation. Pension scheme assets vary with for the purposes of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process
changes in interest rates, inflation expectations, credit spreads, as well as additional stress tests for a number of internal management
exchange rates, and equity and property prices. NWB Group is purposes. The results of the stress tests and their consequential
exposed to the risk that the schemes’ assets, together with future impact on NWB Group’s balance sheet, income statement and capital
returns and additional future contributions, are estimated to be position are incorporated into NWB Group’s and overall NatWest
insufficient to meet liabilities as they fall due. In such circumstances, Group stress test results.
NWB Group could be obliged (or might choose) to make additional
contributions to the schemes or be required to hold additional capital to NatWest Bank Plc is the principal employer of the Main section and
mitigate this risk. could be required to fund any deficit that arises.
Key developments in 2020 Mitigation
 There have been no material changes to NWB Group’s exposure to Following risk mitigation measures taken by the Trustee in recent
pension risk during the year. In particular, the interest rate and years, the Main section is now well protected against interest rate and
inflation hedging, along with limited exposure to equities, has inflation risks and is being run on a low risk basis with relatively small
meant that the positions of the main defined benefit schemes that equity risk exposure. The Main section also uses derivatives to
NWB Group sponsors have remained resilient despite the market manage the allocation of the portfolio to different asset classes and to
shocks caused by COVID-19. More details on the assets held by manage risk within asset classes.
the schemes are set out in Note 5 to the financial statements.
The potential impact of climate change is one of the factors considered
 During 2020, the NatWest Group Pension Committee, a key
in managing the assets of the Main section. The Trustee monitors the
component of NatWest Group’s approach to managing pension
risk to its investments from changes in the global environment and
risk, was subsumed into the NatWest Group Asset & Liability
invests, where return justifies the risk, in sectors that reduce the
Management Committee, including taking on the responsibilities
world’s reliance on fossil fuels, or that may otherwise promote
previously held by the NatWest Group Pension Committee. This
environmental benefits. Further details regarding the Main section
change was made to increase efficiency, reflecting the steps
Trustee’s approach to managing climate change risk can be found in
NatWest Group has taken to reduce the level of pension risk within
its Responsible Ownership Policy. The Trustee has reported in line
NatWest Group in recent years, but to ensure that pension risk still
with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures in its
receives appropriate executive attention.
Annual Report and Accounts.
 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund formally changed
its name to the NatWest Group Pension Fund on 1 August 2020, to Compliance & conduct risk
align with the name of NatWest Group’s parent company. Definition
 The next triennial actuarial valuation for the Main section will have Compliance risk is the risk that the behaviour of NatWest Group
an effective date of 31 December 2020. Under current legislation, towards customers fails to comply with laws, regulations, rules,
agreement with the Trustee would need to be reached no later than standards and codes of conduct. Such a failure may lead to breaches
31 March 2022. of regulatory requirements, organisational standards or customer
expectations and could result in legal or regulatory sanctions, material
Governance financial loss or reputational damage.
The NatWest Group Asset & Liability Management Committee is
chaired by the NatWest Group Chief Financial Officer. Having replaced Conduct risk is the risk that the conduct of NatWest Group and its
the NatWest Group Pension Committee during 2020, the NatWest subsidiaries and its staff towards customers – or in the markets in
Group Asset & Liability Management Committee is a key component of which it operates – leads to unfair or inappropriate customer outcomes
NatWest Group’s approach to managing pension risk and it considers and results in reputational damage, financial loss or both.
the pension impact of the capital plan for NatWest Group and reviews
performance of NatWest Group’s material pension funds (including Sources of risk
those sponsored by NWB Group) and other issues material to Compliance and conduct risks exist across all stages of NatWest
NatWest Group’s pension strategy on behalf of NatWest Group. It also Group’s relationships with its customers and arise from a variety of
considers investment strategy proposals from the Trustee of the Main activities including product design, marketing and sales, complaint
section. handling, staff training, and handling of confidential insider information.
For further information on governance, refer to page 12.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 68
Risk and capital management
Compliance & conduct risk continued Financial crime risk
Key developments in 2020 Definition
 A customer-focused COVID-19 response was mobilised, which Financial crime risk is presented by criminal activity in the form of
included prioritised resource and operational capacity, forbearance money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and corruption, sanctions
and tax evasion. It does not include fraud risk management.
and participation in government schemes.
 In-life monitoring of customer outcomes was extended to ensure
Sources of risk
treatment strategies remained timely, relevant and consistent, as a
Financial crime risk may be presented if NWB Group’s customers,
result of the continued economic uncertainty arising from COVID-
employees or third parties undertake or facilitate financial crime, or if
19 and Brexit.
NWB Group’s products or services are used to facilitate such crime.
 Specialist training was delivered to support the continuous Financial crime risk is an inherent risk across all lines of business.
oversight of ring-fencing embeddedness.
 Work to develop a Digitised Rules Mapping platform was a Key developments in 2020
significant management focus. The platform aims to facilitate risk-  In view of the challenges presented by COVID-19, financial crime
based rules mapping to regulatory obligations. This will enable policies were reviewed and, where appropriate, updated to reflect
more efficient risk management of regulatory compliance matters the evolving environment as well as industry best practice.
as well as intelligent risk taking.  A new enterprise-wide Financial Crime Hub was established in the
 The roll-out of the Banking My Way service – which enables first line to detect and prevent financial crime. The Hub will facilitate
vulnerable customers to record their support needs – was also a a common, consistent approach to managing financial crime.
focus, helping to drive tailored solutions and outcomes.  A multi-year transformation plan was developed to ensure that, as
 A review of historic investment advice remediation was conducted the financial crime threat evolves with changes in technology, the
in order to ensure the appropriate customer outcomes were economy and wider society, risks relating to money-laundering,
achieved. terrorist-financing, tax evasion, bribery and corruption and financial
sanctions are managed, mitigated and controlled as effectively as
Governance possible.
NatWest Group defines appropriate standards of compliance and  A new Financial Crime executive steering committee was
conduct and ensures adherence to those standards through its risk established to provide oversight of the transformation plan and its
management framework. Relevant compliance and conduct matters implementation.
are escalated through Executive Risk Committee and Board Risk
Committee. Governance
The NatWest Group Financial Crime Risk Executive Committee, which
Risk appetite is chaired by the NatWest Group Chief Financial Crime Risk Officer, is
Risk appetite for compliance and conduct risks is set at Board level. the principal financial crime risk management forum. The committee
Risk appetite statements articulate the levels of risk that legal entities, reviews and, where appropriate, escalates material financial crime
businesses and functions work within when pursuing their strategic risks and issues across NatWest Group to the NatWest Group
objectives and business plans. Executive Risk Committee and the NatWest Group Board Risk
Committee.
A range of controls is operated to ensure the business delivers good
Risk appetite
customer outcomes and is conducted in accordance with legal and
There is no appetite to operate in an environment where systems and
regulatory requirements. A suite of policies addressing compliance and
controls do not enable the identification, assessment, monitoring,
conduct risks set appropriate standards across NatWest Group.
management and mitigation of financial crime risk. NWB Group’s
Examples of these include the Complaints Management Policy, Client
systems and controls must be comprehensive and proportionate to the
Assets & Money Policy, and Product Lifecycle Policy as well as
nature, scale and complexity of its businesses. There is no tolerance
policies relating to customers in vulnerable situations, cross-border
to systematically or repeatedly breach relevant financial crime
activities and market abuse. Continuous monitoring and targeted
regulations and laws.
assurance is carried out as appropriate.
NWB Group operates a framework of preventative and detective
Monitoring and measurement
controls designed to mitigate the risk that it could facilitate financial
Compliance and conduct risks are measured and managed through
crime. These controls are supported by a suite of policies, procedures
continuous assessment and reporting to NatWest Group’s senior risk
and detailed instructions to ensure they operate effectively.
committees and at Board level. The compliance and conduct risk
framework facilitates the consistent monitoring and measurement of
Monitoring and measurement
compliance with laws and regulations and the delivery of consistently
Financial crime risks are identified and reported through continuous
good customer outcomes. The first line of defence is responsible for
risk management and regular monthly reporting to NatWest Group’s
effective risk identification, reporting and monitoring, with oversight,
senior risk committees and the NatWest Group Board. Quantitative
challenge and review by the second line. Compliance and conduct risk
and qualitative data is reviewed and assessed to measure whether
management is also integrated into NatWest Group’s strategic
financial crime risk is within risk appetite.
planning cycle.
Mitigation
Mitigation Through the financial crime framework, relevant policies, systems,
Activity to mitigate the most-material compliance and conduct risks is processes and controls are used to mitigate financial crime risk. This
carried out across NatWest Group with specific areas of focus in the includes the use of dedicated screening and monitoring controls to
customer- facing businesses and legal entities. Examples of mitigation identify people, organisations, transactions and behaviours that may
include consideration of customer needs in business and product require further investigation or other actions. Centralised expertise is
planning, targeted training, complaints management, as well as available to detect and disrupt threats to NWB Group and its
independent monitoring activity. Internal policies help support a strong customers. Intelligence is shared with law enforcement, regulators and
customer focus across NatWest Group. government bodies to strengthen national and international defences
against those who would misuse the financial system for criminal
motives.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 69
Risk and capital management
Climate-related risk
Definition Governance
Climate-related risk is the threat of financial loss or adverse non- The NatWest Group Board is responsible for monitoring and
financial impacts associated with climate change and the political, overseeing climate-related risk within NatWest Group’s overall
economic and environmental responses to it. business strategy and risk appetite.
Sources of risk NatWest Group Board approved the allocation of Senior Management
Physical risks may arise from climate and weather-related events such Function responsibility for identifying and managing financial risks from
as heatwaves, droughts, floods, storms and sea level rises. They can climate change jointly to the NatWest Group Chief Executive Officer
potentially result in financial losses, impairing asset values and the (CEO) and the NatWest Group Chief Risk Officer. This updated
creditworthiness of borrowers. NWB Plc could be exposed to physical accountability supports the CEO’s ownership of NatWest Group’s
risks directly by the effects on its property portfolio and, indirectly, by strategic climate purpose.
the impacts on the wider economy as well as on the property and
business interests of its customers. A NatWest Group-wide Climate Change Programme (GCCP) supports
the delivery of climate-related objectives. The GCCP is overseen by an
Transition risks may arise from the process of adjustment towards a Executive Steering Group (ESG) which is responsible for coordinating
low-carbon economy. Changes in policy, technology and sentiment its Group’s response across climate-related regulations, risks and
could prompt reassessment of customers’ financial risk and may lead opportunities. The ESG is co-chaired by the NatWest Group CEO and
to falls in the value of a large range of assets. NWB Plc could be NatWest Group Chief Risk Officer.
exposed to transition risks directly through the costs of adaptation
within economic sectors and markets as well as supply chain Risk appetite
disruption leading to financial impacts on it and its customers. Potential NatWest Group’s ambition is to be a leading bank in the UK and the
indirect effects include the erosion of NWB Plc’s competitiveness, Republic of Ireland in helping to address climate change. Its stated
profitability, or reputation damage. purpose is to reduce the climate impact of its financing activity by at
least 50% by 2030 and to do what is necessary to achieve alignment
Within these broad categories specific climate risk factors have been with the 2015 Paris Agreement.
identified, which give rise to climate-related risks over the short,
medium and long-term. Work continued in 2020 to integrate climate-related risk into the risk
management framework, including the development of appropriate risk
Key developments in 2020 appetite metrics. Where climate-related risk is deemed to have a
 Climate-related risk was elevated to a principal risk. In line with material impact on a particular risk discipline, then changes to policies
NatWest Group’s risk management framework, the elevation will and procedures will be made accordingly. Availability of data and the
see the implementation of a dedicated risk policy, risk appetite robustness of risk measurement methodologies will influence the
statement and risk appetite measures, which are reportable to the timing of any proposed changes.
NatWest Group Board Risk Committee.
Monitoring and measurement
 To support alignment with the 2015 Paris Agreement, NatWest
Plans have been developed to ensure climate-related risks are
Group developed the capability to estimate financed emissions and
considered in the tools made available to risk disciplines for risk
emissions intensities for the following: residential mortgages,
monitoring and measurement purposes.
agriculture (primary farming), automotive manufacturers and oil &
gas extractors. The residential mortgage portfolio and these three
In 2020, NatWest Group became the first major UK bank to join the
sectors were deemed the most material in terms of their proportion
Partnership for Carbon Accounting (PCAF), underlining its
of NatWest Group’s total loans and investments and susceptibility
commitment to measuring and reducing its climate impact in
to disruption resulting from climate change.
accordance with the 2015 Paris Agreement.
 In preparation for the Bank of England’s 2021 Climate Biennial
Exploratory Scenario, NatWest Group developed and tested a To align NatWest Group’s financing activity with the goals of the 2015
scenario analysis methodology to quantify a range of climate- Paris Agreement, work is underway to formulate emissions targets that
related risks to support business decision making and the are consistent with limiting global warming to well-below 2°C.
development of management actions. Dry runs were conducted on Furthermore, in 2020, NatWest Group also joined the Science Based
a cross section of NatWest Group’s wholesale and retail Targets initiative (SBTi), following its launch of guidance to support
counterparties. financial institutions in aligning lending and investment activities with
 Climate-related risk was included as a factor in setting sector the 2015 Paris Agreement.
oversight classifications, which drive the frequency and level at
which sector credit risk appetite is reviewed.
 Guidance was issued to ensure appropriate consideration of
climate-related risk in internal risk and control assessments.
 Within operational risk, a scenario analysis pilot was performed on
NatWest Group’s operations in India to assess the potential effects
of climate driven events including disruption to business services,
damage to physical assets and health & safety.
 Enhancements have been made to the Environmental, Social &
Ethical risk management framework to mitigate reputational risk
from carbon intensive sectors and support the transition to a lower
carbon economy.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 70
Risk and capital management
Operational risk Mitigation
Definition The Control Environment Certification (CEC) process is a half-yearly
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed self-assessment by the CEOs of NatWest Group’s principal
internal processes, people and systems, or external events. It arises businesses, functions and legal entities. It provides a consistent and
from day-to-day operations and is relevant to every aspect of the comparable view on the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal
business. control environment.
Sources of risk CEC covers material risks and the underlying key controls, including
Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage operations, financial, operational and compliance controls, as well as supporting
systems, transactions and assets appropriately. This can take the form risk management frameworks. The CEC outcomes, including forward-
of human error, an inability to deliver change adequately or on time, looking assessments for the next two half-yearly cycles and progress
the non-availability of technology services, or the loss of customer on control environment improvements, are reported to the NatWest
data. Fraud and theft – as well as the threat of cyber attacks – are Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee. They are also
sources of operational risk, as is the impact of natural and man-made shared with external auditors.
disasters. Operational risk can also arise from a failure to account for
changes in law or regulations or to take appropriate measures to The CEC process helps to ensure compliance with the NatWest Group
protect assets. Policy Framework, Sarbanes-Oxley 404 requirements concerning
internal control over financial reporting (as referenced in the
Key developments in 2020 Compliance report on page 152 of the NatWest Group Annual Report
 The impact of COVID-19 led to significant disruption and and Accounts), and certain requirements of the UK Corporate
heightened the operational risk profile as NWB Group adapted to Governance Code.
new ways of working as a result of the lockdown protocols. The
control environment was continually monitored to ensure the Risks are mitigated by applying key preventative and detective
resulting challenges were safely addressed. controls, an integral step in the risk assessment methodology which
determines residual risk exposure. Control owners are accountable for
 A NatWest Group-wide response was mobilised – supported by
the design, execution, performance and maintenance of key controls.
additional reporting on customer needs, people, processes and
Key controls are regularly assessed for adequacy and tested for
systems – to ensure the Board and senior management were
effectiveness. The results are monitored and, where a material change
regularly updated and to facilitate decision-making as COVID-19
in performance is identified, the associated risk is re-evaluated.
evolved.
 The transformation agenda was impacted by COVID-19, with some In H1 2020, due to the impacts of COVID-19, the formal certification
activities being re-prioritised. A full risk assessment on the impact process was suspended. It resumed again in H2.
of the reprioritised activity was completed to ensure the potential
impacts were understood and mitigated. Monitoring and measurement
 Operational resilience remained a key focus. A series of scenarios Risk and control assessments are used across all business areas and
– setting out the crystallisation of severe but plausible combinations support functions to identify and assess material operational and
of significant risks – were developed in order to support planning conduct risks and key controls. All risks and controls are mapped to
and appropriate forward-looking risk management strategies. NWB Group’s Risk Directory. Risk assessments are refreshed at least
annually to ensure they remain relevant and capture any emerging
 The security threat and the potential for cyber attacks on NatWest
risks and also ensure risks are reassessed.
Group’s supply chain remains an area for close monitoring.
Significant enhancements in managing such incidents and the
The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively managed
broader security control environment were made. This included
in line with risk appetite. Controls are tested at the appropriate
completion of work in response to the outcome of the 2019 CBEST
frequency to verify that they remain fit-for-purpose and operate
test.
effectively to reduce identified risks.
 NatWest Group’s preparations for Brexit and the end of the
transition period enabled NatWest Group to ensure that its NWB Group uses the standardised approach to calculate its Pillar 1
processes and systems would ensure continuity of service for operational risk capital requirement. This is based on multiplying three
customers. years’ average historical gross income by coefficients set by the
regulator based on business line. As part of the wider Internal Capital
Governance Adequacy Assessment Process an operational risk economic capital
A strong operational risk management function is vital to support NWB model is used to assess Pillar 2A, which is a risk-sensitive add-on to
Group’s ambitions to serve its customers better. Improved Pillar 1. The model uses historical loss data (internal and external) and
management of operational risk against defined appetite is vital for forward-looking scenario analysis to provide a risk-sensitive view of
stability and reputational integrity. NWB Group’s Pillar 2A capital requirement.
The first line of defence is responsible for managing operational risks Scenario analysis is used to assess how severe but plausible
directly while the second line is responsible for proactive oversight and operational risks will affect NWB Group. It provides a forward-looking
continuous monitoring of operational risk management across NWB
basis for evaluating and managing operational risk exposures.
Group. The second line is responsible for reporting and escalating key
concerns to Executive Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee.
Refer to the Capital, liquidity and funding risk section for operational
risk capital requirement figures.
Risk appetite
Operational risk appetite supports effective management of material
Operational resilience
operational risks. It expresses the level and types of operational risk
NWB Group manages and monitors operational resilience through its
NWB Group is willing to accept to achieve its strategic objectives and
risk and control assessment methodology. This is underpinned by
business plans. NWB Group’s operational risk appetite statement
setting and monitoring risk indicators and performance metrics for key
encompasses the full range of operational risks faced by its legal
business services. Progress continues on the response to regulator
entities, businesses and functions.
expectations on operational resilience, with involvement in a number of
industry-wide operational resilience forums. This enables a more
holistic view of the operational resilience risk profile and the pace of
ongoing innovation and change, both internally and externally.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 71
Risk and capital management
Operational risk continued
Event and loss data management Risk appetite
The operational risk event and loss data management process Model risk appetite is set in order to limit the level of model risk that
ensures NWB Group captures and records operational risk financial NWB Group is willing to accept in the course of its business activities.
and non-financial events that meet defined criteria. Loss data is used It is approved by the NWB Group Executive Risk Committee. Business
for regulatory and industry reporting and is included in capital areas are responsible for monitoring performance against appetite and
modelling when calculating economic capital for operational risk. The remediating models outside appetite.
most serious events are escalated in a simple, standardised process
to all senior management, by way of a Group Notifiable Event Process. Risk controls
Policies and procedures related to the development, validation,
All financial impacts associated with an operational risk event are approval and ongoing monitoring of models are in place to ensure
reported against the date they were recorded in NWB Group’s financial adequate control across the lifecycle of an individual model. Validation
accounts. A single event can result in multiple losses (or recoveries) of material models is conducted by an independent risk function
that may take time to crystallise. Losses and recoveries comprised of skilled, well-informed subject matter experts. This is
with a financial accounting date in 2020 may relate to events that completed for new models or amendments to existing models and as
occurred, or were identified in, prior years. NWB Group purchases part of an ongoing periodic programme to assess model performance.
insurance against specific losses and to comply with statutory or The frequency of periodic validation is aligned to the risk rating of the
contractual requirements. model. The independent validation focuses on a variety of model
features, including modelling approach, the nature of the assumptions
Model risk used, the model’s predictive ability and complexity, the data used in
Definition the model, its implementation and its compliance with regulation.
Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences arising from
decisions based on model results that may be incorrect, Risk monitoring and measurement
misinterpreted, used inappropriately or based on an outdated model. The level of risk relating to an individual model is assessed through a
NWB Group defines a model as a quantitative method, system, or model risk rating. A quantitative approach is used to determine the risk
approach that applies statistical, economic, financial, accounting, rating of each model, based on the model’s materiality and validation
mathematical or data science theories, techniques and assumptions to rating. This approach provides the basis for model risk appetite
process input data into quantitative estimates. measures and enables model risk to be robustly monitored and
managed across NWB Group.
Sources of risk
NWB Group uses a variety of models in the course of its business Ongoing performance monitoring is conducted by the first line and
activities. Examples include the use of model outputs to support overseen by the second line to ensure parameter estimates and model
customer decisioning, measuring and assessing risk exposures constructs remain fit for purpose, model assumptions remain valid and
(including credit, market, and climate risk), as well as calculating that models are being used consistently with their intended purpose.
regulatory capital and liquidity requirements. This allows timely action to be taken to remediate poor model
performance and/or any control gaps or weaknesses.
Key developments in 2020
 Progress was made in embedding the model risk framework Risk mitigation
By their nature – as approximations of reality – model risk is inherent
across NWB Group to ensure all models are identified and
in the use of models. It is managed by refining or redeveloping models
managed as per requirements.
where appropriate – either due to changes in market conditions,
 Enhanced model risk appetite measures were approved and
business assumptions or processes – and by applying adjustments to
monitored throughout 2020, with remediation plans under close
model outputs (either quantitative or based on expert opinion).
management.
Enhancements may also be made to the process within which the
 All NWB Group models are now recorded within a single model model output is used in order to further limit risk levels.
inventory, providing increased transparency.
 As a result of COVID-19, there was an increased reliance on Reputational risk
model performance monitoring to identify model limitations and Definition
qualitative overlays to ensure model outputs were used Reputational Risk is defined as the risk of damage to stakeholder trust
appropriately. due to negative consequences arising from internal actions or external
events.
Governance
A governance framework is in place to ensure policies and processes Sources of risk
relating to models are appropriate and effective. Two roles are key to Reputational risks originate from internal actions and external events.
this – Model Risk Owners and Model Risk Officers. Model Risk The three primary drivers of reputational risk have been identified as:
Owners, in the first line, are responsible for model approval and failure in internal execution; a conflict between NWB Group’s values
ongoing performance monitoring. Model Risk Officers, in the second and the public agenda; and contagion (when NWB Group’s reputation
line, are responsible for oversight, including ensuring that models are is damaged by failures in the wider financial sector).
independently validated prior to use and on an ongoing basis aligned
to the model’s risk rating. Key developments in 2020
 Reputational risks arising from COVID-19 remained a key focus
Model risk matters are escalated to senior management through the from Q1 onwards.
NWB Group Model Oversight Committee. The NatWest Group Model  A review of the reputational risk framework and policy began in
Risk Oversight Committee provides a direct escalation route to the
2020. This was required to reflect the purpose, capture a more
NatWest Group Executive Risk Committee and, where applicable,
complete view of reputation at a strategic level and align with
onwards to the NatWest Group Board Risk Committee.
more progressive industry leaders.
 The correlation between reputational risk and climate change
issues remained a significant area of focus, supported by work to
enhance the consideration of such issues within the reputational
risk framework. As part of this work, enhancements were made to
the Environmental, Social & Ethical risk management framework
to mitigate reputational risk from carbon intensive sectors and
support the transition to a lower carbon economy.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 72
Risk and capital management
Reputational risk continued
Governance Mitigation
A reputational risk policy supports reputational risk management Reputational risk is mitigated through the policy and governance
across NWB Group. Reputational risk committees review relevant framework, with ongoing staff training to ensure early identification,
issues at an individual business or entity level, while the Reputational assessment and escalation of material issues. External events that
Risk Committee – which has delegated authority from the Executive could cause reputational damage are identified and mitigated through
Risk Committee – opines on cases, issues, sectors and themes that NatWest Group’s top and emerging risks process. The most material
represent a material reputational risk. The Board Risk Committee threats to NatWest Group’s reputation continued to originate from
oversees the identification and reporting of reputational risk. The historical and more recent conduct issues. NatWest Group has in
NatWest Group Sustainable Banking Committee has a specific focus recent years been the subject of investigations and reviews by a
on environmental, social and ethical issues. number of regulators and governmental authorities, some of which
have resulted in past fines, settlements and public censure. Refer to
Risk appetite the Litigation and regulatory matters section of Note 26 to the NatWest
NWB Group manages and articulates its appetite for reputational risk Group consolidated financial statements for details of material matters
through a qualitative reputational risk appetite statement and currently impacting NatWest Group.
quantitative measures. NWB Group seeks continuous improvement in
the identification, assessment and management of customers,
transactions, products and issues that present a material reputational
risk.
Standards of conduct are in place across NWB Group requiring strict
adherence to policies, procedures and ways of working to ensure
business is transacted in a way that meets – or exceeds – stakeholder
expectations.
Monitoring and measurement
Relevant internal and external factors are monitored through regular
reporting to the reputational risk committees at business or entity level
and escalated, where appropriate, to the NatWest Group Reputational
Risk Committee, NatWest Group Board Risk Committee or the
NatWest Group Sustainable Banking Committee.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 73
Report of the directors
The directors present their report together NWB Plc employs the majority of NWB Group representatives from the Banking Standards
with the audited accounts for the year ended UK customer-facing staff, with costs Board (BSB) joined a Board meeting to
31 December 2020. recharged. NWB Plc also provides the present the results of their 2019 industry-wide
majority of shared services (including survey and thematic reports, together with
Other information incorporated into this report technology) and operational processes under their 2019 Assessment report on NatWest
by reference can be found at: Intra-Group Agreements. Group. The Board also discussed an internal
Page/Note review of the BSB’s thematic reports on
Stakeholder engagement and 3 Corporate Governance statement ‘Technology & Culture’ and ‘Decision-Making’
s.172(1) statement Following the introduction of new reporting from a NatWest Group perspective, including
Board of directors and secretary 5 requirements in 2019, the directors of NWB impacts for customers and employees.
Financial review 7
Plc are required to provide a statement in the
Segmental analysis Note 4
report of the directors stating which corporate Colleague opinion survey results were
Share capital and reserves Note 22
governance code, if any, NWB Plc followed another useful culture oversight tool available
Post balance sheet events Note 35
during the year, how it applied the code and to the Board. Directors considered the results
Risk factors 160
any part of the code it did not follow. of colleague pulse surveys conducted in May
NWB Group structure and June 2020, and in October 2020,
National Westminster Bank Plc (‘NWB Plc’) is For the financial year ended 31 December reviewed the results of the annual colleague
a wholly-owned subsidiary of NatWest 2020 NWB Plc has chosen to report against opinion survey, Our View. Key themes noted
Holdings Limited (‘NWH Ltd’ or ‘the the Wates Corporate Governance Principles and discussed by the Board were culture,
intermediate holding company’). NatWest for Large Private Companies, published by inclusion, capability, resilience and wellbeing
Bank Group (‘NWB Group’) comprises NWB the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) in (including financial wellbeing and colleague
Plc and its subsidiary and associated December 2018 and available on the FRC advocacy).
undertakings. NatWest Holdings Group website (the Wates Principles). The
(‘NWH Group’) comprises NWH Ltd and its disclosures below explain how NWB Plc has Directors are mindful of their responsibility to
subsidiary and associated undertakings. applied the Wates Principles in the context of set the ‘tone from the top’ and take every
NatWest Group plc is ‘the ultimate holding its corporate governance arrangements. opportunity to role model the desired culture
company’. The term ‘NatWest Group’ both within the Boardroom and beyond.
comprises NatWest Group plc and its 1. Purpose and leadership
subsidiary and associated undertakings. NatWest Group’s purpose is established by While opportunities for face to face interaction
NatWest Group plc is incorporated in the the NatWest Group plc Board, promoted with colleagues were significantly curtailed
United Kingdom and has its registered office across NatWest Group and cascaded to during 2020, directors continued to engage
at 36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 subsidiaries including NWB Plc. In February with colleagues virtually where possible, for
2YB. 2020, and following an extensive period of
example through Colleague Advisory Panel
stakeholder engagement, the NatWest Group
events, Committee function visits and a virtual
Details of NWB Plc’s principal subsidiary plc Board approved a new purpose and
undertakings and their activities are shown in strategy for NatWest Group. talent engagement session.
Note 14 on the accounts. A full list of NWB
Plc’s related undertakings is shown in Note 36 NatWest Group’s purpose is “we champion In December, as part of a spotlight on
on the accounts. potential, helping people, families and colleagues, the Board received an update on
businesses to thrive". It has been a future ways of working and how this might
The financial statements of NatWest Group galvanising force across the organisation as evolve in a way that is consistent with
plc can be obtained from Legal, Governance its response to the COVID-19 pandemic has NatWest Group purpose and strategy;
& Regulatory Affairs, Gogarburn, Edinburgh, evolved, acting as an important point of continues to support colleagues; drives
EH12 1HQ, the Registrar of Companies or reference during Board discussions, debate greater collaboration; and supports the long-
through NatWest Group’s website and decision-making. term sustainability of NatWest Group.
natwestgroup.com.
NatWest Group’s strategy is set and approved The activities described above have
Activities by the NatWest Group plc Board. The board supported the Board in meeting the Wates
NWB Group is engaged principally in of directors of NWB Plc (the Board) reviews Principle 1 requirement to ensure that
providing a wide range of banking and other and sets the strategic direction of the NWH purpose, values, strategy and culture are
financial services. Group and, as appropriate, the strategies for aligned, within the wider NatWest Group
each of its businesses, within the parameters governance structure.
Results and dividends set by the NatWest Group plc Board. The
The profit attributable to the ordinary Board also oversees the execution of NWH
2. Board composition
shareholders of NWB Plc for the year ended Group strategy and holds executive
The Board has thirteen directors comprising
31 December 2020 was £380 million management to account for its delivery.
the Chairman, two executive directors and ten
compared with a profit of £714 million for the
independent non-executive directors, one of
year ended 31 December 2019, as set out in Further information on NatWest Group’s
whom is the Senior Independent Director.
the consolidated income statement on page
progress against its purpose and strategy can
91.
be found in the NatWest Group plc 2020 The names of the current directors and
Annual Report and Accounts. secretary are shown on page 6.
No ordinary dividends were paid in 2020.
NWB Plc paid an ordinary dividend to NWH
Building a healthy culture that embodies Our The Board considers that the Chairman was
Ltd in 2019 totalling £700 million.
Values is a core priority for NatWest independent on appointment and that all the
Group.’Our Values’ are at the heart of Our non-executive directors are independent.
Employees
Code (the NatWest Group-wide Code of Non-executive director independence and
As at 31 December 2020, NWB Group
Conduct). They guide the way NatWest Group individual directors’ continuing contribution to
employed 52,100 people (excluding
identifies the right people to serve customers NWB Plc are considered at least annually.
temporary staff). Details of related costs are
well, and how NatWest Group manages,
included in Note 3 on the consolidated
engages and rewards colleagues. The Board operates a Boardroom Inclusion
accounts.
Policy which reflects the most recent industry
The Board assesses and monitors culture in targets and is aligned to the Inclusion
several ways. In February 2020, Guidelines applying to the wider NatWest
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 74
Report of the directors
Group. The Boardroom Inclusion policy The DINEDs play a critical role in NatWest Governance Officer and Company Secretary
provides a framework to ensure that the Group’s ring-fencing governance structure, and tailored to suit the requirements of the
Board attracts, motivates and retains the best and are responsible for exercising appropriate individual concerned. This includes visits to
talent and avoids limiting potential caused by oversight of the independence and NatWest Group’s major businesses and
bias, prejudice or discrimination. It currently effectiveness of the NWH Sub Group’s functions and meetings with directors and
applies to the Boards of NatWest Group plc, governance arrangements, including the senior management. Meetings with external
NWH Ltd, RBS plc, NWB Plc and Ulster Bank ability of each board to take decisions auditors, counsel and stakeholders are also
Limited (UBL). A copy of the Boardroom independently. The DINEDs also have an arranged as appropriate.
Inclusion Policy is available on enhanced role in managing any conflicts
natwestgroup.com. which may arise between the interests of All new directors receive a copy of the
NWB Plc and other members of NatWest NatWest Group Director Handbook. The
The Boardroom Inclusion Policy contains a Group. Handbook operates as a consolidated
number of measurable objectives, targets and governance support manual for directors of
ambitions reflecting the ongoing commitment All NWH Sub Group directors who are not NatWest Group plc and the NWH Sub Group,
of the Board to inclusion progress. The Board DINEDs are directors of NatWest Group plc. providing both new and current directors with
aims to meet the highest industry standards All DINEDs attend NatWest Group plc Board a single source of information relevant to their
role. It covers a range of topics including
and recommendations wherever possible. meetings in an observer capacity.
NatWest Group’s corporate structure; the
Board and Board Committee operating model;
That includes, but is not limited to, aspiring to The governance arrangements for the Boards
Board policies and processes and a range of
meet the targets set by the Hampton- and Board Committees of NatWest Group plc
technical guidance on relevant matters
Alexander Report: FTSE100 Women Leaders and the NWH Sub Group have been designed
including directors’ duties, conflicts of interest,
(33% female representation on the boards) to enable NatWest Group plc to exercise
and the UK Senior Managers’ Regime. The
and the Parker Report: Beyond 1 by ’21 (at appropriate oversight and to ensure that, as
Handbook forms part of a wider library of
least one director from an ethnic minority far as is reasonably practicable, the NWH Sub
reference materials available via a resources
background on the boards) by 2020/2021. Group is able to take decisions independently
portal.
The policy supports the NatWest Group-wide of the wider Group.
commitment to being fully gender balanced by
The Board is supported in its succession
2030. The Board is structured to ensure that the
planning activities, including the recruitment of
directors provide NWB Plc with the
non-executive directors, by the Nominations
The Board currently meets the Parker target appropriate balance of skills, experience and
Committee, which is responsible for
and exceeds the Hampton-Alexander target knowledge as well as independence. Given
considering and making recommendations to
with a female representation of 38%. the nature of NWH Group’s businesses,
the Board in respect of Board appointments.
experience of banking and financial services
The Nominations Committee reviews the
The role of the Chairman is to lead the Board is clearly of benefit. A number of directors
structure, size and composition of the Board,
and ensure its overall effectiveness. This is have substantial experience in that area,
and makes recommendations to the Board in
distinct and separate from that of the Chief including retail and commercial banking. In
relation to any necessary changes, having
Executive Officer (CEO) who manages the addition, the directors have relevant
regard to the overall balance of skills,
business day-to-day. experience in customer service; government
knowledge, experience and diversity on the
and regulatory matters; mergers and
Board, the length of service of the Board as a
All directors receive accurate, timely and clear acquisitions; corporate recovery, resolution
whole; and the requirement to keep
information on relevant matters and have and insolvency; stakeholder management;
membership regularly refreshed. The
access to the advice and services of the environmental, social and governance;
Nominations Committee considers Board
Company Secretary. In addition, all directors technology, digital and innovation; finance and
composition and succession planning at least
are able, if necessary, to obtain independent accountancy; risk; and change management.
annually. The NatWest Group plc Group
professional advice at NWB Plc’s expense.
Nominations and Governance Committee also
Board Committees also comprise directors
approves all appointments to the Board,
The Senior Independent Director acts as a with a variety of skills and experience so that
reflecting NWB Plc’s position as a subsidiary
sounding board for the Chairman and as an no undue reliance is placed on any one
within NatWest Group.
intermediary for other directors when individual.
necessary.
A review of the effectiveness of the Board,
The independent non-executive directors
including the Chairman, individual directors
NWH Ltd is the holding company for NatWest combine broad business and commercial
and Board Committees, is conducted at least
Group’s ring-fenced operations, which include experience with independent and objective
annually.
the retail, commercial and wealth services. A judgement and provide independent challenge
common board structure is operated such that to the executive directors and the leadership
2020 Performance evaluation
directors of NWH Ltd are also directors of team. The balance between independent non-
The 2020 evaluation of the NWH Sub Group
RBS plc, NWB Plc and Ulster Bank Limited executive and executive directors enables the
Boards was facilitated by the Chief
(UBL). Known collectively as the NWH Sub Board to provide clear and effective
Governance Officer and Company Secretary,
Group, the boards of these four entities meet leadership across NWH Group’s business
Jan Cargill, during Q4 2020, alongside the
concurrently. activities.
evaluation of the NatWest Group plc Board.
The conclusion of the 2020 Board evaluation
An integral part of NatWest Group’s The Board monitors the commitment of the
was that the Board operated effectively
governance arrangements is the appointment Chairman and directors and is satisfied that
throughout the year and fulfilled its remit as
of three Double Independent Non-Executive they are able to allocate sufficient time to
set out in its terms of reference. Directors
Directors (DINEDs) to the Boards and Board enable them to discharge their duties and
noted the progress made against the 2019
Committees, of the NWH Sub Group. responsibilities effectively. Any additional
evaluation actions, which were consistent
external appointments require prior Board
across the NatWest Group plc and NWH Sub
The DINEDs are independent in two respects: approval.
Group Boards and are described in more
(i) independent of management as non-
detail in the NatWest Group plc 2020 Annual
executives; and (ii) independent of the rest of There is an induction programme for all new
Report and Accounts. Directors engaged fully
NatWest Group by virtue of their NWH Sub directors which is tailored to their specific
with the evaluation exercise and commented
Group only directorships. experience and knowledge. Each new director
positively in relation to many aspects of the
receives a formal induction on joining the
Board’s operations.
Board, which is co-ordinated by the Chief
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 75
Report of the directors
Key findings and recommendations were  Implementation of the 2020 Board
closely aligned with the NatWest Group plc evaluation actions will be overseen by the It monitors and maintains the consistency of
findings and included the following: Nominations Committee during 2021. NWB Plc’s activities within the strategic
 COVID-19 response - Directors felt that direction of NatWest Group; it reviews and
management had responded well to the The Chairman met each director individually approves risk appetite for strategic and
pandemic. The Board had been kept to discuss their own performance and material risks in accordance with the NatWest
regularly informed throughout, providing continuing professional development and Group Risk Appetite Framework and it
constructive challenge and support as establish whether each director continues to monitors performance against risk appetite for
appropriate, and virtual board meetings contribute effectively to the company’s long- NWB Plc. It approves NWB Plc’s key financial
had worked efficiently. term sustainable success. The Chairman also objectives and keeps the capital and liquidity
 Purpose and strategy – Directors agreed shared peer feedback provided to the positions of NWB Plc under review. The
that NatWest Group’s purpose was clear Company Secretary as part of the individual Board’s terms of reference include a formal
and compelling, and that it was starting to evaluation process. schedule of matters specifically reserved for
the Board’s decision and are reviewed at least
embed and guide Board discussions and
decision-making. The annual Board Separately, the Senior Independent Director annually.
objectives were considered useful, but sought feedback on the Chairman’s
directors said a shorter list of focus items performance from the non-executive directors, The Board held seven scheduled meetings
would be more impactful. executive directors and other key internal and during the year. In March, reflecting the scale
 Board stakeholder engagement – external stakeholders and discussed it with of the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown
Engagement activity during the year had the Chairman. restrictions, the Board’s operating rhythm was
revised to facilitate regular updates from the
been worthwhile, despite limited
opportunities for face to face meetings. Non-executive directors discuss professional Group CEO and executive management
Board sessions with institutional investors development annually with the Chairman and team. A cycle of weekly meetings, later
had been particularly useful, and the they participate in scheduled Board training moving to fortnightly, supplemented the
Colleague Advisory Panel was working sessions and other external sessions, as Board’s scheduled meetings, and all meetings
well. Directors were keen to explore appropriate. With significant demands on took place virtually.
different options to engage with customers Board time due to COVID-19, the Board
and understand their views. They were training programme prioritised key areas of The Chairman, CEO and Company Secretary
also interested in deeper customer insights focus including financial crime and climate. are responsible for the quality and integrity of
and further focus on key supplier Directors may also request individual in-depth information provided to directors. At each
relationships. briefings from time to time on areas of scheduled Board meeting the directors
 Board composition and succession particular interest. received reports from the Chairman, Board
Committee Chairs, CEO, CFO, and other
planning – The majority of directors felt the
Board is now right-sized with no material 3. Director responsibilities members of the executive management team,
skills gaps. Directors expressed a desire All directors receive guidance on their as appropriate. Other senior executives
for greater visibility of ExCo successors. statutory duties under the Companies Act and attended Board meetings throughout the year
 Board culture and dynamics – The 2019 are supported in the discharge of their duties to present reports to the Board. This provided
by the Company Secretary, as further the Board with an opportunity to engage
evaluation had identified Board dynamics
described on page 3. directly with management on key issues and
as an area for further improvement. In
supports succession planning.
2020, directors commented positively on
Each director has a role profile which clearly
Board culture and dynamics, noting an
improvement over the past 12 months. articulates their responsibilities and The format for Board and Board Committee
Relationships were considered to be good, accountabilities and any additional regulatory papers was further enhanced during 2020 and
although directors missed the opportunity responsibilities and accountabilities are set now includes a dedicated section which
explains how the proposal or update aligns to
for informal interaction due to COVID-19 out in their Statement of Responsibilities.
purpose, alongside existing sections detailing
restrictions. Directors felt the balance of
stakeholder impacts. This ensures that due
responsibilities between the Board and NatWest Group also produces and maintains
consideration is given to purpose and
Board Committees was appropriate. a document called ‘Our Governance’ which
stakeholders in the boardroom
 How the Board operates - The Board’s sets out the governance, systems and
controls applicable to NatWest Group plc and
operating rhythm and increased meeting The Board’s key areas of focus for 2020
the NWH Sub Group. Our Governance is
frequency had worked well. Directors included coronavirus updates; purpose; risk
made available to all directors and is reviewed
expressed an interest in more in depth
and approved by the Board at least annually. appetite framework; customer experience
business discussions and some observed
outcomes; colleagues; and Brexit planning
there was scope to streamline Committee
Chair reporting. Directors appreciated the The Directors’ Conflicts of Interest policy sets and preparedness.
enhanced approach to management out procedures to ensure that the Board’s
reporting, and observed that Board paper management of conflicts of interest and its The Board has established a number of Board
templates continued to drive better and powers for authorising certain conflicts are committees with particular responsibilities.
shorter papers. operating effectively. This includes the The Audit, Performance & Remuneration, and
management of conflicts that may arise during Nominations Committees of NWH Ltd operate
Actions Board decisions where the interests of NWB as committees of each of NWH Ltd, NWB Plc,
Following Board discussion of the evaluation Plc conflict with the interests of other RBS plc and UBL, with meetings running
report, a number of actions were agreed for members of NatWest Group. NWB Plc concurrently.
2021, including the following: - maintains a register of directors’ interests and
appointments, which is reviewed annually by
 Agree a shorter and more focused set of
the Board, and there is discussion of directors’
Board objectives for 2021.
conflicts in Board meetings, as required.
 Explore different options for directors to
engage with customers.
The Board is the main decision-making forum
 Review potential enhancements to Board for NWB Plc. The Board is collectively
MI on customers and suppliers. responsible for the long-term success of NWB
 Enhance Board visibility of ExCo Plc and the delivery of sustainable value to its
successors shareholders. The Board’s role is to provide
leadership of NWB Plc.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 76
Report of the directors
The Audit Committee comprises at least three The Board reviews and approves risk appetite RemCo reviews remuneration for executives
independent non-executive directors, two of for strategic and material risks in accordance of NWB Plc and considers reports on the
whom are DINEDs. The Committee assists with the NatWest Group risk appetite wider workforce including annual pay
the Board in discharging its responsibilities in framework; monitors performance against risk outcomes and diversity information. The
relation to the disclosure of financial affairs. It appetite for NWB Plc; and considers any RemCo helps to ensure that the remuneration
also reviews accounting and financial material risks and approves, as appropriate, policies, procedures and practices being
reporting and regulatory compliance practices recommended actions escalated by the Board applied are appropriate for NWB Plc.
of NWB Plc, NWB Plc’s system of standards Risk Committee.
of internal controls, and monitors NWB Plc’s Executive remuneration structures incentivise
processes for internal audit and external audit. NWB Plc’s risk strategy is informed and individuals to deliver sustainable performance
shaped by an understanding of the risk based on strategic objectives for NatWest
The Board Risk Committee comprises at least landscape including a range of significant Group and the relevant business area.
four independent non-executive directors, one risks and uncertainties in the external
of whom is the Chairman of the Audit economic, political and regulatory Performance is assessed against a balanced
Committee and two of whom are DINEDs. It environments. scorecard of financial and non-financial
provides oversight and advice to the Board in measures and variable pay is subject to
relation to current and potential future risk NWB Plc complies with NatWest Group’s risk deferral as well as malus and clawback
exposures, future risk profile, including appetite framework, which is approved provisions to ensure rewards are justified in
oversight of NWB Plc’s Risk Management annually by the NatWest Group plc Board, in the long-term.
Framework and (in conjunction with the Audit line with NatWest Group’s risk appetite
Committee) internal controls required to statements, frameworks and policies. The approach to performance management
manage risk. NatWest Group risk appetite is set in line with provides clarity for colleagues about how their
overall strategy. contribution links to NatWest Group’s purpose
The Performance and Remuneration and all employees have goals set across a
Committee (RemCo) comprises at least four
NatWest Group operates an integrated risk balanced scorecard of measures. NatWest
independent non-executive directors, one of
management framework, which is centred Group continues to ensure employees are
whom is a DINED. It assists the NatWest
around the embedding of a strong risk culture. paid fairly for the work they do and are
Group plc Group Performance and
The framework ensures the tools and supported by simple and transparent pay
Remuneration Committee with the oversight
capability are in place to facilitate sound risk structures in line with industry best practices.
and implementation of NatWest Group’s
management and decision-making across the
remuneration policy and also considers and
organisation. This clarity and certainty on how pay is
makes recommendations on remuneration
delivered is also helping to improve
arrangements for senior executives of NWB
During 2020, a number of enhancements to colleagues’ financial wellbeing, which is a
Plc.
the risk management framework were priority. Employees are provided with flexibility
developed. The increasing significance of in terms of how they wish to receive pay to
The Nominations Committee comprises the
climate risk was considered as part of these suit their circumstances. Pay is compared
Chairman, Senior Independent Director and at
developments and will be fully integrated as against the external market so that pay and
least three further independent non-executive
part of the implementation of the enhanced benefits are competitive. NatWest Group is a
directors. It is responsible for assisting the
framework in 2021. Alignment with climate fully accredited Living Wage Employer in the
Board in the formal selection and appointment
change regulation is also reported to the UK with rates of pay that continue to exceed
of directors. It reviews the structure, size and
NatWest Group Executive Risk Committee the Living Wage Foundation Benchmarks.
composition of the Board, and membership
and the NatWest Group Board Risk
and chairmanship of Board Committees.
Committee. NatWest Group ensures that colleagues have
a common awareness of the financial and
The Executive Committee comprises NWB
NWB Plc also complies with the NatWest economic factors affecting its performance
Plc’s most senior executives and supports the
Group Policy Framework, the purpose of through quarterly ‘Results Explained’
CEO to discharge her individual
which is to ensure that NatWest Group communications and Workplace Live events
accountabilities including matters relating to
establishes and maintains NatWest Group- with the Group CEO and Group CFO.
strategy, financials, capital, risk, customer and
wide policies that adequately address the
operational issues, as well as monitoring the
material inherent risks it faces in its business Further information on the remuneration
implementation of cultural change and
activities. policy, pay ratios and employee share plans
executive succession planning.
can be found in the Directors’ remuneration
Further information on the NWB Plc risk report of the NatWest Group plc 2020 Annual
4. Opportunity and risk management framework including risk culture, Report and Accounts. Gender and Ethnicity
The role of the Board is to promote the long- risk governance, risk appetite, risk controls Pay Gap information can be found in the
term sustainable success of NWB Plc. and limits, and risk identification and Strategic report section of the NatWest Group
measurement can be found in the risk and plc 2020 Annual Report and Accounts, along
The Board held 2 strategy sessions with the capital management section of this report with the steps being taken to build an
executive management team, in June and (pages 11 to 73). inclusive and engaged workforce.
October. Within the context of a wider
discussion at NatWest Group level, this 5. Remuneration 6. Stakeholder relationships and
provided an opportunity for the Board to The NatWest Group remuneration policy engagement
assess opportunities and risks to the future provides a consistent policy across all In February 2020 the Board approved its
success of the business, the sustainability of NatWest Group companies and ensures annual objectives and confirmed the Board’s
the business model and how its governance compliance with regulatory requirements. The key stakeholder groups. The Board’s agenda
contributes to the delivery of its strategy. remuneration policy is aligned with the and engagement plans were structured to
business strategy, objectives, values and enhance the Board’s understanding of these
stakeholders’ views and interests. This in turn
long-term interests of NWB Plc. The policy
has informed Board discussions and decision-
supports a culture where individuals are
making.
rewarded for delivering sustained
performance in line with risk appetite and for
demonstrating the right conduct and
behaviours.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 77
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
This statement should be read in conjunction with the responsibilities of the auditor set out in their report on pages 81 to 90.
The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts. The directors are required to prepare Group accounts, and
as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 have elected to prepare company accounts, for each financial year in accordance with international
accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and with international financial reporting standards
adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union They are responsible for preparing accounts that
present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of NWB Group and NWB Plc. In preparing those accounts, the
directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of NWB Group and to enable them to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts complies with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of NWB Plc and NWB Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Bank and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 the Strategic report and Directors’ report (incorporating the Financial review) includes a fair review of the development and performance of
the business and the position of the Bank and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of
the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
Howard Davies Alison Rose-Slade Katie Murray
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
18 February 2021
Board of directors
Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors
Howard Davies Alison Rose-Slade Francesca Barnes
Katie Murray Graham Beale
Ian Cormack
Patrick Flynn
Morten Friis
Robert Gillespie
Yasmin Jetha
Mike Rogers
Mark Seligman
Lena Wilson
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 79
Independent auditor’s report to the members of National Westminster Bank Plc
Risk Our response to the risk
Expected Credit Loss Provisions
At 31 December 2020 the Group reported Controls testing: We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls across the
total gross loans of £281 billion (2019: £241 processes relevant to ECL, including the judgements and estimates noted. These controls,
billion) and £3.7 billion of expected credit among others, included:
losses (ECL) (2019: £2.0 billion).  the allocation of assets into stages including management’s monitoring of stage
Management’s judgements and estimates effectiveness;
are especially subjective due to significant  recording and approval of payment deferrals and government supported lending such
uncertainty associated with the assumptions as bounce back loans and Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Schemes (CBILs);
used. Uncertainty associated with COVID-19  model governance including monitoring, the governance and review of both in-model
and its consequent implications including adjustments and post model adjustments, model validation;
lockdowns and recovery assumptions as  data accuracy and completeness;
well as government intervention, increased  credit monitoring;
the level of judgement in ECL. Assumptions
 multiple economic scenarios;
with increased complexity in respect of the
 individual provisions and
timing and measurement of ECL include:
 production of journal entries and disclosures.
 Staging - Allocation of assets to stage 1,
2, or 3 on a timely basis using criteria in In evaluating the governance process we observed the executive finance and risk
accordance with IFRS 9 considering the committee meetings where the inputs, assumptions and adjustments to the ECL were
impact of COVID-19 and related discussed and approved, among other procedures.
government support measures, such as
We performed an overall assessment of the ECL provision levels by stage to assess if they
payment deferrals, on customer
were reasonable by considering the overall credit quality of the Group’s portfolios, risk
behaviours and the identification of
profile, impact of the COVID-19 including geographic considerations and high risk
underlying significant deterioration in
industries, the impact government support measures, such as payment deferrals, may have
credit risk;
had on delaying expected defaults, credit risk management practices and the
 Model estimations - Accounting macroeconomic environment by considering trends in the economy and industries to which
interpretations, modelling assumptions the Group is exposed. We also considered the appropriateness of provisions applied to
and data used to build and run the government supported lending such as bounce back loans and CBILs which included
models that calculate the ECL assessing the respective eligibility criteria. We performed peer benchmarking where
considering the impact of COVID-19 on available to assess overall staging and provision coverage levels.
model performance and any additional
data to be considered in the ECL For a sample of industries, we also assessed the ECL against an independently developed
calculation; methodology estimating unsustainable debt levels.
Based on our assessment of the key judgements we used specialists to support the audit
 Economic scenarios - Inputs,
team in the areas of economics, modelling and, collateral and business valuations.
assumptions and weightings used to
estimate the impact of multiple Staging: We evaluated the criteria used to allocate a financial asset to stage 1, 2 or 3 in
economic scenarios particularly those accordance with IFRS 9; this included peer benchmarking to assess staging levels. We
influenced by COVID-19 and Brexit recalculated the assets in stage 1, 2 and 3 to assess if they were allocated to the
including any changes to scenarios appropriate stage and performed sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of different criteria
required through 31 December 2020; on the ECL and also considered the impact of performing collective staging downgrades to
industries and geographic regions particularly impacted by COVID-19.
 Adjustments - Appropriateness,
completeness and valuation of model To test credit monitoring which drives the probability of default estimates used in the staging
adjustments including any COVID-19 calculation, we recalculated the risk ratings for a sample of performing loans and focused
specific adjustments due to the our testing on high risk industries impacted by COVID-19. We also assessed the timing of
increased uncertainty and less reliance the annual review performed by management on each wholesale loan exposure to evaluate
on modelled outputs which increases whether it appropriately considered COVID-19 risk factors by considering independent
the risk of management override; publicly available information.
 Individual provisions - Measurement of Model estimations - We performed a risk assessment on all models involved in the ECL
individual provisions including the calculation to select a sample of models to test. We involved modelling specialists to assist
assessment of multiple scenarios us to test this sample of ECL models by testing the assumptions, inputs and formulae used.
considering the impact of COVID-19 on This included a combination of assessing the appropriateness of model design and formulae
exit strategies, collateral valuations and used, alternative modelling techniques, recalculating the Probability of Default, Loss Given
time to collect; and Default and Exposure at Default, and model implementation. We also considered the results
 Disclosure - The completeness and of internal model validation results.
To evaluate data quality, we agreed a sample of ECL calculation data points to source
preparation of disclosures considering
systems, including balance sheet data used to run the models and historic loss data to
the key judgments, sources of data and
monitor models. We also tested the ECL data points from the calculation engine through to
the design of the disclosures.
the general ledger and disclosures. We included COVID-19 specific data points in this
testing.
Economic scenarios - We involved economic specialists to assist us to evaluate the base
case and alternative economic scenarios, including evaluating probability weights and
comparing these to other scenarios from a variety of external sources. This assessment
included the latest developments related to COVID-19 and Brexit at 31 December 2020,
including the announcement of planned vaccines. We assessed whether forecasted
macroeconomic variables were complete and appropriate, such as GDP, unemployment
rate, interest rates and the House Price Index. With the support of our modelling specialists
we evaluated the correlation and translation of the macroeconomic factors to the ECL.
Adjustments - We tested material in-model and post-model adjustments including those
which were applied as a result of COVID-19. With our modelling specialists, we assessed
the completeness of these adjustments and their appropriateness by considering the data,
judgments, methodology, sensitivities, and governance of these adjustments as well as
considering model shortcomings.
Individual provisions - We involved valuation specialists to recalculate a sample of individual
provisions including the alternative scenarios and evaluating probability weights assigned.
The sample was based on a number of factors, including higher risk sectors such as
commercial real estate, retail, leisure and aviation, and materiality. We considered the
impact COVID-19 had on collateral valuations and time to collect as well as whether
planned exit strategies remained viable.
Disclosure - We tested the data flows used to populate the disclosures and assessed the
adequacy of disclosures for compliance with the accounting standards and regulatory
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 83
Independent auditor’s report to the members of National Westminster Bank Plc
Risk Our response to the risk
IT access management
The IT environment is complex and pervasive to We evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of IT general controls over the
the operations of the Group due to the large applications, operating systems and databases that are relevant to financial reporting.
volume of transactions processed in numerous During our planning and test of design phases, we performed procedures to determine
locations daily and the reliance on automated whether the ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic had caused material changes in IT
and IT dependent manual controls. Appropriate processes or controls and noted no such changes that would result in an increased IT
IT controls are required to ensure that risk.
applications process data as expected and that
changes are made in an appropriate manner. Controls testing
This risk is also impacted by the greater We tested user access by assessing the controls in place for in-scope applications and
dependency on third-parties, increasing use of verifying the addition and periodic recertification of users’ access. During 2020, the
cloud platforms, decommissioning of legacy Group consolidated their access management tools and moved further in-scope
systems, and migration to new systems. Such application onto a strategic platform (SLX) which will facilitate most of the Group’s
controls contribute to mitigating the risk of Manage Access IT General Controls across applications and infrastructure platforms.
potential fraud or errors as a result of changes We performed procedures around the transition process between IT tools, focusing on
to applications and data. the completeness of user data and the adequacy of the control environment.
Controls A number of systems are outsourced to third party service providers. For these systems,
 User access management across application, we tested IT general controls through evaluating the relevant Service Organisation
database and operating systems. We have Controls reports (where available). This included assessing the timing of the reporting,
identified user access deficiencies in the past the controls tested by the service auditor and whether they address relevant IT risks and
and while the number of deficiencies has the impact COVID-19 had on the overall control environment. We also tested required
reduced year over year, there remains a risk complementary user entity controls performed by management. Where a SOC report
of inappropriate access. was not available we identified and reviewed compensating business controls to
address this risk.
Where control deficiencies were identified, we tested remediation activities performed by
management and compensating controls in place and assessed what additional testing
procedures were necessary to mitigate any residual risk.
Key observations communicated to the NWH Group Audit Committee
We are satisfied that IT controls impacting financial reporting are designed and operating effectively. The following matters were reported to
the NWH Group Audit Committee:
 We have seen an overall reduction in the number of discrete IT control deficiencies identified compared to prior year.
 Improvements were made to standardise access management processes and controls across the Group. However, particular attention
should continue to be paid to controls over user access management including ensuring the completeness and accuracy of the data used
to perform access controls. Where issues were noted in relation to access management these were remediated by year end or mitigated
by compensating controls. We also performed additional testing in response to deficiencies identified, where required.
 For a robust control environment, the Group should seek to build and end-to-end view of controls across both infrastructure and
application layers, including documentation of automated business controls, and IT general controls at the application layer.
 A high volume of control deficiencies had been remediated prior to year-end, and the remaining compensated for, however, we have seen
examples where further diligence could be applied to ensure consistent and continued effective control operation.
In the prior year, our auditor’s report included a key audit matter in relation to Legal entity transactions. In the current year, the process was
enhanced and control improved and was no longer considered a key audit matter.
Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in
forming our audit opinion.
Materiality
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be £144 million (2019: £105 million), which is 5% (2019: 5%) of profit before tax of the Group of £602
million (2019: £1,326 million) adjusted for certain loan impairment charges arising from COVID-19, conduct releases, strategic costs and certain
non-recurring transactions. The largest impact was a result of adjusting the loan impairment charge to pre-COVID-19 levels by £1.5 billion using
2019 as a basis. We believe removing items that would otherwise have a disproportionate impact on materiality reflects the most useful
measure for users of the financial statements and is consistent with the prior year. The 5% basis used for Group materiality is consistent with
the wider industry and is the standard for listed and regulated entities.
We determined materiality for the Bank to be £144 million (2019: £105 million) which is 0.8% (2019: 0.6%) of equity of the Bank and is
consistent with the prior year. We believe this reflects the most useful measure for users of the financial statements as the Bank’s primary
purpose is to act as a holding company with investments in the Group’s subsidiaries, not to generate operating profits and therefore a profit
based measure is not relevant.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 88
Independent auditor’s report to the members of National Westminster Bank Plc
Performance materiality
The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the
probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that
performance materiality was 50% (2019: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely £72 million (2019: £52 million). We have set performance
materiality at this percentage (which is at the lowest end of the range of our audit methodology) based on various considerations including the
past history of misstatements, the effectiveness of the control environment and other factors affecting the entity and its financial reporting.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based
on a percentage of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of
the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component. In the current year, the range of
performance materiality allocated to components was £40 million to £70 million (2019: £25 million to £50 million).
Reporting threshold
An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the NWH Group Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £8 million (2019:
£5 million), which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on
qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant
qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and Accounts, including the Strategic report, Report of the
directors, Statement of directors’ responsibilities, Risk Factors, and Forward-looking statements, other than the financial statements and our
auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the
financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other
information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
 the information given in the Strategic report and the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
 the Strategic report and Report of the directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Bank and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not
identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Report of the directors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our
opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Bank, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not
visited by us; or
 the Bank financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern,
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to
liquidate the Group or the Bank or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but
is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 89
Accounting policies
1. Presentation of accounts Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (IBOR lease income recognised at a constant
The accounts, set out on pages 90 to 159, reform) Phase 1 amendments to IFRS 9 periodic rate of return before tax on the net
including these accounting policies on pages and IAS 39 investment on the lease. Negative effective
94 to 99 and the audited sections of the The IASB issued 'Interest Rate Benchmark interest accruing to financial assets is
Financial review: Risk and capital Reform (Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and presented in interest payable.
management on pages 11 to 73, are prepared IFRS 7)' as a first reaction to the potential
on a going concern basis (see the Report of effects the IBOR reform could have on Other interest relating to financial instruments
the directors, page 78) and in accordance with financial reporting. The amendments focused measured at fair value is recognised as part of
International Accounting Standards in on hedge accounting and allow hedge the movement in fair value.
conformity with the requirements of the relationships affected by the IBOR reform to
Companies Act 2006 and with International be accounted for as continuing hedges. Fees in respect of services are recognised as
Financial Reporting Standards adopted Amendments are effective for annual the right to consideration accrues through the
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as reporting periods beginning on or after 1 performance of each distinct service
it applies in the European Union. The January 2020 with early application permitted. obligation to the customer. The arrangements
significant accounting policies and related NWB Group early adopted these amendments are generally contractual and the cost of
judgments are set out below. for the annual period ending on 31 December providing the service is incurred as the service
2019. is rendered. The price is usually fixed and
National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB Plc) is always determinable.
incorporated in the UK and registered in Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (IBOR
England and Wales. Its accounts are reform) Phase 2 amendments to IFRS 9, 4. Employee benefits
presented in accordance with the Companies IAS 39, IFRS 7, IFRS 4 and IFRS 16 Short-term employee benefits, such as
Act 2006. Phase 2 of the IASB’s IBOR project salaries, paid absences, and other benefits
(published in August 2020) addresses the are accounted for on an accruals basis over
The accounts are presented in the functional wider accounting issues arising from the IBOR the period in which the employees provide the
currency, pounds sterling. reform. The amendments are effective for related services. Employees may receive
annual reporting periods beginning on or after variable compensation satisfied by cash, by
With the exception of investment property and 1 January 2021 with early application debt instruments issued by NatWest Group or
certain financial instruments as described in permitted. As NWB Group early adopted by NatWest plc shares. NatWest Group
Accounting policies 8, 13 and 21, the these amendments for the annual period operates a number of share-based
accounts are presented on a historical cost ending on 31 December 2020, which have compensation schemes under which it awards
basis. been endorsed by the EU and UK in January NatWest Group plc shares and share options
2021, NWB Group has applied International to its employees. Such awards are generally
Accounting changes effective 1 January Accounting Standards, which have been subject to vesting conditions.
adopted for use within the UK. NWB Group’s
2020
IBOR transition program remains on-track and
Variable compensation that is settled in cash
key milestones have been met. Conversion
Amendments to IFRS 3 Business or debt instruments is charged to profit or loss
from rates subject to reform to alternative risk-
Combinations (IFRS 3) - Changes to the on a straight-line basis over the vesting
free rates (RFRs) is expected to increase as
definition of a business period, taking account of forfeiture and
RFR-based products become more widely
The IASB amended IFRS 3 to provide clawback criteria.
available and key market-driven conversion
additional guidance on the definition of a
events occur.
business. The amendment aims to help Contributions to defined contribution pension
entities when determining whether a schemes are recognised in profit or loss when
2. Basis of consolidation
transaction should be accounted for as a payable.
The consolidated accounts incorporate the
business combination or as an asset
accounts of NWB Plc and entities (including
acquisition. The amendments are in line with For defined benefit schemes, the defined
certain structured entities) that give access to
current accounting policy and therefore did benefit obligation is measured on an actuarial
variable returns and that are controlled by
not affect the accounts. basis. Actuarial gains and losses (i.e. gains
NWB Group. Control is assessed by reference
and/or losses on re-measuring the net defined
to our ability to enforce our will on the other
Definition of material – Amendments to benefit asset or liability) are recognised in
entity, typically through voting rights.
IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial other comprehensive income in full in the
Statements (IAS 1) and IAS 8 - period in which they arise. The difference
On the acquisition of a business from an
Accounting Policies, Changes in between scheme assets and scheme
NatWest Group company, the assets,
Accounting Estimates and Errors (IAS 8) liabilities, the net defined benefit asset or
liabilities and IFRS reserves, such as the cash
The IASB clarified the definition of ‘material’ liability, is recognised in the balance sheet
flow hedging reserve, are recognised at their
and aligned the definition of material used in subject to the asset celling test which requires
inherited values taken from the consolidated
the Conceptual Framework and in other IFRS the net defined benefit surplus to be limited to
accounts of NatWest Group plc and include
standards. The amendments clarify that the present value of any economic benefits
the accounting history since initial recognition.
materiality will depend on the nature or available to NWB Group in the form of refunds
The acquirer recognises, in merger reserve,
magnitude of information. Under the amended from the plan or reduced contributions to it.
any difference between the consideration paid
definition of materiality, an entity will need to
and the net items recognised at inherited
assess whether the information, either The charge to profit or loss for pension costs
values.
individually or in combination with other (mainly the service cost and the net interest
information, is material in the context of the on the net defined benefit asset or liability) is
All intergroup balances, transactions, income
accounts. A misstatement of information is recorded in operating expenses.
and expenses are eliminated on
material if it could reasonably be expected to
consolidation. The consolidated accounts are
influence decisions made by the primary 5. Intangible assets and goodwill
prepared under uniform accounting policies.
users. NWB Group’s definition and application Intangible assets acquired by NWB Group are
of materiality is in line with the definition in the stated at cost less accumulated amortisation
3. Revenue recognition
amendments. and impairment losses. Amortisation is
Interest income or expense relates to financial
charged to profit or loss over the assets'
instruments measured at amortised cost and
estimated useful economic lives.
debt instruments classified as fair value
through OCI using the effective interest rate
Computer software 3 to 12 years
method, the effective part of any related
Other acquired intangibles 5 to 10 years
accounting hedging instruments, and finance
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 95
Notes to the financial statements
9 Derivatives continued
NWB Group applies hedge accounting to manage the following risks; For all cash flow hedging and fair value hedge relationships NWB
interest rate, foreign exchange and net investment in foreign Group determines that there is an adequate level of offsetting between
operations. the hedged item and hedging instrument via assessing the initial and
ongoing effectiveness by comparing movements in the fair value of the
NWB Group’s interest rate hedging relate to the management of NWB
expected highly probable forecast interest cash flows/ fair value of the
Group’s non-trading structural interest rate risk, caused by the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk with movements in the fair
mismatch between fixed interest rates and floating interest rates. NWB
value of the expected changes in cash flows from the hedging interest
Group manages this risk within approved limits. Residual risk positions
rate swap. Hedge effectiveness is measured on a cumulative basis
are hedged with derivatives principally interest rate swaps. Suitable
over a time period management determines to be appropriate. NWB
larger financial instruments are fair value hedged; the remaining
Group uses either the actual ratio between the hedged item and
exposure, where possible, is hedged by derivatives documented as
hedging instrument(s) or one that minimises hedge ineffectiveness to
cash flow hedges.
establish the hedge ratio for hedge accounting.
Cash flow hedges of interest rate risk relate to exposures to the
A number of the current cash flow and fair value hedges of interest
variability in future interest payments and receipts due to the
rate risk that mature post 31 December 2021 will be directly affected
movement of benchmark interest rates on forecast transactions and on
by interest rate benchmark reform. NWB Group early adopted the
recognised financial assets and financial liabilities. This variability in
amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 issued in September 2019 for
cash flows is hedged by interest rate swaps, fixing the hedged cash
reporting periods beginning 1 January 2019; these amendments are
flows. For these cash flow hedge relationships, the hedged items are
known as Phase 1 relief. The relief allows, where uncertainty arising
actual and forecast variable interest rate cash flows arising from
from benchmark rate reform exists, the following:
financial assets and financial liabilities with interest rates linked to the
relevant benchmark rate LIBOR, EURIBOR, SONIA or the Bank of
 When assessing if affected forecasted cash flows are highly
England Official Bank Rate. The variability in cash flows due to
movements in the relevant benchmark rate is hedged; this risk probable or still expected to occur; it is assumed the IBOR based
component is identified using the risk management systems of NWB forecasted hedged cash flows are not altered as a result of
Group. This risk component comprises the majority of cash flow interest rate benchmark reform.
variability risk.  For the purpose of the prospective effectiveness assessment; it is
Fair value hedges of interest rate risk involve interest rate swaps assumed the IBOR based hedged cash flows and/ or hedged risk
transforming the fixed interest rate risk in recognised financial assets are not altered as a result of interest rate benchmark reform.
and financial liabilities to floating. The hedged risk is the risk of  Hedge accounting relationships will not be discontinued if they fall
changes in the hedged items fair value attributable to changes in the
outside the 80 – 125% range when performing a retrospective
benchmark interest rate embedded in the hedged item. The significant
effectiveness assessment.
embedded benchmark are LIBOR, EURIBOR and SONIA. This risk
component is identified using the risk management systems of NWB  The assessment as to whether a non-contractually specified
Group. This risk component comprises the majority of the hedged IBOR risk component is separately identifiable, is done only at the
items fair value risk. inception of the relationship.
NWB Group hedges the exchange rate risk of its net investment in
The disclosures made for the notional of hedging instruments and risk
foreign currency denominated operations with currency borrowings
exposures affected by interest rate benchmark reform contain
and forward foreign exchange contracts. NWB Group reviews the information for both the hedging instrument and hedged risks even if
value of the investments net assets, executing hedges where only one of these will be directly impacted by the reform.
appropriate to reduce the sensitivity of capital ratios to foreign NWB Group early adopted the amendments to IAS 39 issued in
exchange rate movement. Hedge accounting relationships will be August 2020 for reporting periods beginning 1 January 2021; these
designated where required. amendments are known as Phase 2 relief and apply at the point where
components of a hedge accounting relationships transition to
Exchange rate risk also arises in NWB Group where payments are reference an alternative interest rate benchmark. Where relationships
denominated in different currencies than the functional currency. have transitioned in the year, the impacted hedge accounting
Residual risk positions are hedged with forward foreign exchange relationships had their designations amended in line with the Phase 2
contracts. Exposure to the variability in future payments due to the relief.
movement of foreign exchange rates is hedged, fixing the exchange
rate the payments will be settled in. The derivatives are documented The following phase 2 reliefs have been applied:
as cash flow hedges.
 Where forecasted cash flows in cash flow hedge relationships
have transitioned to an alternative benchmark interest rate, the
relevant hedge accounting designations have been amended.
 As a result of the amended designations the balances in other
comprehensive income linked to the transitioned forecasted cash
flows are now deemed based on the alternative benchmark
interest rate.
Included in the tables above are derivatives held for hedging purposes as follows:
NWB Group
2020 2019
Change in fair Change in fair
value used for value used for
hedge hedge
ineffectiveness
Notional Assets Liabilities (1) Notional Assets Liabilities ineffectiveness (1)
£bn £m £m £m £bn £m £m £m
Fair value hedging - Interest rate contracts 36.7 677 2,773 (1,366) 36.6 456 1,401 (1,219)
Cash flow hedging - Interest rate contracts 51.2 114 345 (250) 19.7 58 23 56
Cash flow hedging - Exchange rate contracts 2.0 — 19 2 2.1 — 22 22
Net investment hedging - Exchange rate contracts 0.1 — 3 7 0.1 — 3 5
90.0 791 3,140 (1,607) 58.5 514 1,449 (1,136)
IFRS netting (790) (2,967) (501) (1,387)
1 173 13 62
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 113
Notes to the financial statements
10 Financial instruments - classification continued
Interest rate benchmark reform
In 2020 NatWest Group continued to implement its entity-wide LIBOR NatWest Group continued to develop new products across its different
programme with the view of being ready for the various transition segments that reference the new alternative risk-free rates and worked
events that are expected to occur prior to the cessation of the vast with clients to assess their readiness and ability to adopt new products
majority of the IBOR benchmark rates at the end of 2021 and the USD or transition existing products. A comprehensive review of the effect of
LIBOR in 2023. In the UK, regulators, most notably the Bank of IBOR reform on funding, liquidity and risk management has also been
England (BoE) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), have conducted. This is expected to be fully implemented over the course of
issued guidance on how market participants are expected to approach 2021. NatWest Group will continue to adapt its key systems,
transition as well as the regulatory expectations in relation to the credit methodologies and processes to meet the requirements of the new
adjustment spread calculation methodologies, conversion strategies risk-free rates. This is expected to be concluded in advance of the
amongst, existence of products referencing IBOR benchmark rates LIBOR cessation date at the end of 2021.
amongst other items.
NatWest Group also remained engaged with regulators, standard
The group-wide programme continued to address the key areas that setters and other market participants on key matters related to the
will be affected by the IBOR reform most notably: IBOR reform and an open dialogue is expected throughout 2021. It is
 Client stratification, engagement and education; expected that the programme will meet all timelines set by the
regulators.
 Contract fall-back remediation;
 Transition on an economically equivalent basis; The table below provides an overview of IBOR related exposure by
 Effect of modifications to existing terms beyond those that are currency and nature of financial instruments. Non-derivative financial
attributable to the IBOR reform; instruments are presented on the basis of their carrying amounts
 Funding and liquidity management, planning and forecast; excluding expected credit losses while derivative financial instruments
are presented on the basis of their notional amount.
 Risk management;
 Financial reporting and valuation; and,
 Changes to processes and systems covering front-end, risk and
finance systems.
NWB Group
Balances not
Rates subject to IBOR reform subject to Expected
GBP LIBOR USD IBOR (1) EUR IBOR Other IBOR IBOR reform credit losses Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Loans to banks - amortised cost 2 82 — — 3,260 — 3,344
Loans to customers - amortised cost 25,113 3,192 60 97 246,713 (3,594) 271,581
Other financial assets 1,415 37 65 — 36,484 (6) 37,995
Amounts due from holding companies
and fellow subsidiaries — — — — 3,241 (2) 3,239
Bank deposits — — — — 14,871 14,871
Customer deposits — — — — 293,605 293,605
Other financial liabilities 1,114 — 1,157 — 4,815 7,086
Subordinated liabilities — 519 170 — 541 1,230
Amounts due to holding companies
and fellow subsidiaries 733 4,696 — — 32,130 37,559
Loan commitments (2) 15,260 4,809 1,071 570 53,148 74,858
Derivatives notional (£bn) 143.9 26.5 37.0 0.8 206.3 414.5
For the notes to this table refer to the following page.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 123
Risk factors
The COVID-19 pandemic may adversely The COVID-19 pandemic has heightened adverse effect on NWB Group’s business,
affect NWB Group’s strategy and impair its NWB Group’s operational risks as many of results of operations and outlook.
ability to meet its targets and to achieve its its employees are working remotely which
strategic objectives. may also adversely affect NWB Group’s The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic
The COVID-19 pandemic may impact NWB ability to maintain effective internal could affect NWB Group’s ability to access
Group’s ability to meet the financial, capital controls. sources of liquidity and funding, which
and operational targets which it has set as Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as at 31 may result in higher funding costs and
part of its strategy. January 2021, many of NatWest Group’s failure to comply with regulatory capital,
employees continue to work remotely. This funding and leverage requirements.
It is uncertain as to how the broader has increased reliance on the IT systems that Depending on the severity and duration of
macroeconomic business environment and enable remote working and increased market volatility resulting from COVID-19
societal norms may be impacted by the exposure to fraud, conduct, operational and pandemic related uncertainties and the impact
COVID-19 pandemic, which is already other risks and may place additional pressure on capital and RWAs, NWB Group and its
resulting in several significant wider societal on NWB Group’s ability to maintain effective subsidiaries may be required to adapt their
changes. For example, one of the most visible internal controls and governance frameworks. funding plans in order to satisfy their
effects of the COVID-19 pandemic has been The IT systems that enable remote working respective capital and funding requirements,
the impact on the most vulnerable groups of interface with third-party systems, and NWB which may have a material adverse effect on
society and concerns about systemic racial Group could experience service denials or NWB Group. Furthermore, significant
biases and social inequalities. disruptions if such systems exceed capacity fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates,
or if a third-party system fails or experiences may affect capital deployed in NWB Group’s
In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has any interruptions, all of which could result in foreign subsidiaries, branches and joint
accelerated existing economic trends that business and customer interruption and arrangements, securities issued by NWB
may radically change the way businesses are related reputational damage, significant Group in foreign currencies or the value of
run and people live their lives. These trends compensation costs, regulatory sanctions assets, liabilities, income, RWAs, capital base
include digitalisation, decarbonisation, and/or a breach of applicable regulations. See and expenses and the reported earnings of
automation, e-commerce and agile working, also, ‘NWB Group’s operations are highly NWB Group’s UK and non-UK subsidiaries. In
each of which has resulted in significant dependent on its complex IT systems response to the COVID-19 pandemic, there
market volatility in asset prices. There is also (including those that enable remote working) have been relaxations on certain
increasing investor, regulatory and customer and any IT failure could adversely affect NWB countercyclical buffer requirements and stress
scrutiny regarding how businesses address Group’. tests as well as the calculation of RWAs and
these changes and related climate, leverage, which may be reinstated in the
environmental, social, governance and other Sustained periods of remote working may also future.
sustainability issues, including workplace negatively affect workforce morale. While
health, safety and wellbeing, diversity and NWB Group has taken measures seeking to The COVID-19 pandemic has caused
inclusion, data privacy, workforce maintain the health, wellbeing and safety of its significant market volatility which would have
management, human rights and supply chain employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, increased NWB Group’s market risk RWA
management. Any failure or delay by NWB these measures may be ineffective and could significantly in the absence of temporary
Group to adapt its business strategy and to result in increased expenses and widespread changes in regulatory treatment. The risk of
establish and maintain effective governance, illness could negatively affect staffing within further RWA inflation remains and the
procedures, systems and controls in response certain functions, businesses or geographies. duration of such regulatory relief is uncertain.
to these changes and to manage emerging Certain areas of NWB Group also continue to Any downgrading to the credit ratings and/or
climate, environmental, social, governance experience workloads that are heavier than outlooks assigned to NatWest Group plc,
and other sustainability-related risks and usual as a result of increased customer NWB Plc or other NatWest Group subsidiaries
opportunities may have a material adverse requirements, NWB Group’s COVID-19- and their respective debt securities could
effect on NWB Group’s reputation, business, specific product offerings or other related exacerbate funding and liquidity risk.
results of operations and outlook and the direct and indirect effects. Resources have
value of NWB Group’s securities. See also been diverted from certain ordinary course Economic and political risk
‘Any failure by NWB Group to implement activities, and regulatory and other change Continuing uncertainty regarding the
effective and compliant climate change projects, including the implementation of effects of the UK’s withdrawal from the
resilient systems, controls and procedures NatWest Group’s Purpose-led Strategy, which European Union may continue to
could adversely affect NWB Group’s ability to may have implications for the execution of adversely affect NWB Group and its
manage climate-related risks’ and ‘A failure to related deliverables and meeting regulatory operating environment.
adapt NWB Group’s business strategy, and other deadlines. The economic impact of After the 2016 EU Referendum, the UK
governance, procedures, systems and the COVID-19 pandemic may also necessitate ceased to be a member of the EU and the
controls to manage emerging sustainability- changes in the remuneration of NWB Group European Economic Area (‘EEA’) on 31
related risks and opportunities may have a employees, in particular at a senior level. For January 2020 (‘Brexit’). The 2020 EU-UK
material adverse effect on NWB Group’s example, in March 2020 the PRA requested Trade and Cooperation Agreement (‘TCA’)
reputation, business, results of operations and that bank boards in response to the COVID- ended the transition period on 31 December
outlook’. 19 pandemic should consider taking 2020 and provides for free trade between the
appropriate actions with regard to the accrual, UK and EU with zero tariffs and quotas on all
The COVID-19 pandemic may also result in payment and vesting of variable goods that comply with the appropriate rules
unexpected developments or changes in remuneration. Any of the above could impair of origin, with minimal coverage, however, for
financial markets, the fiscal, tax and NWB Group’s ability to hire, retain and financial services; UK-incorporated financial
regulatory frameworks and consumer engage well-qualified employees, especially services providers no longer have EU
customer and corporate client behaviour, at a senior level, which in turn may adversely passporting rights and there is no mutual
which could intensify competition in the impact NWB Group’s ability to serve its recognition regime. Financial services may
financial services industry if NWB Group is not customers efficiently and impact productivity largely be subject to individual equivalence
able to adapt or compete effectively, it could across NWB Group. This could also adversely decisions by relevant regulators. A number of
experience loss of business which in turn affect NWB Group’s reputation, and temporary equivalence decisions have been
could adversely affect its business, results of competitive position and its ability to grow its made that cover certain clearing and access
operations and outlook. business. to central securities deposits, but these do not
cover all services offered by NWB Group. The
Any of the above could have a material EU’s equivalence regime does not cover most
lending and deposit taking, and
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 161
Risk factors
determinations in respect of third countries EU. They may exacerbate the economic the adoption of technology and artificial
have not, to date, covered the provision of impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the intelligence. Any of the above developments
investment services. In addition, equivalence UK, the Republic of Ireland (‘ROI’) and the could adversely impact NWB Group directly
determinations do not guarantee permanent rest of the EU/EEA. (for example, as a result of credit losses) or
access rights and can be withdrawn with short indirectly (for example, by impacting global
notice. The TCA is accompanied by a Joint Significant uncertainty remains as to the economic growth and financial markets and
Declaration on financial services which sets extent to which EU/EEA laws will diverge from NWB Group’s customers and their banking
out an intention for the EU and UK to UK law (including bank regulation), whether needs).
cooperate on matters of financial regulation and what equivalence determinations will be
and to agree a Memorandum of made by the various regulators and therefore In addition, NWB Group is exposed to risks
what the respective legal and regulatory
Understanding by March 2021. There is no arising out of geopolitical events or political
arrangements will be, under which NWB
certainty, however, as to the form, scope and developments, such as, exchange controls
Group and its subsidiaries will operate. The
timing of any such Memorandum of and other measures taken by sovereign
legal and political uncertainty and any actions
Understanding. governments that may hinder economic or
taken as a result of this uncertainty, as well as
new or amended rules, could have a financial activity levels. Furthermore,
NatWest Group has engaged in significant significant adverse impact on NWB Group’s unfavourable political, military or diplomatic
and costly Brexit planning and contingency businesses and non-UK operations and/or events, including secession movements or the
planning. NatWest Group continues to monitor legal entity structure, including attendant exit of other member states from the EU,
regulatory developments, and NatWest Group operating, compliance and restructuring costs, armed conflict, pandemics and widespread
continues to seek advice on any transitional level of impairments, capital requirements, public health crises (including the current
regimes being introduced by individual EU regulatory environment and tax implications COVID-19 pandemic and any future
countries. It is updating its operating model and as a result may adversely impact NWB epidemics or pandemics), state and privately
accordingly. NatWest Group also continues to Group’s profitability, competitive position,
sponsored cyber and terrorist acts or threats,
assess where NatWest Group companies can business model and product offering.
and the responses to them by governments
obtain bilateral regulatory permissions to
and markets, could negatively affect the
permit business to continue from its UK NWB Group faces increased political and
entities, transferring what cannot be continued economic risks and uncertainty in the UK business and performance of NWB Group,
to be rendered from the UK to an EEA including as a result of the indirect effect on
and global markets
subsidiary. Where such regulatory regional or global trade and/or NWB Group’s
NWB Group faces political uncertainty in
permissions are temporary or are withdrawn, customers.
Scotland as a result of a possible second
a different approach may need to be taken or
Scottish independence referendum.
may result in a change in operating model or Changes in interest rates have
some business being ceased. Not all NatWest Independence may adversely impact NWB significantly affected and will continue to
Group entities have applied for bilateral Group with NatWest Group plc and other affect NWB Group’s business and results.
regulatory permissions and instead intend to NatWest Group entities being incorporated
Interest rate risk is significant for NWB Group.
move EEA business to an EEA licenced and/or headquartered in Scotland. Any
Monetary policy has been accommodative in
subsidiary. There is a risk that such EEA changes to Scotland’s relationship with the
recent years, including initiatives implemented
licences may not be granted, and where these UK or the EU (as an indirect result of Brexit or by the Bank of England and HM Treasury
permissions are not obtained, further changes other developments) would impact the such as the Term Funding Scheme with
to NatWest Group’s operating model may be environment in which NatWest Group and its additional incentives for SMEs (‘TFSME’),
required or some business may need to be subsidiaries operate, and may require further which have helped to support demand at a
ceased. In addition, failure to obtain regulatory
changes to NatWest Group’s (including NWB time of pronounced fiscal tightening and
permissions in one part of NatWest Group
Group’s) structure, independently or in balance sheet repair. However, there remains
may impact other parts of NatWest Group
conjunction with other mandatory or strategic considerable uncertainty as to the future
adversely. Certain permissions are required in
structural and organisational changes which direction of interest rates and pace of change
order to maintain the ability to clear euro
(as set by the Bank of England), including as
payments and others will allow NatWest could adversely impact NWB Group.
a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and its
Group to continue to serve non-UK EEA
effect on the UK economy as well as the
customers. Furthermore, transferring business The outlook for the global economy over the
general UK political or economic climate.
to an EEA based subsidiary is a complex medium-term remains uncertain due to a
Further decreases in interest rates and/or
exercise and involves legal, regulatory and number of factors including: the COVID-19 continued sustained low or negative interest
executional risks, and could result in a loss of pandemic, resulting societal inequalities and rates would be expected to continue to put
business, customers or greater than expected changes, trade barriers and the increased further pressure on NWB Group’s interest
costs. The changes to NatWest Group’s possibility of and/or continuation of trade income and profitability. Zero or negative
operating model have been costly and further
wars, widespread political instability (including interest rates will require investment spend to
changes to its business operations, product
as a result of populism and nationalism, which implement a strategic solution to allow a
offering and customer engagement could
may lead to protectionist policies), an potential pass-through of those interest rates
result in further costs. Any of the above could,
extended period of low inflation and low (or in certain systems to relevant customer
in turn, negatively impact NWB Group.
negative) interest rates, climate, segments. A lower or negative interest rate
environment is likely to have an adverse
environmental, social and other sustainability-
The effects of the UK’s exit from the EU and impact on the profitability of NWB Group.
related risks and global regional variations in
the EEA are expected to continue to affect
the impact and responses to these factors.
many aspects of NWB Group’s business and Conversely, while increases in interest rates
These conditions could be worsened by a
operating environment, including as described may support NWB Group interest income,
number of factors including macro-economic
elsewhere in these risk factors, and may be sharp increases in interest rates could have
deterioration, increased instability in the global
material and/or cause a near-term impact on macroeconomic effects that lead to adverse
financial system and concerns relating to
impairments. outcomes for the business. For example, they
further financial shocks or contagion (for
could lead to generally weaker than expected
example, due to economic concerns in
The long-term effects of Brexit on NWB growth, or even contracting GDP, reduced
emerging markets), market volatility or
Group’s operating environment are difficult to business confidence, higher default rates on
fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling,
predict. They may be impacted by wider customer loans, higher levels of
new or extended economic sanctions,
global macro-economic trends and events, unemployment or underemployment and
volatility in commodity prices or concerns
particularly COVID-19 pandemic related falling property prices in the markets in which
regarding sovereign debt. This may be
uncertainties, which may significantly impact NWB Group operates, all of which could
compounded by the ageing demographics of
NWB Group and its customers and adversely affect the business and
the populations in the markets that NWB
counterparties who are themselves dependent performance of NWB Group.
Group serves, increasing inequalities, or rapid
on trading with the EU or personnel from the
change to the economic environment due to
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 162
Risk factors
Changes in foreign currency exchange or the conduct of NatWest Group’s (including As part of its Purpose-led Strategy, NatWest
rates may affect NWB Group’s results and NWB Group’s) operations, and other things, Group has set a number of financial, capital
financial position. HM Treasury or UKGI’s approach depends on and operational targets and expectations,
Decisions of major central banks (including government policy, which could change, both for the short term and throughout the
the Bank of England, the European Central including as a result of a general election. The implementation period, which could, in turn,
Bank and the US Federal Reserve) and exertion of such influence over NatWest affect NWB Group. These include targets,
political or market events which are outside Group could in turn have an adverse effect on amongst others, for: return on tangible equity,
NWB Group’s control, may lead to sharp and the governance or business strategy of NWB CET1 ratio and dividend pay-out ratio.
sudden variations in foreign exchange rates. Group. Achieving these targets requires further
significant reductions to NatWest Group’s cost
NWB Group’s foreign exchange exposure In addition, NWB Plc is a wholly owned base. Realising these cost reductions will
arises from structural foreign exchange risk, subsidiary of NatWest Group plc, and result in material strategic costs, which may
including capital deployed in NWB Group’s NatWest Group plc therefore controls NWB be more than currently expected. The
foreign subsidiaries, branches and joint Group’s board of directors, corporate policies continued focus on meeting cost reduction
arrangements, and non-trading foreign and strategic direction. The interests of targets may also mean limited investment in
exchange risk, including customer NatWest Group plc as an equity holder and as other areas, which could affect NWB Group’s
transactions, profits, and losses that are in a NWB Group’s parent may differ from the long-term prospects, product offering or
currency other than the functional currency of interests of NWB Group or of potential competitive position and its ability to meet its
the transaction entity. NWB Group also issues investors in NWB Group’s securities. other targets and commitments, including
instruments in foreign currencies that assist in those related to customer satisfaction. Any of
meeting NWB Group’s minimum requirements Strategic risk the above could jeopardise NWB Group’s
for own funds and eligible liabilities (‘MREL’). NatWest Group (NWB Plc’s parent ability to achieve its associated financial
NWB Group maintains policies and company) is currently implementing its targets and generate sustainable returns.
procedures designed to manage the impact of Purpose-led strategy which carries
exposures to fluctuations in currency rates. significant execution and operational risks Implementing the Purpose-led Strategy is
Nevertheless, changes in currency rates, and it may not achieve its stated aims and highly complex as discussed above, will take
particularly in the sterling-US dollar and euro- targeted outcomes. many years to fully embed including within
sterling exchange rates, can adversely affect In February 2020, NatWest Group (NWB Plc’s NWB Group. More generally, NatWest Group
the value of assets, liabilities (including the parent company) announced a new strategy, may seek to adapt its strategy, including in
total amount of MREL eligible instruments), focused on becoming a Purpose-led business, respect of acquisitions, divestments,
income and expenses, RWAs and hence the designed to champion potential and to help restructurings, reorganisations or
reported earnings and financial condition of individuals, families and businesses to thrive. partnerships. There remains uncertainty as to
NWB Plc. This strategy is intended to reflect the rapidly consolidation within the financial industry and
shifting environment and backdrop of the scale and timing of any further NatWest
HM Treasury (or UKGI on its behalf) could unprecedented disruption in society driven by Group strategic initiatives or participation in
exercise a significant degree of influence technology and changing customer any such consolidation, which may in turn
over NatWest Group and NWB Group is expectations, as accelerated by the affect NWB Group. NWB Group may not be
controlled by NatWest Group. COVID-19 pandemic. NatWest Group aims to able to successfully (i) implement all aspects
In its March 2020 Budget, the UK Government deliver this strategy, referred to as its of its strategy; (ii) reach any or all of the
announced its intention to continue the ‘Purpose-led Strategy’, through: (i) four related targets or expectations of its Purpose-
process of privatisation of NatWest Group plc strategic priorities: ‘supporting customers at led Strategy; (iii) realise the intended strategic
and to carry out a programme of sales of every stage of their lives;’ ‘powered by objectives of any other future strategic
NatWest Group plc ordinary shares with the innovation and partnerships;’ ‘simple to deal initiative, in the time frames contemplated or
objective of selling all of its remaining shares with’; and ‘sharpened capital allocation;’ and at all, which may require additional
in NatWest Group plc by 2025. On 6 February (ii) three areas of focus: climate change, management actions by NWB Group. In
2019, NatWest Group plc obtained enterprise and learning. This strategy addition, NWB Group’s ability to serve its
shareholder authority to make off-market requires an internal cultural shift across NWB target customers, scale certain ventures,
purchases of its ordinary shares from HM Group as to how performance is perceived deliver growth in new markets may be
Treasury under the terms of a directed and how NWB Group conducts its business. impacted and the anticipated revenue,
buyback contract. The authority provided by These changes are substantial and will take profitability and cost reduction levels may not
this contract was renewed at NatWest many years to fully embed. These changes be achieved in the timescale envisaged or at
Group’s Annual General Meeting on 29 April may not result in the expected outcome within all. Moreover, the Purpose-led Strategy
2020. As at 31 December 2020, the UK the timeline and in the manner currently involves a large number of concurrent and
Government held 61.9% of the issued contemplated. interdependent actions and initiatives,
ordinary share capital of NatWest Group plc. including refocusing of the NWM Franchise,
There can be no certainty as to the To deliver against this purpose and deliver any of which could fail to be implemented in
continuation of the sell-down process or the sustainable returns, NatWest Group has the manner and to the extent currently
timing or extent of such sell-downs. been: focusing on the lifecycles of its contemplated, including as a result of
customers using insights about customers to operational, legal, execution or other issues.
HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to evolve product and service offerings; re- In addition, successful implementation of the
respect the commercial decisions of NatWest engineering and simplifying NatWest Group Purpose-led Strategy in part depends on
Group and that NatWest Group entities by updating operational and technological initiatives and growth in ventures that are new
(including NWB Group) will continue to have capabilities and strengthening governance to NatWest Group and NWB Group, or to the
their own independent board of directors and and control frameworks to reduce costs and market. There is a risk, therefore, that some
management team determining their own improve customer journeys; focusing on or all these initiatives will not succeed, or may
strategy. However, HM Treasury, as majority innovation and partnership to drive change be limited in scope or scale, including due to
shareholder, and UK Government and achieve growth in new product areas and its current ownership structure.
Investments Limited (‘UKGI’), as manager of customer segments; and having a sharper
HM Treasury’s shareholding, could exercise a focus on capital allocation and deploying it The scale and scope of the intended changes
significant degree of influence over, among more effectively for customers, in particular by present material business, operational, IT
other things, the election of directors and refocusing the NWM franchise of NatWest system, internal culture, conduct and people
appointment of senior management, NatWest Group (‘NWM Franchise’). risks to NWB Group, as the planning and
Group’s (including NWB Group’s) capital implementation of the transformation
strategy, dividend policy, remuneration policy programme are resource-intensive and
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 163
Risk factors
disruptive, and will divert management implementing its Purpose-led strategy which which may, in turn, impact NWB Group’s
resources. In addition, implementing many carries significant execution and operational profitability. See also ‘Risk and capital
changes concurrently, in particular with risks and it may not achieve its stated aims management — Credit Risk’.
respect to any strategic partnerships, and targeted outcomes’.
acquisitions or divestments, will require the The credit quality of NWB Group’s borrowers
implementation and application of robust NWB Group’s ability to meet NatWest Group and other counterparties is impacted by
governance and controls frameworks and and NWB Group’s respective targets and to prevailing economic and market conditions
robust IT systems. There is a risk that NWB successfully meet its strategy are subject to (including those caused by the COVID-19
Group may not be successful in doing so. The various internal and external factors and risks. pandemic) and by the legal and regulatory
implementation of the Purpose-led Strategy These include, but are not limited to, the landscape in the UK and any deterioration in
and any other strategic initiatives could result impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, market, such conditions or changes to legal or
in materially higher costs than initially regulatory, economic and political factors, regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower
contemplated, (including due to material developments relating to litigation, and counterparty credit quality and
uncertainties and factors outside of NWB governmental actions, investigations and consequently impact NWB Group’s ability to
Group’s control) and may not be completed regulatory matters, and operational risks and enforce contractual security rights.
when planned, or at all, or could be phased or risks relating to NWB Group’s business model
could progress in a manner other than and strategy (including risks associated with NWB Group may be affected by volatility in
currently expected. environmental, social and governance property prices (including as a result of Brexit,
issues). A number of factors, including the the general UK political or economic climate
Changes in the economic, political and economic and other effects of the COVID-19 or the COVID-19 pandemic) given that NWB
regulatory environment in which NWB Group pandemic, may impact the Bank’s ability to Group’s mortgage loan and wholesale
operates or regulatory uncertainty and maintain its current CET1 ratio, including: property loan portfolio as at 31 December
changes, strong market competition and impairments, limited organic capital 2020, amounted to £179.0 billion,
industry disruption or economic volatility, generation or unanticipated increases in representing 64% of NWB Group’s customer
including as a result of the economic impact of RWAs. In addition, the run-down of RWAs loan exposure. If property prices were to
the COVID-19 pandemic, the continued may be accompanied by the recognition of weaken this could lead to higher impairment
uncertainty surrounding the terms of the UK’s disposal losses which may be higher than charges, particularly if default rates also
future trading arrangements with the EU, or anticipated. See also ‘NatWest Group (NWB increase. In addition, NWB Group’s credit risk
changes in the scale and timing of policy Plc’s parent company) is currently may be exacerbated if the collateral that it
responses on climate change, may require implementing its Purpose-led strategy which holds cannot be realised as a result of market
NatWest Group (including NWB Group) to carries significant execution and operational conditions or regulatory intervention or if it is
adjust aspects of its strategy or the timeframe risks and it may not achieve its stated aims liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover
for its implementation, including in relation to and targeted outcomes’. the net amount after accounting for any IFRS
its financial, capital and operational targets provisions already made. This is most likely to
and expectations. Because certain initiatives NWB Group’s ability to meet its planned occur during periods of illiquidity or depressed
depend on achieving growth in new ventures reductions in its annual underlying costs may asset valuations.
and opportunities for NWB Group, the vary considerably from year to year.
Purpose-led Strategy is vulnerable to an Furthermore, the focus on meeting balance Concerns about, or a default by, a financial
economic downturn. The Purpose-led sheet and cost reduction targets may result in institution could lead to significant liquidity
Strategy also requires ongoing confidence limited investment in other areas, which could problems and losses or defaults by other
from customers and the wider market, without affect NWB Group’s long-term product financial institutions, since the commercial
which customer activity and related income offering, or competitive position and its ability and financial soundness of many financial
levels may fall or NWB Group’s reputation to meet its other targets, including those institutions is closely related and inter-
may be adversely affected. related to customer satisfaction. dependent as a result of credit, trading,
clearing and other relationships. Any
Each of these risks, and others identified in There is a risk that NatWest Group’s Purpose- perceived lack of creditworthiness of a
these Risk Factors, individually or collectively led Strategy may not be successfully counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity
could jeopardise the implementation and executed, that NWB Group will not meet its problems and losses for NWB Group. This
delivery of the Purpose-led Strategy, result in targets and expectations, or that NWB Group systemic risk may also adversely affect
higher than expected restructuring costs, will not be a viable, competitive or profitable financial intermediaries, such as clearing
impact NWB Group’s products and services banking business. agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities
offering, its reputation with customers or firms and exchanges with which NWB Group
business model and adversely impact NWB NWB Group has significant exposure to interacts on a daily basis. See also, ‘NWB
Group’s ability to deliver the Purpose-led counterparty and borrower risk. Group may not be able to adequately access
Strategy and meet its targets and guidance, NWB Group has exposure to many different sources of liquidity and funding’.
each of which could in turn have a material industries, customers and counterparties, and
adverse impact on NWB Group’s business, risks arising from actual or perceived changes As a result, changes in borrower and
results of operations and outlook. in credit quality and the recoverability of counterparty credit quality may cause
monies due from borrowers and other accelerated impairment charges under IFRS
Financial resilience risk counterparties are inherent in a wide range of 9, increased repurchase demands, higher
NWB Group may not meet targets or NWB Group’s businesses. NWB Group is costs, additional write-downs and losses for
generate sustainable returns. exposed to credit risk if a customer, borrower NWB Group and an inability to engage in
As part of NatWest Group’s strategy, NWB or counterparty defaults, or under IFRS 9, routine funding transactions.
Group has become a UK-focused domestic suffers a sufficiently significant deterioration of
banking group and is included in a number of credit quality such that, under SICR NWB Group operates in markets that are
financial, capital and operational targets for (‘significant increases in credit risk’) rules, it highly competitive, with increasing
NatWest Group as part of its Purpose-led moves to Stage 2 for impairment calculation competitive pressures and technology
Strategy including in respect of: leverage ratio purposes. NWB Group’s lending strategy and disruption.
targets, funding plans and requirements, associated processes may fail to identify or The market for UK financial services is highly
reductions in RWAs and the timing thereof, anticipate weaknesses or risks in a particular competitive. NWB Group expects such
employee engagement, diversity and inclusion sector, market or borrower, or fail to competition to continue and intensify in
as well as environmental, social and customer adequately value physical or financial response to the economic effects of the
satisfaction targets. See also, ‘NatWest Group collateral. This may result in increased default COVID-19 pandemic and other changes.
(NWB Plc’s parent company) is currently rates or a higher loss given default for loans, These include evolving customer behaviour,
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 164
Risk factors
fund NWB Plc’s internal MREL targets over customer deposits or the reduction or sufficient amounts of external MREL liabilities
time, but also on NatWest Group plc’s ability cessation of deposits by wholesale to support this.
to issue and maintain sufficient amounts of depositors, which could result in a significant
external MREL liabilities to support this. In outflow of deposits within a short period of If NatWest Group plc is unable to issue
turn, NWB Plc is required to fund the internal time. An inability to grow, or any material adequate levels of MREL securities such that
capital and MREL requirements of its decrease in NWB Group’s deposits could, it is unable to downstream sufficient amounts
subsidiaries. See also, ‘NWB Group is reliant particularly if accompanied by one of the other to NWB Plc, this could lead to a failure of
on NatWest Group for capital and funding factors described above, materially affect NWB Group to meet its own individual internal
support, and is substantially reliant on NWB Group’s ability to satisfy its liquidity or MREL requirements as well as the internal
NatWest Group plc’s ability to issue sufficient funding needs. In turn, this could require NWB MREL requirements of subsidiaries within
amounts of external MREL securities and Group to adapt its funding plans. NWB Group. See also, ‘NWB Group may not
downstream the proceeds to NWB Group. meet the prudential regulatory requirements
The inability to do so may adversely affect If NWB Group’s liquidity position were to for capital or manage its capital effectively,
NWB Group’. come under stress, and if NWB Group were which could trigger the execution of certain
unable to raise funds through deposits or in management actions or recovery options’.
If, under a stress scenario, the level of capital the debt capital markets on acceptable terms
or MREL falls outside of risk appetite, there or at all, its liquidity position could be Any reduction in the credit rating and/or
are a range of recovery management actions adversely affected and it might be unable to outlooks assigned to NatWest Group plc,
(focused on risk reduction and mitigation) that meet deposit withdrawals on demand or at any of its subsidiaries (including NWB Plc
NWB Group could take to manage its capital their contractual maturity, to repay borrowings or other NWB Group subsidiaries) or any
levels, but any such actions may not be as they mature, to meet its obligations under of their respective debt securities could
sufficient to restore adequate capital levels. committed financing facilities, to comply with adversely affect the availability of funding
Under the EU Bank Recovery and Resolution regulatory funding requirements, to undertake for NWB Group, reduce its liquidity
Directives I and II (‘BRRD’), as implemented certain capital and/or debt management position and increase the cost of funding.
in the UK, NatWest Group must maintain a activities, or to fund new loans, investments Rating agencies regularly review NatWest
recovery plan acceptable to its regulator, such and businesses. NWB Group may need to Group plc, NWB Plc and other NatWest
that a breach of NWB Group’s applicable liquidate unencumbered assets to meet its Group entity credit ratings and outlooks, which
capital or leverage requirements may trigger liabilities, including disposals of assets not could be negatively affected by a number of
the application of NatWest Group’s recovery previously identified for disposal to reduce its factors that can change over time including:
plan to remediate a deficient capital position. funding commitments or trigger the execution the credit rating agency’s assessment of NWB
NatWest Group’s regulator may request that of certain management actions or recovery Group’s strategy and management’s
NWB Group carry out certain capital options. In a time of reduced liquidity, NWB capability; its financial condition including in
management actions or, if NatWest Group’s Group may be unable to sell some of its respect of profitability, asset quality, capital,
CET1 ratio falls below 7%, certain regulatory assets, or may need to sell assets at funding and liquidity; the level of political
capital instruments issued by NatWest Group depressed prices, which in either case could support for the industries in which NWB
will be written-down or converted into equity negatively affect NWB Group’s results. Group operates; the implementation of
and there may be an issue of additional equity structural reform; the legal and regulatory
by NatWest Group, which could result in the NWB Group is reliant on NatWest Group frameworks applicable to NWB Group’s legal
dilution of NatWest Group’s existing for capital and funding support, and is structure; business activities and the rights of
shareholders. The success of such issuances substantially reliant on NatWest Group its creditors; changes in rating methodologies;
will also be dependent on favourable market plc’s ability to issue sufficient amounts of changes in the relative size of the loss-
conditions and NatWest Group may not be external MREL securities and downstream absorbing buffers protecting bondholders and
able to raise the amount of capital required or the proceeds to NWB Group. The inability depositors; the competitive environment,
on acceptable terms or at all. Separately, to do so may adversely affect NWB Group. political and economic conditions in NWB
NatWest Group may address a shortage of NWB Plc receives capital and funding from Group’s key markets (including the impact of
capital by taking action to reduce leverage NatWest Group. NWB Plc has set target Brexit, the COVID-19 pandemic and any
exposure and/or RWAs via asset or business levels for different tiers of capital and for the further Scottish independence referendum);
disposals. Such actions may, in turn, affect, internal MREL, as percentages of its RWAs. any reduction of the UK’s sovereign credit
among other things, NWB Group’s product The level of capital and funding required for rating and market uncertainty.
offering, credit ratings, ability to operate its NWB Plc to meet its internal targets is
businesses, pursue its current strategies and therefore a function of the level of RWAs and In addition, credit ratings agencies are
pursue strategic opportunities, any of which its leverage exposure in NWB Plc and this increasingly taking into account sustainability-
may affect the underlying profitability of NWB may vary over time. related factors, including climate,
Group and future growth potential. See also, environmental, social and governance related
‘NatWest Group (including NWB Group) may NWB Plc’s internal MREL comprises the risk, as part of the credit ratings analysis, as
become subject to the application of UK capital value of regulatory capital instruments are investors in their investment decisions.
statutory stabilisation or resolution powers and loss-absorbing senior funding issued by
which may result in, among other actions, the NWB Plc to its ultimate parent, NatWest Any reductions in the credit ratings of
write-down or conversion of NWB Group’s Group plc. The Bank of England has identified NatWest Group plc, NWB Plc or of certain
Eligible Liabilities’. that the preferred resolution strategy for other NatWest Group entities, including, in
NatWest Group is as a single point of entry. particular, downgrades below investment
NWB Group may not be able to adequately As a result, only NatWest Group plc is able to grade, or a deterioration in the capital
access sources of liquidity and funding. issue Group MREL eligible liabilities to third- markets’ perception of NWB Group’s financial
NWB Group is required to access sources of party investors, using the proceeds to fund the resilience could significantly affect NWB
liquidity and funding through retail and internal MREL targets and/or requirements of Group’s access to money markets, reduce the
wholesale deposits, as well as through the its operating entities, including NWB Plc. size of its deposit base and trigger additional
debt capital markets. As at 31 December NWB Plc is therefore dependent on NatWest collateral or other requirements in derivatives
2020, NWB Plc held £308.5 billion in deposits Group plc to fund its internal capital targets contracts and other secured funding
and the level of deposits may fluctuate due to and its ability to source appropriate funding at arrangements or the need to amend such
factors outside NWB Group’s control, such as an NatWest Group plc level to support this. arrangements, which could adversely affect
a loss of investor confidence (including in NWB Plc is also dependent on NatWest NWB Group’s (and, in particular, NWB Plc’s)
other NatWest Group entities), sustained low Group plc to fund its internal MREL target cost of funding and its access to capital
or negative interest rates, increasing over time and its ability to raise and maintain markets and could limit the range of
competitive pressures for retail and corporate counterparties willing to enter into
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 166
Risk factors
issued by NatWest Group (including NWB reductions in biodiversity and resource intending to do what is necessary to achieve
Group), which may depend on factors outside scarcity. Damage to the properties and alignment with the 2015 Paris Agreement.
of NWB Group’s control. Moreover, the operations of borrowers could impair asset
Banking Act provisions remain untested in values, business activities and the NatWest Group’s commitment to reduce the
practice. creditworthiness of customers leading to climate impact of its financing activities may
increased default rates, delinquencies, write- materially affect NWB Group’s business and
If NatWest Group is at or is approaching the offs and impairment charges in NWB Group’s operations and will require significant
point of non-viability such that regulatory portfolios. In addition, NWB Group’s premises reductions to its financed emissions and to its
intervention is required, there may be a and resilience may also suffer physical exposure to customers that do not align with a
corresponding adverse effect on the business, damage due to weather events leading to transition to a low-carbon economy or do not
results of operations and outlook of NWB increased costs and disruption of activity and have a credible transition plan. It is anticipated
Group. business continuity for NWB Group. that these reductions, together with the active
management of climate-related risks and
NatWest Group is subject to Bank of There are also significant uncertainties other regulatory, policy and market changes,
England oversight in respect of resolution, regarding the timing and speed of the are likely to necessitate material and
and NWB Group could be adversely transition to a low-carbon economy occurs accelerated changes to NWB Group’s
affected should the Bank of England deem and whether it occurs in an earlier, gradual, business and existing exposures (potentially
NatWest Group’s preparations to be orderly manner or a delayed, rapid, disorderly on timescales outside of risk appetite) which
inadequate. manner. Widespread levels of adjustment to a may have a material adverse effect on NWB
NatWest Group is subject to regulatory low-carbon economy across all sectors of the Group’s ability to achieve its associated
oversight by the Bank of England, and is economy and markets in which NWB Group financial targets and generate sustainable
required (under the PRA rulebook) to carry operates will be required by several returns.
out an assessment of its preparations for multilateral agreements, in particular the 2015
resolution, submit a report of the assessment Paris Agreement and the UK and Scottish Furthermore, the ongoing implementation of
to the PRA, and disclose a summary of this Government commitments to achieving net NatWest Group’s climate strategy is
report. The initial report is due to be submitted zero carbon emissions by 2050 and 2045. increasingly requiring significant resource and
to the PRA on 1 October 2021 and the Bank Some sectors such as property, energy capacity to collect third party, customer and
of England’s assessment of NatWest Group’s (including oil and gas), mining, infrastructure, other data and to develop and apply
preparations is scheduled to be released on transport (including automotive and aviation) methodologies to understand and measure
10 June 2022. The form and substance of the and agriculture are expected to be particularly the climate impact of the emissions related to
June publication is yet to be established. impacted. The nature and timing of the far- its financing activities. There is currently no
reaching commercial, technological, policy single standard approach or methodology to
NatWest Group has dedicated significant and regulatory changes that this transition will measure such emissions and to provide a
resources towards the preparation of NatWest entail remain uncertain but their impact is scenario-based model for alignment with the
Group for a potential resolution scenario. expected to be highly significant and may be objectives of the 2015 Paris Agreement and
However, if the assessment reveals that disruptive, especially if these changes do not the data, methodologies and assumptions on
NatWest Group is not adequately prepared to occur in an orderly or timely manner or are not which emissions estimates and targets are
be resolved, or does not have adequate plans effective in reducing emissions sufficiently. based are also subject to change.
in place to meet resolvability requirements by
1 January 2022, NatWest Group may be Furthermore, public and private sector Accordingly, NatWest Group, including NWB
required to take action to enhance its institutions may also face a variety of climate- Group, must continue to identify, define and
preparations to be resolvable, resulting in related legal risks, both physical and develop its approach to setting and publishing
additional costs and the dedication of transition, from potential litigation and contract sector-specific targets and its goal of setting
additional resources. These actions may liability. See also, ‘NWB Group may be comprehensive climate impact scenario-
adversely affect NatWest Group or NWB subject to potential climate, environmental based reduction targets and by 2022. It must
Group, resulting in restrictions on maximum and other sustainability-related litigation, also be able to adequately define and
individual and aggregate exposures, a enforcement proceedings, investigations and benchmark current climate impact from its
requirement to dispose of specified assets, a conduct risk’. financing activities to demonstrate its progress
requirement to cease carrying out certain against its ambition to halve this impact by
activities and/or maintaining a specified If NWB Group fails, either to take the extent of 2030.
amount of MREL. This may also result in action required or in the timeliness of the
reputational damage or a loss of investor action taken, to adapt its business and NWB Group’s ability to contribute to and/or
confidence. operating model to the climate-related risks meet NatWest Group’s climate-related targets
and opportunities and changing market (including to at least halve the climate impact
Climate and sustainability-related risks expectations or to appropriately identify, of its financing activity) and commitments,
NWB Group and its customers may face measure, manage and mitigate climate including targets and commitments set for
significant climate-related risks, including change related physical and transition risks NWB Group for itself will depend greatly on
in transitioning to a low-carbon economy, and opportunities that NWB Group and its many factors beyond NWB Group’s control.
which may adversely impact NWB Group. customers face, NWB Group’s reputation, These include the macroeconomic
Climate-related risks and uncertainties are business, results of operations and outlook environment, the extent and pace of climate
receiving increasing prudential and regulatory, may be impacted adversely. change, including the timing and
political and societal scrutiny, both in the UK manifestation of physical and transition risks
and internationally. NatWest Group’s Purpose-led Strategy and the effectiveness of actions of
includes one area of focus on climate governments, legislators, regulators,
Financial risks from climate change arise change that is likely to require material businesses, investors, customers and other
through two primary channels, or ‘risk factors’: changes to the business model of NWB stakeholders to adapt and/or to mitigate the
physical and transition. Group which entails significant execution impact of climate-related risks. See also,
risk. ‘NatWest Group (NWB Plc’s parent company)
There are significant uncertainties as to the In February 2020, NatWest Group announced is currently implementing its Purpose-led
extent and timing of the manifestation of the its ambition to become the leading bank on strategy which carries significant execution
physical risks of climate change, such as climate in the UK and ROI, helping to address and operational risks and it may not achieve
more extreme and frequent weather events, the climate challenge by setting itself the its stated aims and targeted outcomes’.
rising sea levels, flooding and subsidence, challenge to at least halve the climate impact
heat waves and long-lasting wildfires, of its financing activity by 2030 and by
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 168
Risk factors
Any delay or failure in setting, making exploratory scenario to stress test the There are a number of risks and uncertainties
progress against or meeting NatWest Group’s resilience of the current business models of involved in climate scenario modelling,
climate-related targets and commitments, the largest banks, insurers and the financial including that:
including targets set for NWB Group for itself system to the physical and transition risks  it requires a special skill set that banks
and/or its contribution to meeting NatWest from climate change under a number of traditionally do not have and therefore
Group targets and other climate-related climate scenarios (the ‘Climate Biennial NWB Group needs to rely on third party
commitments may have a material adverse Explanatory Scenario’ or ‘CBES’). Further, in advice, modelling, and data which is also
impact on NWB Group, its reputation, December 2020 the Bank of England subject to many limitations and
business, results of operations, outlook, published an update on its approach to the uncertainties;
market and competition position and may CBES in selected areas and confirmed that  modelling of and data on climate-related
increase the climate-related risks NWB Group the CBES, which will be exploratory in nature risks on financial assets is immature in
faces. (i.e. not intended to be used to set capital nature and it is expected that techniques
requirements), will be launched in early June and understanding will evolve rapidly in
Any failure by NWB Group to implement 2021. There is a risk, however, that in the the coming years;
effective and compliant climate change future years once the climate analytics have  it is challenging to benchmark or back test
resilient systems, controls and procedures been embedded via the CBES, it may be the climate scenarios given their forward-
could adversely affect NWB Group’s ability concluded by the regulator that financial looking nature and the multiple possible
to manage climate-related risks. institutions, including NatWest Group outcomes;
The prudential regulation of climate-related (including NWB Group), may be required to  there is significant uncertainty as to how
risks is an important driver in how NatWest hold additional capital to enhance their the climate will evolve over the coming
Group develops its risk appetite for financing resilience against systemic and/or institution decades, how and when governments,
activities or engaging with counterparties that specific vulnerabilities to climate-related risks, regulators, businesses, investors and
do not align with a transition to a low-carbon including potential asset devaluation shocks. customers respond and how those
responses impact the economy, asset
economy or do not have a credible transition
valuations, land systems, energy systems,
plan. Any failure of NWB Group to fully and timely
technology, policy and wider society.
embed climate-related risks into its risk
Legislative and regulatory authorities in the management practices and framework to
Accordingly, these risks and uncertainties
UK and in the European Union are publishing appropriately identify, measure, manage and
coupled with significantly longer timeframes
expectations as to how banks should mitigate the various climate-related physical
make the outputs of climate-related risk
prudently manage and transparently disclose and transition risks in line with applicable legal
modelling, including emissions reductions
climate-related and environmental risks under and regulatory requirements and
targets and pathways, inherently more
prudential rules. In November 2020, the expectations, may have a material and
unreliable than outputs modelled for traditional
European Central Bank published its ‘Guide adverse impact on NWB Group’s regulatory
financial planning cycles based on historical
on climate-related and environmental risks’ compliance, prudential capital requirements,
financial information.
and in April 2019, the PRA published a liquidity position, reputation, business, results
supervisory statement ‘Enhancing banks’ and of operations and outlook. Capabilities within NWB Group to assess the
insurers’ approaches to managing the
suitability of the assumptions required to
financial risks from climate change’ (the ‘SS There are significant uncertainties inherent
model and manage climate-related risks
3/19’). in accurately modelling the impact of
appropriately are developing. Even when
climate-related risks.
those capabilities are developed, the high
In the SS 3/19 the PRA states that regulated Significant risks, uncertainties and variables
level of uncertainty regarding any
entities must: are inherent in the assessment, measurement
assumptions modelled, the highly subjective
 fully embed the consideration of the and mitigation of climate-related risks. These
nature of risk measurement and mitigation
financial risks from climate change in their include data quality gaps and limitations, the
techniques, incorrect or inadequate
governance arrangements; pace at which climate science, greenhouse
assumptions and judgments and data quality
 incorporate the financial risks from climate gas accounting standards and carbon capture gaps and limitations may lead to inadequate
change into existing financial risk and other emissions reduction solutions
risk management information and
management practice; develop. In addition, multiple climate change
frameworks, or ineffective business
 use (long term) scenario analysis to inform scenarios dependent on a range of variable adaptation or mitigation strategies, which may
strategy setting and risk assessment and factors could unfold over the coming two or
have a material adverse impact on NWB
identification; and three decades, which timeframes are
Group’s regulatory compliance, reputation,
 develop an approach to disclosure on the considerably longer than NWB Group’s business, results of operations and outlook.
financial risks from climate change. historical strategic, financial, resilience and
investment planning horizons and which will A failure to adapt NWB Group’s business
Following the submission of initial plans by UK affect how and when climate- related risks strategy, governance, procedures,
banks, in July 2020 the PRA issued a ‘Dear manifest. systems and controls to manage emerging
CEO’ letter requiring firms to embed fully their
sustainability-related risks and
approaches to managing climate-related As a result, it is very difficult to predict and
opportunities may have a material adverse
financial risks by the end of 2021. In model the impact of climate-related risks into
effect on NWB Group’s reputation,
response, NatWest Group provided the PRA precise financial and economic outcomes and
business, results of operations and
on 8 October 2020 with an update to its impacts. Climate-related risks present
outlook.
original delivery plan submitted in October significant methodological challenges due to
Investors, customers, international
2019. The updated plan stated that the their forward-looking nature, the lack of
organisations, regulators and other
COVID-19 pandemic had disrupted some historical testing capabilities, the quality, lack
stakeholders are increasingly focusing on and
elements of NatWest Group’s original plan of standardisation and incompleteness of
encouraging businesses to (i) identify,
and, as a result, some near term activities emissions and other climate and sub-sector
measure, manage and mitigate environmental
have been delayed to 2021; this delay could related data and the immature nature of risk
(biodiversity and loss of natural capital); social
potentially result in increased execution risk. measurement and modelling methodologies.
(such as tackling inequality, inclusion, human
Further, the updated plan advised that it will The evaluation of climate-related risk
rights and working conditions); and
require additional operating cycles reaching exposure and the development of associated
governance (such as board diversity, ethics,
into 2022 and beyond to prove embedding. potential risk mitigation techniques largely
executive compensation and management
depend on the choice of climate scenario
structure) related risks and opportunities –
In December 2019 the Bank of England modelling methodology and the assumptions
which together are commonly referred to as
announced that it will use the 2021 biennial made.
‘sustainability-related’ risks and opportunities;
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 169
Risk factors
and (ii) to focus on long term sustainable Increasing levels of climate, environmental the UK economy by 2025. NatWest Group
value creation rather than short-term financial and sustainability-related laws, regulation (including NWB Group) is also participating in
value. and oversight may adversely affect NWB various voluntary carbon reporting and other
Group’s business and expose NWB Group standard setting initiatives for disclosing
In addition to climate-related risks, to increased costs of compliance, climate and sustainability-related information,
sustainability-related risks such as regulatory sanction and reputational many of which have differing objectives and
environmental degradation may adversely damage. methodologies and are at different stages of
affect economic activity, asset pricing and Governments, legislative and regulatory development in terms of how they apply to
valuations of issuers’ securities and, in turn, authorities in the UK, EU and elsewhere are financial institutions.
the wider financial system. There is also increasingly prioritising a wide range of new
evidence of an interconnection between climate, environmental and sustainability- These developing and evolving climate and
climate-related and sustainability-related risks related laws and regulations to address the sustainability-related requirements are likely
resulting in combined effects capable of risks and opportunities associated with to require NWB Group to implement
potentially generating even greater adverse climate change and sustainability and to significant changes to its business models,
effects. Sustainability-related risks may promote the transition to a more sustainable product and other governance, internal
impact economic activities directly (for low-carbon economy. As a result, an controls over financial reporting, disclosure
example through lower corporate profitability increasing number of laws, regulations, controls and procedures, modelling capability
or the devaluation of assets) or indirectly (for legislative actions are likely to affect the and risk management systems, which may
example through macro-financial changes). financial sector and the real economy, increase the cost of doing business, entail
They may also affect the viability or resilience including proposals, guidance, policy and additional change risk and compliance costs.
of business models over the medium to longer regulatory initiatives many of which have been
term, particularly those business models most introduced or amended recently and are Failure to implement and comply with these
vulnerable to sustainability-related risks. In subject to further changes. requirements or adopt regulatory or other best
addition, sustainability-related risks can trigger practice expectations may have a material
further losses stemming directly or indirectly Many of these initiatives are focused on adverse effect on NWB Group’s regulatory
from legal claims (liability risks) and disclosure, developing standardised compliance and may result in regulatory
reputational damage as a result of the public, definitions for green and sustainable criteria of sanction and investor disapproval.
customers, counterparties and/or investors assets and liabilities, integrating climate
associating NWB Group or its customers with change and sustainability into decision- NWB Group may be subject to potential
adverse sustainability-related issues. making and customers access to green and climate, environmental and other
sustainable financial products and services, sustainability-related litigation,
Furthermore, sustainability-related risks may which may have a significant impact on the enforcement proceedings, investigations
be drivers of several different risk categories services provided by NWB Group and its and conduct risk.
simultaneously and may exacerbate existing subsidiaries, especially mortgage lending, and Due the increasing number of new climate
risks, including credit risk, operational risk its associated credit, market and financial risk and sustainability-related laws and
(business continuity), market risk (both current profile. They could also impact NWB Group’s regulations, growing demand from investors
market risk positions and future investments) recognition of its climate financing activity and and customers for environmentally
and liquidity risk (for example, net cash may adversely affect NatWest Group’s sustainable products and services, and
outflows or depletion of liquidity buffers), as (including NWB Group) achieving its climate regulatory scrutiny, financial institutions,
well as migration risk, credit spread risk in the strategy and sustainable financing ambitions. including NWB Group, may through their
banking book, real estate risks and strategic business activities face increasing litigation,
risk. In addition, NatWest Group’s EU subsidiaries conduct, enforcement and contract liability
will continue to be subject to an increasing risks related to climate change, environmental
Accordingly, any failure to adapt NWB array of the EU/EEA climate and degradation and other social, governance and
Group’s business strategy and to establish sustainability-related legal and regulatory sustainability-related issues.
and maintain effective governance, requirements, such as the EU Taxonomy and
procedures, systems and controls to manage EU Green Bond Standards. These Furthermore, there is a risk that shareholders,
emerging sustainability-related risks and requirements may be used as the basis for campaign groups, customers and special
opportunities may have a material adverse UK laws and regulations (such as the recently interest groups could seek to take legal action
effect on NWB Group’s reputation, liquidity announced UK Green Taxonomy) or regarded against NWB Group for financing or
position, business, results of operations and by investors and regulators as best practice contributing to climate change and
outlook. standards whether or not they apply to UK environmental degradation
businesses. Any divergence between EU/EEA
Any reduction in the ESG ratings of and UK requirements may result in NWB These potential, litigation, conduct,
NatWest Group (including NWB Group) Group not meeting investors’ expectations enforcement and contract liability risks may
could have a negative impact on NatWest may increase the cost of doing business and have a material adverse effect on NWB
Group’s (including NWB Group) reputation may restrict access of NWB Group’s UK Group’s ability to achieve its strategy,
and on investors’ risk appetite. business to the EU/EEA market. including its climate ambition, as well as its
Ratings from ESG rating agencies and data reputation, business, results of operations and
providers that rate on an unsolicited basis as In addition, NWB Group and its subsidiaries outlook.
to how NatWest Group (including NWB will be subject to increasing entity wide
Group) manages environmental, social and climate and other non-financial disclosures Operational and IT resilience risk
governance risks are increasingly influencing requirements. From February 2022, NatWest Operational risks (including reliance on
investment decisions. Any change in such Group (including NWB Group) will be required third party suppliers and outsourcing of
ESG ratings depends on many factors some
to provide enhanced climate-related certain activities) are inherent in NWB
of which are beyond NatWest Group’s
disclosures consistent with the Task Force on Group’s businesses.
(including NWB Group) control (e.g. any
change in rating methodology). Any reduction Climate-related Financial Disclosure (‘TCFD’) Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting
in the ESG ratings of NatWest Group could recommendations to comply with the FCA’s from inadequate or failed internal processes,
have a negative impact on NWB Group’s proposed new stock exchange listing rules for procedures, people or systems, or from
reputation and could influence investors’ risk premium listed companies. The FCA will external events, including legal risks. It has
appetite for NWB Group’s and/or its consult on expanding this requirement to a come under increasing regulatory focus in
subsidiaries’ securities, particularly ESG wider scope of listed issuers in NatWest recent years. As at 31 December 2020, NWB
securities. Group, including NWB Group, as it moves Group offered a diverse range of products and
towards mandatory TCFD reporting across services supported by 52,100 employees; it
therefore has complex and diverse
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 170
Risk factors
payment systems, financial crime and economic, market and regulatory conditions risks from employee-misconduct including
sanctions controls, risk management, credit and political developments (including Brexit) non-compliance with policies and regulations,
analysis and reporting, accounting, customer may reduce the pool of candidates for key negligence or fraud (including financial
service and other IT systems (some of which management and non-executive roles, crimes), any of which could result in
are owned and operated by other entities in including non-executive directors with the right regulatory fines or sanctions and serious
NatWest Group or third parties), as well as the skills, knowledge and experience, or increase reputational or financial harm to NWB Group.
communication networks between their the number of departures of existing These risks may be exacerbated when most
branches and main data processing centres, employees. of NWB Group’s employees work remotely as
is critical to NWB Group’s operations. a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which
Any reduction of compensation, as a result of places additional pressure on NWB Group’s
Individually or collectively, any critical system the PRA’s request that bank boards consider ability to maintain effective internal controls
failure, material loss of service availability or taking further appropriate action regarding and governance frameworks.
material breach of data security could cause variable compensation, or negative economic
serious damage to NWB Group’s ability to developments, could have an adverse effect NWB Group has been seeking to embed a
provide services to its customers, which could on NWB Group’s ability to hire, retain and strong risk culture across the organisation and
result in reputational damage, significant engage well qualified employees, especially at has implemented policies and allocated new
compensation costs or regulatory sanctions a senior level, which may have a material resources across all levels of the organisation
(including fines resulting from regulatory adverse impact on the financial position and to manage and mitigate conduct risk and
investigations), or a breach of applicable prospects of NWB Group. expects to continue to invest in its risk
regulations. In particular, such issues could management framework. However, such
cause long-term damage to NWB Group’s Many of NWB Group’s employees in the UK, efforts may not insulate NWB Group from
reputation and could affect its regulatory the ROI and continental Europe are future instances of misconduct and no
approvals, competitive position, business and represented by employee representative assurance can be given that NWB Group’s
brands, which could undermine its ability to bodies, including trade unions. Engagement strategy and control framework will be
attract and retain customers. This risk is with its employees and such bodies is effective. Any failure in NWB Group’s risk
heightened as most of NWB Group’s important to NWB Group in maintaining good management framework could negatively
employees are working remotely as a result of employee relations. Any failure to do so could affect NWB Group and its financial condition
the COVID-19 pandemic, as it outsources impact NWB Group’s ability to operate its through reputational and financial harm and
certain functions and as it continues to business effectively. may result in the inability to achieve its
innovate and offer new digital solutions to its strategic objectives for their customers,
customers as a result of the trend towards A failure in NWB Group’s risk management employees and wider stakeholders.
online and mobile banking. framework could adversely affect NWB
Group, including its ability to achieve its NWB Group’s operations are subject to
NWB Group continues to make considerable strategic objectives. inherent reputational risk.
investments to further simplify, upgrade and Risk management is an integral part of all of Reputational risk relates to stakeholder and
improve its IT and technology capabilities NWB Group’s activities and includes the public perceptions of NWB Group arising from
(including migration of certain services to definition and monitoring of NWB Group’s risk an actual or perceived failure to meet
cloud platforms). NWB Group also continues appetite and reporting on its risk exposure stakeholder expectations, including with
to develop and enhance digital services for its and the potential impact thereof on its respect to NatWest Group’s Purpose-led
customers and seeks to improve its financial condition. Financial risk management Strategy and related targets, due to any
competitive position through enhancing is highly dependent on the use and events, behaviour, action or inaction by NWB
controls and procedures and strengthening effectiveness of internal stress tests and Group, its employees or those with whom
the resilience of services including cyber models and ineffective risk management may NWB Group is associated. This includes
security. Any failure of these investment and arise from a wide variety of factors, including brand damage, which may be detrimental to
rationalisation initiatives to achieve the lack of transparency or incomplete risk NWB Group’s business, including its ability to
expected results, due to cost challenges or reporting, unidentified conflicts or misaligned build or sustain business relationships with
otherwise, could negatively affect NWB incentives, lack of accountability control and customers, and may cause low employee
Group’s operations, its reputation and ability governance, lack of consistency in risk morale, regulatory censure or reduced access
to retain or grow its customer business or monitoring and management or insufficient to, or an increase in the cost of, funding.
adversely impact its competitive position, challenges or assurance processes. Failure to Reputational risk may arise whenever there is
thereby negatively impacting NWB Group’s manage risks effectively could adversely a material lapse in standards of integrity,
business, results of operations and outlook. impact NWB Group’s reputation or its compliance, customer or operating efficiency
relationship with its regulators, customers, and may adversely affect NWB Group’s ability
NWB Group relies on attracting, retaining shareholders or other stakeholders. to attract and retain customers. In particular,
and developing senior management and NWB Group’s ability to attract and retain
skilled personnel, and is required to NWB Group’s operations are inherently customers (particularly, corporate and retail
maintain good employee relations. exposed to conduct risks, which include depositors) may be adversely affected by,
NWB Group’s success depends on its ability business decisions, actions or reward amongst others: negative public opinion
to attract, retain and develop highly skilled mechanisms that are not responsive to or resulting from the actual or perceived manner
and qualified personnel, including senior aligned with NWB Group’s regulatory in which NWB Group or any other member of
management, directors and key employees obligations, customers’ needs or do not reflect NatWest Group conducts or modifies its
especially for technology-focused roles, in a NWB Group’s customer-focused strategy, business activities and operations, media
highly competitive market and under internal ineffective product management, unethical or coverage (whether accurate or otherwise),
cost reduction pressures. NWB Group’s ability inappropriate use of data, information employee misconduct, NWB Group’s financial
to do this may be more difficult due to the asymmetry, implementation and utilisation of performance, IT systems failures or
cost reduction pressures, heightened new technologies, outsourcing of customer cyberattacks, data breaches, the level of
regulatory oversight of banks and the service and product delivery, the possibility of direct and indirect government support, or the
increasing scrutiny of, and (in some cases) mis-selling of financial products and actual or perceived practices in the banking
restrictions placed upon, employee mishandling of customer complaints. Some of and financial industry in general, or a wide
compensation arrangements, in particular these risks have materialised in the past and variety of other factors.
those of banks in receipt of government ineffective management and oversight of
support such as NatWest Group. This conduct risks may lead to further remediation Modern technologies, in particular online
increases the cost of hiring, training and and regulatory intervention or enforcement. social networks and other broadcast tools that
retaining skilled personnel. In addition, certain NWB Group’s businesses are also exposed to facilitate communication with large audiences
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 172
Risk factors
in short time frames and with minimal costs,  rules relating to foreign ownership, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to
may also significantly increase and accelerate expropriation, nationalisation and review the governance, controls and
the impact of damaging information and confiscation of assets; processes around the preparation of Common
allegations. Reporting (‘COREP’) regulatory returns and to
 increased attention to the protection and
provide reasonable assurance opinions on
resilience of, and competition and
Although NWB Group has implemented a whether the returns reviewed were properly
innovation in, UK payment systems and
Reputational Risk Policy to improve the prepared. NatWest Group was selected to
retail banking developments relating to the
identification, assessment and management participate in this review. The PRA delayed
UK initiative on Open Banking, Open
of customers, transactions, products and the start of this review in light of the COVID-
Finance and the European directive on
issues which represent a reputational risk, 19 pandemic and the Skilled Persons are now
payment services;
NWB Group cannot be certain that it will be expected to complete their work in H1 2021.
successful in avoiding damage to its business  new or increased regulations relating to
from reputational risk. customer data and privacy protection as Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in
well as IT controls and resilience, including their interpretation or enforcement, or the
Legal, regulatory and conduct risk the GDPR and the impact of the recent implementation of new laws, rules or
NWB Group’s businesses are subject to Court of Justice of the EU (CJEU) decision regulations, including contradictory or
substantial regulation and oversight, (known as Schrems II), in which the CJEU conflicting laws, rules or regulations by key
which are constantly evolving and may ruled that Privacy Shield (an EU/US data regulators or policymakers in different
adversely affect NWB Group. transfer mechanism) is now invalid, jurisdictions, or failure by NWB Group to
NWB Group is subject to extensive laws, leading to more onerous due diligence comply with such laws, rules and regulations,
regulations, corporate governance practice requirements for the Group prior to may adversely affect NWB Group’s business,
and disclosure requirements, administrative sending personal data of its EU customers results of operations and outlook. In addition,
actions and policies in each jurisdiction in and employees to non-EEA countries, uncertainty and insufficient international
which it operates. Many of these have been including the UK and the US; regulatory coordination as enhanced
introduced or amended recently and are  the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, supervisory standards are developed and
subject to further material changes, which levies or fees applicable to NWB Group’s implemented may adversely affect NWB
may increase compliance and conduct risks, operations, such as the imposition of a Group’s ability to engage in effective
particularly if EU/EEA and UK laws diverge financial transaction tax, changes in tax business, risk and capital management
now that the Brexit transition period has rates, changes in the scope and planning.
ended. NWB Group expects government and administration of the Bank Levy, increases
regulatory intervention in the financial services in the bank corporation tax surcharge in NWB Group is subject to various litigation
industry to remain high for the foreseeable the UK, restrictions on the tax deductibility matters, regulatory actions and
future. of interest payments or further restrictions investigations as well as remedial
imposed on the treatment of carry-forward undertakings, including conduct-related
In recent years, regulators and governments tax losses that reduce the value of reviews, anti-money laundering and
have focused on reforming the prudential deferred tax assets and require increased redress projects, the outcomes of which
regulation of the financial services industry payments of tax. are inherently difficult to predict, and
and the manner in which the business of which could have an adverse effect on
financial services is conducted. Amongst These and other recent regulatory changes, NWB Group.
others, measures have included: enhanced proposed or future developments and NWB Group’s operations are diverse and
capital, liquidity and funding requirements, heightened levels of public and regulatory complex and it operates in legal and
implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime, scrutiny in the UK, the EU and the US have regulatory environments that expose it to
implementation and strengthening of the resulted in increased capital, funding and potentially significant legal proceedings, and
recovery and resolution framework applicable liquidity requirements, changes in the civil and criminal regulatory and governmental
to financial institutions in the UK, the EU and competitive landscape, changes in other actions. NWB Group has settled a number of
the US, financial industry reforms (including in regulatory requirements and increased legal and regulatory actions over the past
respect of MiFID II), corporate governance operating costs, and have impacted, and will several years but continues to be, and may in
requirements, restrictions on the continue to impact, product offerings and the future be, involved in such actions in the
compensation of senior management and business models. Any of these developments US, the UK, Europe and other jurisdictions.
other employees, enhanced data privacy and (including any failure to comply with new rules
IT resilience requirements, e financial market and regulations) could also have a significant NWB Group is currently involved in a number
infrastructure reforms (including enhanced impact on NWB Group’s authorisations and of significant legal and regulatory actions,
regulations in respect of the provision of licences, the products and services that NWB including criminal and civil investigations,
‘investment services and activities’), and Group may offer, its reputation and the value proceedings and ongoing reviews (both formal
increased regulatory focus in certain areas, of its assets, NWB Group’s operations or legal and informal) by governmental law
including conduct, consumer protection and entity structure, and the manner in which enforcement and other agencies and litigation
disputes regimes, anti-money laundering, anti- NWB Group conducts its business. Material proceedings relating to, among other matters,
corruption, anti-bribery, anti-tax evasion, consequences could arise should NWB Group the setting of benchmark rates such as LIBOR
payment systems, sanctions and anti- be found to be non-compliant with these and related derivatives trading, product mis-
terrorism laws and regulations. regulatory requirements. Regulatory selling, investment advice, customer
developments may also result in an increased mistreatment, anti-money laundering, antitrust
Other areas in which, and examples of where, number of regulatory investigations and and various other compliance issues. Legal
governmental policies, regulatory and proceedings and have increased the risks and regulatory actions are subject to many
accounting changes and increased public and relating to NWB Group’s ability to comply with uncertainties, and their outcomes, including
regulatory scrutiny could have an adverse the applicable body of rules and regulations in the timing, amount of fines or settlements or
impact (some of which could be material) on the manner and within the time frames the form of any settlements, which may be
material and in excess of any related
NWB Group include, but are not limited to, the required.
provisions, are often difficult to predict,
following:
particularly in the early stages of a case or
 general changes in government, central In 2019, the PRA published an industry-wide
investigation. NWB Group’s expectations for
bank, regulatory or competition policy, or “Dear CEO” letter which confirmed the
resolution may change and substantial
changes in regulatory regimes that may regulator’s ongoing focus on the integrity of
additional provisions and costs may be
influence investor decisions in the regulatory reporting and its intention to ask a
recognised in respect of any matter.
jurisdictions in which NWB Group selection of UK banks to commission reports
operates; from Skilled Persons under section 166 of the
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 173
Risk factors
Significant legal and regulatory actions to to RFRs, given the FCA have indicated that impracticable under the existing terms of
which NWB Group is currently exposed the availability of LIBOR beyond the end of certain financial instruments and could have
include, but are not limited to, the following: 2021 cannot be guaranteed. NWB Group has an adverse effect on the value of, return on
a significant exposure to IBORs, and and trading market for, certain financial
 An FCA investigation into the potential continues to reference it in certain products, instruments and on NWB Group’s profitability.
criminal and civil culpability of NWB Group primarily derivatives and cash products. NWB There is also the risk of an adverse effect to
under the UK Money Laundering Group has started to phase out its use of reported performance arising from the
IBOR in line with the Bank of England transition rules established by accounting
Regulations 2007 in relation to certain
transition roadmap, and has embedded bodies, as the outcome of certain rules (as
money service businesses and related
appropriate fall-back mechanisms in most approved by the IASB) are still dependent on
parties.
new IBOR activities, either through bilateral how the actual transition process is
 Two Skilled Person reviews under section contract documentation, or under the ISDA implemented.
166 of the Financial Services and Markets
fall-backs protocol. NWB along with many of
Act 2000 in relation to (i) the governance its major counterparties, has already adhered NWB Group operates in jurisdictions that
arrangements with respect to two financial to the ISDA IBOR fall-backs supplement and are subject to intense scrutiny by the
crime change programmes and (ii) a past protocol which establishes a clear, industry competition authorities.
business review of investment advice accepted, contractual process to manage the There is significant oversight by competition
provided during 2010 to 2015. transition from IBORs to RFRs for derivative authorities of the jurisdictions which NWB
products. Group operates in. The competitive landscape
For additional information relating to these for banks and other financial institutions in the
and other legal and regulatory proceedings NWB Group is actively engaged with UK and the EU/EEA is rapidly changing.
and matters to which NWB Group is currently customers and industry working groups to Recent regulatory and legal changes have
exposed, see ‘Litigation and regulatory manage the risks relating to this exposure, and may continue to result in new market
matters’ of Note 27 to the consolidated and explore ways to transition IBOR participants and changed competitive
accounts. exposures to RFRs to the extent possible. dynamics in certain key areas, such as in
Any economic impacts will be dependent on, retail and SME banking in the UK where the
Adverse outcomes or resolution of current or inter alia, the establishment of deep and liquid introduction of new entrants is being actively
future legal or regulatory actions, including RFR markets, the establishment of clear and encouraged by the government. Competition
conduct-related reviews or redress projects, consistent market conventions for all authorities, including the CMA, are currently
could have material collateral consequences replacement products, as well as also looking at and focusing more on how
for NWB Group’s business and result in counterparties’ willingness to accept, and they can support competition and innovation
restrictions or limitations on NWB Group’s transition to, these conventions. Furthermore, in digital markets.
operations. These may include consequences certain IBOR obligations may not be able to
resulting from the need to reapply for various be changed thus resulting in fundamentally The UK retail banking sector has been, and
important licenses or obtain waivers to different economic outcomes than originally remains, subjected to intense scrutiny by the
conduct certain existing activities of NWB intended. The uncertainties around the timing UK competition authorities, government and
Group, which may take a significant period of and manner of transition to RFRs expose by other bodies, including the FCA and the
time and the results of which are uncertain. NWB Group, its clients and the financial Financial Ombudsman Service, in recent
Failure to obtain such licenses or waivers services industry more widely to risk. years, including with a number of
could adversely impact NWB Group’s
reviews/inquiries being carried out, including
business, including if it results in NWB Group Examples of these risks may include (i) legal market reviews conducted by the CMA and its
being precluded from carrying out certain risks relating to documentation for new and predecessor the Office of Fair Trading
activities. This in turn and/or the fines, the majority of existing transactions (including, regarding SME banking and personal banking
settlement payments or penalties could but not limited to, changes, lack of changes, products and services, the Independent
adversely impact NWB Group’s capital or unclear contractual provisions); (ii) financial Commission on Banking and the
position or its ability to meet regulatory capital risks from any changes in valuation of Parliamentary Commission on Banking
adequacy requirements. financial instruments linked to impacted Standards.
IBORs that may impact NWB Group’s
Failure to comply with undertakings made by performance, including its cost of funds and These reviews raised significant concerns
NWB Group to its regulators may result in its risk management related financial models; about the effectiveness of competition in the
additional measures or penalties being taken (iii) pricing, interest rate or settlement risks retail-banking sector. The CMA’s Retail
against NWB Group. In addition, any failure to such as changes to benchmark rates that Banking Market Order 2017 imposes
administer conduct redress processes could impact pricing, interest rate or remedies primarily intended to make it easier
adequately, or to handle individual complaints settlement mechanisms in or on certain for consumers and businesses to compare
fairly or appropriately, could result in further instruments; (iv) operational risks due to the
personal current account (‘PCA’) and SME
claims as well as the imposition of additional requirement to adapt IT systems, trade
bank products, increase the transparency of
measures or limitations on NWB Group’s reporting infrastructure and operational
price comparison between banks and amend
operations, additional supervision by NWB processes; and (v) conduct and litigation risks
PCA overdraft charging. These remedies
Group’s regulators, and loss of investor arising from communication regarding the
impose additional compliance requirements
confidence. potential impact on customers, and
on NatWest Group and NWB Group and
engagement with customers during the
could, in aggregate, adversely impact NWB
NWB Group may not effectively manage transition period, or non-acceptance by
Group’s competitive position, product offering
the transition of LIBOR and other IBOR customers of replacement rates.
and revenues.
rates to alternative risk free rates.
UK and international regulators are driving the It is therefore difficult to determine to what
Adverse findings resulting from current or
transition from the use of interbank offer rates extent the changes will affect NWB Group, or
future competition investigations may result in
(IBORs), including LIBOR, to alternative risk the costs of implementing any relevant
free rates (RFRs). Interest rate benchmark remedial action. Uncertainty as to the nature the imposition of reforms or remedies which
reform is a key priority of the Financial and extent of such potential changes, the take may impact the competitive landscape in
Stability Board, and working groups have up of alternative reference rates, or other which NWB Group operates or result in
been established in a number of jurisdictions reforms including the potential continuation of restrictions on mergers and consolidations
to support the transition. Major central banks the publication of LIBOR, may adversely within the financial sector.
and regulators including the FCA, the Bank of affect financial instruments using LIBOR as
England, and the Federal Reserve, have benchmarks. The implementation of any
strongly urged market participants to transition alternative RFRs may be impossible or
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 174
Forward-looking statements
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as statements that
include, without limitation, the words ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘project’, ‘anticipate’, ‘commit’, ‘believe’, ‘should’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘plan’, ‘could’, ‘probability’, ‘risk’, ‘Value-at-
Risk (VaR)’, ‘target’, ‘goal’, ‘objective’, ‘may’, ‘endeavour’, ‘outlook’, ‘optimistic’, ‘prospects’ and similar expressions or variations on these expressions. These
statements concern or may affect future matters, such as NWB Group’s future economic results, business plans and current strategies. In particular, this document
may include forward-looking statements relating to NWB Group in respect of, but not limited to: the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, its regulatory capital position
and related requirements, its financial position, profitability and financial performance (including financial, capital, cost savings and operational targets), the
implementation of NatWest Group’s Purpose-led strategy, NWB Group’s ESG and climate-related targets, its access to adequate sources of liquidity and funding,
increasing competition from new incumbents and disruptive technologies, its exposure to third party risks, its ongoing compliance with the UK ring-fencing regime
and ensuring operational continuity in resolution, its impairment losses and credit exposures under certain specified scenarios, substantial regulation and oversight,
ongoing legal, regulatory and governmental actions and investigations, the transition of LIBOR and IBOR rates to alternative risk free rates and NWB Group’s
exposure to economic and political risks (including with respect to terms surrounding Brexit and climate change), operational risk, conduct risk, cyber and IT risk, key
person risk and credit rating risk. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that might cause actual results and performance to
differ materially from any expected future results or performance expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to
differences in current expectations include, but are not limited to, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the outcome of legal, regulatory and governmental actions
and investigations, legislative, political, fiscal and regulatory developments, accounting standards, competitive conditions, technological developments, interest and
exchange rate fluctuations and general economic and political conditions and the impact of climate-related risks and the transitioning to a low carbon economy.
These and other factors, risks and uncertainties that may impact any forward-looking statement or the NWB Group's actual results are discussed in the NWB Plc's
UK 2020 Annual Report and Accounts (ARA). The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as of the date of this document and NWB Plc
does not assume or undertake any obligation or responsibility to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this document, whether as a result of
new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
NWB Group Annual Report and Accounts 2020 176